

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. Ch WATKIKTS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
. DRYSDALE^
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Orb 99 and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Casks Knignt Bevan’s Cement.
BRISCOE
tr
s e
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A.
30
1
yz
*
4,
O
o
o
<RAc^A^ocK>
o
Cl
c
o
o
m
V
R. A, HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney,
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADRENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured,by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
KE & LACY CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, and SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
AGENTS
FOR
Hh&a m _
J»lfc
HBp £?£7%£fl
This Steel, which is of the highest quality,
is fast displacing every other brand on all
the leading fields throughout Australasia.
Price, £3O per Ton.
Before vtyih'ng fhe Cit/ wrirero fhe Manager for
<?rd of Tariff. (prre;pondence prompljy attended to.
liennon’s Hotel,
Under Distinguished Patronage.
' WILLIAM BETERMAMN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
TZHZiE - -
(arosV^oorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD3\rBY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
7]oU/f^/l4
K
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
every belt guaranteed to give
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
SWA
. .
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM S SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—it Carrington-street,
WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers
Tour Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
IX Prose and Verse by Bcixbtin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
FROSSARP’S CAVOUR CI6ARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yol. 18.— No. 920. J
[Saturday, October 2, 1897*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Gr
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S .'TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Warung; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
The last of six : tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
Tbe Scroll of Fan>e
Is emblazoned with the names of warriors, statesmen, and patriots, many of
whom, though honored after death, were unappreciated while living. Duke
and Sons is a name rendered famous by the world-wide reputation of their
CAMEO CIGARETTES,
v. :v.,H..
and they have had the privilege realising their anticipation.
THE RED PAGE .
To my mind the secret of Boake’s fascina-
tion lies in his happy union of realism and
idealism. He saw for himself ;he visualised
his object keenly and vividly ; but in finding
their way to expression his sensations had
to pass through a fine imagination which
transfigured without falsifying them. Too
many of our young poets sit down with the
deliberate intention of telling what they
fondly call ‘ the brutal truth, ’ and they tell
it, and they make us very wretched in conse-
quence, and, if you remonstrate with them,
they inform you that they are not of those
who write with lavender kid gloves on, and
who put rose-water in their ink. It is all
very well to tell ‘ the brutal truth,’ but if
your faculties stop short at that, you had
better try some other sphere of usefulness
than poetry. It is only the man of true
poetic genius who knows how to strengthen
and intensify the presentment of truth
in the very act of debrutalising it. I
was struck with an observation which occurs
in a very judicious review of Boake's poems
which recently appeared in the ‘ Queens-
lander.' ‘He (Boake) could express the
most dreadful sentiments in a way that might
almost be termed pleasant.’ That is just
what a large number of our young writers
fail to do. They seem to think that inas-
much as truth, as they see it, is unpleasant,
the more unpleasantly they express it, the
nearer they get to the real thing. Boake
furnishes a good lesson in this respect. He
tells the truth, but he puts some of his own
life into it—or, say rather, truth, in the act
of expressing itself through him, takes on
some of his personal charm. And the result
is poetry—and that’s what we’re talking
about.
* * * m
Boake’s work is often praised for its strong
local color. But it has something better
than that. It has atmosphere—Australian
atmosphere. It is comparatively easy to
daub on local color. You can get it all up
in the shape of notes before you begin. But
not so with atmosphere. I don’t use the
word in the technical sense in which painters
use it. I mean that Boake not only presents
the correct local accessories in connection
with the place or life he describes, but makes
you feel the air of the place, breathe the
breath of the life. lam not concerned to
define what I mean by atmosphere. Perhaps
I don’t know very well myself what it is.
But I know it when I feel it. Paterson has
it. Lawson has it. O’Hara has it, and
several others I could name. But I think
Boake has more of it than any of them—
more than Kendall and Gordon, and that is
saying a very bold thing.
• * * *
There is another point in regard to which
Boake furnishes a lesson to our rising poets
—at least to a large number of them. (My
concern for them, by the way, is grounded
on the fact that there is such a marvellous
amount of really excellent verse being turned
out week after week in Australia that one
cannot escape the conclusion that Australian
literary genius tends to poetry ; and such
being the case, it is of moment that force
should not be wasted by its application in a
wrong direction). Small as Boake’s output
iB, it is mostly of the nature of positive
achievement. It is not merely anti-some-
thing. The disfiguring characteristics of the
poets I have in my mind’s eye is that they
are always on the anti-lay. The keynote
and whole burden of their song is dissatis-
faction with the existing state and system of
Society. Now there is no doubt that Society
wants saving very badly. But, in the first
place, it is not the business of a poet, quoad
poet, to save Society. It is the poet’s mission
to make Society more worth saving. It is
his mission to make the individual a more
valuable article, by enriching his intellect,
by stimulating, enlarging, intensifying and
exalting his sympathies. Anti won’t do
this. I don’t say that Anti has no part
in it, but it has a very small part, and
that not the distinctively poet’s part.
It is too often forgotten that “ poet ”
means “ maker.” These poets of the Anti-
school—and they are the men, too, for the
most part, who go in for the * brutal truth ’ —
fail in the very point on which they pride
themselves. They don’t keep their two eyes
fixed on the life in front of them. They
always keep one eye looking nor’-nor’-west
—towards Europe, that is to say. At the
very time they are hurling defiance at Europe,
they are almost wholly dominated by Europe.
In these inspired moments they cease to be
Australians —’they are merely antipodeans.
Out of this sort of thing no solid literature
can grow. And as for helping to save Society
—why, there’s more relish of salvation, even
of social salvation, in a pretty, fanciful, well-
sustained effort like that of Boake’s, ‘ The
Box Tree’s Love,’ than in a thousand sonnets
to ‘ Divine Discontent.’ The one is at least
achievement—of a sort, and a good sort too ;
the other, however iEolian, is just wind on
the stomach.
♦ * * *
But in the second place, I have a suspicion
that the large output of poetry of the antistic
school—“antistic ” is not a very good word,
but I must call them something —is not to be
explained entirely by dissatisfaction with the
existing system of Society, or with the uni-
verse in general—which is only an allotropic
or cosmicised form of the antitude we are
speaking about. We are all aware how
much easier it is to oppose a policy than
to construct one. As in politics, so in poetry
—the man in opposition has the easiest role
to play. Ah, boys, we who are, so to speak,
behind the scenes, don’t we know how easy
the work is, and how cheap the material ?
Don’t we know what a saving of trouble and
of intellectual expenditure it is to call upon
the people to arise, instead of doing some-
thing to give them a higher elevation to stand
on ? ‘A saving of trouble.’ Yes, I fear that
is at the bottom of the whole thing. I am
unwilling to believe that it is poverty of in-
tellect. I believe the gold is there, but there
is a disinclination to deep-sinking. That
means hard work. And if we get more than
six feet below the surface, we shall no longer
be able to see nor’-nor’-west! And what
shall we do then ? And why take the trouble
when there is so much alluvial Marseillaise
lying about? It is poor stuff, certainly, but
it is so ready to hand. Ah, that Marseillaise !
What a lot of the sins and shortcomings of a
certain school of Australian bards it has to
answer for ! I think they would have worked
harder, if it hadn’t been for that hymn and
its history. For, believe me, nine-tenths of
this Marseillaise business is mere Marseil-
laziness.
♦ * * *
But to bring this round to Boake. Boake
felt keenly on the subject of the anomalies
presented by the existing social system (see
page 190 of the volume), but he did not
make use of them as a pretext for posing as
a poet, or maker, without taking the neces-
sary trouble to entitle himself to the name.
Though he was a good deal of a rebel, there
is very little of the stock material of rebellion
in his writings. ‘The note of revolt,’ which
even in his time had become rather mono-
tonous and conventional, is not the charac-
teristic note of his music. He had the in-
stinct of his proper work, and for that reason
his work, as I have already said, is of the
nature of positive achievement.
* • * *
‘ Would you have us, then, prophesy only
smooth things ? Shall we utter no protest
against wrong ? ’ To which I can only an
swer that it’s poetry I’m talking about.
‘ And is there no poetry in the sorrows of
the downtrodden poor ? ’ Oh, yes ; plenty ;
more’s the pity, plenty. At least there
would be if it weren’t for you.
* * ♦ •
One thing needful seems to have been
wanting to Boake, ‘ the saving grace of
humor.’ The one comic poem in the book
only confirms me in that idea. He appears
to have indulged in practical joking, but that
is only fun in its barbarous stage. Humor,
we are told, had its origin in the laughter of
savages at the grimaces and grotesque writh-
ings of their tortured captives, and practical
joking is in direct line of development from
this primitive form of fun. If Boake had
had a keener sense of the ludicrous, he
might have been alive yet. But it is useless
lamenting that he was not other than he
was. Apparently he lived as long as he
could. Men die when the physical system
ceases to respond to the stimuli offered by
the external and if that is how
it was with him, the manner of his end
hardly differentiates itself from the common
lot.
* * * *
If this were a review of his poems, instead
of just a short talk about his work, I suppose
I should have to justify my high opinion of
it by means of quotations. I much prefer
to let a poet speak for himself. For my
own part, when I read a review of a work of
pure literature, I generally skip the quota-
tions. If I place any value on the opinion
of the reviewer, I take the first opportunity
of reading the book for myself. I content
myself here with commending to the reader
as specimens of work which gives the world
assurance of a poet, and not merely the pro-
mise of one, the poems entitled ‘ A Vision
Out West,’ ‘The Box Tree’s Love,’ ‘ ’Twixt
the Wings of the Yard,’ ‘Skeeta,’ ‘Down
the River,’ ‘At Devlin’s Siding,’ and the
eponymous poem ‘ Where the Dead Men
Lie.’ Even had Boake written no more
than these, all that his admirers have said of
him would be fully justified.
* * * . *
Sad as Boake’s story is, he has been for-
tunate in one thing. Many distinguished
men who have lived to thrice his age, have
not been so happy in a biographer. The
memoir by Mr. A. G. Stephens is not merely
a specimen of fine literary craftsmanship. It
is animated throughout with a spirit of
loving sympithy which is even more delight-
ful than one delicate discrimination with
which the materialsare selected and arranged.
Had Boake foreseen such a biographer, per-
haps our brother had not died. But, no,
I suspect Boake died because he had come to
the end of his life.
* ♦ • *
Like all the books issued by Messrs. Angus
and Robertson, the volume is one which it is
a pleasure to look upon and to handle, and
the admirable illustrations contribute largely
to its attractiveness. And as one places it
on the bookshelf between Gordon and Ken-
dall, the thought comes that surely so worthy
a memorial must bring some consoling sense
of fulfilment to mingle with the regret of
those who are still mourning the premature
close of so promising a career.
The consideration, between yawns, of a
new story by Guy Boothby sets one think-
ing of the conditions and exigencies of writ-
ing for the public, writing as a business,
writing to make money. Guy Boothby is
an energetic young Australian somewhere
about thirty years of age, the son of an
excellent sherifi' at Adelaide. Already he has
manufactured six long tales, a number of
short ones, and a good deal of miscellaneous
journal stuff. And the value of the whole,
from a literary point of view, is O. To-day
here ; to-morrow they are cast into the dust-
bin ; and the public of Athenians turns
eagerly to a newer sensation. But, by per-
sistent and systematic puffing, it has been
endeavoured to persuade people that Guy
Boothby’s success of advertising, his success
of sales, is a success of literature as well,
and that is a piece of commercial effrontery
which cannot be permitted without protest.
* * * *
For, so cheap are reviewers’opinions now,
that a favorable notice can be purchased from
pretty nearly every newspaper in Britain for
five guineas’ worth of advertising—where the
work is not positively indecent in its incapa-
city. And Guy Boothby’s work is by no
means incapable. It is ephemeral and
worthless, of course, and there are no brains
in it at any time—no intellectual quality ;
but the earlier books were often spirited and
ingenious, although crude ; and the later
books, less ingenious and spirited, are neatly
handled with an eye topublic requirements. In
“The Fascination of the King,” indeed, the
silver is beaten out so thin that one wonders
how even the un-literary public can avoid
regretting its half-crown. Boothby has by
now almost acquired the Whole Art of Pad-
ding—which, given a minimum of interest
and incident, consists chiefly in starting your
book a long while before the interest accrues,
and feeding readers as dexterously as you
can on expeeta ions of what you are goivg to
tell them, while taking as much space as
possible over unnecessary details, in order
to reach 330 pages or so before you are in at
the marriage. For the Boothby kind of
reader likes a big book for his money, even
if it is a dull one ; and the weight
of a volume an inch across the back
is usually felt as a consolatory cir-
cumstance in the dearth of anticipated
pleasure. “ The Fascination of the King”
contains 286 pages, and there are at least 140
pages before there is even a glimmer of ex-
citement. Seventy-one pages are taken up
in introducing the characters at Venice.
Doubtless Boothby has spent a summer
holiday there, and believes, like a good work-
man, in turning the least bit of material to
account. Venice is duly turned to account ;
and the king is even brought thither all the
way from Asia to see a medical specialist—
not because medical specialists live at, Venice;
but because it is inconvenient to transport
all the personages of the story to Paris or
London—and the Boothby reader is not par-
ticular about the unities. Or about the
language in which a story is told—which is
why he gets sentences like this (p. 11) to
study as models of elegance—
In spite of wliat I have just said, I am inolined
to believe that of all the plaees of worship in
beautiful Venice, the church of 8. Rocco, next to
that of 8. Mark, and perhaps Santa Maria della
Salute might he included in the category, is the
most interesting.
But your popular novelist is frequently a
bit of a jerry-builder ; and it is fair to say
that Boothby’s style, if ineloquent and in-
elegant, is for the most part perspicuous
enough. And, of course, an author cannot
cram both quality and quantity into his work
when he produces half-a-dozen novels in
three or four years.
• * * *
When the King leaves Venice for Asia in
the yacht of the English peer whose sister
he marries—and who marries his sister —
several pages are occupied in discussing
whether or not the yacht shall call in at
Singapore to get coal. The matter of the coal
is of no moment whatever, for it turns out
afterwards that a day's delay makes no
difference ; but it Alls the pages, and so long
as the pages are filled the Boothby reader
seemingly cares little what tills them. And
even when the party gets to the kingdom
nothing happens. The king is married to
the peer's sister, and the peer distrusts a
general in the king's service and goes away,
and the interest is as dead as it can be, con-
sidering it has never been born. But the
Boothby reader is seemingly quite satisfied
have nothing happen, as long as he is
told that the peer “ took a bath in an
enormous earthenware bowl,” and “the
fountain played its tinkling music,” and the
servants “ had been excellently schooled in
their duties.” And the author is doubtless
satisfied also, for it is much easier to pen
empty commonplaces than to invent dramatic
situations, or create forceful characters ; and
all the time the 300 pages are filling ; and if
the public will pay for skim-milk, why give
them cream ?
Well, the peer goes away, and at the
king’s request he comes back again ; and the
French send an army against the king, which
army he defeats with great slaughter, and
they try by treachery to obtain possession of
the capital, and the peer defeats them with
great slaughter ; and the French sit down
quite tamely under their defeats, and sign a
peace with this tenth-rate potentate, and
everything ends happily. And the Boothby
reader knows that is exactly what the
French would do if dealing with tenth-rate
potentates ; or, if he doesn’t know, he takes
the author’s word for gospel, and is perfectly
satisfied. It is a great comfort to have
readers who take your word for gospel.
GOD AND MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With sad eyes dulled by peering, far,
In search of God, black voids we scan—
Whilst, all around us like \star
He shines through his shekinah—Man !
ALONE.
J. Brunton Stephens writes :—The con-
tents of the volume amply justify their
reproduction in collected form. It would
have been a distinct loss to Australian litera-
ture if access to Barcroft Boake’s poems
could only have been obtained by diligent
search in the back numbers of the periodicals
in which they appeared. The impression of
native power is confirmed by reading the
poems in bulk, and one rises from a perusal
of the volume with a strong inclination to
agree with the editor of this collection that
if Boake had lived seven years longer he
might easily have won recognition as the
foremost poet of Australia.


Medical,
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY'S LEADINC SPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Fkien nsof sufferers
Second to None in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult, these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LEGALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at tlie Lead of tlie medical
profession is no longer a quesi ion of doubt. That
they have mvestigated fui ther into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY",
IS A SERIES OF PHOFESSICNAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thomauds in lhis land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
‘#JH 91001
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversiou to society,
stupidness, despondeucy, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unlit
for study, business or mavringe—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be iT'en.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD Ml
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable tren
i-ises, NERVOUS
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
• f,
I>NTtfICV~ J
All Trams stop at the Door.
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Rooms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing' how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTTR EE T
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
5
‘TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABoro PbySiciaO-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver,' lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,’’nearly 100 pages, 1 sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Eangston, M.Jt.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
•leojpojtt
Dr. SPBBE,
20 York street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
Eossibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
im so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
oase which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
tICTHIM pmMfn
nssasssssswasssssssssu.
( i
ij
'i
FULL 'DIRECrioSs'
ENCLOSEDf 'J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, eta JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that
invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
O' R-» CORO
■
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Hr. Rico id's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for tills. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope. .
Agents for Australasia —Perry <fc Co., Barring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
books. books. books.
NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS.
SOILED DOVE, the History of a Young Lady who ran
away from home, and ultimately went to the dogs. Also,
Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands. Also, Sapho,
or Life and Love in Paris (translated from the French).
Post free, Is. 6d. THE BALLET GIRL: Her Natural
Historv Before and Behind the Scenes. Post free, Is.
R. W. SKINNER,
Second-hand Bookseller, Publisher & Bookbinder,
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Married Ladies.
*3T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
i GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories). Is. 3d
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having’ comp'oted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Booms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
Bymptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr- Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT MINN.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
YA7EAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
’’ permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Booms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Churoh,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the uniters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully 1 never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever 1 was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
om a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes: —“Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be dont
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will taka
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to then*.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or toy Letter.
76hiwao.
kin


TATTERS ALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST
u
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
registered
ADDRESS.
Caulfield C. 16th October.
100,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Melbourne 0. 2nd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
-Shares in the above.
Name
Address
:
s
ne C.
2nd November.
,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address-
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W
List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
valued at £10,065
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will Imvo , .
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.^ 011 ° f the Homestead >
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—or—
City arjd SGbGrbai?
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss. Each.
List Closes 4th October *
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses, Glenmore
ltoad, and large Dwelling-House, Va)ue
Woollahra ...’ £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full ‘particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who esGhews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, hut have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—O NE-SATURD AYS.
]nthony Hordern &sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
uss
Spooler’s
, 0 0
FOR
f BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
!;!: DIRECIIONS FOR USE
%
tnnrnmnmiiiuimnniwnmiiii
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning: and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing lor Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
JP.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzgll,
'llO William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention'giyen to Country Orders.
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
PIANOS in
Tl)€ Finest agd Largest JV|(iSi<; WarcboCiSe
IKT AUSTRALIA..
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKfEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, aud beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, J, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
n.TIOWS J? FRU,T is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Beg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENP.ERG
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from A 2 2« each
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE 5 ; BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Soie Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers CONCERTINAS both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality -
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from A 3 3s. each 1 }
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELSOXJRKTE.
THE
‘ Plum ’
THE
‘ r*ii im*
(''l EN ILEMEIm who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price I jingle Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
t-OR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Puddiug. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given an
implicitly iollowed. i he proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
meud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent 111 the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveita trial.
i Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENQ.
Sole Agents for New .v>uLj W.leg : TIL LOCK & CO. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SIN AND JUDGMENT.
THE STORY OF A MAN WHO DIDN’T.
“ Lord, in especial forgive my sins of omission.”— Dying
prayer of a celebrated Divine.
“ He who offends against Natural Law is more damn-
worthy than is he who cannot subscribe to certain
dogmatic articles of faith, or who is guilty of transgres-
sion against legal or conventional rules of conduct.” —
Unknown Philosopher.
“. . . the greatest of all the Rights of Woman—be
she maid or matron, to determine when she shall exercise
her distinctive function of maternity ; in short, her right
to be a free entity, and not merely the complement of
man and panderer to his desires.”— lbidem.
A lonely, upland, country lane ;
A Summer day of fervent heat;
A youth and maid—say, John and Jane—
By some strange fortune chanced to meet,
And stopped to talk of this and that,
Town gossip and the country chat.
Full-bosomed, tall, ripe-lipped was she,
The dark-eyed daughter of the manse ;
Slim, pale, and hazel-haired was he,
And dreamy was his blue eyes’ glance ;
His thoughts to nymph or goddess strayed,
And never dwelt on earthly maid.
But now his pulses went and came
With quickened beat; he knew not why
Swift following waves of frost and flame
Swept o’er him, as her melting eye
Sought his, with frankness that betrayed
A nature free and unafraid.
He knew not ’twas no Summer’s heat
That flushed her glowing cheeks with fire,
And in those eyes his quailed to meet
He saw no light of fond desire.
Poor fool ! he knew not even this —
That lips like Jane’s were good to kiss !
Love-yearnings, ardent, unconcealed,
Spoke in her every look and tone,
But spoke in vain ; his soul, congealed,
Was cold as unresponsive stone;
With heart unmoved and brain awhirl
He talked vain nothings to the girl.
Her hour—not his ! A veil between
Hung dark. They parted as they met—
She, nettled at his absent mien ;
He, with a sense of vague regret,
Yet all unconscious, in his dream,
That he had spurned Life’s bliss supreme.
John’s dream is o’er (no need to say
How many years have sped their course) ;
And now, remembering that day,
He feels the pangs of fell Remorse
For Duty shirked, Occasion missed,
For charms unravished, lips unkissed.
He sees, in thought, the Final Doom ;
He hears, appalled, the awful cries—
“ Too late ! ” “ Repentance finds no room ! *
No pity softens Jane’s stern eyes,
Grown lustreless from Love’s eclipse;
He hears her coldly moral lips
Pronounce the words : “My thanks I give
For that unwished immunity !
I’ve gained the right in Heaven to live —
But wasted Opportunity,
And Love denied, have banished thee
To Hell for all eternity ! ”
Poor, lost, damned fool! Yes ; doubly lost
And damned is he who wastes his youth—
Who tracks a shadow, hugs a ghost,
Shuts out Reality and Truth,
Mocks Love with unappeased desire,
And wakes to find his soul on fire.
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
SARAH DOW.
’Er mother kep’ a lodgin’ place—
I got to know ’er there —
She ’ad the sunrise on ’er face,
The sunset on ’er ’air.
To other wimmen that I’ve met,
I’d rather not refer,
But I’d ’ave sold (an’ paid the debt)
My willin’ soul for ’er.
Oh, Sarah Dow ! oh, Sarah Dow,
You were too good for me I vow ;
But if I could ’ave died, I would,
To sarve you, Sarah Dow.
I mustered up the pluck one day,
’Twas pretty ’ard to do,
I ’ad’nt ’arf the ’art to say
One ’arf I wanted to —
I asked ’er if she’d be my wife —
I ’ad no chance, I know—
But it was, somehow, death-in-life
To ’ear ’er tell me—No.
I’ve been, like sailormen ashore,
To spend my hard-earned pence ;
I'd,been a reckless dog before,
An’ little better since ;
I never saw ’er face again,
The face that ’urt me so ;
I never saw ’er face since then—
She died ten year ago.
But I’ve a picture in my bunk
I don’t let no one see,
An’ when I’m done an’ drowned and sunk
That picture goes with me.
I’ve been an’ hid it in my kit,
I wouldn’t ’ear them laugh,
An’ once a year I looks at it,
An old tin photograf.
Oh, Sarah Dow ! oh, Sarah Dow,
It’s gettin’ brown an’ fading now,
But you are there, still young and fair,
My Sarah, Sarah Dow.
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BRADY.
“THE DOMINANT NOTE.”
The long, wet road gleams greyly in the dusk,
Tall pines are on the other side arow,
And I alone together with this husk
Of bitter thought—l have no friend, no foe,
Tor these few passers hate me not, nor love.
(Alas, nor love !) Indifference complete
Is theirs for me. The sky is pale above,
And grey-down clouds, on which my weary head
Would love to lean, slip on with smooth-shod feet
Away to Eastward, leaving as they go
Their rose-red draperies—there is no red
To Eastward, whither glide they ! Ah ! just so
My poor life, grey as they, has left behind
All sweet, rose-tinged experience, which, past,
Trails still behind as memory ; but soon
That, too, will leave me. Where then shall I find
My company of thoughts, now fading fast?
And if not these —then Death’s last gracious boon !
Adelaide.
ROSAMOND DENHAM.


AftStraliao AlGUial c .
Th« Oldest Mutual Life Assuranoe Society established *IOVICI€I/t \ly ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
RRm^' r r>' **■ ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
JTW»nK Esq>; ™ OS - LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.;
Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I. A., F.F. A., F.S.S.
Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Th ru Funds Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
8 BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Office : 8 1 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head
Established 1849.
HOTEL • -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &o. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES: 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Cagtlereagh-street, Sydney
ALL
CLASSES
OF
accommodation
—FOR—
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE
FederalX
V Palace\
Hotel.
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door,
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
The Smelting Co. of Australia
{LIMITED).
m
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Bold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTTNG
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING’, BULLION REFINING etc S?’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill The favorable
situation of the works being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal. Coke, and 1 luxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on af/reement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Summer Suita! Summer Suits!
, '♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Tbc Loodoi) & Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have one of the Largest and most Varied Stock of SUMMER SUITINGS in the City.
Gall or send for Patterns and Meamrement Forms.
3T SUITS—4S/-, 50/- to 90/- TROUSERS-12/6 to 25/-
All Goods delivered FREE to any part of the Colony.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED. S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 705.; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
N. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase
System, 1 have decided to OLE.*
these have English Dunlop and „±. ... j.hc uioyoie season is lust comin
Buyers should applv earlv as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fT'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridyeu’orh.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Gritpc &Sn>itb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 5/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AND RESTORING VIGOR.
“oh, what a difference in the morning!"
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA NUT” TONIC,
The GREATEST “PICK-ME-UP” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE—
CITy MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney
Chaibman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G.,,M.L.0.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, .A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachby, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Olyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager tor Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDKIIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S n>ore In)ported Leaf
tljai) all the other Tobacco
Factories PCit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of DIXSOIIS
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yankee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PEE, CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cban)pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooqtieror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CeQteQQial-
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopoly,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 18.—No. 920.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1897.
Price, Cd.
WHEN LORD MEETS LORD-A PROUD MOMENT FOR HENNIKER.
It has been announced per cable that Henniker Heaton is to bring a representative cricket-team from the British Parliament (presumably mostly Lords). We must put
our best foot foremost and trot out some of our Lords to meet them.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleou, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu t.ettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 U 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... Dob
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Costal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly ta you every
■week for a year. .
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Com/mumcations
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. I •
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable)
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. A U
communications will be regarded, as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Tnompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith ilc Co.
Fm.—Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and ATaorilanrl.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovineial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1897.
Two Bombs.
The dynamite explosion which took place
last week at the Wentworth mine, Lucknow,
New South Wales, was notable chiefly because
dynamite is not a frequent argument in Aus-
tralia—in fact, this is almost, if not quite, the
first time it has been used in any industrial
dispute. No damage was done beyond what
a few shillings will repair, and it doesn’t even
appear that anybody was very badly scared.
Whether any damage was intended, or
whether the explosion was merely for adver-
tising purposes, there is absolutely nothing
to show. A great deal has been said about
the awful wreck and butchery which would
have happened if somebody who wasn’t there
had been present, or if the bomb which
didn’t explode had gone off, or if the thing
had been that wasn’t ; and all these facts
may be freely admitted. The horrible possi-
bilities of the thing that might occur but
didn’t are always with us. The world is full
of abysses down which everybody might have
dropped, and of things that might have
dropped on anybody, and of substances
which might have blown up, and of people
who might have been there when the sub-
stance could have blown up if it had wanted
to ; but, dreadful as all these chances are,
they have no bearing on the case. The
problem with which the law is now contend-
ing is that of finding the author of the out-
rage, and all the vociferation about how
much worse that outrage might have been
than it was is beside the question. The
first tendency in such cases is to assume
that certain persons are guilty and then to
reckon the horrible nature of the offence as
evidence that they commited it—which it
isn’t.
* * * *
The Lucknow outrage is reduced to about
five possibilities. It might have been done
by the strikers ; it might have been done by
somebody connected with the management ;
the perpetrators of it might have been some
irresponsible individuals outside quite un-
connected with the strikers, or they might
have been some equally irresponsible indi-
viduals inside. Or it might have been only
a stage comedy explosion and not serious
enough to be worth calling an outrage. No
matter how harrowing the consequences
might have been, as set forth in the unsup-
ported statements of the management, if
the explosion had taken place somewhere
else, or at a different time, or if there had
been more of it, or if more people had been
about, all the above possibilities need to be
fairly considered. The fact that things
might have been worse if the dynamite had
burst differently is no more evidence than
the equally pertinent fact that the recent
Federal Convention would probably have
been killed if any dynamite had burst at all
—providing there was enough of it and it
burst in the right place. The gory character
of the thing which might have been but
wasn’t requires to be left entirely out of the
discussion.
• • » •
As regards direct evidence, there appears
to be absolutely none against anybody. As
regards indirect evidence there seems to be
practically none. The only thing that can
be done is to estimate motives and possibili-
ties, and, taking the case of the organised
strikers first, the chances, assuming them to
be reasonable beings, look very much in
their favor. The reasons why the strikers
might have tried to dynamite the Wentworth
property were a natural desire to do some
damage to the enemy’s goods, a desire to
scare the management, a wish to kill or maim
or drive away the blackleg workers who had
partly filled their places, or an unreasoning
inclination to break something or anything,
or a mere Chinese longing for fireworks.
The reasons why they would not do any-
thing of the kind are much more numerous
and more powerful. The responsibility of
the act was bound to be laid at their door.
That would naturally mean loss of sympathy.
Loss of sympathy would probably mean a
diminution or stoppage of the contributions
which alone keep the strike alive. It would
mean that the Government would have a fair
excuse to take sides against the strikers
openly, instead of secretly. It would also
mean more police protection for the mine,
and consequently more facilities for bringing
in non-unionist miners, and more rigorous
repression of the unionists. The latter
mostly live on the company’s property, and
their wholesale eviction is merely a question
of sufficient police. There are enough un-
employed miners in Australia to man the
Lucknow mines a dozen times over, and a
large number of these would willingly take
service there but for the fact that public feel-
ing is with the strikers ; if public feeling
turned generally against them, and the Luck-
now blackleg ceased to be an object of public
scorn, the mines could be fully manned
inside a week. The unionists, in fact, live
wholly on the fact that public sympathy is
with them, and the assumption that they
were willing to sacrifice their only advantage
on the off-chance of doing some small, tem-
porary damage seems highly improbable.
* * * *
The reasons why anybody connected with
the management should not have committed
the outrage —if it was a serious outrage—
are also obvious enough. No person,
barring a suicide or a crank or a very
elaborate conspirator, attempts to blow up
himself or his own property. Moreover,
the management having, with great diffi-
culty, got some new miners together, pre-
sumably doesn’t want to scare them away
again by letting off bombs and miscellaneous
artillery among them. On the other hand, it
is quite possible to show a long and convinc-
ing procession of reasons why persons inside
the mine enclosure have much more reasons
for making a dynamite sensation than those
outside. There is no evidence that anybody
or any property was seriously endangered by
the little explosion which took place. All
the serious risk seems to have attached to
the other explosion which didn’t take place,
and there is no evidence that that other
explosion was ever intended to happen at
all. The alleged crime was certain to attach
some stigma to the strikers, and it might
shift public sympathy from them round to
the Wentworth management. That might
mean getting a supply of free labor turned
on through the State Labor Bureau. Also,
it probably would mean inducing the Govern-
ment to further withhold the issue of the
Wentworth lease, and, as the issue of the
lease implies the enforcement of the labor-
conditions, and an immediate necessity for
employing some 200 men, and its non-issue
means that the co. is free from that very
embarrassing condition, this item counts for
a great deal.
» * * *
Again, the much-advertised outrage natu-
rally brings along more police-protection,
and, with it, the co. can more easily procure
and bring in “free” laborers. It might
bring along enough police - protection to
enable the co. to evict its late employes
wholesale from their homes, which are
mostly on the co.’s property ; this right of
eviction is the very best weapon in the
management’s armoury, only it is impossible
to use it without a strong constabulary force
at hand, and, if the necessary force could be
procured merely by letting off some cheap
catherine-wheels, it would be a great stroke
of policy. In short, the outrage, provided
the public can be induced to credit it to the
miners, is a dead loss to the latter and a
great gain to the co. The latter fixes on the
strikers the reputation of being the mur-
derous, lawless, anarchistic element in the
struggle, and secures the moral and material
support of the great, stupid, solid class
whose watchword at all times is law’n’order.
Also, if there ever was any doubt of the co.
supporting Manager Lock in his attitude
towards the men that doubt is probably
ended ; it being cheerfully assumed that the
strikers committed the outrage it necessarily
follows that they are a crowd with whom
strong measures are absolutely necessary.
All these advantages are a great deal to gain
at the expense of a few shillings’-worth of
damage to some wood-work.
* * * •
Of course none of this is evidence. Men
are not always logical, and they often act
against all reason and probability. But there
are several matters in the case which are not
wholly theory. In the first place, it is
alleged from the co.’s side of the fence that
the bomb which went off was the smaller of
the two, and the strikers ask how the powers
inside are so well acquainted with the size
of that missile which blew into dust and
fragments, unless they had some previous
acquaintance with it. The management
doesn’t even profess that it has any fragments
to go upon, and in the absence of these there is
no evidence that there was any first “ bomb ”
at all. The big, sensational bomb, it is
alleged, was extinguished through the fuse
getting in a puddle, but there is good evi-
dence to the effect that fuse will burn even
in a bucket of water. Therefore, there is
absolutely no proof that the big, sensational
bomb was ever alight at all. In the next
place the management, immediately after
the alleged outrage, sent a telegram in which
it was distinctly alleged that the bombs were
thrown by strikers. As nobody knows, up
to the time of writing, who threw the bombs
this shows that the management was not at
all scrupulous in its attempt to fix the re-
sponsibility where it would do the most
good, and had a stronger eye for effect
than for veracity. In the miners’ opinion
this desire for effect might account
for other things beside the mere telegram.
At all events, it may be set down to the
miners' credit that they didn’t promptly tele-
graph anybody to the effect that some repre-
sentative of the Lucknow co. had been letting
off fireworks inside the co.’s enclosure with
a view to bringing discredit on the strikers,
which would have been quite as fair and just
and (so far as the available evidence goes)
as truthful as the other statement. The
intemperate haste of the management to
make capital out of the episode was not
imitated by the men.
* * * %
As a further alternative, the explosion may
have been the work of some irresponsible
rowdy--the kind of rowdy whose sole pur-
pose and joy is to break something and make
a loud report. This kind of person is always
to be reckoned with, and as he goes by no
fixed rules, and has no visible reason except
his desire to break something, he is beyond
calculation. Meanwhile, the co. has distinctly
got a loan of that foolish person, Colonial
Secretary Brunker, in the matter. Sunday
Brunker offers a reward for the conviction
of the person who “ threw ” the bomb, and,
as no one up to time of writing claims to
have seen it “ thrown,” Brunker thus lends
himself to the management’s version of
the case without any reason, and takes it
for granted that the real or humorous
explosive came from outside. Of course,
it may be that it did—that is merely a
matter of opinion—but even then no one
made Sunday Brunker a judge in the matter,
and the reward should apply equally whether
the bomb was thrown from outside or only
planted inside. Anyhow, there is £l5O and
a promise of absolute personal safety for the
person or persons who allege to the satisfac-
tion of a jury that they saw some other per-
son “throw” the late lamented combustible,
and, under these conditions, it will be very
hard luck indeed if someone doesn’t swear
that- he saw someone else throw it. In tough
times like these it should be possible, for
£l5O, to find evidence that almost anybody
threw the whole earth.
The Three-Fifths Majority.
The debate as to the best means of settling
deadlocks between the two Houses of the
Federal Legislature—when there is any Federal
Legislature—has now raged intermittently for
several months. During all that period The
Bulletin has consistently advocated what is
commonly called the Norwegian method, by
which, in cases of hopeless disagreement, the
two Houses sit and vote as one and decide the
point at issue by the joint majority. It is not
an ideal method, but it is, at least, a reasonable
and workable compromise. The two Houses of
the Federal Legislature,- according to the scheme
assented to by both Conventions, will, in the
early days of the Commonwealth, practically
represent two different places : in the Chamber
of Representatives, New South Wales and Vic-
toria will command a two-thirds majority ; in
the Senate, Queensland, S.A., Westralia, and
Tasmania will command a two-thirds majority.
If any question should arise—as will probably be
the case some day—in which the interests or
the prejudices of the small states clash with
those of the large ones, the two Houses will
certainly take opposite sides, and a deadlock
will ensue. A dissolution is not likely
to bring a settlement any nearer ; the
Lower House will go to its constituency
(mainly Victoria and New South Wales), and
will probably receive orders from the people to
stand by the interests of Victoria and New
South Wales. The Upper House will go to its
constituency (mainly Queensland, South Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, and Westralia), and will
doubtless receive orders from the people—quite
a different set of people—to stand by the in>
terests of these four provinces. This will leave
things exactly as they were.
* * * *
Owing to the fact that —in the earty stages of
the Commonwealth at all events, and until
population becomes more evenly distributed—
the two Houses of the Federal Legislature will
represent two different places, the Referendum
will not suit the case any better. If it is pro-
posed that the matter shall be decided on a
popular vote by the majority of the people,
that is leaving it to the two stales—Victoria
and New South Wales—which command the
majority in the Lower House—in other words,
if is giving the Lower House power to over-
rule the Upper one every time, and the four
small states won’t join on these terms. If it is
left to the majority of states, it means that
the Upper House will boss the Lower one every
time, and that 1,000,000 people will always
outvote 2,500,000. The two large states cer-
tainly will not join on these terms. And if it
is proposed that a majority of the people and
of the states shall be necessary before any-
thing is done, the Referendum will never do
anything or settle anything at all. The only
possibility of a hopeless deadlock will come in
when the majority of the people, as represented
in the Lower House, are on one side, and the
majority of the states, as represented in the
Upper House, are on the other. Therefore a
Referendum which will only work when the
majority of the people and the majority of the
states are on the same side will leave the dead-
lock as it was.
* * * *
The only visible solution at present is by
mixing the two constituencies together, and
deciding the matter by a joint vote. In years
to come, when population gets more' evenly
diffused throughout Australia, the two Houses
will no longer represent entirely different con-
stituencies, and then it will be perfectly feasible
to decide deadlocks by either a Referendum of
the people alone or of the people and the states.
But while the two Houses represent two dif-
ferent localities, the only feasible way out is by
a joint vote. The Federal Convention, after a
fearsome waste and wilderness of argument,
realised this, and, under a number of needless
and complicated restrictions, it adopted the
joint-vote policy. There is, first of all, to be a
dissolution of both Houses in order to see if the
point can’t be settled by an appeal to the people.
And if this leads to no good result, there is to
be a joint sitting at which the matter will be
decided, not by a mere majority, but by a
three-fifths majority. In other words, if there
are 100 members present, 60 votes will be re-
quired to enact a new law, but 41 will be suf-
ficient to re-enact the old one.
* * * *
This is how the three-fifths proviso works
out: It is proposed that the Senate shall con-
sist of six members from each province, so,
when all the provinces join the Commonwealth,
it will have a membership of 36. It is also
proposed that the House of Representatives
shall, if possible, be just twice as large as the
Senate, but that no province shall have less
than five members. As a, result the member'
ship will be something as follows :
Representatives. Senators.
New South Wales ... 25 ... 6
Victoria ... 22 ... 6
Queensland ... 9 ... 6
South Australia ... 6 ... 6
Westralia ... 5 ... 6
Tasmania ... 5 ... 6
72 36
Under the Convention plan, in case of a dead-
lock, both Houses are to be dissolved, and if
they return from the election in the same frame
of mind, and the deadlock still continues, the
joint vote is to be resorted to. If, after the
matter has been made the issue of a general
election, the two Houses still decisively dis-
agree, it can only be because the bulk of the
people of the large states are on one side and
the bulk of those of the small states are on the
other. When the two Houses sit together,
New South Wales and Victoria, with over two-
thirds of the population, will muster 59 votes
out of 108. The other four states, with one-
third of the population, will command the
other 49 votes. Under the three-fifths system
it will take 65 votes to do anything, but 43 will
be quite sufficient to prevent anything being
done. Therefore, though the one-third of the
population represented by the four small states
won’t be strong enough to do anything against
the will of the two-thirds contained in the two
large ones, it will be quite strong enough to
prevent anything being done by the two large
states which the other four unanimously ob-
ject to.
* * • *
This is probably about the best compromise
that circumstances admit of, still the three-
fifths majority idea makes it a woefully bad dne
in some respects. The central idea is that a
system by which the law can’t be altered
without at least their partial assent —by which
it can’t be altered wholly against their will—
bestows on the four small states a liberal
measure of protection against the very large
majority of New South Wales and Victoria.
In this respect it is a reasonable compromise ;
the minority whicli wants more protection than
this is too insatiable to live. The pity of it is
that the three-fifths majority idea always gives
stagnation a great advantage over progress. In
a joint House of, say, 100 members it will take
60 votes to do anything, whereas 41 votes will
always be sufficient to prevent anything being
done. While the two Houses represent two
entirely different constituencies, this is ap-
parently an unavoidable evil, and the pro-
posed method is certainly the most workable
solution which the Convention has attempted
up to date. But it should only be enacted as a
temporary expedient. The time must come
when the relative positions of the provinces
will be so greatly altered that the proposed
system will cease to serve any useful purpose.
Queensland, by reason of its extra size alone,
is bound, sooner or later, to overtake Victoria
and to get abreast of New South Wales in
population. Then there will be three large
provinces instead of two, and these three
Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria—
will dominate both branches of the Legislature.
Consequently the two Houses will no longer


represent wholly different constituencies, and
there will not be the same real or fancied neces-
sity for protecting one constituency against the
other. Bun, in cases of deadlock, the three-
fifths majority provision will still remain to give
stagnation a material advantage over progress,
and stagnation will always have the same
twenty yards start in a hundred. And Aus-
tralia doesn’t want stagnation to have 20 yards
start always. When Queensland becomes one of
three large provinces, and there are only three
small provinces iustead of four, the three-fifths
majority will be of no particular value to pro-
tect the small provinces against the large ones,
but it will be a valuable device for protecting
Toryism against progress. Twenty years hence
it will probably 4ave ceased to serve the pur-
pose for which it was intended, and if its opera-
tion was restricted to that period, the average
Tory of to-day would have leisure to die com-
fortably before the evil times of too sudden
progress came upon him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gentleman Who Is Away.
When Labor-leader Glassey’s motion towards
the production of the Q.N. Bank Committee’s
report came up in Q. Parliament last week,
Acting-Premier Tozer blocked it, on the ground
that the matter was in the hands of the Com-
mittee, and Govt, could not interfere. But
Govt, could interfere. Parliament could vote
the indemnity which the Committee asked for
on 2nd Sept.—which they have not got yet—
which they are still waiting for. Parliament
could decide the question whether the Commit-
tee should trail to the other end of the world
after the Gentleman Who Is Away, or whether
the Committee should present its report at
once. The Committee, with E. B. Forrest,
MTlwraith’s friend and former business ally,
at its head, naturally shirks the responsibility
of decision and looks to the Govt, which
appointed it. And the Govt, shirks decision,
too. GLASSEYacquiesced tamely enough—he eats
out of Tozer’s hand nowadays ; and the matter
is shunted till Premier Nelson arrives. It is
simply a question how much consideration Par-
liament is prepared togivetheGentlemanWho Is
Away-—and how much he deserves. The Com-
mittee has finished its report, and MTlwraith
now desires to speak in arrest of judgment—a
judgment which, in some respects, is so severe
that the Committee wants a libel-indemnity
before it will hand in its report. The Commit-
tee has been sitting off and on for about ten
months. MTlwraith has been given every
consideration. He didn’t appear in person, but
he was represented by an attorney, who, possi-
bly, made a belter case for him than he would
have made for himself. The Committee
looked through the books of the Q.N.
Bank; examined its officers; called other
witnesses, and heard MTlwraith’s attorney.
Then another list of matters apparently re-
quiring explanation was drawn up, transmitted
to MTlwraith, and MTlwraith’s explanation
was received and considered. The Committee
formulated its report—the purport of which
was somehow communicated to MTlwraith
before it was communicated to Government or
to Parliament!—and MTlwraith cabled in all
directions to prevent publication. To the
Committee, among others, a series of cablegrams
was sent, commencing Aug. 20. The Committee
considered them, and considered that MTl-
wraith had been given as much rope as he
could reasonably expect, and determined to
present its report. On 2nd Sept, it apprised
the Govt, that the report was complete and
available as soon as a guarantee was given
against action by the Gentleman Who Is Away
or others—and MTlwraith was also apprised.
Then he played his last trump, and sent the
cable of 4th Sept. That worked the oracle !
The Committee on 6th Sept, withdrew the re-
port—some part of it had been in favor
of withdrawing it all along—and notified
the Govt, that MTlwraith’s personal evidence,
“if really supplementary and material,” should
be taken; because MTlwraith had been
“placed at a disadvantage,” and “in common
justice every facility should be granted to him
to throw all possible light upon his trans-
actions.” Evidently the Committee’s report as
it stands damns MTlwraith— and MTlwraith
knows it. Question is : In view of the time that
has elapsed since the Committee began investi-
gation, in view of the consideration already
extended, how r much further facility to delay
judgment should be given to the Gentleman
Who Is Away ?
Lyfield’s Lunacy and Legal Loot.
The legal profession in Victoria continues to
make capital from the case of Henry Lyfield,
a murderous and otherwise awful agriculturist
who was lately excused from hanging on the
ground of insanity. Lyfield’s solicitor, as
The Bulletin mentioned some time ago, made
a contract with that uncommon lunatic to
defend him in Melb. (Criminal Court for all he
was worth— i.e., £l2OO. The defence appeared
cheap at the price. The murderer, however,
was never tried or defended to any serious
extent at all ; the doctors simply reported
that he was a lunatic, and he was sen-
tenced to imprisonment during the Governor’s
pleasure, instead of getting committed to the
gallows, and the victorious solicitor proceeded
to realise his £l2OO from the prisoner’s estate,
which included, by the way, a legacy from the
late Mrs. Lyfield. When Lyfield bashed his
wife’s brains out she died intestate, and her
little bit of property fell due to her lovin’ hus-
band, or rather, to her lovin’ husband’s legal
adviser, Mr. W. Powling. The total assets of
LYFiELDatthe time he was adjudged insane came
to about £l2OO, and attorney Powling scooped the
pool. Presently the Vic. Master in Lunacy
called upon the attorney to disgorge some of
the £l2OO by submitting his bill for taxation,
in accordance with sections 492 and 493 of the
blessed Crimes Act, said sections being de-
signed, or pretending to be designed, to pre-
vent a criminal’s lawyer from charging exces-
sive costs against his client. The Master in
Lunacy (who plays, of course, with the Crown
Law Department’s money) failed to enforce
taxation of Powling’s costa in the Equity
Court, or some other court. The Chief Justice
decided that section 270 of the Supreme Court
Act gave Fowling authority to make his £l2OO
bargain binding, regardless of sections 492 and
493 in the Crimes Act. Thereupon the Master
in Lunacy (playing with more Crown Law coin)
appealed to the Full Court, and the Full Court
upheld the Chief Justice’s decision. As the
matter stands at present solicitor PowLING is
lord of all Lyfield’s possessions, and the Vic-
torian Government has paid a pot of money
to Crown lawyers for their trouble in dis-
covering that it was wasted on a hopeless
case. But there remains another chance of
good legal sport. The Full Court, in its recent
decision, stated that the Supreme Court Act
(sec. 270), w'hich permits private contracts be-
tween solicitor and client, also “provides that
they may be impeached and set aside on sufficient
grounds,” and the £l2OO bill in this case is pos-
sibly a sufficient ground for impeachment.
Nevertheless, The Bulletin has grave doubts
on the point. The true sentiment, so to speak,
of the contract between Powling and Lyfield
cannot be arrived at without an examination of
the person last named. The Law has found
Lyfield insane, A lunatic, like a dead man,
can tell no legal tales. And who beside Lyfield
could fairly estimate the value of the defence
that saved him from a hanging? Other people
can only guess at it wildly. If the public of
Victoria were referendumed on the question as
to how much Fowling ought to get from
Lyfield, they would award him the whole of
the murderer’s estate, as per contract, plus the
skeleton of the murderer when he has died
from natural causes.
Queensland’s Black Labor.
Dear Bulletin, —From the Q. Registrar-Gene-
ral’s annual report, recently issued, I give the
following statistics of the colored population of
Queensland on 31st Dec., 1896 :
Men. Women.
Polynesians ... ... 8003 ... 600
Japanese ... ... 2179 ... 46
Chinese ... ... 7686 ... 124
Javanese ... ... 44 ... 27
Other Asiatics ... 868 ... 61
From this, it will be seen that every Polynesian
woman has about 13J swains to choose from.
The Japs number about 47 men to one woman ;
the Chinese about 62 men to one woman. The
Javanese ladies must be satisfied with a
husband and a half, while the “ Other Asiatic ”
female has a choice of 17 lovers. Were
it not for the competition of the white
“vessels of depravity,” therefore, the colored
ladies of Queensland would be very much
wooed. . . . Now permit me to deal with
the death-rate among the Kanakas in Queens-
land. The general death-rate for the entire Q.
population is given by the Registrar-General as
12T0 per 1000. The mortality amongst the
Polynesians is quoted as 36'55, and that of the
whites as 11 '59. It is consequently assumed
by the compiler of the figures that the Kanaka
death-rate “ shows an advance of 300 per cent,
as compared with the general rate for the whole
population.” But the figures prove much more,
for the Kanakas are mostly all adult males and
females in the veryprime of life, whilethe white
population comprises a large number of old per-
sons and young children, among whom the nor-
mal death-rate is necessarily high. The total
number of deaths for the year 1896 was 5645
Of these 2030 were children under five years.
Only an infinitesimal portion of these could be
young Kanakas or children of other colored
races. If that number were deducted from the
total deaths and a comparison made of the
balance, the Kanaka mortality would show
very forcibly the effect of climate and circum-
stances on Polynesian immigrants. All Kanakas
arriving in Queensland are required by law to
be of adult age and pass a medical inspection.
The latter test is no dead-letter, for the im-
porter of the savage has the option of refusing
to “ hire ” (bless the word) any nigger likely to
become an invalid burden on his hands, as he is
liable to pay for his medical requirements, &c.,
and for his maintenance while unable to work.
—Gridiron.
♦
The Queen is “ Touched.”
“ Sardonyx ” to The Bulletin on one branch
of breakfast-table boredom
In the official acknowledgment of its Jubilee congratu-
lations to the Queen, recently received by N.S.W. Muni-
cipal Association, it is stated that “ Her Majesty, who was
touched by the evidence of the attachment and de-
votion of the municipalities of New South Wales to her
Throne and person, was graciously pleased to com-
mand that an expression of her cordial thanks should
be conveyed,” &c. Over which hunk of stereotyped
balderdash the aforesaid sanhedrim of ex-publieans
and butchers and drapers is doubtless still vigorously
thumping itself on the back, in blissful unconsciousness
of the fact that the “ laying before Her Majesty ” of such
effusions as its own meant no more than the bare men-
tion to Her Gracious that the diurnal half-hundred-
weight ef “loyal” literature had come to hand, and that
the regulation futilities had been duly dispensed in re-
turn. The address-builders who flatter themselves that
the personal element enters in the slightest degree into
such purely official “patter” find fitting type in Salvarmy
Booth, prancing around even as one of the ungodly
because some private secretary’s private secretary had
mechanically addressed him, on the Queen’s behalf, as
“ General.” Even if the whole gorgeous machinery of
the “ Household ” didn’t exist principally for the express
purpose of fending off every vulgar vexation from the
Royal soul and preventing every possible harassment of
the Royal body, the Queen would indeed be “ touched,”
in quite another direction, if she didn’t take precious
good care to stand personally clear of the torrent of
sycophantic slush that has recently rushed Londonwards
from the four corners of the earth. There has never been
a worse case of protesting too much than in the persis-
tent endeavouring of the British flunkey-press to manu-
facture for Queen Victoria a reputation for aptitude at
“affairs” and intelligent interest in public business. It
has never been any secret amongst her “advisers” that
she is an essentially commonplace representative of an
essentially commonplace heredity; and, even if her
avowed preferences in literature didn't sufficiently
determine her intellectual limitations, her own grossly
beslavered excursions into pen-land would have
effectually settled the question. Also, as Victoria
is, further, an old lady who has always known
exceedingly well on which side her bread was but-
tered, it is reasonably certain- that she gives herself no
trouble that she can avoid, and that, her “ profound sym-
pathy,” and “heart}' acknowledgment,” and “cordial
reciprocation ” —when projected beyond her immediate
personal circle —are matters merely kept in stock, and
cut off by the yard as wanted.
The Most Remarkable Legislature on
Earth.
The Tory party in Australian politics has been
practically unanimous on one point in connec-
tion with the Federal Convention—it wanted
no provision whatever for deadlocks. Demo-
crats of various shades hustled bitterly over
half-a-dozen more or less hopeful or hopeless
solutions, but the Tory sat stolidly in his
mental swamp and answered every suggestion
by proposing that the thing should be left
alone. If there is no provision for deadlocks
then the only possible result, when one Federal
House runs up against the other, is that
nothing will be done, and things will remain as
they are ; and as the Tory is against most new
legislation, a system which gives such abundant
facilities for leaving things as they are would
suit him admirably. But in the main he was a
dishonest and mendacious Tory, and his real
motive was kept very much in the background.
The unreal motive which he held up to the
light of day was that there was no need of any
machinery to deal with deadlocks. There
never would be any serious deadlocks, he
wailed ; there were no deadlocks which couldn’t
be surmounted either in Britain, or in the United
States, or in any of the Seven Provinces, and
if these Legislatures struggled through all right
by taking their chance and striking an average,
the Federal Parliament could do likewise.
This theory, if anybody seriously believed in
it, which is doubtful, only showed how utterly
its supporters failed to realise the situation.
The Federal Parliament, in the first few years
of its existence anyhow, and until population
becomes more generally diffused, will be utterly
unlike any British or American or any present
Australasian Legislature, and noarguments based
oii any of them will apply to it. In fact, it will
probably be unlike any other legislature on this
earth. In N.S.W., Queensland and Maoriland
the Upper House is a nominee body, and if it
blocks the popular Chamber too aggressively
the Government, representing the majority in
the popular Chamber, obtains the appointment
of sufficient new members to alter the Council’s
way of thinking. In Great Britain the same
system prevails; in a great emergency the
deadlock can be got over by swamping the
Lords with a batch of new peers. Therefore,
in all these places there is a remedy—a clumsy
one, no doubt, but a remedy all the same. In
Victoria, S.A., Tasmania and Westralia the
Council is an elective body and can’t be
swamped, nor is there any visible solution of
deadlocks. Still the two Houses are elected by
the people of the same province, and, to a great
extent, by the same crowd of people, and they
can always do a good deal when the election
comes round to bring their two batches of
representatives into harmony. The trouble
with the Federal Legislature is that the Houses
will not represent the same place or the same
people. A very large majority in one House
will represent two provinces; a very large
majority in the other will represent the other
three or four as the case may be. The situation
in case of disagreement is that the one House
will be Turkey and the other Greece, and, if
there isno meansofarbitratingbetweenthem, the
result of this mixture of Turkey and Greece
may some day be chaos. Even the United
States Congress, though built on the same plan,
is not a case in point, for population is more
widely diffused in the U.S., and it is impossible
to draw a sharp line across the country any-
where and say that one side of it represents a
two-thirds majority of one House and the other
side a two-thirds majority of the other. The Aus-
tralian Federal Parliament promises to be just
the one Legislature on earth which must have a
workable method of settling deadlocks—or
burst.
“A Broken-down Man ” to The Bulletin :
Your correspondent “ J. 5.,” when speaking of the rot-
tenness existing in the management of the N.S. W. Depart-
ment of Charities, might have gone further into the
matter by mentioning the department’s want of honor
when dealing with the paupers that are engaged to work
under promise of a small pittance. The officers of the
department seek every means of shirking payment either
by fining the worker for some trivial breach of fluctuating
discipline, which would not be noticed if he had no
money to draw, or by reducing the pay or stopping it
altogether without notice. Sometimes the official re-
fuses to cash-up when he has the amount in hand, and
declines to assign any reason for such refusal.
Some of the men have appealed in an ascending scale to
director, Chief Under-Secretary, Minister and Governor,
but in every case they have been informed that the
matter would be inquired into, and that is the last they
hear about it. Little tricks could not be played with the
pay if the payable pauper billets at the Mittagong farm
and homes, and the other institutions, were fixed and the
amount of pay determined by Parliament, and not by an
official of the department or of the institutions. It is un-
speakably disappointing to the worker to find, at the end
of two or three months’ work, that the promised paltry
pittance is not forthcoming; this is where “ economy
develops into vice ” —the vice of dishonesty.—A Broken-
down Man.
Th? rigidly - supervised carcase - butchers of
Glebe Island (Sydney) abattoirs begin at last
to kick against the handicap of having to com-
pete, under these conditions, with slaughter-
men who are practically under no supervision
whatever. The mere commercial interest of the
Glebe Island men happens in this matter to
be nothing short also of the life-and-death inte-
rest of a public whose astounding apathy upon
the point has, times out of number, been dis-
respectfully submitted in these columns to its
own notice. Experts assert that, by a few
strokes of the knife, a hideously - diseased
carcase can often be made to appear per-
fectly sound. Secondly, there is no doubt that,
where there is no adequate inspection, this is
habitually done. Thirdly, as only about half
the meat-supply of Sydney passes through
Glebe Island abattoirs, and as, further, the
number of animals thereat condemned during
the last four months was 1059, it is reasonably
certain that during the same period over 1000
diseased animals passed unhindered into the
public stomach. However, the public doesn’t
seem to care. With a simple remedy in its
own hands, it goes on complacently, and un-
questionably, inoculating itself—in addition to
various merely probable horrors—with tuber-
culosis, the most destructive disease that
afflicts the human race.
There are bitter complaints in Victoria now
from men of all shades of political opinion
as to the description of candidate coming
forward for the general elections. Labor can-
didates are chosen for several metropolitan
constituencies on a more or less reasonable
plan, but outside these it is only a question of
bluff as to which man shall be chosen among
those offering. The Tories have a make-shift
organisation consisting of Brother Walter
Madden and a young man named Bald.
These two let off a shriek occasionally, in
their capacity as the National League, against
“ dangerous socialistic legislation.” Singu-
larly enough, the Tories do not consider
this a good substitute for a disciplined party.
The Liberals are in the predicament of having
only the Age as organiser, coupled with
Sam Mauger, and two or three others like
him. The Age support to any given man is
tremendous—but it has not yet devised any
machinery for searching out suitable men. It
simply makes a selection of those that offer.
In this way it occasionally finds itself barrack-
ing for some shady solicitor, or some political
ignoramus. Thus all parties grumble at the
casual way that candidates come forward, and
have to be accepted because “ the other man is
worse.”
Candidate Duncan Gillies has kindly ex-
plained to the electors of Toorak (Melb.) that
the part he played in creating a Victorian Rail-
ways deficit was small, but praiseworthy. As
Premier and Minister of Railways during the
joyous boom-time, Duncan, it seems, acted
merely as the Government mouthpiece in order-
ing lines which had been peremptorily demanded
by a patriotic Assembly. Money—a trifle of
20 millions sterling, or so—was required for
railway manufacture. “It was perfectly cer-
tain that in this case, as in every other
case, not one farthing would be borrowed
except by the authority of Parliament, and
he (Duncan) went to Parliament” and
got it. The railways bill which he, as
Premier and Minister of the department,
introduced to the House was a formal endorse-
ment of the House’s pure and honest resolu-
tions, “and any attempt to blame him
personally for having introduced it and helped
to carry it through is the most perfect farce he
has ever heard of.” The present heaping of
contempt upon Duncan for errors of judgment
committed by Parliament in that bygone boom-
tiine, is another subject for his innocent merri-
ment. “He was never charged with being
extravagant when he was in office. . . . Before
he went home to England he was asked to
dinner by the members of both Houses of the
Vic. Parliament, and many complimentary
things were said of him by old politicians,” &c.,
&c. In short, Duncan, measuring himself by
the political moral standard of a few years
back, is sincerely satisfied with Gillies. Tom
Bent, and L. L. Smith, and all the other boys
of the old brigade said complimentary things
about him before the country cast them forth
into outer darkness. The fact that their
admiration was an awful indictment of his
character has not yet begun to strike Duncan
forcibly. He is too old and hardened for that.
>
The institution of trial by policeman has re-
ceived a shock as the result of an action recently
decided in the Westralian Supreme Court. One
Crawcour advanced money on a p.n.-, and ac-
cepted as security a deed lodged by a man who
pretended to be the owner, but who turned out
to have become wrongfully possessed of it. At
the request of a police-inspector, Crawcour
attended the police-station, when the where-
abouts of the deed had been discovered, and
was examined re the transaction, when, ac-
cording to his story, the inspector addressed
him as follows :
You’re a very crooked man, and you are very fortunate
if you get off with three months over this job. Yourshop
is only a blind. lam giving you a show to clear yourself.
Tell us all you know about this deed. I will make you
tell more when I get you in the box. I would not take
your word for anything. If you had not a shop, I should
have you locked up at once. You can go for the present.
Claim, ,£lOOO damages, for slander. The in-
spector pleaded privilege. The evidence was
conflicting, but the inspector admitted having
said that Crawcour’s was a “ crooked way of
doing business,” and on this the Judge found
for plaintiff, and gave incidentally some instruc-
tive comments on the duties of policemen.
“Crooked transactions ” implied some criminal
offence, and such was slander. Privilege could
only be pleaded when policemen did nothing
beyond the necessities of the case they were
investigating. It was not part of their duty to
examine an individual with the object of
eliciting evidence which might lead to his con-
viction ; such was against the spirit of the law.
A policeman had no right to make charges
against a person, until he was called upon to do
so in a proper manner. Verdict, £5 and costs
—and a very sick policeman.
Writes “Smiff’s Corpse” from Thursday
Island :
A Jap without a shilling to his name can arrive here, a
total stranger, and represent himself as a diver (through
an interpreter), when he is immediately engaged in that
capacity by the local shelling firms of alleged white men,
the bargain being clinched with an advance generally of
twenty pounds in cash, with the further privilege of draw-
ing upon stores for a value very often approaching the
same sum ; and this is done upon the Jap’s bare word,
without any reference as to ability, character, or any-
thing else.
A pauper Jap can purchase a boat from prospective
shell profits with all the necessary diving gear, etc.—in
fact, in thorough working order; and, in addition to
this, the merchants who will tell a Royal Commission they
do not want the Jap to supersede the white man will
make cash advances to him and his crew, besides supply-
ing him with stores until the boat is worked out. The
sum figures thus : ihe merchant advances to pauper Jap
purchaser, say, £lO ; tender and crew, £l5 ; supplies for
about two months, say, £2o—making a total of £45 ; and
for security he has bis own boat and the Jap’s smiling
acquiescence ! But the idea of a white man applying even
for a billet as diver, backed up by unquestionable re-
ferences, would make those same merchants laugh at
“ the fellow’s presumption.”
Several white men of well-known ability have built
ships and provided the necessary- gear for both repairing
and building boats; but the local white shippers have
starved them out, with the result that the beloved
brownies now own the ships and do the repairing.
We have here Jap. boarding-houses, Jap. brothels, Jap.
stores, Jap. sailmakers, Jap. washermen, Jap. servants,
Jap. shipwrights, Jap. parsons, and Jap. doctors—Japs,
in every possible occupation where a white man could be
kicked out to make room for them ; and this state of
affairs has been brought about by the mean whites of
Thursday Island.
There is a newspaper here, with about as much back-
bone as a jelly-fish. A couple of weeks ago it published
a strong (for T. 1.) article against the employment of
Japanese ; and to illustrate its arguments, that identical
issue was delivered to the subscribers by a Jap. runner
(still employed at date of writing).
Recently a respectable man who had the misfortune to
be white and paid his rent regularly, was turned out of
the house he had occupied for some years to make room
for a Japanese prostitute who offered a higher rent. The
house-owner is a very pious man-of course.
The commercial reason for preferring Japs, is simply
the local shelling monopolists’ dread of competition.
Probable rivals are prevented by all possible means frotn
entering the shelling business.


Don’t begrudge a Good Firm
a Fair Price
Especially as in CALLAGHAN Boots you get
that
satisfied
feeling
which, is worth twice their cost.
Gentlemen’s Tan Roots,
U) 0, 2-2/0, -25 -, 2S/0.
Gent's Patent Leather Boots
(lace or button), 25,
Gent’s Patent Pumps,
10 IS, 12 6, 17, 0.
Besides, we have removed the price obstacle, which might
have stood between you and a. pair of Callaghan Boots,
by marking our prices to the lowest limit that good boots
can be sold at.
Callaghan & Son,
395 Gkorgh Strkjt, Stdihit.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK,
AUSTRALASIAN ItKIMRTHUNT :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,034
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity
and fixed annual income to survivors ;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life *
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining 1 years
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms oj insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company s Building, Martin's Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch OjJiccs — a
259 Collins Strkkt, Melbourne, Victoria.
lij Ql'k.kn Strkkt, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 Kino William Strkkt, Adelaide, S.A.
St. Gkorqk’s T*rracs, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarx* Strrst, Hobart, Tasmania
stall Co., died suddenly last week. There were
few Sydney citizens more esteemed by those who
knew him.
If the N.S.W. swashbucklers who want to
flesh their virgin steel over the Indian frontier
trouble are willing thus to risk their precious per-
sons and immortal souls, and if the Indian
Government is further willing to foot the little
bill for their services—it’s nobody else’s funeral!
Let ’em rip !
“ Notes on fifty cases of abdominal sec-
tion,” by E. T. Thring, F.R.C.S., Eng., of Syd-
ney are published in the Australasian Medical
Gazette. The cases include 15 instances of
removal of uterine appendages of both sides;
and yet, out of all the 50 cases—consecutive, and
not “ picked,” and all operated on and nursed in
one Sydney private hospital—there was but one
death.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only <£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (IG2 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
NOTHING
/
MORE PERFECT
in the shape of a
\
Photograph
has ever been produced
than our
Idea! Portraits.
Every ne is pleased with them,
and pleas d too in the way they
are treated at our Studios.
We make it our special study to
please you by
Six Enamelled
Cabinet Portraits
with Beautifully
finished Enlarge-
ment in Perman-
ent Bromine or
Opal. Any style
orpose. No extras
COURTESY
PROMPTITUDE
FIDELITY, and
GOOD WORK.
Tt)e IDEAL Portrait Go.
480 GEORGE STREET,
(GROUND FLOOR. NO STAIRS).
O PPOBITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKET# 22
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Fiench Maid.'*
Koval “ In the Ranks."
Lyceum “ At Duty's Cull.”
Exhibition Building.. Prof. Norton li. Smith.
Tivoli. Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace “ a Hunch of Iveys.”
Oi’BRA House ... “ East Lynne."
Town Hall Amy Sherwin Concerts,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “A Royal Divorce.”
Bijou Frank Thornton Co.
Opera House Rickards' Variety Co.
The great Dampier boom hasn’t let up once
at Sydney Lyceum—in fact, the MacMahon
management has been reluctantly tiring out good
red gold every night since the season commenced.
To-morrow (Friday) “Robbery Under Arms”
closes the biggest fortnight’s record it has put up
Binee it first existed, and on Saturday the
Dampiers farewell by producing a new drama,
“Fortune’s Fool,” for one solitary night. There
is a certain lavishness in the idea of putting up a
big new drama for one night only, but the firm of
the Mighty Atom and Co. is built like that. On
Monday a new company, including Maud Wil-
liamson, King Hedley, Boothman, Alf. Woods,
Harry Shine, &c., appears in a large mili-
tary spectacle entitled “ At Duty’s Call,” and
over 100 auxiliaries will assist to hold up the gory
banner of war and will shed their red paint on
the battlefield. The scene of devastation will bo
adorned with new scenery, and the loud tocsin
will be banged by an increased orchestra. The
play is produced by arrangement with Billolloway,
which is cheering, as tending to show that Billollo-
way is still on deck and helping to oil the works of
the universe.
• • * *
As obscurely hinted last week, to-morrow
(Friday) night’s show at the Lyceum is for the
benefit of Miss Lily Dampier. The performance
will be under the patronage of Governor Hamp-
den and suite, the Mayor and Mayoress, the aider-
men, and nearly everybody else worth mentioning.
*# * *
The “ French Maid ” is near the end of
her fourth week at Her Majesty’s, and business is
still good enough to justify her remaining to argue
the point with her stupendous gendarme for some
time longer. Under these gratifying conditions,
no news of any change in the programme has yet
reached this office.
** m *
At time of writing the shadows of the two
gentlemen with very little on still spank each
other severely at Sydney Royal every night, but
before these remarks appear in print Corbett will
have removed his injured stomach for exhibition
in Melbourne. The show was undoubtedly a
highly-profitable one in Sydney, though it wasn’t
quite the boom this paper anticipated. Anyhow,
it starts for Melbourne with a good record and a
clear character. Any suspicions which might
have been entertained that the two gentlemen
had nothing on are quite unfounded ; each of
them wears his boots, and something round the
centre part of him, and a blush. Arid the picture
is even better than the circumstances seemed to
promise. It was a dark day at Carson City in
the land of the huckleberry pie ; the light was
bad, and thin streaks of snow came down now
and then and obscured the two estimable citizens
who were making an honest crust by banging
each other on the smeller. Consequently they not
only ran a serious risk of catching cold, but they
dealt out stoush every now and then in semi-
obscurity. The nose-blood doesn’t really appear
in the picture, and the voice of the excited audi-
ence saying it was a blanky good fight is in-
audible, therefore the show may be set down as
absolutely respectable. In Sydney only a limited
number of ladies went to see it, and tee
religious element kept away almost unanimously.
The ladies probably kept away under an completely
mistaken idea that the show wasn’t respectable,
and the pious element was absent from sheer
want of a logical mind. The said element is
always telling the world that it must fight the
good fight, but it has an absurd idea that the holy
scrap should be fought in a long coat, and a bell-
topper, and a collar, and baggy black pints, and
with a book under the arm —which is all quite im-
possible. The only way to fight the good fight,
or any other fight, to advantage is to take nearly
everything off and wade in like .
*# * #
The Palace Theatre goes out of the variety-
biz. this week and takes to musical comedy. The
first production, “A Bunch of Keys,” will be
staged on Saturday, and theco. will include Willie
Freear (a London comedian who comes with a
brilliant character from his last place), Addie
Conyers (the Gaiety favorite of five years ago),
Marietta Nash, Lottie Moore, George Lauri,
Albert Bellman, and others. The play itself is
said to have raged for 18 consecutive months in
London, and for six years, under the charge of
George Lauri and Miss Nash, in the U.S. Fur-
ther, the author of it is the same riotous genius
who wrote “Chinatown” and the “Milk-White
Fiag,”so, taking these circumstances together, it
is hoped that all will be well.
** * *
George Rignold takes possession of Sydney
Royal on Saturday, with “In the Ranks.” It is
along time since Sydney has seen its beloved
Rignold being disinherited by his flinty-hearted
parent and coming into his property again in the
fifth act after much tribulation, and there should
be an opening for that valued actor to have unjust
suspicion again cast upon him at 35., 2s. and Is.
** * *
Amy Sherwin, supported by Messrs. 'Bar-
ton M‘Guckin, Arthur Deane, Rivers Allpress,
Sykes, Stoneham and that lightning streak of
consonants Mr. S. Szczepanowski, who, The Bul-
letin cordially hopes, is feeling well and not
suffering through the “z” getting imbedded in
his system, gives four concerts at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday, Monday, Wednesday, and the
succeeding Saturday. The only other items in the
theatrical way are that the Tivoli is in its usual
good health and spirits, and the Right Hon. Reid
goes by in the Jubilee einematbgraphe nightly ;
also, that the Professor Smith horse-show is due
at the Exhibition Building on Saturday.
* « * *
The latest now venture is announced from
Sydney Opera House, which will be opened on
Saturday by Mr. Clitherow and bis eo., in that
eminently bright and soul-lifting play, “ East
Lynne.” Cheerfulness is the most prominent
feature of “ East Lynne ; ” it makes the average
man feel almost as glad as if he were dead.
Probably the only place in Sydney which would
be better suited than the Opera House for “ East
Lynne ” is the morgue, and it would be unkind to
put it in the morgue without the consent of the
other inmates, who may have quite enough to
depress them without this drama being added
thereto. These remarks are not intended to
reflect on “East Lynne” in any unkind spirit.
It is absolutely the best drama The Bulletin
knows of—in its right place. Its right place is
overboard, with a kedge anchor tied to it, in some
part of the ocean where no bottom has ever been
found.
* * * *
The Providence which watches over Frank
Thornton, at M db. Bijou, has ordered a tem-
porary closing of two rival houses, and the haunt
of Charley’s immortal relative rejoices accord-
ingly. “ Miss Brown ” will occupy the Bijou
stage until Tuesday next, when the elderly lady
from Brazil is due to boom again for three last
nights. Then a farewell vision of the bun-
struggling “Secretary,” previous to the departure
of Thornton and co. for Adelaide.
* * * *
By the way, there is to be a one-night
show at the Bijou on October 16th. Misses Bar-
bara and Olive Sisley have booked that particular
Saturday date for a new edition of their Dramatic
Medley show, wherein the clever young sisters
will make a first appearance before a city audience.
Gladstone Wright is engaged to support the enter-
tainment with his warble, and Government House
has consented to bestow its patronage upon the
interesting occasion.
*- * * #
Melbourne Princess’s, shut for the moment,
re-opens on Saturday with “A Royal Divorce,”
the long-expected Napoleonic drama. The Firm
has invested much “Sign of the Cross ” boodle in
the forthcoming production, which requires
gorgeous scenery, costumes, and effects. Julius
Knight, who figured as Buonaparte around Eng-
land a while ago, will resume the part of the Great
Petitioner. Miss Ferris is to play respondent
Josephine, and the co. will be much the same
people as lately persecuted the Early Christians
in Rome.
* * * *
The Royal, likewise closed in the mean-
time, reopens on Saturday with the Decline and
Fall of Jim Corbett, reflected on a sheet by two
miles of film. Admission to the awful struggle
between Jim and Fitzsimmons will be charged at
ordinary Royal prices, and the management
guarantees a fair knock-out in the last round.
* * * *
Miss Charlotte Hemming will play Rosa-
lind in the Toorak garden performance of “ As
You Like It,” by Melb. Shakespeare Society.
Dr. Daish is to try his hand (likewise his legs)
upon the part of Orlando, a Touchstone has been
found in Mr. Deegan, who, ordinarily, acts as
agent for some cheerful imported liquors, and the
massive minor character of Charles is allotted to
dentist Oldfield. As a fashionable amateur tenor,
Oldfield would have been cast for Amiens, no
doubt, were he not a fourteen-stone wrestler with
a strong Graeco-Roman grip of his adversary’s
double tooth.
* * * *
Madame Amy Sherwin, the earliest of
“ Australian nightingales,” has come back again
to her native hemisphere with another concert
company, and the tour started at Melb. Town
Hall on Saturday night. A large crowd roared
approval when the songstress put in an appearance
(which is rather younger than it used to be, eight
years ago) and encored her vociferously after each
of her songs, notwithstanding that she sang very
much below her best form. All the signs point to
a prosperous future for the new invasion. Madame
Sherwin, as many people will remember, is a
bright, brainy producer of clear, ripe notes. Her
voice is not marvellously sweet or rich, but it is
beautifully mellow and true, and she gets very
near to perfection as a vocal artist. Also Barton
M‘Guc < in, the tenor of the co., carries a record
that speaks for itself. His large, operatic style is
unusual in platform tenors, and his Sims Reeves
method of giving them some very soft notes to
pave the way for some mighty loud ones is a popu-
lar method, anyhow. When Barton M'Guckin
lets go “ The Minstrel Boy ” for an encore number
the s,oul of the audience —if it has come provided
with a soul—warms to the impetuous visitor.
Other members of the combination are flautist
Stoneham, Arthur Deane, brother of Sydney D.,
and an unpretentious pianist with a name much
too long and complicated for his merits. Seeing
that he is quite a modest young man The Bul-
letin would suggest “Zep” as a neat, and prac-
tical abbreviation of his present title. Arthur
Deane, the baritone item on the programme, is a
rather nice little singer, with an elegant parting
to his fair hair, and the most sweetly self-satisfied
smile ever beheld in a Town Hall. The difference
between Barton M’Guckin’s nervousness and
Arthur Deane’s sublime affability is a study in
human nature. The veteran artist raises himself
upon his toes as though he had sworn to shift the
roof with his upper register, whereas Arthur per-
forms the same movement like one making ready
to waltz.
ifc # *
At the Alexandra a whole-souled horrorwas
acted and mounted with careful attention to busi-
ness on Saturday night. The previous piece—
“ Held by the Enemy ” —was somewhat too
reasonable and tame for Haleck purposes, but the
reigning atrocity, entitled “Ups and Downs of
Life,” will give joy to growing audiences. It is
built in many acts and tableaux, and the senti-
mental heroine (Miss Conroy) wrings her hands
against a rugged background of “ comic relief.”
George Maj'eroni and his brother, Mario,
give a breezy air of nature to the nar-
rative by jumping from the quarter - deck
of a steamer bound for Australia, and float-
ing back to Great Britain on a life-buoy.
The spectacle of the dauntless pair clutching
wildly at a rolling billow is about the best effect
produced in the Alexandra of late years, also the
joint Majeroni performance on the quarter-deck
seems quite worthy of the leaps that land them
out at sea. Unfortunately for Australia, where
talented, tall, and agile young actors are very
scarce at present, the Majeroms intend to cross
the ocean in earnest with the Brough Com-
pany. On Friday of this week they take a
farewell benefit together, and The Bulletin
hopes that these fine, manly sons of two honored
artists will receive a hearty send-off. A revival
of “ Held by the Enemy ” is to be given for the
Majeronis’ profit, and they will appear respectively
as the Colonel, and the Lieutenant who dies on a
stretcher.
* * -* *
No particularly new people have been
added to the Opera House bill this week, but the
Rickards establishment is full inside, as usual.
** * *
At latest, Bracy and co. were doing well
at Perth Royal ; it is locally considered that the
remarkably-preserved Bracy looks younger, and
singsand dances better thanever. Hispourtrayal of
Peter in the “Sultan of Mocha,” quitefetched ’em;
“ it is worth while ” (remarks a Bulletin corres-
pondent.) “to go to see him (and hear him) pro-
duce the top-note in ‘I am so sleepy ’ while in a
recumbent position. But he objects to being
roused up. Celia Mavis makes an excellent im-
pression, and. Mabel Darley, who will persist in
trying too much, smiles generously on the audi-
ence, but is somewhat overtaxed by ‘Martha’s’
music. Under the auspices of Charles Harper,
Alice Leamar burst upon us the other night, at
the Cremorne Theatre, as ‘The Daughter of an
American Millionaire ’ who had come a cropper
‘ All through Stickin’ to a Soldier.’ Alice received
a great welcome, but the audience received a
severe shock when she told them she ‘ pined for
Home and Mother,’ as she doesn’t seem to be
built that way. Harper has another trump-card
in the diminutive Gulliver.”
At Poverty Point.
W. and M., in their Adelaide “ Sign of the Cross” ads.,
printed side by side testimonies from two local parsons.
Whereupon the local Wesleyan paper said it reealled two
thieves who were placed on either side of the Saviour at
the Crucifixion. Excellent humor for a religious organ.
Also, Adelaide sermon advt : “The ‘Sign of the Cross:
or, the Devil Dressed in White.’” In a surplice, in fact.
Paradis : “ Miss Lilian Wheeler, who bounds forth as
the heroine of ‘ In the Ranks,’ and does it well enough
for a Hilda Spong, approaches the inches of Alma Stanley.
Miss Wheeler’s lissom figure makes her look as tall as
Miss Stanley, till she stands by the side of Mr. Rig-
nold, when she proves to be only his height, which is
saying much for a lady. Australia, I predict, will not long
hold Miss Wheeler.”
Actor’s vanity: A potentate who has become mildly
famous through his legs and piebald drama, curses the
limelight-man even more fervently than ever did Henrig-
nold V. in his palmiest days. When he was in Sydney
the red light used to turn blue when it reached the swear-
laden atmosphere that surrounded him. He once said
complacently to a chorus-girl who had beautiful hair :
“My legs and your hair are the admiration of the whole
theatre.”
The other night at Sydney they gave, in the vice-regal
presence, composer Hutchinson’s Federation Cantata,
with a libretto “ compiled from the poems of Rudvard
Kipling, Brunton Stephens, Phillips-Wooley, .John Farrell,
and others.” (Who, by the way, is “ Phillips-Woolev ”?)
There was a chorus and orchestra of 300 performers. 'Tins
Bullistin wasn’t there, but it reads that there was a
“descriptive chorus, ‘Australia,’ in which ‘the howl of
the dingo, the scream of the cockatoo, the kookaburra’s
laugh, the hop of the kangaroo, and a native con oboree ’
were introduced. During this performance Mr. Sam
Poole, the well-known comedian, cleverly disguised in
red shirt, white ducks, a woolly wig, and blackened face,
introduced a weird native dance.” A nigger-dance in a
cantata! Ye gods 1 Next thing: Four Queensberry
rounds at “Elijah.”
There was an outburst of loyalty when the cinemato-
graphs views of the .Jubilee procession were shown in
Dunedin, M.L., recently. When lI.M. came into view the
lecturer started to sing “ Gor Save.” An old joker in the
stalls rose to chip in, but the pit yelled “ Sit down, you
silly old —— ! ” and, at the same time, they told the
lecturer to “ Shut up, for Gawd's sake ! ” No wonder
Seddon won’t take a title.
At the “Sign of the Cross” in Melb. one night, an old
man in the stalls sobbed so heartrendingly that his neigh-
bors tried to console him by saying that the suffering
saints would return to the stage later on sound in wind
and limb. So they did, and then the mourner mopped
up his tears and quavered, joyfully, “I thought they
wouldn’t have the heart to harm them.”
Massive M'Guckin is the true fat tenor vocalist type.
Nobody seeing him throw out his capacious chest on
Collins-street could possibly mistake him for anvthing
but a tenor warbler grown heavy and middle-aged in the
business. The stucco curl on each bulging brow in the
photo, is there in real life, too. The tenor is the soonest
to grow plain and the last to know it.
C.M.G. : “Melbourne has seen Paulton in five different
characters in as many plays, but so lacking in variety if
the little man that he seems to have given only five
editions of the same man. llis unhappy builder, in ‘A
Night Out,’ is exactly the same party as the troubled
Simpkins, in ‘ A Locket.’ and.the one variation in the
lot is the introduction of the oily black wig of the bar-
barous Theosophist of ‘My Friend from India.’ No
wonder the small comedian Fault on Princess's patrons. ’*
The humor of the “ profesjj.” On the same day he was
put asunder, mulct in costs and alimony, his serio-comic
light-o’-love was billed to warble “Hot time.” “Yes,
that’s it,” was respondent’s lay.
Holdar M. : “ What becomes of local plays, constantly
contracted for and apparently supplied to promising
minor actors? Does their birth begin and end with the
newspaper announcement V”
Dear Bi llsn.v,—ln reply to “E.” I never had any
doubt as to G. V. Brooke having appeared at the “ Match-
box ” Melb. Princess’ Theatre, and your other correspon-
dent, “Trotter Bethune,” bears out my contention that
he did play there. Again, at the -Princess’ in 1860 (?) was
a sterling old English actor, one of the old school, who
played a round of Shakespearian characters, hut whose
name I unfortunately forget. He was too old-fashioned
for young Australia, and was a failure. Brooke on one or
two occasions alternated characters with him. I will be
glad if any Bi llbii.n reader can supply his name.
Although the Princess’ was a “Matchbox,” it escaped the
usual fate of playhouses—fire.—J.M.F.
The revival of “ Held by the Enemy,” at Melb. Alexan-
dra, is a reminder that Cecil Ward made his first Aus-
tralian appearance (at Melb. Bijou) as Col. Weseott in
this clever ’Murkan drama. It was played again at Melb.
Opera House, a few years later, with George Kignold's
brother Bill starring in the iiot-very-large character.of
Surgeon Fielding. By the way, brother George might as
well annex “ Held by the Enemy ’—which seems open to
annexation and play the Surgeon himself.
Amv Sherwin, interviewed, speaks of Ada Colley’s
phenomenal singing at the London music-halls as a par-
ticular illustration of Australian voice-range. “ She
sings, among other pieces, Mascagni’s ‘ Ave Maria’ an
octave higher than it is written. The notes are remark-
ably clear, pure and true, but, of course,” said madame,
“ it is impossible at such a range to impart any power,
soul or sympathy into the voice. Its use in such a man-
ner seems deplorable, though it is very striking.” She
would have thought it even more deplorable if she had
heard the sassy Colley cry “Got it that time!" after
jerking an extraordinary top-note at a Sydney or Mel-
bourne gallery.
N. : “I consider Dick Phenyl, in ‘ Sweet Lavender,’ a
disgusting character, and wonder at the vogue of the
play. But I suppose it’s sympathy with the booze.”
“ It is a long worm that has no turning.”— The “ French
Moid.”
Paulton, serious like most comedians, is fond of dis-
cussing political economy.
H. : “ I rejoice at the London triumph of ‘ Francillon.’
The most moral play I ever saw, and acted to perfection—
but it is the passivity of acting.”
A movement is afoot for an interprovineial band-contest,
in Sydney, somewhat on the lines followed last year. «The
9th Nov. is suggested as the day, with 1:400 in prizes to be
raised by public subscription.
A fourth share in the enterprise to produce “Francil-
lon” and the Potter-Bellew combination to a London
audience was offered to a popular Australian actor for
£4iio. Together with a chance of making a big financial
scoop out of the venture, the young actor was to be
allowed to select any male part in t tie piece—barring the
leading one—which would give him a chance of renewing
his acquaintance with the Great British public, hie
dearest wish. His gilded wifey ref used for him the tempt-
ing offer.
Latest advices state that Miss Emilie Wood, of Sydney,
who developed from a pianiste into a singer on quitting
these shores, has definitely entered upon acourse of study
in Paris. Her father and mother accompany her to that
city.
Rev. Haweis, the musical parson, in his book of Aus-
tralian reminiscences, speaks very appreciatively of agent
Hugo Fischer. “ A man of fine presence and great culti-
vation, whose kindness tome in my somewhat dilapidated
condition I shall never forget.,” says Haweis.
The Firing Jordans propose to show under canvas in
Haoriland.
Orpheus M'Adoo, once of the Fisk Jubilee singers, is
now en route for these parts with a combination called
“The Ebony Vaudeville Co.”
Adelaide is to have another theatre, the Albert Hall, in
Pirie-street, having been bought for conversion.
“ The Firm ” brought off a big Broken Hill excursion to
see “ The Sign of the Cross,” over 600 seats being booked.
The piece beat all previous records in the City of Snuffle.


R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
-ARE-
i ... British Vestas.
Aus. ) '
Rsps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“[ittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Solk Agent,
9.3 Q STTSSRY-ST . SYDNEY.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
STOCK
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
ONLY
SIB JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
Aus. I
JSeps.)
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic &other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 WiHi*m «fc., Mih,i?ourn* ; 14 Ourrta-efc , Adhi.airb
Tbcr€ i$ Motbipg Cbcap
About Our Work
€*ccpt tbs Pri^€.
SIMPSON, Ooachbmlder,
Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH— Robt. Wolfe.
GERALDTON—A. Mbadowcropt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralia is shipping £1,000,000 worth of 4 per
oent. Treasury bills to its Agent-General in London to be
hawked round after the fashion of the Chinaman's spling
callot. It will be interesting to see what prices they
realise, especially in view of the fact that £2,000,000 more
are to be dumped on the market shortly. It is less than
18 months since W.A. floated a 3 per cent, loan in London
which went off in a glare of magnificence, and the drop
to 4 per cent, is an awful blow to its credit. The hills are
to be redeemed out of th‘e next permanent loan, hut it
will probably be a long time before W.A. will be able to
float another loan, and when it does float it will probably
be all wanted to keep the boom going There is some
desperately hard financing ahead of the Westralian
Government for the next year or so, and even now the
strain is obvious. The man with a small account to
collect at Perth Treasury these last few weeks has almost
had to extract the coin by personal violence.
• « * *
Queensland Acting-Premier Tozer now alleges
that, if the Q.N. Bank Investigation Committee will hand
in its report without waiting for the Gentleman Who is
Away, he will present it to Parliament immediately, and
ask the House to protect the Committee from any action
for defamation. Supposing the House, after it had got
the report, failed to pass the necessary resolution for the
protection of the Committee ? Most people would think
it a better evidence that Tozer was in dead earnest if he
had shunted the resolution through right away, and then
asked the Committee for its report.
• • * •
It is openly alleged in Brisbane Worker that
M‘ll wraith’s overdraft at the Q.N. Bank equals £300,000,
and that a co. which is very largely M‘llwraith h'S an
overdraft of £600,000. This may or tnav not be correct;
there certainly was a time when some people looked with
awe upon the vast bingey of Thomas as he went down
Queen-street., Brisbane, and pointed him out in a whisper
as the gentleman who owed the Q.N.B. £BOO,OOO or
something like that. That also might, or might not, be
correct, but there has been an atmosphere of stupendous
I 0 U about M’llwraith for many years past.
* • * *
A whole lot of people are just as much interested
as M'llwraith in delaying publication of the Q.N. Bank
Committee's report. Those behind the scenes say that
when the Awful Stink was investigated it seemed to grow
worse at every step ; and the report, though toned down
as much as possible, is the most blastiferous document in
recent political history. The present combination is very
neatly managed. The Committee say that, i/M‘llwraith’s
evidence is material, it should be taken ; and, of course,
if it should not prove to be material, they have no
responsibility, while the great principle of Covering
Things Up is honored for a few vital months longer.
Once postponed, who knows that the report may not be
shelved sine die ? Anyhow, all the devils of Q. finance
fought for a postponement. That was the first thing ;
and that has been secured —unless Nelson shows more
backbone than he has had for many a long year. By no
means all the Cabinet want to shield M'llwraith—
although, scandalous to say, he is still a Minister, while
no longer a member of Parliament, and an absentee of
several years standing. But M'llwraith sticks to the
party like an octopus, and his arms are twined round it
so tightly and in so many ways that there seems to he no
shifting him. And there is not one man in Q. Parliament
big enough and game enough to use Gilliatt’s knife A la
Victor Hugo.
• » * •
The prospectus of the Emu Bay Railway Co.
(Tasmania), which appears in another column (the shares
have already been largely over-subscribed), is just over-
flowing with matters that deserve consideration. The
Emu Bay Co. will have a lien on the mineral traffic of
western Tasmania, the only live place in the Isle of Sleep.
The Government owns the other railways—those in the
dreary agricultural districts—and they constitute the
worst-paying system in the Seven Prov inces, and one of
the worst-paying systems on earth. Then there came a
chance to make a line in a live district where big profits
could reasonably be expected, which profits might have
made the Tasmanian railway sj'stem almost a profitable
speculation, and the Government naturally handed the
chance over to a private shindykit. They do things like
that in the Isle of Dreams and Boodle. The shindykit
has hopes of making the new line pay 30 per cent, on the
shareholders’ capital, and as the active founder of the
speculation was one of the founders of the Silverton
(N.S.W.) private line, which pays about 42J per cent, per
annum dividends, he has a record behind him to back up
his assertions. Also, his calculations look reasonable
enough on paper, so far as the writer’s knowledge goes.
But even supposing the line can only produce 6 per cent,
instead of 30, there are no words strong enough to heave
at the Government which let such a chance go into
private hands. No wonder the applications totalled
400,086 shares.
And though it is a trifle late in the day, it is
worth mentioning that the Silverton (N.S.W.) railway is
another lovely instance to the same effect. The Silverton
line earns its 42 per cent, dividends by a most atrocious
system of overcharging. In the hands of the State the
charges would be reduced at least one-half and the line
would probably yield about 10 per cent., but even that
would be a remarkably good speculation for the State,
and the reduced freight charges would lift a huge load
off the Barrrier mines. The prospects were quite good
enough to induce the State to build the Silverton road,
but for one thing. It doesn’t connect with Sydney. The
line carries the Broken Hill traffic to S.A., and as the
N.S.W. Government is only interested in making rail-
ways which will drag commerce to its over-grown metro-
polis, it looked on the B.H. enterprise with the glazed
eye of blank indifference, and let the matter slide. It
slid to some purpose, as the 42 per cent, d.vidend proves
The most profitable railway concession in N.S.W. was
given away to a private co. for no visible reason except
that the trade couldn't be brought to Sydney, and any
trade which didn’t help to further bloat that city was of
no interest to a Sidney importing Government.
* • • *
That really cheerful trading concern, M‘Lean
Brothers and Rigg, Limited, reports a loss of £1863 for
the year. Last year’s profit was £135, and for 1895 the
loss was £2650. It is proposed to write off £150,000 out
of the £250,000 capital, and when this is accomplished
the balance-sheet will look square—barring the fact that
the assets will still include £4375 accumulated debit
balance and £ll,OOO estimated bad debts, and no allow-
ance has been made for depreciation of property. Appa-
rently it wouldn t he far amiss if all the capital were
written off, and as that wouldn’t affect the trading loss
in the least the prospects even then would be no brighter.
The thing that is wrong with this bloated concern is the
£330,000 borrowed money on which interest has to be
paid. It takes a very big concern to stagger under the
weight of £330,000 debentures and overdraft.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania has altered
the date of its balance-sheet and publishes eight months’
accounts instead of the usual six. The change brings
nothing of a cheerful character into the figures. The net
profit is £4733, and the usual 5 per cent, dividend ac-
counts for £4716, so there remains a noble balance of ±l7
to strengthen the position of the hank. For the last 4&
years the Commercial has paid away its profits in divi-
dends with such regularity that it has only accumulated
£356 in that period. It has ±142,000 capital and £190,000
reserve fund, so it is only earning about £2 3s. per cent,
on the shareholders’ funds. These figures rouse a good
deal of suspicion as to the solidity of the assets;
there are very few banks whose assets are quite
solid which earn so little as this. Up till 1892
the Commercial of Tasmania was a gorgeous concern
which paid 20 per cent dividends regularly and often
carried large sums to reserve It was not among the
suspended institutions of 1893, yet it slumped so violently
since the crisis that it now only earns 5 per cent, with a
hard struggle. The profits are just about a fourth of
what they wore a few years ago, and the shrinkage in
deposits and note circulation equals 4n per cent. The
profits show no sign of revival either, and it looks as if
the once great Tasmanian Hank was drying up very badly
The most notable increase of late is in the amount set
against “bank premises,” which might rather be ex-
pected to diminish in these times of depreciation. The
Commercial has a very big Cash-reserve (±372,000 coin
and ±64,000 securities), equalling 34 per cent, of its lia-
bilities to the public, and it has 65 years’good record
nevertheless its present prospects appear none too
brilliant.
* • * *
The National Bank of Now Zealand reports a
profit of £21,461 for the year ended 31st March, 1897, as
compared with £18,090 in 1890, £16,431 in 1895, and
£16,998 in 1894, so the National appears to be steadily re-
covering from the staggering blow it received in 1891,
when the man who had courage enough to accept its
shares got £2 11s. 3d. per share for taking them away.
The usual 5 per cent, dividend absorbs £12,500, and the
balance, £8961, with amount previously on hand, enables
the co to add £lO,OOO to reserve and have £3657 left to
carryforward. The National has a respectable business
which appears to be steadily improving. Also, it has the
usual orthodox kind of balance-sheet which lumps
together fixed deposits and current accounts; puts hank
premises and property acquired by foreclosure in one
item ; and includes “ bills discounted, loans, current
accounts and advances on securities ”in one big sum. Still
it is just about as obscure as the average bank in this
respect. The new management is acting wisely in keep-
ing the dividend down to 5 per cent, until it repairs the
gaps caused by past disasters. The National never
was a boom institution, and it never had any luck worth
mentioning'. Its biggest year’s profit was barely « 31,000,
and its biggest dividend was 7 per cent. It started, in
1873, by taking over the Bank of Otago, its capital then
being £350,000. In 1884, it wrote off £lOO,OOO as lost;
and in 1892 it wrote off £150,000, and called up a similar
amount. It has written off two reserve funds, and the
third one has now got up to £30,000. The deposits, note-
circulation, and business generally are now larger than
they ever were before, and, so far as can be judged from
so eminently unreliable a thing as a balance-sheet, the
National Bank of N.Z. has fairly rounded the corner. All
the same, it has been a very jagged corner to get round ;
in fact, the National has been getting round awkward
corners most of its life until quite recently.
* * » ■
The Graziers’ Butchering Go. and Graziers’
Meat Export Co., which went into liquidation the other
day, puts down the luckless Queensland National Bank as
its biggest creditor—amount owing, £301,838. Of this
£200,000 is said to be secured.
* * * m ■
The Mutual Life Association is about to open
an office in London, and the National Mutual will pro-
bably follow suit. The Colonial Mutual has been there
for some years, and the A.M.P. has been considering the
question of a London office at intervals for a long while
The most probable result of an irruption of Australian in-
surance offices into England will be the appearance of
some more British companies in Australia. There are two
here already—one live one and one that ought to be dead
—and several others have been mentioned as likely to
come into the field. Anyhow, Britain is a field where life-
insurance is done to death, and, so far as Australian
offices are concerned, it looks a better place for making
expenses than for making business
* * * «
In Melbourne, the other day, an ex-clerk of that
old dead cat bank, the late Mercantile, went broke for
something like £45,000, his whole liability being for calls
on shares belonging to the hank, but which had been put
in his—the clerk’s—name “ as a matter of convenience.”
It was so convenient that the bank would have got the
profits if there had been any, while the clerk got all the
loss. Judge Molesworth spoke severely to that clerk
about the dishonesty and dishonorableness of “a man
who had nothing becoming a dummy and liable for
£45,000,” but there is no record in the daily paper report
about his Honor saying anything very bad re the dis-
honesty of the bank in shoving the obligation on its poor
devil of an Presumably when he was ordered
to be a dummy he had to be one—or get the sack.
* * * *
At last annual meeting of the (Melb.) Economic
Permanent Building Society the chairman, Mr. A. Sprigg,
remarked that “ if Mr. Fitz Gibbon had died four or five
years ago building societies and other property-owners
would have willingly subscribed to his monument.” And
all because the humorless White Knight is chairman of the
Board which has lately called upon Proputty in Mel-
bourne to pay for a decent sewerage system.
* » * *
An Industrial policy-holder in the Citizens’ Life
Assurance Co. Ltd. complains to Tub Bulletin that,
despite his having paid 3s. a week regularly for nine
years, to assure £290 at death (a much higher rate than
if he were insured in the Ordinary branch), he neither
receives any bonus, nor can he change his policy from the
Industrial to the Ordinary, except at the same rate as
though he had joined the co. now. In other words, the
co wants to penalize him severely fer having stuck to the
co. so long, and then daring to take advantage of the
glowing inducements held out to policy-holders who join
the Ordinary branch of the co. Tiie Bulletin prophesies
a rush of biz. when theCitizens’ L.A. Co allows Industrial
policy-holders to transfer their risks to the Ordinary at
the same rate per ann. as if they had originally joined it
instead of the Industrial.
» * * *
Gladstone is now the terminus of the Q. coast
railway. It is not so well-known as it might be that Glad-
stone district is extremely rich in minerals—possessing
reefs that will shortly be heard of. The natural destiny
of Gladstone, however, is to tap the Central line—and to
dig the grave of poor old log-rolling Rockhampton.
A difference of opinion as to the destination of
three half-crowns, although of trifling moment in itself,
has, within the last month, completely altered the for-
tunes of a very large-capitaled coal-mining venture.
*** * *
Quite a sensation was created amongst the
thousands of compromisers, assignors, and insolvents of
Melbourne by the refusal of insolvent Walter Greenlaw to
accept £l5 9s. 10d., the surplus in his estate after it had
paid 20s. in the £. It took Judge Molesworth half an-
hour to persuade insolvent to accept the surplus (less £2
25., costs of the insolvent’s trustee’s application as to the
disposal of the money). All three Melb. newspapers
reported the matter in extenso. The moral of which is
that the trustee, for one guinea, got a half-page advt. of
his honesty in three daily papers, and for another guinea
the insolvent made a “ dead cert.” of his certificate when
he chooses to apply for it. Truly a record in cheap and
’cute advertising.
The fire at Broken Hill gave a flicker of hope to
the North Central. As a Sydney broker’s circular put it,
“the breaking-out of a fire in block 12 of the Broken
Hill Proprietary reminds us that the fire in block 11 has
been burning for over two years, and if the connection is
made between the two fires” —which, by the way, nobody
on the spot ever for a moment considered possible—“ it
will be absolutely necessary for the co. to work the mine
from a shaft completely isolated from old workings, in
which case it is more than probable that the North Cen-
tral shaft will be required.” Still the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary does want the North Central, and that badly—to
dump open-cut refuse on.
* * • »
After the fire in the Broken Hill Proprietary
was got well in hand, a grave danger to the men working
underground was constituted by the heavy flow of water
on to the burning or charred timbers. Few riskier opera-
tions have been attempted in connection with Australian
mining. The fire-fighting was done from below ; the men
worked upwards, the gases rendering any other course
impossible Upon the timbers in the affected section,
already weakened by fire, the weight of a million gallons
of water was put every 24 hours; at times the men
worked up to their knees in water and mud. This extra
weight, added to the displacement of “filling’’and the
swelling of timbers, brought some of the workings so low
that they could only be crept through No wonder a
doctor was added to each shift—at £2 2s. an hour. The
men will think themselves fortunate if, by a bonus (one is
promised them) their pay is brought up to the odd 2s.
Only the B.H. Proprietary has ever had a fire
underground In other mines no flames have ever made
any headway. Yet the 8.11. Prop, has what on paper
looks like a perfect system of watching by day and night.
The whole secret of the difference is that the B.H. Prop,
has neglected to fill up the worked-out stopes with mul-
lock as the other large mines have done, and thus a
draught upon the light, dry, built-up timbers is secured
• » * »
The Southern nest of furnaces at the B.H.
Proprietary are not to be blown in again; in fact, they
are being dismantled, and the parts taken to Point Pirie.
Ditto two in the northern nest. Meantime, hands have
been shortened right through the mine. And divs ?
* * * »
The inquest on the bodies of the three victims
of the mine fire was made rather more complete than
some people reckoned on —chiefly through the ex-presi-
dent, and best-known member of the Miners’ Association
being foreman, and a couple of other very prominent
Labor men acting on the jury. It was only at their re-
quest that any mine officers at all, barring an under-
ground boss, were produced
* V * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary has just arranged
for a second instalment of two Ropp straight-line furnaces.
The first two were erected about a year ago, and there
are more to follow. The furnaces are X 5( ft. long and 14ft.
wide, and their special feature is economic roasting to a
low sulphur contact.
* * * *
From Patnbula: “ The proposal of the directors
of Falkner’s mine to accept from London £24,000 cash,
£20,000 working capital, and 40,000 shares is ten thousand
times more feasible than the proposal emanating from the
objecting shareholders — i.e., to amalgamate with the next
mine, which has nothing to recommend it but a well-
worn battery and a shaft down 400 ft.” But the point is—
Did Bull's representative who examined recently recom-
mend the purchase on these terms? The writer will bet
that he didn't; so the sale may he considered off.
» * • »
Some persons have taken up several miles of the
Macquarie River (N.S.W.) to work the bed with dredges,
M.L. fashion. As £9OO has-been paid for the leases alone,
it looks like business.
* * • •
On another page appears the prospectus of the
Mount Stewart Mines, which are being floated into a co.
of 100,000 shares. The property is situated in Bligh
county, N.S.W. —the district north-west of Mudgee, and
is said to contain gold, silver, and copper. Sundry large
lodes are known to exist, and though a former co. came
to grief here on the sulphide problem, it is claimed that,
with the better methods now available, the ore can be
profitably treated. Some Block 10 and BH. Junction
North men are on the directorate
* » » *
Queries prompted by the prospectus of the Mt.
Stewart Mines N.S.W. : —Announced as a “copper, gold
and silver ” mine. How is it the previous record, novvpub-
lished, has no return for copper or gold ? It has a return
for lead which is left out of its present character. “ 60,000
shares are now offered at ss. a share.” Are they liable for
another 15s. ? Mr. Trewenack’s reports are undated.
When were they made? If the mine shut down because
of the “heavy decline in silver” how is it going to pay
now when silver is 20 per cent, lower? If a copper-ore
body has been developed why is nothing said about it?
What is the real meaning of this in Mr. Trewenack’s sup-
plementary report ? “Itis my duty to inform you that
the installation of this process is somewhat costly and I
therefore advise that your property should be opened up
more thoroughly in the lower levels, so that the more
extensive sulphide ore bodies be developed.” And how is
all this to by done with £lO,OOO if the co. buys for £4,500
the additional land it has under offer?
* * * •
Pitcairn’s report on the Burra-Burra copper-mi ne
(N S.W.) shows that good copper-ore was worked there in
a very crude way years ago, that the old slag heap will
pay to re-treat, that the ore almost pinched out, that
while there is next to none in sight the prospect of find-
ing more ore with depth is not bad. A good prospect
only.
* * * *
The owners of the Peak mine, Cobar, N.S.W.,
are now publishing reports of work and results. Sept,
output not yet to hand, hut 50 tons of rich silver ore is
being treated by the Cobar tributors. Last month, 186
tons sent to Illawarra yielded 14,2770 z. silver and 1550 z.
gold. The blue lode is again opening up well, and a con-
tract has been let to sink another 100 ft. on the brown
lode. Development-work may some day reveal the true
source of these formations, which, so far, are not suf-
ficiently defined or regular in size and value to he
described as fissures, hut are rich enough to lead ou to
something of lasting greatness.
* ♦ * *
To quote prices for Great Cobar shares is farci-
cal under present circumstances. The alleged market
price is 80s. buyers, or thereabouts ; but if anyone had a
parcel and dangled them under the noses of either of the
opposing factions at a big advance on this, they would
probably bite.
» * * *
Vic. Mines Department has been rather inglo-
riousl.v boasting that in the matter of labor-covenants
Victorian law is more favorable to the English capitalist,
i.e., less favorable to the Australian workman, than is the
law in any other of the Australias. And, to lure said
capitalist to fatten on this shame of hers, Victoria has
prepared a precis of all Australian provisions re labor-
covenants, with a brazen footnote to the effect that a
lease in Victoria is rarely, if ever, forfeited for breaches of
labor-covenants. The jaded fossickers of the ranges, sick
to death of being warned off extensive shepherded areas
whose owners are so carefully countenanced in their
evasions of the law as this admission shows, will probably
make a vicious note of the fact on their ballot-papers in a
week or two. The Vic. mining authorities can assuredly
be recommended to study Higinbothain’s statesmanlike
dictum that the money consideration for mining-leases is
so paltry that the keeping of the labor-covenants is to be
deemed the true consideration for every lease. And, what
is more, whether the English capitalist likes it or not, the
English capitalist must have the fact dinned into his ears
that his rights to Australian soil come a bad second to
those of the Australian workman.
The Bulletin isn’t here singing the praises of
Jumping. It detests the jumping system, with its army
of pimps and sneaks and blackmailing attorneys. Let
the Crown, when it forfeits a valuable mine, auction it for
the benefit of the Treasury. As to the often-vile but
still necessary informer, let it encourage him, inflicting
fines whenever it is desirable to inflict punishment short
of forfeiture for infringement of labor-conditions, part of
said fines to go to the informer—and giving him a share
of the proceeds if the mine is forfeited and sold
A big Bull co. has started to work in dead earnest
in Ballarat district under the name of the Vic. Gold Es-
tates Co. One great shaft is going down, another is
about to be started, and a pumping plant capable of
daily lifting 12 million gals, is on order. Estimated cost
of shafts and plant, LOS,OOO, and every encouragement
has been given in the way of area and protection by the
Vic. Mines-Minister, who seems most desirous to give Bull
a good, or bad, turn in that province.
* * * *
The Kanowna (White Feather) paper refers to
the township which sprang up about the General Gordon
group as the deserted village ; the place is mostly to-let,
Also, the Broad Arrow (Kurawa) paper digs out some
yields Talisman (sold-off), 506 tons for 610 z., average
2dwt. 12gr ; Black Flag Prop., 18720 z. 14gr. from 4010
tons, average under lOdwt.; Half Mile Reef, 835 tons for
6500 z. But it alleges that some past yields look as though
they were “ faked,” and quotes the last crushing of the
Black Flag Prop. 6410 z. 12dwt ; from 537 tons. For that
district the most satisfactory result to date this year is
the Dixie’s—l2l3oz. for 399 tons
* * # *
From Coolgardie: “The Lady Bountiful has
an overdraft to pay off but is reducing it steadily with
regular ljoz. crushings. As this average threatens to
last the mine should pay divs. next year. The New Vic.
Consols, a little show in Mt. Burgess district, is crushing
an oz. fairly regularly All the shares are held in Cool-
gardie, and a twopenny rise brings out sellers who are
frightened of a call for machinery.”
• * * *
A start to reduce miners' wages in W.A. has
been made at the Norseman. It will probably fail, but
it is coming to that, anyhow.
» • * *
The “Bobby Dazzler” is the latest Coolgardie
sensation. It was found near Widgeinooia—on the
Southern Cross road. “The four prospectors struck a
learler from 18in. to 2ft. thick a good, healthy leader.
“About two tons of stone has been bagged, and it is
hanging together with gold, and estimated to yield
2000 oz. to the ton. The estimated value, of two dishes of
stone is £‘lO,OUO.” A cwt. of gold in each dish. What
kind of a giant held the dish 7
* * * »
Many new and expensive London-owned min-
ing-plants are being auctioned bodily or piecemeal in
Wostralia at ridiculous prices on judgments for miners’
wages.
• • * *
Published in W.A. that the sale of the Peak
mines has been completed, and the money, about
±'loo,ooo, will be paid over to the different vendors at the
Bank of Australasia, Cue, in a few days.
• • • *
Western Argus, Kalgoorlie, tries to set The
Bulletin right by saying there are “at least 20 marvel-
lous mines” on that field instead of half-a-dozen. It
makes no attempt to enumerate them so that the writer
could get some idea of what it regards as a “ marvellous”
mine.
* • • •
Undoubtedly another pocket of amazingly rich
ore has at last been found in the Londonderry mine,
W.A. The press has been allowed down, and, as usual,
has tried to rise to the occasion : “The residents are very
excited over the discovery." Also, " the gold is massive
and is going down.” The chances are that it will be
another rich bunch having no permanent abiding-place.
Being picked up 190 ft. away south of the old golden hole
indicates a distinct pocket or a big jump. Over a month
ago a sudden rise took place in these shares in London
put down to the money that would come out of Col.
North’s estate. It would be interesting to know when
this find was made. It is only a solid working capital like
that of this show that can combat the eccentricities of
Westralian white quartz mines.
* * * *
The attempt made in Melb. last week to have
the sale of the Ivanhoe mine (W.A.) declared ultra vires
failed. Judge Holroyd ruling that there was nothing in
Vic. law to prevent a no-liability co. selling the whole or
part of its property without first obtaining a winding-up
order. Many years ago the Vic. Full Court ruled opposite,
and, although that ruling has since been ignored in a
great number of instances, it stands, and one of the Judges
who concurred in it is still on the Vic. bench. The
matter was lately placed before Foster, the Mines-Minis-
ter, who sent at once to the Convention for Isaacs, and a
declaratory Bill was drafted. Having now put up £25,000
without any chance of getting it back, the Ivanhoe deal
will probably go through.
• * * *
From the Murchison: “Twelvemonthsagoa much-
puffed local mine was set in motion by the consumption
of much champagne. Now the boss has grabbed the fire-
wood, for wages due to himself. The market for firewood
is completely glutted, owing to miners and others getting
verdicts and seizing the wood-heaps of several shut-down
mines.” —Tindog—who sends along several sheriff’s advts.
in proof.
* * * *
■£70,000 in dividends from principal Q. fields
for August, Mt. Morgan yielding usual ±25,000. Q.
Menzies, 190 tons, 610 oz. ; Raul), 2350 tons for 15170 z.
• * * ♦
Brisbane COURIER is barracking for the extension
of the maximum mining area of 25 acres “ so as to attract
foreign capital.” Note Mining Commission’s report
“Though enquiries were made, the attention of the com-
mission was not directed to one single piece of unoccupied
ground in any of our goldfields that was so unoccupied
because a maximum of 25 acres only was allowed.”
Gympie contains 14,000 acres payable country, and the
suggested increase would make it possible for 14 com-
panies employing only one man to every four acres to
monopolise the whole field.
* * * *
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, .‘152 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
New Pinafore, Lefroy (Tas.), has struck decent-
looking stone at 1150 ft. This means a fresh lease of life
for Lefroy, as it proves the gold hasn’t all been raked out
by surface scratchiugs.
» * ♦ *
C. Towers items. Queen Cross reef, 6d. div. for
Sept., probably another in three weeks ; last crushing,
387 tons, 7920 z. Brilliant and St. George, 864 tons,
14210 z. ; Od. div , the 52nd ; shares up to £2. Brilliant
Block, 1002 tons, 5330 z. Papuan, 600 tons, 1085 oz
div. of 6d. Band of Hope, 6d. div. Day D. Block and
Wyndham also 6d. Owned by J. Bull, this comfortable
mine has panned out £62,500 in divs. tiiis year. Towers
Aug. divs. upwards of ±146,000 ; calls, £4OOO.


r
.
d
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all'Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
/ Opposite \
l G.P.O. )
66
CORTO ’* ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations.
B. CXJSEMIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
BRANDT.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being dialled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the. French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price No Higher than Other Leading Brands.
Society
[?]lestin
COGMAG
The Lost Dogs’ Shelter Society, a Mel-
bourne gathering of old he and she women, selects
the present rather inopportune time to lift up its
voice in doleful strains about the sufferings of the
lone, lorn outcast dorg. What the Society wants
is a grant of land on which it may erect resi-
dences, where the canine can be taken in, and
washed, and have his tail neatly curled at night
before he says his prayers and goes to bed. Then
when he feels better the Society will presumably
find him a home in some quiet musical family
where he can bark all night. The Bulletin’s
idea is that the best treatment for a lost dog, and
nearly every other dog that can’t keep quiet, is by
gunshot, and the best home he can get is in Abra-
ham’s bosom. The chances are that he would
show his gratitude by biting Abraham. Up in
Brisbane, the other day, a legislator nearly died of
dog-bite. He wasn’t a very important legislator,
THE WISH AND THE THOUGHT.
HE: “I thought your husband was a commercial traveller, Mrs. Spooner?”
S HE: "Oh no, you didn't. You wished my husband was a commercial traveller !”
certainly, but for all the dog knew he might, have
been the President of the Australian republic.
* * * *
Dog-bite cases in Australian law-courts
seem altogether an affair of the state of the judicial
liver. The dog’s title to “ his first bite " of a
human being wants overhauling. He lias no such
title to the first bite of a sheep.
m, ■ ,* *
q , ■ a P\ ace called Chinatown up
South which owes its existence to an Irish lady
who loved a Chow better than slaveydom. This
produced ten or a f l° zen lusty half-breeds
nh the Chow s dark eyes and skin, and the
mother s vigorous frame. Near by lived a squatter
who had also a big family, ancf| as marriage i s
1 >rgely a matter of propinquity, ere long all the
uatter’s sons and daughters had married all the
uhow’s daughters and sons. Now they are all
wealthy ; own the town and everybody in it—and
whenever you see a slant - eyed, dirty-yellow
woman carrying a mud-yellow, slant-eyed' baby,
the name of the pair is either Ah Fat or
O’Hooligan.
• • • •
The N.S.W. Justice Department obstin-
ately refuses to allow any enquiry into theSuffield
case on the pretext that no new facts have tran-
spired—though, as has been shown, the Act bearing
on the question makes no such condition essential.
As a contrast, the department assented to an
enquiry, not long ago, in the case of a man who
had been convicted after pleading guilty and who
afterwards turned round and said he did not know
the effect of his plea. But, of course, that man
was not tried by Judge Windeyer: in his case
there was no question of protecting the mana of
J udge-Lynch -in-ermine.
* * * *
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, is, or
pretends to be, so hard-up that the registry in the
Chapter House is actually not to be found on the
telephone-exchange list. The standing committee
acknowledges that owing to want of funds the
telephone can’t be laid on. There is already
a large overdraft at the bank ; and even the fact
of Bishop Smith being transmogrified into an
Archbishop has not been appreciated by the
Anglicans to any financial extent. Shabby gen-
tility—thy name is Anglicanism.
• * * *
A committee’s report to the Baptist Asso-
ciation of Q., mentioned that Parson Weller,
lately ministfering at Lake’s Creek (C.Q.), had
received a call to Townsville (N.Q.), and, “ as the
drought and tick-pest had seriously affected the
works at Lake’s Creek, he was advised to accept
the invitation, which he had done.” The diaboli-
cal tick ! It even kills off the hardshell Baptist!
* * ♦ *
A teetotaler : A mail addicted to the abuse
of strong drink.
**. * *
At Oakleigh (Vic.), last week, a bench of
local jaypees sent a very old resident farmer for
trial on a charge of stealing a cubic yard of road-
metal, value 2s. At the same court, a day er two
afterwards, several night-cart drivers were
merely fined for depositing nightsoil about the
district.
THE TWO DORGS,
WHARF PREACHER: “Surely you will help the
good cause? ”
BOOKMAKER : “ Why, I live on the public myself.
Dorg don't eat dorg! ”
Melb. : “ Last night I dropped into the
weekly evening service at St. John’s, one of our
big city Anglican churches. Full choral, sur-
pliced choir, organ. The congregation consisted
of myself, another man, and a boy. Not even a
woman 1 ”
Here is an advertising gem :
STRAHAN.—In affectionate memory of Lady Strahan,
who died at Lower Tooting, Surrey, England, in
September, 1847, mother of late lamented John
Stephenson Clarke, Esq., solicitor, and grand-
mother of William Strahan Clarke, of Macquarie-
street North, Leichhardt; Mrs. W. H. Harris, of
Livingstone House, Harris-street, Ultimo ; and Miss
Blanche M. Clarke, of 364 Riley-street, Surry Hills
N.S. Wales.
It would be hard indeed to find a more touching
instance of enduring affection than that felt for
Lady Strahan ! Fifty years ago !
The long-
threatened
completion of
St. Patrick’s
Cat h ed ral,
Melb., is due
shortly. The
foundation-
stone was laid
in 1850. The
building,
apart from
the frills and
ruffles in the
way of altars,
mosiacs, &c.,
has cost over
£200,000. The
central tower
will be 260 ft.
in height, and
the two front
towers 205 ft.
On the whole,
it is a poem
in Milestone,
and its sinis-'
ter sugges-
tiveness is al-
most drowned
in its gran-
deur. It will
be consecrat-
ed at the end
of next month
with a great
corroboree,
extending
over four
days, and a general exhibition of all the arehie-
piscopal freaks of Australasia in all their feathers.
* * * *
A correspondent:—
The least popular of Victorian school-inspectors lately
“ failed ” a class of infants for not knowing how to spell
cat in four letters (“ puss ”). Was this a fair question or
a conundrum? Anyhow, does the Minister know of it?
* * * *
A mean-action record has been put up at
Evandale, Tas. The body of an old resident
named Hood was awaiting burial on the morrow,
when a miscreant broke into the room and stole
the bedclothes from around the corpse.
There is no money-order
or savings-bank business cop-
ducted in connection with Fiji
post - office. No telegrams or
cables ; and but one telephone
connection His Excellency’s
with the Govt, buildings. Fiji
Parliament meets once a year
at Government House, and even
on that occasion the half-dozen
Honorables hardly know what
* to talk about to fill up time.
The Governor generally con-
gratulates them all on the in-
crease of population, or regrets
the falling-off of exports, or
views with alarm the influx of
something or other—and that’s
all. Carried unanimously. There
is no town clock in the Fijian
capital—the old-time custom of
beating the lali every hour be-
ing still kept up. The lali is
a wooden drum made by hol-
lowing a short tree-log. It is
beaten with a stick, and the beats can be heard
much farther off than the chimes of the biggest
bell. A similar sound, on,a muffled scale, is
made by coopers at work on*casks.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re assertion that N.S. W.
Art Gallery trustees shouldn’t have bought Vic-
torian pictures with money “intended for the
encouragement of art in N.5.W.,” the very besi
way to encourage local art is to put it on its
mettle to compete with the outsider. The
N.S.W. artists are Freetraders, almost to a man.
-Hog.
* • * *
In last Wednesday’s Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, just after a commonplace advt. to the
effect that Samuel Solomon was missing, appeared
the following hunk of glory :
YA/TFE. —HOME. —Professional expert, assured posi-
'' tion, invites only well-born gentlewomen corres-
pond, 22-28, good, beautiful disposition ; mind, ultra-
loving, sweet, pure, womanly; cultured, literary,
deeming home-love ; fairest mundane : semi-blonde,
sft. 6in., plump, well-developed, healthy, English
preferred ; but if good, that as may be. Stranger.—
Difficulty meeting “right” parti : hence advertise;
means no object (or objection); mercenariness need-
less, both having funds; sans reproche; modest,
particular ; ladies don’t fear; sacredly confidential;
wise enlarge choice. Require,—Companion—mate,
not Housekeeper ; Counsellor(not drudge or mistress),
best all God’s gifts; marry none but love and respect.
Ist instance Mr. England, Exchange P.O.
The Bulletin fears that Mr. E. will have to get
measured for that girl—the ready-made or slop
female isn’t built on those lines. And, considering
that there is never more than one girl in the world
at one time who can live up to that description
and possess “ funds ” at the same time, the adver-
tiser might explain a little more fully what he has
done to deserve her.
* * # *
A big tin-pot-greatness row threatens in a
Vic. municipality over Melb. Mayor Strong’s re-
cent ball. An invitation was duly addressed to
the Mayor of the place referred to, but, on reach-
ing the local town-hall, it was snapped up by the
retiring Mayor ere the one just elected could get
THE PENALTY OF GREATNESS.
DISTINGUISHED AUSTRALIAN ARTIST : “ No, sir, I shall never return to this
benighted country. My bones will be planted in Kensal Green or some
other English churchyard.”
FRIEND: “But why Kensal Green? What’s the matter with Westminster Abbey?"
hold of it. The ball came off duly, and the digni-
tary of expired date swelled out in the same room
as viceroyalty, the real Mayor of the time not
discovering how he had been overlooked until
after it was all over. Now he talks civil actions
criminal proceedings, and “stoush” all in one
breath, and an anxious crowd is awaiting develop-
ments.
* * • •
Pastor Rentoul, of Melb., re the agitation
to introduce parsons into State schools : ‘ ‘ Morality
without religion would be like the case of the man
who put a lot of wethers on his station, and was
surprised at the absence of lambs next spring ”
Unhappy simile ! That is not the kind of morality
PARADOXICAL.
“ I hate you, dear,” be said ; and, o’er her bending,
He gazed upon the quivering, upturned face
Whereon he saw white fear and horror blending.
“ Yes! hate you with a hate strong, stern, unending
That knows no glow of Pity’s holy grace !
“ But yesterday, heart free from all enthralling,
To-day held captive with a bond of snow ;
Two slim, white arms that o’er my shoulders falling
Make Slavery sweet—and Freedom hoarse with calling—
Yes, dear, I hate 1 You made me love you so ! ”
Vic.
L.M.D.


fH A RRIN GTO N
t > JHOTPCQiiTfJTTEKS V>.
\&6 KING; S? sydneY
T//£T F/ftA! / BUY FBOM*?
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
EXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms—FßEE.
(Vie donian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk StripjS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- pel- llaff-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A ustraliu.
Patterns and Measurement Korins on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
CELEBRATED
BYE LOTIO3XT
HAS NO, EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore ap<j Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &e .. Recommended by the Lead-
ing Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free: or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has’a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
At the Diamond Jubilee Charity Carnival
at Sydney Town Hall, the Baxter Manufacturing
Co. had a very attractive show in the form of a
pyramid composed of 200,000 cans of their New
Life Face Powder. As the new specific is war-
ranted to render the skin soft and smooth, to
restore it to spring-time naturalness, and to
remove blotches, freckles, and other blemishes,
the big gay pyramid was always surrounded by
visitors. The Baxter Co, is also putting on the
market “The Centennial Insect Powder,” which,
being certain death to ants, mosquitoes, fleas, and
other such vermin, will be greatly in demand all
through the trying Australian summer. The ten-
dency of the Australian to scratch in summer
weather is as sure as it is repugnant. And the
Centennial Powder undertakes to remove the
cause of such distasteful considerations.*
vOASByS
A
The Only Reliable Remedy
for
INDIGESTION,
Liver and Kidney Complaints.
NUMEROUS CURES
in Sydney and in the Country have been strictly in-
vestigated by the Press and proved genuine.
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
Post Free from • •
Loasby’s “ Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
exhibited at Sunday-schools, dear brother. There
is lots of religion in that, and—well, there is no
scarcity of lambs in the fold.
* * * »
The old Melbourne hangman having mys-
teriously disappeared, Vic. Govt, was placed once
more in the fix of having to take on a raw hand
for the butchering of murderer Hall. Applica-
tions came in to the number of a dozen, but none
of them from experienced stranglers. Most of the
applicants told awful stories of their indigence,
one who claimed to have been a “ gentleman ”
pitching a tale of woe so pathetic as almost to
move the authorities to tears. The wail of the
would-be slaughterer in his poverty would have
prevailed, especially as he mentioned several
clergymen as references, had not a wire arrived
from “Roberts,” who had “assisted ” the departed
hangman at several previous turnings-off. Under
the circs., the man of experience had necessarily
to get the job, and this he did, the “ex-gentle-
man’s ” plea being tearfully declined. The missing
man-butcher himself was an “ex-gentleman.” His
father was a wealthy English manufacturer, and
he himself did the heavy swell in Melb. until his
funds gave out, and he entered the police force to
become the handsome bobby on a city street-
corner.
*
Melb. : “One of our parsons has been
‘lmproving,’ in my hearing, the execution of
Hall. Good enough but for one thing. He
bracketted the hangman with Hall and said ‘ To
think that those two fearful men had once been
innocent babes ! ’ Now look at the illogic and
cruelty of this. The Sacred Instrument deputed
by the Law as the only person qualified to quench
a human soul! Why doesn’t the sheriff do it him-
self, as the law supposes ? ”
There is a divorce-boom in N.S.W. After
& metropolitan record, five Judges start out on
circuit this week, and each has one or more
•divorce-suits oh his list. Even Acting-Judge
Rogers will preside over the untying of a knot at
Broken Hill.
A divorce - suit lately adjudi-
cated in Brisbane illustrated nicely
the “costs” point as regards a female
respondent who fights the accusation
•of adultery. Cooper, J., held the
scales with all the wit of a Triboulet.
In effect, his Honor said : “ The law
•provides that, in a case of this kind,
the husband must pay the wife’s
costs ; therefore, I order the husband
to pay the wife’s costs. But the wife
also brought a charge of adultery
against the husband, which charge
has not been sustained, and I there-
fore order the costs to the husband
of meeting this charge to be deducted
from the costs which he has to pay
on behalf of the wife. Inasmuch as
the wife’s costs which the husband
has to pay, and the husband’s costs
which are to be deducted from the
wife’s costs which the husband has
to pay, are about equivalent to each
other, I order that one be set against
the other and that the costs paid
into Court by the husband be re-
turned to the husband.” It sounds
like a demonstration of Euclid.
* * * *
Another phase of the alien,
question. Queensland doctors advo-
cate the compulsory removal of proved
consumptives to Western sanatoria.
Are they aware that probably 20 per
cent, of the kanaka population would
then become a Govt, charge? Let us
see—the annual death-rate amounts
to about 35 per thousand at present !
Aspirants for horsehair were asked this
question at last N.S.W. law examinations :
“A, wife of B, having reason to believe her husband
guilty of adultery, separated from him and instituted a
suit for divorce, in which she failed. They never after-
wards resumed cohabitation. A subsequently offered to
resume cohabitation, but B refused. Three years after-
wards A brings another suit against B. for divorce on the
ground of desertion. Question : Can she succeed ? ”
Lay answer: What Judge?
* * * *
The working-woman mother of the Botany
•triplets, who cast an eye at Government House
for the Queen’s bounty last week, should bear in
mind that the Queen recently laid down the law
in this matter thus : The bounty is not for the
wholly destitute, who have made no provision for
a birth, but for poor families who have indus-
triously provided for one birth and are surprised
by three. This is where the royal hitch often
takes place.
Melb. papers
hurled jibes at a su-
burban police-court
criminal of whom it
was said, as an evi-
dence of the unfeel-
ingness of his na-
ture, thathemarried .
a second time two
weeks after the de-
mise of his first
wife. The Right-
thinking press has
more respect for the
man who marries
again prior to the
death of his first
wife.
• * *
Dear Bulletin,
—Re Christian Is-
raelites. I have
seen many of them,
and always noticed
with envy that the
elder men amongst
them had faces
smooth as the faces
of girls. The
women, inside their
huge ugly bonnets,
hid sweet, quaint,
Quakerish counten-
ances. Wrinkles
seem to be unknown
to the members of
that happy sect.
But then tne breth-
ren neither smoke,
nor drink, nor.
gamble, nor go to
the godless play-
house, and the sis-
ters are never seen
outside their own
homes, unless when
they are on their
way to their Fitzroy
meeting-house. So, take it all in all, I think I
prefer the wrinkles—with the other wicked accom-
paniments.—C.R.
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt. :
pEYLON CHEAP LABORERS, such as Domestic
Servants, Watchers, Garden Keepers, Nurses,
Ladies’ Attendants, Clerks, and Conductors, &e.,
could be supplied to the farmers and other residents
in Australian colonies. Correspondence invited.
WICKRAMANAYAKA and CO., Colombo, Ceylon.
You oan get a pale and grovelling white clerk —
the kind who inks his faded hat to give it a last
semblance of decency—for about 10s. a week now.
The idea of introducing a cheap nigger book-
keeper by way of further economy looks like abso-
lute superfluity. The nigger hardly could be
cheaper than some of the local clerk is now, unless
he boiled his rice over the gas and lived under the
counter.
OVERHEARD AT THE ZOO .
“ Say, Billy, how big is an elephant w’en Vs first hatched—'bout two-foot high? ”
“Pooh, ye chump; w'y the hegg's bigger’n that!"
The J.’sP. of a Tas. municipality granted a
prohibition order against a drunkard. A year
later, the prohibition order being still in force,
they transferred a public-house license to him.
Which about “takes the cake.”
* * * *
Is Cairns about to rise in her wrath and
throw off the accursed pro-Chinese stigma ? The
other day a number of storekeepers in that sultry
city were charged with selling tobacco without a
license. European offenders were fined from Is.
to <£l with one guinea professional costs, while a
hapless Chow was mulct to the tune of £2 fine
and two guineas costs.
* * * *
Mofussil : “A crux to young lady mission-
aries in India is having to teach boys and girls
who are fathers and mothers.”
* * * *
The 35 missionaries who left Melb., the
other day, for Poona, India, did not voyage on
the luxurious saloon racket of some Salvation
Army boss officers. The women were all in the
second cabin, the men in the third.
* * * *
It is recorded that a Sydney civil-servant
was officially notified the other day that his posi-
tion would be seriously jeopardised if he did not
at-once cease wearing a certain pair of trousers
frayed at the heels.
* * * *
Slumbering visitors at a very fashionable
mountain resort were disturbed and amused the
othera.m. bythemalehalfof a pair of honeymooners
threatening his obdurate bride through the key-
hole, in plaintive tones, that ha would telegraph
to her grandmother if she did not immediately
unlock the door.
* * * *
New Australia is in the soup again ; and
Gilbert Casey is reorganising it on co-operative
lines. Meanwhile some of the settlers’ wives have
been supporting themselves and keeping their hus-
bands by going into service at Buenos Ayres and
elsewhere. Several have simply hung on in the
expectation of others clearing out, with the like-
lihood then of a division of the undoubtedly good
land and the other assets. On the other hand,
Lane seems to prosper at Cosme.
* * * •
The Queensland Government, which is so
careful to safeguard the morals of the people by a
rigid enforcement of the Indecent Advertisements
Act as regards papers from other Australian pro-
vinces, yet allows the country to be flooded with
English periodicals which are full of the very
advts. which the Act was intended to suppress.
Probably, Thynne and Co. think any interference
with ’Ome papers would snap “ the silken bonds.”
* # * •
From a Perth paper :—“ ‘ Good board and
residence ’ at Perth for 30s. a week, mean four
men in a 10 x 8 room, with one water-bottle and
glass among them, and a limited diet of fried
chops, Irish stew, sausages, and half-raw por-
ridge. ”
* • * *
Notwithstanding its insanitary condition,
Perth isn’t a doctors’ Paradise. One writes to a
local paper that in the autumn he had 30 typhoid
patients ; he got his fees from three, and part of
them from another. The rest went into hospital,
or belonged to a club, or haven’t paid up.
A Fresh Air League—the Sydney Domain
Dossers.
• # * *
Melb. : “The Christian Israelites, or
Beardies, were founded in England by John
Wroe, who emigrated to Melbourne, aecom-
panied, or followed, by the cream of the Faithful.
He gave out that it was impossible for him to die
before the coming of the Lord in tho clouds. He
died in Melb. nearly 30 years ago. Mis real,
stalwart followers, grievously thinned, ilisist upon
it, as a fundamental doctrine, that he is alirs,
perambulating the globe in souk Wi vdering J< r
way. Fisher, the celebrated Nunawadvug Messiah ,
was a Wroeite, but conceived the grand design of
piecing the system up with Freemasonry, Mor-
monism, and other elements. The word Israelite
comes from a notion that the Ten Lost Tribes are
thus to be found.”
* * * *
“Joining the great minority”—learning
to bike.
# * * *
“ Why are applications for alimony so rare
in divorce cases since the passing of the Shiels’ and
Stephen’s Acts ? ” Very often, no doubt, it arises
as the result of a compact between husband and
wife, to the effect that the latter may have her
divorce without the handicap of “ the other side
of the case,” on condition that she doesn’t press
for alimony. But, in the majority of cases,
alimony isn’t asked for because, to get it, the wife
must prove that the husband is able to pay it
which means, in cases of desertion, bringing per-
haps several witnesses from ’distant parts of the
continent at great expense fora very problematical
advantage. Besides, it often depends on what
Judge tries the case whether she gets it or not.
* * * *
“ After no less than five false starts with a
different jockey each time, a fickle aristocratic
filly has finished for the Matrimonial Stakes under
the imaginary guidance of Lord Romilly,” writes
The Bulletin's London correspondent. “ Miss
Violet Edith Grey-Egerton never seemed to
know her own mind, and the loss was not
great, either to her or the mind. She has
always portrayed the prevailing phases of the
aimless aristocrat, a restless seeking after the
don’t-know-what. Miss V.E.G.E. jilted Mr.
Ernest Cunard on the eve of their arranged
marriage, and espoused her much-to-be-condoled-
with lord by special license without bridesmaids,
pages, orange-blossom, or friends. Her maid
gave her away, so Romilly didn’t learn much.
They have about .£5OOO a year between them.”
* * * *
Benjamin Wherrell, the Brisbane (Q )
wife-murderer, took no pains whatever, at the
Ereliminary police-court proceedings, to defend
iinself. When the policeman deposed that the
woman said, “My husband did it,” the accused
replied sarcastically, “ How did you know which
husband she meant?” The principal comments
made by Wherrell, as preserved by witnesses and
embalmed in evidence sufficient to twist the necks
of a regiment, are : “ I’m glad I done it. . . .
I wish I’d done it before. . . . I only wish I’d
done for him. . . . No blood on this knife ?
Then there oughter be. I dug it into her often
enough. ... I had a mind to do for him. . . .
The knife wasn’t very sharp, but I gave it a good
shove.” And so on. “ What grieves me is that
there was the little running after her. I’m
sorry for him. I don’t think I’d have killed her
only seeing the youngster there. . . . She is
my lawful wife, and I have done for her. I’m
going to. give myself up.” In the police court
dock, he said : “ That’s the knife I done the deed
with. I ought to have done it to the man. . . .
I made my mind up, satisfied to meet the ends of
justice, else I would never have given myself up.”
No cunning, no attempt to let himself down easy
—mad with the madness of blasted, red-hot Love !
GOOD-BYE.
I will not utter now the woman’s plea—
Love me for ever—love me all you can.
I would not ask a future faith to me—
How could you answer for another man ?
And if returning still in tenderness
You found on faded cheek a fainter glow,
iCould I be angry that you loved me less,
And never with the God that made men so?
You wonder that my set lips never stir
When with my golden curls you fondly play—
<Of bright eyes whisper. What remains for her —
That pale-faced woman I shall be some day ?
And so, good-bye. Years hence with strange-felt kiss
Or hands loose-clasped shall stand another twain,
(Bearing our names, our memories of old bliss;
But we, sweetheart, shall never meet again.
Maoriland.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
A
BRILLIANT
THOUGHT
MarA's ar\ auiirval
(No doubf- of tf\ah) *
WKo likes.being furred to,and:—
Worr\arV> rKe* €>aTo 0


MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
Sydney- 4 hunter St.
Adelaide, Auckland, 4c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
tlipk/cIW
0 <
®_o
© 0
aooj
fwvai m
ORN
IooUtWC
e
II
'1
Liverpool apd Lopdop
(SSobe fpSOraoce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Tounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
in'lNSUßANCE can be obtained for about
years 6 USUa * orc * mar y premium for the first five
Local Directors:
Walter Cummi.no Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. HexrtMort Esq. ; Hon. H E. Kater, Esq.; and
*-Ric If. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Mead Office Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Epidemic in Sydney. Innumerable deaths.
DOCTORS BARF LED AND POWERLESS.
Sydney is generally considered a healthy citv
but there is a great deal of illness in the metropolis
at the present moment. Almost every person has
some digestive trouble. The man who has no
stomach or bowel trouble is almost a curiosity,
trouble is : men take no care of themselves. They
work as if their bodies were made of iron and
their brains of steel. They eat as if they had
copper stomachs and bowels of brass. By-and-by
overworked nature rebels. Then conies headaches’
nervousness, bad blood, liver and kidney troubles’-
health goes and strength g<e=. It is really won-
derful how much abuse the l.u lan body will stand.
It is equally wonderful how quickly it will recover
way 1 a^USe one k e^Ps > n a rational, natural
It was to give just such help that Gould’s Tiny
lonic Liver Pills were prepared. They are for
constipation and torpid liver ; and in curing those
derangements, cure many complications and re-
sultant diseases, such as sick snd bilious headache,
dizziness, sour stomach, loss of appetite, indiges-
tion or dyspepsia, windy belchings, heartburn,
pam and distress after eating, and kindred
derangements of the liver, stomach and bowels.
I hey are mild in action—merely supplementing
nature. They are the result of years of study and
experience, and will be found an undoubted
specific for constipation, piles, fullness after eat-
mg, dyspepsia all liver and kidney troubles,
debility, general weakness, pale and sallow com-
plexions, female irregularities, shortness of breath
after slight exertion, pain in the back and side, and
when used after a heavy meal has been taken they
take away that full and disagreeable feeling.
Chemists and storekeepers price 2s. Gd., 6 bottles
w&, 0 G t gS.: h 4Lt.- G ' ,,, ' ,i “ d c °-
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
gjf r \ ~ Sydney, September 28, 1897.
Mr Dear Myek—
A little difficulty that accrued in Brisbane
Supreme Court lately with regard to a lady wit-
ness’s veil throws an interesting side-light on the
great theatre-hat question. Judge Cooper ob-
jected to witness giving evidence from behind the
veil, and asked her to remove it, but she said she
couldn t do that without taking her hat off, too.
Vy hereupon the Bench remarked that she had
better try or somebody else would have to help
her ; and the business of the Court stood still
while the witness struggled to unpin and untie
her veil. Ihe mere man might set down this dis-
inclination to unveil as pure cussedness on the
part ot the witness, but every woman knows that
detaching from one’s head fashionable millinery
and all its appurtenances is the most difficult of
toilet tricks. To begin with, the wearer can’t lift
her arms above shoulder-level because of her
cruelly-tight sleeves; then she can’t lower her
(thin over her rigid buckram neck-fence without
risk of choking. Also, she must fumble about and
pull out severally a whole armory of long, dagger-
like pins, and she must, finally, patiently coax the
flimsy net away from the catchy straw and trim-
mings. L hen she probably emerges, purple-faced
aim gasping, from the struggle to find her dress
fetched away at the arm-hole, her collar collapsed
and an irreparable rent in her lace fall. Con-
sidering all these worries, is it any wonder a
woman in full war-nfunt hates taking off her hat
in public?
A brand-new calamity has arisen in connection
with the elevation of all the Premiers to P C -
ships and other honors, which ought to be reeti-
heci at once or there will be much gnashing of
idhcial teeth and general woe in the community.
Nobody it seems, has been at the pains to find
out exactly where P.C.’s and Right-Honorables
laSle!? th l S ° C i! a SCale ’ ard ;111 dignitaries
labelled as above have returned to their respective
homes on their dig., and fuming atN.S.W. official
ignorance of Precedence. P.C.’s and R.H.’s or
their wives were not invited “assioli” to decorate
vice-regal dinner-tables and prance in “State”
sets at balls Some expert in the art of placing
i*V* s a !' 1 ? r 111 , 0 s °aial procession will have to
e found before the Melb. Convention in Jan., or
A. DC? for ? m ° re tr ° uble - But what are the
Nothing annoys the little self-centred communi-
fn ® °fl the Sea Islands more than outside
interference Tonga is, next to Samoa, the most
touchy about the tales which travellers spin after
a hasty trot round the Liliput dominion “ The
Vagabond, some years ago, raised a furious
tornado of indignation, which hasn’t even yet died
down, bv the book he wrote describing Tongan
ways. Now ex-Premier Dibbs’ dabbling in dusky?
romance weaving has got him into hot water.
While tripping in Tonga, he took an intelligent
interest in the love-affairs of the youthful kiu°-
and spread a report, on his return from his voyag-
ing among coral reefs an d palm trees, that a cer-
tain German belle would most likely be the future
queen of Tonga. This has raised vigorous denial
from the political wire-pullers of the kinglet “as
the union m question would be disastrous ” As a
matter of fact, the outside world doesn’t care a
banana-leaf yvho the royaT bride is to be. But the
point of the incident is that the same stuffy Court
sSr°« SP i!n rf> ° f “ pol J, cy ”. and bluffing, and back-
stairs influence, and private philanderings, and
genera l humbug hangs about these microscopic
royalties just as closely as it does about the high-
and-mightiness of civilisation.
tb^?oi th , e^n dy VOrt 'i X of fa sh,on this season,
the two Club balls were the most exclusive whirls
of all, and so great was the scramble for the neces-
sary pasteboards that all sorts of devices were re-
sorted to by those miserables not of the elect who
£™, ful to glide and prance among the
Nicest only. I hear of one newly-rich man who
besought an impecunious friend, who he thought
to be a clubmenibah,” for entry for one revel'for
himself and wife; and, finding that hardupnSs
had compelled his friend to resign his membership
generously offered to cash-up for the current ye£
that the remstated stoney-broker might be able to
nod in Orcesus and his missis.
Gov. Lamington is the dark-horse among H M’s
Australian team of thoroughbreds, and stands at
the opposite extreme of loquacity to the Sun-
beam s skipper, who is ready and eager to be
interviewed on any topic. Frequently when the
has pocketed note-book and pencil
at the end of an interview, His Ex. lets himself
out and chats to the pressman affably and lengthily
—not for publication, but as a guarantee that
there sno beastly pride about him. But the
“fe / eP °n teP ** ,mable t 0 stalk Brisbane’s lord.
-H s Excellency s secretary stated that Lord L
would not permit himself to be interviewed by
any newspapah, is the chilling little remark the
disappointed Sunday Times has to offer in place
fnl ’A e £ pect< s ool l ulr , in of rapture over the beauti-
r,f fho A r ; £ anakaland possesses the youngest
of the Australian Governors. Perhaps the modostv
of youth makes him dissemble and cloak his
opinions; or perhaps, like the hero of the melo-
drama, he is silent because he has nothing to say
The Sunday Times should have sent as fn intere
viewer a charming grass-widow. From what one
hears in Brisbane, she might have made His Ex.
_After all the good useful work the Thirlmere
B X e . fo . r Consumptives has done, it was stated
at the last annual meeting that it would have to
be dosed for want of means to carry it on. Ladv
ilampden s circular was written with a pen share
tVr°e Ugh and effeotua ” y Col. Goodlet’s
tvre, and mow that that lady has taken
the new Consumptives’ Home under her
wing the good old one has very little show,
lhe canvassing for the tuberculous-imder-royal-
patronage has done this thing. Charity is fashion
In a benevolent boom, if the vice-regal hat be held
out, the pennies of the Nicest and the snobs rattle
HL a r 'h y M tbe . aUgUSt b(>aver , while necessitous
tiles held out by non-sassiety mendicants are
turned right-side up again with a groan.
, ; J b ? s^ <ald Chinese festival, on Saturday, was,
like the first one, profuse in loud-sounding crackers -
there were more mournful wails from more whistle-
pipes, more drum, and much more smell. The
procession became monotonous after two or three
tunes round the ground, and the kite-flying, except
for a couple of eaglehawks which floated proudly,
was not on the same gorgeous scale as the rest of
the pageant. But it was all one huge glitter, and
the Chows have been gloating in triumph over
their success in the show-business ever since the
first procession. Some of the young men crown
theii yellow-skinned faces with the newest style
in boxer hats, and are well-tailored, with substan-
tial-looking watch-chains, brown boots, cigarettes
and bikes. They’ve got all the money, and show
it in every turn. Ihe Chinee is a most important
person. He has sky-pilots agonising to convert
him, girls ready to missionise him in class and
® and now the future of the u drammer ” is
to him. The latest American sensation is a
Chinese tragedy.
At the Y.M.C.A. Hall, on Friday evening, the
new Italian society initiated itself by decorating
the room with much highly-colored bunting, and
had most artistically worked out the national tri-
color in red waratah, white lilies, and green
foliage ; also, it laid down red baize and set out
some new parlor-chairs, on which the Govt. House
party sat in splendid isolation, as nobodj' rushed
forward to smirk affably in a front seat at His Ex.
during his sojourn there. Consul Marano lurked
in the background most of the time. His Ex. was
trimmed with two stars, and suggested an incom-
plete brandy-label. Dr. Fiaschi made a short ex-
planation that the object of the Dante Society was
to study Italian literature and art. But it was an
incongruity that the land of song was so. sparsely
represented among the musicians. An Italian
ana was warbled by Burns-Walker: Marion
Llewellyn billed for “ Una Voce,” got that vocal
gargle off her chest successfully. Miss Minnie
Daniel was down for a piano solo, and an Italian
mandolin song, engineered by Signor Podenzana,
was mostly surnamed Brown. The only other
signors to oblige the company were E. Do
Beaupuis, who managed, as usual, in his indolent
dreamy way, to convey the impression that if lie
only chose to mentally shake himself and rub the
sleep out of his eyes, he could hold his own with
any chord-crasher of them all—and Truda Bros
who harped and violined beautifully. Hearers
instinctively groped in their pockets for a silver
coin—the Inter-mezzo always seems lacking some-
thing without a street collection. An elongated
pause of twenty minutes for taking in sustenance
ought to have boomed the hokey-pokey and ice-
cream trades.
If ° n ® of ehiofest raptures of the week was
Mr. Harry Ilyndes’crush in honor of the Ham-
brothers, at Paling’s rooms, which were
ti led to overflowing with a fashionable crowd. A
glance from the doorway showed that not another
hat could have wedged itself in among the posy-
bed of millinery in the music-room. The pro-
gramme was short but sweet; the lion of the after-
noon played twice, and finished up with the
Loco a loco which was received with audible
gasps of delight. The brilliant waltz is first
favonte of all Mark’s shorter pieces. Mr. Burns-
Walker fetched ” his audience in his two vocal
flights, and Miss Thorne, a promising amateur,
also sang effectively. There was some very
smart gowning, but only the big-hat wearers
were conspicuous. Lady Paston Cooper, ac-
companied by her unsmiling son, had the
seat of honor; there were shoals of pretty
girls for Jakoff to play with, and altogether it was
a distinctly high-toned party plentifully flavored
with strawberries and fizz.
The recent marriage of Mr. Alex. Dalglish, of
Wandona Station, Goulburn (N.S.W.), with Miss
Mary Maxwell bcott, a descendant of Sir Walter
ocott, cabled from London last week, will set
some people pedigree-hunting. The bridegroom
is a very young man. His mother (formerly Mrs.
Campsie-Da ghsh, now Mrs. Bellasis, the liroken-
hillionairess) lives m Wales, and is one of the De
Lauret family, of Goulburn. A youthful sister of
Mis. Bellasis is a well-known society girl in
fwenTh llle bnde s faindy, although they have
taken the name of Scott, are descended from the
great novelist on the female line.
A Brindisi<an Serenade for the piano by H.
Oa) is reminiscent of the
giddy Marguerite of Monte Carlo ” toned down
by some solemn chords and shaded off at the
finale into a dreamy reverie. “ Content,” a state
of mind usually unfamiliar to musicians, has been
chosen as the inspiration of a little lay by F. A.
Down. be Last Message’’musically tells thetale
ot a (lying soldier who worries over the welfare of
a wife and large family, which doesn’t seem nearly
so pathetic as when a stricken “Tommy” bemoans
a best girl. A prettily-arranged “ Gavotte in D ”
by Annie May Siimmerbelle has reached its fifth
edition. La Esmeralda,” a mazurka by Theo
loussier, is a somewhat hackneyed measure.
Nicholson and Co. issue a showy magazine in-
“Ti‘ n v*n me lo),pu!ar I o ) , pu ! ar musical chestnuts such as
Ihe Village Blacksmith,” “A Bandit’s Life”
■and some catchy airs of newer date, “ The Ship’l
and others 21 Clement s success . “ Marjorie Moore,”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
At the Austral Salon (Monday, Sept. 20)
competition was keen for chairs within staring
distance of Amy Slierwm, the star of the occasion.
White attire sounds chilly for so early in the
season, but even fluted chiffon over snowy silk
hat and plumes to match, and filmy zouave of
tinted lace failed to refrigerate the aspect of the
wearer, who, not content with the natural radiance
of the wannest-colored tresses on record, added an
extra touch of brightness in the shape of a
geranium neck-frill. A white fur wrap and a
chiffon parasol provided for all possible weather
contingencies, and, so far as Miss Sherwin was
worst rned ’ ehallenged eifcher rain or shine to doits
But the visitor’s wasn’t the only smart rig-out
on the premises that day. Clever Charlotte Hem-
Su]in B and ‘ neW ’ sartorially speaking, in black
S i„f ce "se silk and pink, and white
SvM h ° W l What - She oould do both
tfme th *‘f y ’ pr ? for the hundredth
tion t t> t ’ e - r ta e i ltS i!] e in the latter direc-
rat P X nored c old Mother Nature said
8 ° t , tbe , to P of ber voice from the
start, when she conferred on the pre-destined
the tomn^r eSlan t ! roHle a '! d a Provincial trick of
harHlT?K® k S a ,'' r^ ue? ) musical enough, but
a i y high-class. Actor Paulton arrived at the
stress hT 6 afteni r: the Tasmanian song
stress but in view of the latter’s elaborate frock-
lng, the poor little dull-plumaged he was more or
less overlooked. ‘ Ada Cambridge ’ wasThLre, !^
for fc th h e hSo e H°f h,ng i WaS Sa j d about a collection
? . ™ beloved stray dogs. For the benefit of the
distinguished guests, the host for the day (Herr
Wendlandt) had put his best foot forward in the
Khv t° f programme - That soulful tenor, Walter
Thon y v >U Ver u°. ?°° d “ in ‘ Alic «. Where Art
? ) t , urned lll « toes in and his elbows out as
usuah and perhaps was pleased to note that his
wavnig tresses, though several shades darker, were
own cousin m color to those of the guest of the
to/eVhf m nt locks and vocal gifts apparently go
together. j< lorence Schmidt, Cesca Vollugi, Amy
Slier win, all cases in point. But the latter’s hair
o?d I frfendf em p t °l, COrne i a 8 a revelation even to
v 1 erhaps the y for S°t to notice its
color until she grew famous.
■Bendi<!)?T? n e n rd wl,e^ her the committee of
Bendigo Art Gallery, who gave a ball on the
pr< “ las *yeek, respected the modest scruples
of theloca l W.C.I.U. by obscuring their picture
A f S j ,anlBll Maiden from public view. It was
reported that a curtain or a sheet, or something
would be hung in front of the alarming spinster. g ’
-The sweet girl graduates at Melb. University
fdnh a T? Cl *f ty Y hlch the y call the Princess Ida
Olub. Ihe luncheon-room of this club is right
over one of the lecture-halls, and when the club is
assembled in force and running to tongue, there is
such a clatter that the learned gentleman below
and lus class cannot recollect who they are or
minfj hey t re dwmf Y , The other day one de-
-1° f if S fc 0 c rUB,led u ptairs to quieten the
petticoated half-hundred, who were discussing a
new hat, or a new scandal, or somet ing. He
returned fiye ininutes later with the da/.ed, tamed,
and all-broken-up expression of a dog that has
run 17 mdes with a tin-can on his tail. What
happened to the rash professor up there is a
dreadful secret but the University Council has
been moved, and the club is warned that it must
either shut up or get out. The club wishes to
talk it over with the Council—in which event the
latter s funeral s to-morrow.
“A melancholy sidelight on the decline of
romance is the case of Blashki v. Holt, a Melb
O'u /“Yl" a local matrimonial agent for a
batch of thirty wedding-rings supplied, at
slaughter prices from 2s. 7d. upwards ! They are
bought Hi a job lot, like the parson, or rather,
duly-ordained officiating clergyman.
“One Australian metropolitan Jewish com-
munity is much exercised just now over a certain
rabbi who has been making ladv-conveits whole-
-8t;?; J T S , trot off & ilded Gentile
girls to the Hebrew headquarters, and, on pay-
ment of a small fee, have them made co-religionists
by the application of certain baths, &c. (details of
which should prove interesting reading): then—
feesfw hYh synagogue thus obtains
tees for both ceremonies.
Mayoress Strong’s last reception was, as
usual, rushed by the crowd which fights eagerly
for a cup of tea The dressing was dowdy, on
the whole. The Mayoress aired a swell black
brocade topped with a rather smart bonnet The
coming Mayoress went in for a trifle of color
wearing black with body piece of magenta satin a
toque, in which was plenty bright turquoise blue,
adorning her go den locks. But the toilette of the
day was Amy Sherwin’s. The warbler fluttered
in black coat and skirt with fixings of silver
sequins over all the turned-back portions, and an
expanse of pink vest ; her magenta locks, the
latest shade in England (Jubilee color, you know)
3 wT ned by i a la^ e white felfc spruced up
creim or grey. and T ° SeS ’ and a hu » e boa of
Dr. Wilimott, father of the Maesmore Morris
died of rather .sudden paralysis on Sunday. On
f T '|' r Y ay \ l f f fore / h “ conditi °n was so serious
that his daughter (acting in the ‘ Sign of the
Cross co. Adelaide) was sent for. Dr. Wilimott
was only 4G, and until free living began to mark
him for its own he was admitted, even bv men to
be a really fine specimen of an up-to-date Beau
Brummel. Latterly he failed. The last few
years found him prouder of his daughter, fonder
of the Block (he was one of its best-known
habitues), and rather shaken in appearance.
“ engagement of clever ‘ Johnnie ’ Sandes
of Melb. Argus, to Speaker Graham Berry’s
daughter Claire—which event happened during
Sydney Conventionalities—is much talked of in
Melbourne. Another of the Berrv girls is
marneii to Mr. Woollard, the gentleman usher
who wears black silk stockings and silver-buckle
knee-breeches m Vic. Leg. Council. A third
daughter studies dentistry. Claire Berry is tall
and slender, and has a liberal inheritance of her
father s brains. Also, she knows how to dress
and shines socially. uiess,
‘‘ Private views at the artists’ studios have been
filling in social blanks in a very dull week The
slump in entertainments, just before Melbourne
bursts into all the riot and gaiety of Cup-time
makes September and October absolutely dead
months as far as sassiety is concerned. Conse-
2"*" cly ai ? , f t » -afternoons are looked upon as
events of social importance by women of the
leisured class, and cards to ‘privately view’
artists productions are greedily snapped up.
Arust Hansen, lately returned from Munich, held
his exhibition at the Austral Salon on Friday,
"• '? reat he displayed copies of some of Rubens’
pictures, The Last Judgment ’ and ‘The Battle
'he Amazons. The luscious, fat, pink women
um ing into the Judgment Day flames had a
small crowd of admirers around them all the after-
f ft . er th » anaemic, washy maidens which
p . U p tra , al l leyes to pourtray as a rule,
change 8 ladies come as a refreshing
At a fashionable drapery store are displayed
Wom in ‘ The Koyal Divorce.’
parish daylight gives away the fact that, despite
e craze for gorgeous stage costuming, papery
satin and gilt spangles are still sacred to the
mmer. A dress-circle viewof Josephine’s court
gown will make it, no doubt, come out as rich
gold satin train over underdress of cream satin,
.:l'lT bro,d !T d V lth silver Sfi q u 'ns, and hand-
somely trimmed with ermine. In truth, the con-
lection, > viewed at arm’s length, shows very
stagey maternal with tinsel fixing, and the royal
f™ ' ne tnrns out to be good old bunny. One
pretty grey velveteen train, to be worn 'by Miss
° Ver an , underdress of satin, shows a
netH^i y f Wo M ed , dev , lce of butterflies on the
petticoat. Napoleons uniform, all much be-
trimmed with highly Dutch -metalled braid,
discloses the fact that the beloved Julius Superbus
will have to insert a pillow below the waist to give
eomr!^l ht '’mi t0 f the lllstoric ‘ al % ure of the little
corporal. The famous grey frieze great-coat is
c °P‘ ed and one Pair of red morocco
boots with gold cords and tassels are almost sure
to walk themselves into the fickle affections of the
wl pr»„, S k Po Hf bonnets and velvet pelisses,
whereupon bunny figures strongly, are to be worn
by severa l of the minor characters, and appear to
have been cleverly fashioned in exactly the mode
oi Josephine sday.
will the , t , hne th , is « printed, * Sweet Lavender ’
IS nt » t M° O Tv f ° r the , !a ' sfc time this season
(Sept. 28th) I his particular ‘Lavvy,’ by the
rpniYr Wa ? al j"°j ,fc . to ° roalistic a specimen of the
real-life landlady s daughter Everyone knows
„t e „ Il i ' ? i / girl-woman with golden baby-curls
U P premises forma’s ‘paying
- . Ihe Sweet Lavender of one’s fancy is a
slim young thing with hair fair and flowing rather
than crisp and coppery, light of foot, blue-eyed,
and apt to look pale and prettily pathetic. Ethel
•tlaydon, for instance, before she attained her
present-day plumpness, would have been an ideal
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
A t the Newcastle centenary, Sunday
Breaker stated that the city had been kept back
1 ooft onrf tie A 'f" I receivefl » grant of
1,000 000 acres, and refused to sell any of it to
enable people to make homes for themselves.” In
other words, this hungry johnbull corporation has
consistently blocked the progress of Newcastle,
and as Sunday Brunker admits the fact, why
doesn the whoop for a graduated land-tax ? The
Ktrllfp* H ' S 'Tr i | ! ‘ lrr ’ n g the exemption,
strikes the small landholder and the medium one
and the large one and the gigantic grabber all
alike, therefore i does nothing to clear huge
octopus corporations like the A. A. concern out of
the country.
«1. T. Neale, the millionaire—or very close
to it—who died in Sydney the other day, was
accounted a Shylock by the multitude. It is true
that his hobby was the accumulation of money : he
didn t quite know what else to do, except on Sun-
day when he went to chapel and walked home-
wards with ex-Mayor Lees- to whom he has left
a few hundreds, doubtless in memory of their
many pious little chats. However, old man Neale,
though he liked money, was fonder still of the
game of getting it; he gave away lots of cash
quietly. He was utterly unostentatious—like
James J yson, who also, strange as it may sound,
gives away much money without newspaper-blare
—and was accused of meanness because he rode in
buses instead of living at the rate of 4s. per hour
by riding in cabs. The deceased made the kernel
. , 18 fortune as a carcase- butcher; grew
rich and richer by inheritance, and by lending
money on safe landed security and buying up
city property for cash ; he never missed
auction-day at Richardson and Wrench’s. He
was a most methodical man of business, most
exact, most just; never kept an office, but did
most of his biggest deals in the bank vestibule.
Banked at the Commercial of Sydney; has left
A7oOO to manager Dibbs, and .£5OOO to G. Repub.
Dibbs, in token of the latter’s decisive action at
bank-burst time. Also, if manager Dibbs, who is
aii executor in the Neale estate, gets paid commis-
sion at ordinary executors’ rates, the appointment
S £°« Ul ,£n b ! W o rtl ! i ' 20 ’ 000 , t 0 l”m. Mr Neale left
Ai0,500 to Sydney public charities, and seems
to have remembered in his will pretty
nearly everyone who had been civil to him.
Hut why a man with probably at least £BOO,OOO
was not addicted to Perier-Jouet, the ballet, and
expensive water-colors instead of to cold tea
mothers meetings, and dismal tracts, is one of
those mysteries which will only be solved when
the sea gives up its dead.


• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
J. H. SQUIKE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New PocJ&Ct Kodxik , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURE-, i Q Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
IUIiS
a
m
min
w;s
»ii
mm?
m
m
V*
m
3
lin
**>
A
'Hillllllllllll.K.Tinilll
111 Mill!
mmm
*5»»
w
jiiiiiiiir
\\m\
,1111411
H'liiiili!
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—op—
FOSTBIL’S at.b
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W BALCHTN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The record N.S. W. grandmother lives at
Goolna. She is 30 years of age.
Ex-pugilist Larry Foley is writing his ring
experiences. Suggested title :“ My Scrap book.”
They say Gov. Hampden has smaller hands
and feet than any other man of his height in
Sydney.
Freetrade Richard Cobden is brought to
memory by the recent death at Wanganui, M.L.,
of a former business partner of his, Francis
Sheriff, aged 96 years.
It is pointed out that Premier Reid, being
a Privy Councillor, is ex-offioially a Judge of the
highest Court of the Realm, and, therefore, should
not practise as a barrister.
“ THE DUDE AND THE NUDE."
MR. SIMPKINS : "Did you ever paint a native
bear?”
MISS DIANA : “ Oh, Mr. Simpkins, how COULD
you? I never draw from the nude!”
A Privy Councillorship only lasts for the
fife of the Sovereign; so if Queen Victoria were
to die to-morrow the Australian Premiers would
oease to be “ Right Honorables.”
Cabled that because hemp refused to rise
in the market, Colonial Secretary Chamberlain
has lost <£50,000. The Bulletin now has a notion
why Chamberlain wanted to set poor Judge Win-
deyer to work in Newfoundland.
Rough, but kindly, old Bully Palmer to
young Queenslander, just returned from—haw—
C xfawd : “ What d’you talk like that for ? God-
d mi it, man ! you remind me of a blanky Muscovy
duck, quacking all over the yard.”
Saul Samuel, born 1820, is retired from
N.S.W. Agency-General because of old age, and
Daniel Cooper, born 1821, appointed temporary
substitute. Cooper was several years in politics
before Samuel, and was Speaker when Samuel
was a new private member.
H. C. Dangar and G. B. Barton, barristers-
at-law, but neither practising, are the seniors on
the roll of N.S.W. barristers. Dangar was called
before Windeyer, Foster and others who gained
the Supreme Court Bench. Barton got on the
roll a year before Julian Salomons.
Dear Bulletin, —Waiving the grotesquerie
of making Tummy Wales F.R.C.P., London, the
distinction is so rare and real that I think there
is but one possessor thereof in N.S.W. Which
fact has doubtless much to do with the other fact
that he is the doctors’ doctor. —A.
Old Dr. O’Doherty is to the front again—
with a new patent for defrosting meat, which has
given great satisfaction to Brisbane experts. It
doesn’t look over-well to see a medico monkeying
with corpses ; but this invention may only be pre-
liminary to a process of raising the dead.
Melb. : “ Demise—Lachal, relative of the
Denises, jewellers, with whom he partnered in
business. Death has swept the board, though
none of the brothers would have been up in years,
< ven now. Surgeon Beaney was their grand
customer, with his restless passion for the fire of
the diamond.”
Chief Justice Way was one of the biggest
prize-takers in sheep at the recent S.A. agri-
cultural show. He has prospered as a squatter,
and owns the station upon which he was appren-
ticed when a boy. Judge Boucaut owns a cattle
farm at Mt. Barker (S. A.), and makes a hobby of
breeding Arabs for the Indian market.
Editor Ward, of Brisbane Courier, says
the climate of Kanakaland is much maligned. He
has more energy to roll his journalistic log than
he had down south, and the pleasure of living in
practical-pyjamas all summer-time must be felt to
be realised. And the more he considers Kanaka-
land’s resources, the more they astonish him.
The Moree (N.S.W.) paper :
During tea at Tattersall’s Hotel on Sunday evening, Mr.
D. Rose, after counting the company which sat down, re-
marked, “ It’s strange that there’s thirteen of us at the
table; they say i hat when that happens one of the
number will die before long.’ A discussion occurred on
the subject, and Mr. R. Foster remarked, “ Well, I don’t
care if lam the one. I never did anyone any harm, and
I’m ready to die now.” That night he was drowned whilst
bathing in Moree bore.
During his three years of office, Premier
Reid has had the appointment of three Supreme
Court Judges. He will presently have a District
Court Judgeship in his gift, Judge Forbes being
about to retire—when Mr. Wade will step up.
Somebody having remarked that all the
bishops of Melb., Perry, Moorhouse, Goe—no go-
have been married and childless, a lady said she
knew there were no children at Bishopscourt,
because the stair bannisters were so far apart.
Thomas M‘llwraith, the Gentleman Who
is Away, has been a member of six out of the last
seven Queensland Ministries, so even if he falls
out as the result of the present Q.N.B. trouble he
has had a good innings. The large and compre-
hensive Thomas seemed to fit into almost any
kind of a Ministry, and there is hardly anybody
in Q. polities who hasn’t been his colleague some
time or other.
The Age barks viciously at those “fussy
and tiresome people ” in Queensland who want a
statue for Lilley, and heaps contumely oh people
in general who “ ask that the object of their ad-
miration shall be handed down to posterity in
stone or bronze, or that his commonplace features
shall be transferred to canvass.” And yet Fitz-
Gibbon, of the Sewers, and others have been hust-
ling to get cash for a statue of Baronet, Clarke,
without exciting a word of protest from D. Syme.
If Clarke should have a stone, Lilley should have
a pyramid.
One of the Broken Hill strike alleged con-
spirators, who underwent trial at Deniliquin—he
was the only man acquitted—unable to get work
on the Barrier, started lately to tramp from there
to the Mac Donnell Ranges gold and mica fields—
say, 1450 miles of semi-desert. But, luckily, at
the last moment, some sympathisers came to the
rescue with passage-money for part of the way.
Which reminds a Bulletin writer that not one of
the 11 men then tried at Deniliquin now remains
at 8.H., though one represents part of it in Par-
liament. The others who didn’t at once see the
wisdom of hiding themselves in other places and
getting quietly to common “graft” were soon
shown that that was the only possible course open
to them, unless they preferred starving.
H. : “Buried in Melb. Advocate (R.C.
organ) Duffy’s continuous autobiog. is, to me,
replete with interest of the very highest order.
It has now reached his dive into Victorian poli-
tics, and nicks off the characters of his old asso-
ciates with all the smartness that one would
expect. O’Shanassy, Aspinall, Ireland, Evans,
Wilson Gray, and so forth, walk out of his pages.
Materials for history exude at almost every line,
and I would have sludged out a column, but that
it is only Victorian with really no application
whatever to Australia at large. The underlying
malice is lovely, and so is the ineffable conceit,
with his treasuring up and reproduction, & la
Parkes, of extravagant compliments which verge
on burlesque.”
M‘G. : “ Men with baptismal
aristocratic titles in front of their
surnames are not so very uncommon.
Who, in Melb. 20 years ago, does
not remember Michael Lord Pender
and Lord Fred Pender, of that
well-known Southern sporting
family ? While, to-day, one of the
top-notch professional cyclists of
Yankeeland is Earl Kiser, a Brook-
lyn boy. This latter combination
is an extraordinary one ; the prefix
of Earl before the historic man who
was asked to buy a dawg is ludi-
crous, to say the least of it.”
Told of poor Barcroft Boake’s
father that, having unwisely pitched
his business-tent in one of Sydney’s
Arcades, he found things so dull
that he wanted to have his lease
cancelled, but the landlord was “not
on,” so he invested forthwith in a
French horn and tootled so indus-
triously all day long that the neigh-
boring tenants were driven to de-
putationise the landlord, who in turn
came down upon the horn-player.
“ Can’t have this, you know ! Driv-
ing all the business away from my
property!” “Very sorry! Got
no business, myself—obliged to pass
the time somehow. And— Pot learn-
ing the trombone ! ” He got his re-
lease.
Melb.: “Ephraim Lamen Zox
is one of our mild notabilities. He
might get into the Federal Parlia-
ment, so let me unswathe him of
the white waistcoat, and, Neild-like,
employ my critical instruments on
his heart. He has a big one. Fes,
this is a most sweet Jew, of the ex-
cellent kind depicted in Cumber-
land’s play of that title, or Lessing’s
‘Nathan the Wise.’ He is one of
those who will come from the East
and West at the Assize, and look
through the chinks, if he cares to,
at the Chad bands and Stigginses.
I first saw his odd name on an ama-
teur play-bill. Since then he has
been indefatigable in the sacred
cause of charity, as Coppin says.
How he escaped the matrimonial
noose is a puzzle to all the Judiths, Esthers, and
Rachels in Melb.’s processional beauty-show of the
last forty years. Still in the desert.”
A few weeks back a certain Australian
hangman, with a big record, stood at a public-
house bar with a scrapbook of newspaper articles,
photos, etc., forming a complete record of his
prowess. This he triumphantly displayed to an
admiring crowd of deadbeats, who were drinking
at his expense.
Canon Stone Wigg,
who is to be the first Angli-
can Bishop of Papua, was
visiting a parishioner’s
house in Brisbane (Q). A
13-year-old daughter was
present and was asked why
she did not go to Sunday-
school. She made some
reply, and was told that
she would grow up wicked.
"I’m not wicked,” said In-
nocence; ‘‘l don’t tell false-
hoods, I don’t steal, I don’t
commit adultery, I don’t
——.” Here she became
suddenly aware of general
apoplectic solemnity.
In the duelling days of
HobartTovvn, when Messrs.
Gregson and Balfe were in
their prime, the former
called out one Jellico for
an alleged wrong, and
washed it out with that
gentleman's gore. Greg-
son’s second, a stuttering
military hero, advised him
to “ Sh-sh -shoot the
amidships !” However, the
veteran pinked poor Jellico
in the hip, and, walking
to where the wounded man
lay, dipped a document,
said to have been written
by the latter, in his blood,
saying that “he would hand
it down to his children’s
children to show them that
the old man was never in-
sulted with impunity.”
Those good old days are
now no more. Not many
sessions ago a member of
Assembly banged another
on the head in the House,
but the assaulted man was not a Gregson.
Dear Bulletin, —The robur et ces triplex
pun, attributed in Sydney D.T. to Toby Barton,
may have been original, but it certainly wasn’t
new. I heard it rung in many years ago (with
reference to a mediaeval baron) by an old Irish
doctor who simply overflowed with such conceits.
Instance. Borrowing friend’s matchbox, and find-
ing it empty, hands it back with : “Box, et pre-
tcrea nihil! ’’ —A.M.
James M‘Hattan, one of the first batch of
self-paying immigrants to Australia, died last
week in New England. He took up a farm at
Walcha sixty years ago, and was 99 when he died.
He enjoyed his whisky, and was an inveterate
smoker till the last. He was a Presbyterian Irish-
man, and leaves seven children, 40 grandchildren,
and 50 great-grandchildren.
“ Lock, the Superintendent of the ratiw?, is adamant. ha refuses
to budge one inch from the position he hue taken up,"—Daily paper.
" Say, Bill, what’s all this 'are about?
These. Fed'ral coves is lookin' glum
Because some scheme they can't find out
Them deadlocks for to overcome."
"Blow’ll if l know," sails Bill, "it's rum
For we wants also 'o contrive
Some scheme ns how to overcome
A LOCK that's very much ‘.dive!”
F.L.V.
S. : “ Premier Turner had just passed
them on Collins-street. ‘ Must be a demmed con-
ceited fellah, that Turnah, to dress so seedily,’ said
the languid dude with the eye-glass.”
So many pupils, afterwards distinguished,
passed through Parramatta King’s School, with
only meagre notices of their school careers, that
the present head-master, Rev. A. H. Champion,
is compiling biographies of all pupils under him.
You never can tell.”
A BUSH SIMILE.
(At the Geebung annual 'orspital concert.)
CHRIS (to mate) : “ Wot price- the ‘juet,' Jim?"
J IM: “Reminds me uv a pair uv bogged curlews."
T.D. : “I have never seen a N.S.W.
M.P. travel by ’bus — where he would have to part-
up ; and I have seldom seen an ex-member journey
anywhere by tram without assuming' the necessary
supercilious expression of getting off pocket free.”
The successor of Dr. Youl, as Melb.
Coroner, is Mr. Candler, who has sat upon corpses
for the Bourke district nearly as long as Youl did
ditto for the city. Candler, a comfortable old
bachelor and Melb. Clubbite, is a great chess*
player.
Kalgoorlie Miner In Meuioriam :
IN ME MORI AM.
Macartiiv.—ln memory of my old mate, Jack (Jack
Macarthy), who two years gone to-night, on the
deep lead, took his long 1 shift off. A change of
luck. God knows. I always liked his chances.
Tom.
-b our eloquent lines !
Reporter: “Youliana. Unto this last
coroner. Youl, taking the reins, found Melb.
morgue in an out-of-the-way locale, and insisted
on the long, familiar white building by Prince’s
Bridge. There was a great public outcry. The
constable who preceded Davidson as orderly was
a very cool card. I would find him with his shirt
Sleeves tucked up, with a short cutty pipe in his
mouth, hoseing corpses all round the wall on a
hot day. ‘ Warm weather! business brisk !’ he
would say. When the morgue-y business shifted
to Cole s wharf, during the erection of the present
cosy villa, the rats got to the corpses, and Shake-
spearian dissector Neild is credited with the in.-
vention of wire dish-covers for each.”
Re the nationality of W. B. DaViev’s
father, “P.W. ” writes :
As a friend of the family for three generations, , may
h® J? s an au,,,l °r>ty in correcting the fai'acv
(that Mr. VV. B. Dailey’s father was Irish). John Richa rd
Dailey was born in Berkshire (Eng.), where the main
branch of the family still resides. William Bede Dailey
was Irish only through his mother, and was not the first
of his name to be distinguished for oratorical brilliancy.
And, on the same subject, E.S. :
The father of the late W. B. Dailey wa? in Irishman—
born in Westmeath on the borders of Ring’s County
The old man came to Australia in the forties as a bowld
sojet; bhoy, and settled down at Armidale, N.S.W., where
William Bede was born.
Now, where did the old gentletian hail froth ?
Dear Bulletin, —Your appreciative “ Re*
Page ’’notice of Douglas Brooke Wheelton Sladen,
8.A., LL.B., failed to give him due credit for his
modesty. Have you seen ‘ ‘ Who’s Who ? a sort
of Men of the Time” that he now edits ? It has
been very warmly praised by the Queen, To-Day
and other papers to which Sladen contributes
literary criticism. Here is the result of a random
examination of it. Grant Allen gets 21 lines :
I homas Hardy, Le Gallienne and Henry James
the same; Kipling, 17; George Meredith, 23;
Howells, 19 ; Weyman, 13 ; Swinburne, 33 ; J M
Barrie, 11; H. G. Wells, 30. The only other man
of letters I dropped on with as many as 30 lines
was Douglas Brooke Wheelton Sladen—33. Me
and Swinburne! Moreover, Sladen describes
himself as the “first to hold the chair of history
m University of Sydney, N.S.W.” ! If this doesn’t
mean that he was professor of history here, what
does it mean ?—X.
Major Ropata, the Maori chief who lately
died, always fought with the Europeans against
his own countrymen. As a youth he had been
enslaved by a hostile tribe, and when he was ran-
sorned he devoted himself to a life-time of ven-
geance. He claimed to have slain 40 men in battle
with his own hand—he had inherited a love of
war from his grandfather, a fine old Maori gen-
tleman and all of the olden time. Ropata’s
grandfather had his stronghold on a bluff over-
looking the broad valley of the Waiapu, and on
itn a< , e bluff was a remarkable rock
When he felt like taking a fall out of the plains-
men he would have this rock painted red (as a
gentle hint) and sally forth. Then blazing whares
marked his ruthless track, and “ long pig ” filled
his larder. The just-deceased Ropata, in his
latter years, was a very harmless member of the
M.L. Leg. Council. He was good for a vote, and
that s about all. During the session he spent most
of his time ambling around billiard-saloons, always
willing for a game with anybody. He was by no
means a skilful player, so he paid for the billiard
education of dozens of smart Wellington youths.


“ TWO GOOD THINTGS ”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Soups, Fish, Chops, Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS, the
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class Grocers.
Agent for New South Wales: ... ... ... Mr. Jambs C. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Agents for Victoria: ... ... ... ... Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Melbourne.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Itesuits obtained from the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Vat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLIKE
REGISTERED.
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
according to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or attempt to run, get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy' and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
in tablet or liquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
Aboriginalities.
Something can be said for the bad-language
habit. Two brothers, Peter and Paul, kept a
store in a Gippsland (Vic.) township, and did very
well for a long time. Peter was a common kind
of man, with the vocabulary of a Yankee skipper,
a “ Geordie ” gaffer, and a Yandemonian bullock-
puncher, in one volume ; Paul was a mild man,
with the church habit. Paul resorted to prayer in
his hour of trial; Peter opened his lungs, swore
himself into an active perspiration, and was well
again. Misfortune followed success ; several little
mining deals in which the brothers were interested
THE OLD REPROBATE.
“ It's no use denyin' it, look at yer nose !”
went askew, and then a boom-calamity reduced
them to the brink of ruin. Oust uners found Peter
storming up and down the store, ramping, and
ripping out lightning streaks of vivid blasphemy,
The people expostulated with him—advised him
to be calm, and take pattern from his brother
Paul, who was doubtless at that moment seeking
consolation in prayer. They hastened to bring
Paul to his profane brother, and found him—hang-
ing by the neck in the storeroom, dead.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin, -More sawmilling ! Trim-
ming your nails with a circular-saw at full speed
isn’t so very dangerous. In my flash young days
I could draw blood from any part of my arms or
hands by holding the part desired to the saw close
enough for the teeth to just brush it. Have even
allowed the saw, a fine one, to scratch my nose.
Have been at a circular bench, off and on, for the
last 20 years, and have never yet been badly in-
jured from timber off the saw. But we nearly all
get caught sooner or later. Have been knocked
down twice, but the closest shave I ever had was
from a wooden mallet-used for driving wedges
to open the cut—which came off the handle, struck
the saw fair on the top, left there like greased
lightning, taking my hat and some of my hair in
transit, and landing 90 yards away. The greatest
danger at a bench is from a green-hand or one
devoid of presence of mind. Some men would
never be safe to work in front of; they have no
hands on timber. I always double-bank with
light timber. What might appear rushing to an
onlooker would only be quick, clean work. A
quick, clean tailer-out is always the safest.—Jack.
* » * *
. Some strange, wild funerals used to drift
“ to Ballarat from mad Irish, agricultural locali-
ties surrounding that town in years agone On
one occasion the people in Bridge-street, and the
tradespeople along the line of route, were amazed
to hear a frenzied howling and a noise as of the
pounding of big feet coming from the interior of
the old wooden hearse that headed a procession of
bush mourners. Ihe funeral itself didn t seem to
mind, but curious strangers called in the assist-
ance of the police and the cortege was held up
whi st Const. Hooligan investigated the mystery
of the haunted hearse. When Hooligan opened
the venerable back-door of the vehicle, a live, wild
Irishman fell out on top of him, and clawed him
like a gigantic cat, so that, before the horrified
crowd could pull him off, the majesty of the law
was badly damaged. It was a simple matter, too ;
Hegarty had got blind drunk coming through, and
the other mourners thoughtfully stowed him away
m the hearse, so that he might not disgrace the
funeral by any open-air display of unseemly aero-
baucs and irreverent oratory.
* * * *
Some years ago the horse of a Tas. stock-
rider broke away from him in a bush run. He
turned up afterwards minus the saddle, which was
lately found on the curved spike of a dead wattle,
with the girths still buckled and unbroken. It is
presumed that the animal in its mad career had
dashed under the spike, which slipped just beneath
the pommel, the impetus carrying hint clean
through the girths without a scratch. The saddle
had to he cut away from the branch with a
tomahawk.
(M ",
Christchurch with pasteurised milk, a fanner in-
quired what pasteurisation was, and, on being told
that it rendered milk specially suitable for child-
ren, suggested that, as there were a lot of delicate
mothers in the country, the Government should
make it law for their milk also to be pasteurised,
* * * *
Dear B.,—Let me trust you as comnus-
sioner for a bet or two. What I want to lay is—
1. Go into any camp in the bush and any push in
a town and not one out of ten will understand
“the recognition of God in the Constitution.”
Odds, 10 to 1. 2. I also lay 10 to 1 that not one
in three cares or knows what a Constitution is.
3. That not one in ten has his electoral right—l
lay 5 to 1. 4. That of those bushmen who
voted in the late Federal Convention election
three out of four were Roman Catholics and only
registered after the nomination of Paddy Moran.
I only lay 2 to 1 here.—Scotty the Wrinkles.
* * * *
“ W.A. wild horses, which at one time
overran theS.W. portion of the province,” writes a
Bulletin correspondent, “ are rapidly being con-
>s*° P rime bacon . for , t’othersiders on the
fieldt i' rbe PJ' oc f s « s . lm ,P le > and the b f
wc * onl f,° f a land .of. chain-gangs A fresh-
'vater( P° ol ,s ?ecurely fenced in with the excep-
tlo? of ° ne . opening, and, when the horses come to
. water m f lt = a couple of men, armed each with a
lo “S P o] /> to f tbe , end , of wblcb a shear-blade is
post themselves at the entrance. A
black boy startles the brumbies from the opposite
? lde of th « P° ol > and > as ™ sh ( ol th >
lance Ba r? us f r d 80 as - to „ partly disembowel the
P oor beast % The mgs follow on the trail, and are
never far off when the horses fall. No words can
describe the scenes that follow.
IVnrthern nlanters want the ibis nrnteeted
P la nter.s want the ibis piotecteci.
This unsavoury bird has recently developed a
fondness for following the plough on plantations
and devouring that fearful curse, the cane-grub,
wben turned up on the furrows. And as the
cane-grub costs the planters many thousands per
annum ]bls ls rlsin g ln favor,
* * * *
.Niggers at the Rocky (N.Q.) sold some
beehe-de-mer to two diggers, new-chums from
a,Xi»
boiled and H boiled it f or 30 solid hours, and each
„ t „ at it found it only
more and more tough ;
kept filling up the pot with fresh supplies of
wat er and boiled and boiled and boiled. In
despera tion they at last tried to eat it. The thing
was ] j kf , triple-armoured rhinoceros-hide. Then
th cursed Mche-de-mer, and, when they got
bac k to the civilisation of Cooktown, months
j. committed a murderous assault upon two
mffians who were SOU nding the edible praises of
the thi j t was not until after they had been
fj ne( j apiece, or three months, that they
i earne( j that beche-de-mer is not eaten, and that
its only culinary result is its soup—the dregs of
wb i cb they had carefully emptied away a dozen
times ove / at leasfc .
» * • *
Not lon „ s i nce the registrar in a N.SAV
townshi as intruded up 6 otl by a long youth of
th bou £ dary . rider description, and a shy, sun-
burnt girl red arms f want to know if
this is the place where you get married without a
parson?” he said, while his sunburnt accomplice
blushed a vivid crimson. The official said it was,
and hustled the ceremony through in the usual
matter-of-fact fashion. Then the husband left his
bride to blush by herself in a corner for a minute
while he made a further inquiry: “What I
wanter know is have I got to bring Sally up here
every year to register same as you do a dawg?”
He was assured that Sally didn’t require any
further registration, so the long youth put his hat
on sideways, took the broad, red girl into custody,
and led her away.
Black swans are becoming so scarce in
Westralia that Govt, has, in addition to declaring
a perpetual close season, taken to rearing young
birds. A standing notice appears in the Gazette,
offering 10s. each for eggs delivered to Constable
So-and-so, who is understood to have charge of
the Crown’s incubator. Recently an English
johnnie captured a swan at Wagin Lake, and
brought the bird into Katanning, where he
showed it to a number of friends. Next morning
he had to appear before the local beak, who fined
him 15s. with costs, and ordered that the swan be
returned to the place it was taken from—l 7 miles
away.
Letter written by a Q. State-school
urchin to his best girl:—
Dear Em my goat topsy got two kids y estu r day
they are just like there mother but there billys
rover kilt a snake on Sunday neds got the
toothake i have no more to say i remane your
old playmate Willie .
• • * •
A pretty story told me by a dear
little kotiro Maori at Taupo. “ When
Bishop Selwyn first visited Te Heuheu at
hiskainga, Teßapa, near Taupo, the heart
of Te Heuheu went out greatly to the
Pihopa. The great chief gave the bishop
the finest whare in the pah, collected the
best mats in the kainga and spread them
on the floor, and in the evening, accord-
ing to the ancient Maori custom, sent
tetahi kotiro papai ‘to bear him com-
pany.’ Te Pihopa, however, hadn’t been
used to luxuries of that sort, and at (nice
sent the girl back. Te Heuheu was
greatly distressed. What had he done to
offend his good friend the bishop? He
thought long and earnestly, and at last
exclaimed, ‘ Katahi ahau kua marama ! ’
(‘ I see light at last.’) He tino rangatira
tenei ’ (‘This man is a very big chief.’).
‘Kaore e taea te wahine kotani ’ (‘He
is displeased because I only send him
one.’). ‘ Tikina kia rua—kia tekaurenei ! ’
(‘Take him two—-take him ten.’) ‘ Hei
aha, engari kia whakana te ngakau o
taku mauhiri ’ (‘Then the stranger will
be satisfied, and his heart will be at
peace with me once more.’).” I asked te
kotiro iti what happened then, but she
only said, “ Kohore e mohio.” Probably
a confirmation-class ! —C.N.B.
* * ♦ *
Relative values. A Barcaldine (Q.)
young woman chaffed about not having
hooked a husband : “I can wait till
I’m 30 and get a squatter; 40, and
get a shearer; 50, or any other age, and
get a rouseabout.”
Re the police-trick of encouraging white
men to supply aboriginals with liquor, and then
trapping the suppliers. “ Gridiron ” tells The
Bulletin that the system is in full blast at
Bundaberg. “ A fund is there provided by
planters upon which the police can draw as desired.
When a dead-beat white, tattered, torn and
hungry, is seen wandering about the street, the
policeman sends a Kanaka, armed with 55., to
him to buy a bottle of grog. The bait generally
takes, hunger and thirst predominating in most
Miss LILIAN WHEELER, a bright young Australian actress.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
cases over the principles of rectitude, and the
agent sees a chance of making a trifle of profit on
the transaction. But no sooner has he handed the
firewater to his black brother than the officer
grasps him; he is arrested under the vag., and
next day is fined <£lo with the option of a month,
Hundreds of convictions under this system have
been obtained in Bundaberg.”
*.. * * *
He was driving across the country to a
little Westralian town the other day, when he
met a farmer hauling on a bullock-dray. “ Where
do you get water? ” said the traveller. “Up the
road about seven miles,” the native replied.
“And you haul water seven miles for your family
and stock?” “Yes.” “Why in the name of
sense don’t you dig a well?” “ Because,” replied
the farmer, “it’s just as far one way as the
other. Ex.
* • * •
It was up on a Northern river at the
beginning of a recent flood. The parson was a
newly-imported doxologist from England who
didn’t know what the rainy season was like in his
vineyard. The very last Sunday before the
deluge arrived and filled the pulpit with eels, and
deposited rock-cod on the lectern, he preached
about how the good man was uplifted in times of
peril, and remained calm, while the heathen and
the unbeliever gave way to panic. Among other
anecdotes he related an experience of his own with
rocks ahead and a howling gale behind, when a
terrified captain had ordered the ship to be thrown
overboard, and they were compelled to boil the
anchor for sustenance because all the provisions
were spoiled with brine and lee-scupper and
other things. And the shepherd said that through
all that dreadful scene he was ca aim, my dear
brether-r-ren, because he was Uplifted by Faith.
Next morning, the flood came down as it had
never done before, and a passing Dago in a boat
rescued the partially-dressed parson off his roof,
where he was shrieking “Fire” and “Police.”
The Dago carefully dodged the main current, and
escaped through the bye-ways of the flood till he
was near dry land, when one oar broke, and the
boat began to revolve slowly in a gentle eddy, and
the reverend gentleman uttered one ear-splitting
shriek of “ Thieves ! ” and fainted. There was
never a smile on the Italian’s face as he poled the
boat shoreward with his remaining oar, but the
local population, which was mostly named Bill
Smith, guffawed horribly.
Dear Bulletin, — Re statement that pri-
vate instructors of shorthand have “wiped out”
the Sydney Technical shorthand classes. The
Sydney Technical shorthand classes are discon-
tinued, but there are suburban shorthand classes
still held in connection with the Technical Educa-
tion Department, and the teachers of these classes
get no salary, because the Minister for Education
does not regard it as a subject worth teaching by
the Dept.—S.C.C. [Bulletin presumes they col-
lect fees, however; and get free advertising and
status.]
Miss Lilian Wheeler, the tall, handsome
Melbourne girl, whose photo, appears herewith,
began theatrical life as a silent super, in Bland
Holt’s co. some four months back. Her points of
difference from ordinary supes. were a striking
stage appearance, the accomplishments of a lady,
a small private income (magnified by rumor into
a colossal fortune), a wealth of natural talent, and
a determination to get on. Also, she had the
advantage of being known to many people through
her friendship with Mrs. Andrews, the womanly-
woman lecturess. Miss Wheeler’s novitiate lasted
two months, and when the Bland Holt Co. left
Melbourne the stylish super, remained there
—“ resting. ” Shortly afterwards George Rignold,
then in Adelaide, got a letter from old friend Dr.
Neild, the veteran dramatic critic, advising him
to give Miss Wheeler a chance to prove her mettle.
Rignold wired for the fair young aspirant to
come over to Adelaide and
play Violet, in “Confusion ”
—ontrial. She went, and
played most admirably for
a beginner. Rignokl engaged
her right away, and put her
to the part of Hetty Preene
in “ Lights o’ London,” and
it was as Hetty that Miss
Wheeler reappeared at Mel-
bourne Royal a few weeks
ago. During the run of
“ The Lights ” she was pro-
moted the position of
heroine Her performance
as Bess Marks showed great
promise: picturesque, natu-
ral and spirited—rather
feverish in places, but always
effective. On a recent Satur-
day this new leading lady
had the satisfaction of play-
ing Ruth Herrick in “ In the
Ranks ” at the very theatre
where she was a super, only
some weeks previously. Miss
Wheeler appears to possess
every qualification for suc-
cess upon the stage. She
is a daughter of the band-
some Mrs. Wheeler, at one
time proprietress and editress
of the Castlemaine Repre-
sentative. Backed by Mrs.
W.’s vitriolic pen, the paper
assumed an importance in
Vic. journalism accorded to
few provincial papers, and
during the seventies it was
a power to be reckoned with
in that portion of land. Mrs.
Wheeler it was who first
brought the late J. B. Pat-
terson into prominence. Re-
cognising him as a possible
puppet, she seized this very
ordinary butcher, lectured
him, trained him, “ opin-
ioned ” him, and boomed him
into Parliament. It was
also she who was the subject of an attack
in an opposition paper penned by an itinerant
pressman, well on his road to Melb. before
the article was in type. The opening line
was, “When a female baboon squats in the
gutter and throw's at decent journalists’’ . But
Mrs. Wheeler’s two brothers—newspaper men, by
the way—read no more > they made for the opposi-
tion office, where one gave the innocent editor the
“father of a batin’” while the other held the
door.


FRANZ JOSEF .
FILSEMEFt
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R.
WE MUST REPEAT
When everyone tells the same Story—How
COULD IT BE OTHERWISE ?
It is difficult to say new things about Warner’s
“Safe” Cure; it cures the aching back, the
sufferer from kidney disorders: it cures all
diseases due to a weak, inactive liver. That it
does this is so easy to prove that not a vestige of
doubt should remain in the mind of anyone.
Surely one can believe one’s neighbour more easily
than a stranger, therefore one should believe a
citizen living in our midst before one from a
remote or almost unknown locality. Geo. H.
Bennett, Esq., M.P., is well-known in Melbourne,
and he says: “A friend of mine advised me to
try Warner’s Safe Cure for the liver. I did so,
and I feel sure that if many people who are suffer-
ing from liver complaint only knew how easily
they could be cured by Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure,
they would not delay in obtaining it.” His ex-
perience is merely a repetition of that of thou-
sands, and will be yours if you act wisely.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
The first Westralian synagogue has only
just been opened.' Up to now, the local Hebrews,
like the local Gentiles, have chiefly worshipped
the Golden Calf.
GOLD DISCOVERY.
If you strike Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes
you are in luck. They are the Society Smoke.*
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection-
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Melbourne W.C.T.U. oratress : “ Surely
you men can get along without barmaids ? ” Voice
from the push : “ Yes, mum ; if the liquor’s good.”
SoftCaQVaS Sb^rts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30i- per 14-dozen through-
outfche colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong’, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PZKK HIIOTHKItS,
measure ou size uuuai wamu. m- ----- -
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Singer’s Grand Modele de Luxe in Art Colors
Cycles for both Ladies and Gentlemen.
CYCLE AGENCY
Desire to inform the Public of Sydney and surrounding districts of the
OPENING of their New Establishment at 391 George Street, Sydney.
Arrangements have been made with the Austral Cycle Agency
Limited for the representation in New South Wales of the celebrated
Siogsr Cycks, Swift Cycles & C<wsotry Cross Cycks.
.—
PLEASE REMEMBER:
The lew Establishment is at 391 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
AND THE STOCK WILL INCLUDE
SINGER’S GRAND MODELE DE LUXE,
SWIFT ROAD RACER, CLUB SWIFT, SWIFT PATH RACER,
SINGER MODELS A & B, POPULAR SWIFT,
etc., ©to., ©to.
Cycles for Schoolgirls and Boys.
The Cycle adopted for English Military Use is a Swift.
Answers to Correspondents.
o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whither sent by po’i or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Zara : Well, who was “Fred ”? Also, who was
the seduced girl, and who was the woman who farmed the
baby, and what did the girl say or do when she found the
infant gone, and what became of them all afterwards? In
short, who was everybody, and what was everything, and
where was anything? W.P.W. : Nicely written, but
not enough in 'it Our Dick : Note that Seddon’s chief
supporters habitually pass the night in the police cell.”
How curious ! A.M. (Hill End) : One old, the other not
good enough M.M.T. : Leap-year poems are out of
date. There will be no more leap-year till 1904 Wainku :
Rhyme very rocky. Just 100k —
“ Each day at our Maoriland courts
Men and women are sent to gaol for what?”
Bogan : The ghost is ready, but the meat is debili-
tated ~ A.H.T. : Mild, thin thoughts about tea Ad.:
The best cause on earth won’t make “ terror ” rhyme with
“ horror.” W.H. : Very little interest in the missionary
biz, C.G. : Space won’t admit A Boy: Little thing
von “dashed off” duly dashed Z.C. : Can’t put the
fiscal question on two pages of note-paper W.H.F.:
Two splendid lines— . „ ■ , ,
« There is no God, the fool hath said ; O yes, three gods
there he;
There are three gods who rule the world—their names
are £ s. d.” .... . ~
Erl pa : Good bale badly told. The tale which isn’t told
direct but which comes out in the course of conversation
between Ned and Bill is generally a failure Cecil T. :
Than pun is older than Moses’s aunt Rats : Thanks..
Blankenbourg (or something like that) : Writing bad,
rhyme crippled, subject no good, composition awful, in-
spiration wholly absent, grammar not up to much
A.M‘L : Cheap crude tinsel and bathos. For instance :
“ A month had passed, the sun was rising in all her glory,
I was sitting reading the paper.” What’s the use of
dragging the sun up in all her glory on such a small
occasion? ...D.A.M. : Story Australian, notScotoh. The
“blanky” gives it away J.M‘A. (Albury): Received
tale which seems to read ” Oar mooney last wick in train-
ing the corn of a suit as under lobster he sent a Baluchis-
tan on one kick in a retinue with any amount of hump
and a conger-eel tail in his left hand, old man choctaw
cowman salt junk stick.” J.M.D. : Please curse your
bullock in some other paper, or else do it by advt.
Bullock-cursing rates on application F.O.K. : Might
have passed if it hadn’t been so utterly illegible J.
Dunn : Wants to be backed by solid evidenoe Parson :
Declined John Collop : Will publish Oarrathool:
Conundrum about hell gone there W.I. : Seven-
teen long verses about nothing, in a metre that is
knock-kneed in one leg and bow-legged in the other
J.W.R.0.: What “ native animals ” do you want to pro-
tect? If the old man kangaroo, we are with you ; but if
you want to protect the solicitor and the Wesleyan local
preacher, we aren’t H. (Colac) : Thanks .Dargo :
Metre a trifle irregular in places, but, on the whole, verse
distinctly above average Wirra : “ Clerical Tout
hardly good enough. Man in Debt: Thanks. Ect. :
Decline to get your friend a wife, “a good long woman
about 6ft. high.” F.W.W. : Poem and sketch not good
enough, and we loathe formal weekly letters from any-
where—even from Sheol. We wouldn’t undertake to print
a letter every week from Charles Dickens or the angel
Gabriel. W.G.L. (Mount Magnet): Same weary conun-
drum. It is his son’s portrait G.G.B. (Queensland):
Would, in circumstances, prefer the A.M.P. Society, the
National Mutual, or Mutual Life Association F. : You
state as something quite new that the Turner “dual
referendum ”is a fraud. The Bulletin denounced it in a
leading article six weeks ago Joey : A glorious libel.
The Wanderer : Thanks H.J.K. : In our opinion,
no. ...Paroo: Declined. .....Pelican : “Hop.’’ flatly de-
clines to draw “ six insects crawling on a lady’s bead.’’
“Hop.” is a haughty autocrat in his way, and if he
refuses to draw six or any other number of
insects on a lady’s head, that ends the matter, .
Gone : Neither usable ; one as old as the hills Bullet:
One may do for illustration S.F.D. : Rubbish! Kate
Bishop played old women parts in Australia. Martha in
“ Faust,” and others S. : The Govt. House guest who
drops hints to a “ high official” re the scarcity of cham-
pagne is not an exciting subject for a par. Besides, The
Bulletin is agin’ champagne at vice-regal festivities.
Good liquor induces bad “ loyalty.” R. : A professional
cricketer makes more than £3 a week, if he is any good,
whereas only the very best amateurs receive indirect pay-
ment J.S.D. : “Is any reduction made to Schools of
Arts on ordinary Bulletin subscription ? ” What do you
think The Bulletin is run for ? To be read on the cheap?
P. : Chief Justice Darley is in his 68th year—though
it is hard for anyone who sees him to believe it J.P.K.:
(1) You are suffering from “ double-vision,” caused, no
doubt, by paralysis of an eye-nerve, and should see an
eicpert oculist at once. The history of your case indicates
that the trouble is curable. (2) It doesn’t necessarily follow
because so many Germans wear spectacles that their
sight is worse than English sight; it may only mean that
the German eye is better looked after than the English
eye—which is a fact Alter: Will print if you don’t
think the ground covered by other letter in reply H.:
Yes, even Perth I Beautiful Perth, the city of dead cats
and strange stinks. Beautiful Perth, where the beastly
alien shoots his refuse—human, household—into the
“ streets,” and white men fall down and die like rabbits,
when they drink L.D. (T.): Good Bastien Le P.:
Such articles would be more acceptable to the heavy
weeklies....J.N. : “How Flyblow Won the Cup,” published
in Bulletin, Oct. 20, ’B9 Oarambo: A word in your
ear—
“ Let not the younger girls thy fancies fetter,
Those well in years know how to prize thee better.”
Torah : “ Renegades persecute. Disraeli told the
House of Commons, in effect, that he was still a Jew.”
M.E.: To quote Macaulay, “a bad translation is cham-
pagne in a decanter.” P. : That mining-meeting yarn
over-long for general interest .. ..Pendennis: The Bulle-
tin doesn’t want to see itself laid on the table of Q. Par-
liamentary library. Far more profitable for it to have Q.
Leg. Assembly disouss (as it did for hours the other
day) the advisableness.of having the paper admitted to
the sanctuary in question. No other paper ever got so
much cheap advt. in Hansard. ...F. : Weil, then, “Tim’s”
incident about the Sydney undertaker’s child playing with
a coffin-shaped barrow is another instance of Nature
imitating Art ? Mrs. Gamp, in “ Martin Chuzzlewit,” says
of undertaker Mould’s children : “ The sweet creeturs !
playing at berryin’s down in the shop, and follerin’ the
order-book to its long home in the iron safe!”
Bunyip (Vic.): Will read.... Wiremu : The loving wife
who put the mustard-plaster on the wrong man. A pinch
for stale news Gen.: An absurdly-retouched photo ;
all force ironed out of it. Face-lines all gone. Such are
the pictures that women think “pretty ’’; but they make
a hideous show in print, and are forceless because so
obviously untrue. But that is photography up-to-date.
The only true photographs are taken in gaol R.L.T. :
Fact or fiction? Cunjevoy : Thanks Whiskers:
Thanks Snakejuice : Too ancient H.H. : Ode to
Mark Hambourg received. Eight sides, closely written.
If it were but four sides, not so closely written, we’d print
it—to let people see the sort of things that 16-year-old
girls think of Mark. Send us, say, three sides, with
all the “angels” and “gods” and “bright tears" and
“golden haloes” and “mid, wistful faces and so on
left in ...L.E. : Chief Justice Stephen gave bushranger
Gardiner 32 years, but he got out after 10 Mendoza :
Letter re Lormer case hopelessly over-long. And you
don’t even touch the point, which ls-why not lay the axe
to the root of the tree? Why should ju«face «er be dis-
pensed by unpaid magistrates in any court which m»j te
conveniently attended by a stipendiary? The J.P. sj stem
is a corrupt system. It is corrupt everywhere ...0..
Thanks, but people are fairly sick of Brisbane Exhibition
revelations and their innumerable brood of unprinted
whisperings G. : But we aren’t going to narrate how
the Borgia poison was prepared. There are too many
would-be Borgias in the community A.M. : One solid
argument against women smoking is that they will only
go half-wav and dally with the weed in the gmseofa
cigarette—the deadliest, if the daintiest, way of cloud-
blowing: because by inhalation (every cigarettist soon
learns to inhale) the most pungent kind of tobacco-smoke
is applied to the largest possible surface of the mucous
membrane. See how the average heavy cigarette-
smoker’s hand trembles as compared with the average
heavy pipe-smoker’s ! Ancient Biddy flourishes on her
pipe—with the cigarette she’d never have been ancient!....
Nellie M. F. : “Serious View” clever—and conventional;
climax stale. If you can get better and more novel end-
ing, pleased to reconsider. “Too Late” may do, re-
touched A.K.Y. : Laoks snap; tame matter wont
stand tame manner R. Steadfast : Self-robbing som-
nambulist hackneyed ; vide “ Ingoldsby Legends. .....Bei
Panes : If your heroine did “ show' to perfection m an
old-world garb,” it’s more than your verse does. Mere
archaism doesn’t make poetry L.H. : Good in spots,
but theme too well-worn for any but the strongest treat-
ment Alpha :“A Bargain’’-not struck! Spoilt by
French-phrasing L.R. : “ AWoman’sWay justabout
“gets there.” Steve O'B. : Would do had one time to
disentangle your interlocutors G. Field : Where ts
the point ? F. Webb : Horse-yarn takes too long to
say too little 0.0. : They slaughter the blacks, and
you slaughter the story J.W.M. (N.Q.): Faintly funny.
O Rhodes : Don’t care whether it really happened
or " not; the way of telling it is the thing, and
that isn’t your way. Also, local color doesn’t consist
in dragging in native words at every opportunity; your
Maori' raconteur doesn’t think locally .. J.K. : Interest
too thin ..J.L. : “ Out of Work” touch of pathos, but
no inspiration, and jog-trot verse .....O.S.M. : Sentiments
irreproachable—verse the other thing H.G. : Glorious
drunk! J.S.H. : After a column of fearsome screech
you “ burst into song ” like this—
We do creation bad, we do !
An’ we’ve never yet been done 1
Consider yourself done this time, anyhow ! lan G 1 e ll :
Sorry none quite up. Genuine pathos and some melody,
but grievous lack of skill H. T. Fletcher : Forty-three
mortal verses “ wild delerium ” about your “coal-black
mair 1 ” Nae mair o’ that, laddie ! Kate A. : Bl'LTjß’nn
doesn’t doat on Shelley, but it prefers him first-hand,
anyhow. Try “on your own.” Bunyip : Can’t “ smite
you midly,” or otherwise —because haven’t time for
hieroglyphic-deciphering .... ..E.J. : Very ancient.
K.A.M. (M,L.) : Promising trifle ; try again E.T. : Will
use Seldon Ray : A shade artificial, but may possibly
print Decennis : Characteristic modesty prevents us
from printing any but the first (and best) of lines
By Bell, and Book, and Candle,
’Tis sworn to exorcise
The turnkey who shall handle,
Who borrows, begs, or buys,
Who steals, or lends, or loses,
Who carries out, or in,
Who uses, or peruses,
The rosy BuLiiKTiN.
“A Wreath,” pretty, but too vague and inconsequent
Max : Comical; but your verse itself appears to have been
“hard graft, not worth the candle.” H.V.A. : “ Hope
—will use ....H.C.R. : Not up, but has promise Dargo:
Will do—with polishing A. 8.: “Perplexity” forceful,
but too verbose and iterative. May use “ Midnight.
F.D. (W.K.): In “the Deciding Argument” you have
little grip of your subject F.S. : Racing story in pon-
derous weekly style. Try one of the “ heavy” papers. In
choosing between these you have a wide range ... M.T.
(Lis.): Your idea is taken from “Margery Daw. ...
J.R. (Melb.) : The style of your MS., which looks like one
of the new foulard patterns, would ensure its instant re-
jection in 99 offices out of 100. Matter of fair interest,
but too rambling for print N.vngan : Yes—handed to
artist ...J.T.B. : Yes, it should be “scarlatina
Thomas B.: Poem about the “mighty deep” and the
“billows’ roar” to hand. But it is the mighty roar of
Thomas that we object to ...W.H. (Eumundi): You
worry at great length about “ the deterioration of public
men.” But there isn’t the slightest evidence that public
men are deteriorating. They used to be such a bad lot
that they hardly could deteriorate.


CYCLOMANIA.
I.—Every cycle tourist should include in his outfit a pair of wire snips to “tap” the telegraph-line; for when, in some isolated spot, he is seized with a sudden pain in his little
turn, it is only fair to let the rest of the world know it. 2.—The cyclist owns the earth, and no part of it must be sprinkled. The rest of us get our peck of dirt before our tune.
3.—If G. H. Reid will introduce some such measure as this, he will carry all before him at next N.S.W. general election. 4.—The time is not far distant when ordinary people who
do not “bike ” will have to go in search of another planet Here may be seen the last man to go, firing his Parthian shot. s.—The Bulletin patent cycle-proof suit for street
wear. The average bike-proprietor would rather collide with a cart-load of bricks than this. 6.—The terror of the street: the Beginner. Note his tracks, which indicate the
pleasing uncertainty of his future movements. 7. —The new, i.e., bogie man. Nurse: “Now, you better stop that howling and come along, or I’ll get the bicycle man to come and
grind your bones to powder.” The effect is magical.


'THE WHITE WORKERS’
DISPUTE.
7~Urc> IS/eurS of
7?.a/ Sm/SA.
SALTWATER hi VER POLLUTION It Wtes
asserted that the •rry-'i in
thousands, .and children, wno went along
the banks fell ill from the noxious gases
caused by the deleterious matter placed iu
the river. The health officer of the Essen- •
don council painted a horrible picture of
what he had seen floating about m the
water. *
Mr. R/'st’ "Smitb lias always,
been an enemy of popular rights. He
stands now convicted of moral cowardice*!
J.n vilifying men and things and thenj
i;nnning:away from.his' own charges, x' ** %
EXTRAORDINARY scenes.
THE WOMEN STATE THEIR CASE.
I*l if
t
A a /
r e jfl
kr a <£^Z\
5* , t tlo' aL f**
I* l * .? J >**
{ ■/«**
Se 'n / ■ /'. p tost fix* 70e>' •■
-t
>r
46 s
\ >
6
,
j
/r j* y
*' i .Y 1 o
yy'*
, oV
- A- y
&&
V '
i x<l v 1 x -vi''
V./
kHv%*
v>v.>r>-
ol^ 6 V^°
1 • /</■
for"'-'"' t K «''*•
a
f rf-
. c / w '
Ci'' 11 ' 5 </V\°tJ-
V>V l
f t*'-' t' 1
>y
ST&
Sfire b Uring th t e “?** year “ after he left
office he never heard a word about extra,!
eanee. Before he went home to J
S/KssS
M of“him lb/ SSytjjsSS? &
fiS? chTiges h™i£r g »°
(Cheers.) These genttontn knew agan “'■
= :
ay~£
oTd.' *He
ona ihose“wo facts a „ ViUid
him m measuring the lenien?v^!V n^, U ' nce
absolute and then jlawfully many the ij
_ . 'll"-/
One question on the police exomina- 1
toon paper isos follows :-“A man pays
for the month of August L 6 13s 4d for '
gas, at 6s 8d per 1000 feet. If the gas
meter registers 208,900 feet bn the Ist
September, what did It register on the
Ist^August?”
Tsf/s /a~/?7ct'uc e
k ~/Ag /Afo f- cc. " So A'eefi
n «./>on-/Ae *noS/-/?r,/ru<*ei*/-Z / g yAJe^cs?
)
/A /s e^ecu ?/*''■ V
0 cc*7->/-o 0 on
//ie /6/-/s a es- Ac**- not />&,<?/ /Ae
Ct>s/~j J/s ct'a/e>ice.
MELBOURNIANA.


Publications.
READY TO-DAY.
Where the Dead Men Lie:
and Other Poems, by
BARCROFT HENRY BOAKE,
With Memoir bv A. G. Stephens, and 32 Illu-
strations by F. P. Mahony, G. W. Lambert, and
A. J. Fisoher.
Or. Bvo., cloth gilt, gilt top, 6/-; post free, 5/5.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
89 Oastlereagh Street, SYDNEY, and all Booksellers.
TTENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
•El anc j PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia," “ William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masohera,’ II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6(1. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
" Friends no Longer/
SONG by S. Mel-
BODRN, Jun.
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH I HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
liil. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3(1. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton. & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
T)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
Bs. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
)
BUT FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved ia equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
CIGARS FREE
St
tU-t-H-H MTn
b?s
_* -I
DROP 3? IN THE SLQ
■
iiirniiiiiiiiiilininmiiiiiiimiiiiiimmiumii
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
£6 15 0
7 15 0
8 15
11 0
Note Our Special Price List :
2 Spring Sulkies, Stick Seat
8 „ Sulkies, Solid Seat, including Silver
Dash Rail and Lamps ... _ ••• •••
8 Spring Stick Sulkies, including Silver Dash
Rail, Splashboards and Lamps ...
Bent-Shaft Sulkies, with Lamps ... •••
Any of the above sulkies painted or varnished, and
trimmed in best rubber duck.
Double-seated Buggies, including Lamps ... £2l
Abbott Tray Buggies, trimmed in real leather
throughout, as illustrated 25
Ladies’ Park Phaetons, including Hood and
Lamps 26 10 0
NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE CO.,
Brown Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Send for Illustrated Cat alogue.
0 0
0 0
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung: price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Llgx CLOSED. DE»«.lb»listo.e<a. for Public Information Only.
PROSPECTUS of the EMU BAY RAILWAY COMPANY, LIMITED.
™ 1 ™ To be Registered under the Companies Acts of Tasmania. , .
cwa-r-p rAPITAL £350 000 in Shares of £1 each, of which it is now proposed to issue £250,000. Debenture Issue (authorised by Articles of Association), £250, T00.
SHARE CAPITA , > ’ T . M iamtfson S REID f*the Vendor, who will join the Board after the contract between himself and the Company has been signed). Bankers . THL lAN
Directors : BOWES KELLY, JOHN GRICE, WILLIAM JAMIESON, KLID (. Q Engineer :H. C. MATS, M.I.C.E. Brokers : TOLHURST, KEATS & CUMMING, Queen-street, Melbourne.
mHTC Vendor has been engaged in preparation and negotiation for the proposed Railway for several
in connection
the enterprise that he agrees to take the purchase money wholly in shares, and to allow them to remain
Company's office for 12 month, after regi.tration of the Company He w.ll pay all flotation
and wm to the Company Van Diemen’. Land Company of the one
orL miS hmS,“in width wi h land for station, and other work, of any Crown land
frrnn'a iloint on the Emu Bay'and Mount Bitohoff Railway to a point on Mount Dnnda, and
Zeehan Railway or to a point in or near to the Rosebery district, for a teim of 30 years, jy -
agreement the Vendor has also the right of purchase of certain land between the Emu Bay and
Mount Bisohoff Railway and the boundary of the Van Diemens Land Company s Surry Hills
11 i /oVw~»nf for the nominal price of £lOO, and the right, in terms of the agreement,
£°SJim a‘‘leatote S yelm, at rannum, of certain fore Jore land, at Emu Bay, wrth an
° P ‘ i ‘(b)Theto*fitof ™l^me„ f rSbetweenthe Emu Ba, and Mount Bitohoff Railway
Commnv Limited of die one part and the Vendor of the other part dated the 27th August
18<)7 under which the Vendor or his nominees are entitled to a lease of the Emu Bay and Mount
Bischoff Railway with its rolling stock and equipment, for a term of 99 years, at a rental of
110,000 a year, with the option of purchasing the freehold of the Railway with its rolling stock
and equipment for .£198,000.
it will be observed that the amount of Share Capital provided by the present; issue ™ of
rhe estimated cost of the first section of the proposed Railway.— [Vide Mr. INorton Smith s Keport.;
Upon completion of the first section, the very important mineral districts embracing
rv.ioi,rcw,u unimt Head Hercules &c.. will be opened to the Company s Railway, and it is the
opinion of’ the Directors’that the volume of traffic from this district alone will be a large and profit-
able During progress of work on this first section of the Railway, and before further money is
needed no difficulty is anticipated in placing a Debenture Issue on favorable terms for the construction
of Branch Lines of Railway as provided for in the Act, being uninterruptedly continued to the Mount
Lyell district and such other centres within the Western Mineral Division as may be decided upon,
and Furtherextemfon toZethan and other centres will receive due consideration ; and it ismcontem-
plation of such extensions that power is taken for a further issue of share capital to the extent of
ilo T?'formation of The Emu Bay Railway Company, Limited, is proposed with the object of
removing the supreme obstacle at present existing to the prosperous development of the vast mineral
wealth oi the Western Division of Tasmania, by providing suitable railway communication with a
readi]y accesgible for vessels of . large tonnage and exceptionally well-
situated for the convenient disposal of the passenger and shipping traffic of the great mineral country
with which it is proposed to bring it into connection. , , , .»• . mu..
Thp Fmn Bav and Mount Bischoff Railway may be considered the key to this country. Ihe
Railway extends from water southerly for a distance of about 48 miles, chiefly through lands held
under Roval Charter It is in good running order, and well-found for present traffic. The gauge is
that of the TasmanTan Government railways, 3ft. 6in. This railway was constructed solely to serve
Mount Bischoff and has been worked at a considerable profit, the lowest net earnings during any year
Snce ite construction having been sufficient, according to returns to pay over 50 per cent, of the
annual rental of .£lO,OOO, while the average net earnings since 1887 have equalled 80 per cent, of that
rent The extension of this Railway now proposed to be undertaken by the Company has been authorised
hv the Parliament of Tasmania in the Waratah and Zeehan Railway Acts, 1895-6, and construction
his been commenced in accordance therewith, the cost of which will be borne by the Company.
The Acts provide for the issue of a primary lease by the Government of Tasmania for a term of 30
years at a nominal rent, of the land required for the Railway to Rosebery district of Zeehan, and for
renewal of this lease, in terms of the Acts, from time to time, by further periods, each not exceeding
21 vears • and also for the construction, under leases similarly granted, of su ch branch lines of Rail
way from the said Railway to such termini as may be determined upon by the Company and approved
by the expiration of 21 years, to resume the Railways constructed under
the Acts upon payment of the cost of construction, plus 20 per cent This does not include the Emu
Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway, which can only be acquired by the Crown in the event of purchase
by the Company, and at a price to be mutually agreed upon or fixed by arbitration. .
y Upon completion of the first section of the Railway, as previously stated, the traffic ofthedistrict,
nmnnriKino’ the Roseberv Colebrook, Hercules, Mount Read, &c., will be available to the Company.
this locality, Mr. Montgomery, M.A., M.E., late Government Geologist, Tasmania, says :
“South of the Macintosh River, the Mount Black and Mount Read Districts have so
developed of late that there can no longer be any question of their being valuable fields, im-
portant enough in themselves to warrant a Railway.” .
The country proposed to be traversed through to Mount Lyell is stated to have the same geological
features and pronounced mineral-bearing character. Valuable deposits of ore have been found, but
until a railway is available mining operations of any magnitude are practically impossible. It is
believed thatla y apicT development of its undoubted resources will follow the extension of the Com-
pany ’s Railway through this country, and that a continually augmenting traffic will be created for the
railway.
Mileage and Cost.
Mr. Norton Smith, manager of the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway Company, gives the
following estimates (vide his report):
First section, from junction Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway to
Rosebery district, 33 miles ... ...
Second section, thence to Mount Lyell, 25 miles 112 ’ 500 2 44,500
The Capital of the Company and estimated outlay as at present proposed may therefore be sum-
follows: —
tnarised as
Proposed Capital—
From shares
From debentures .
Estimated Outlay-
Construction, 58 miles
Rolling Stock and Surveys
Leaving available for contingencies
.£150,000
250,000
.£244,500
50,000
,£400,000
i>294,500
.£105,500
Prospects of the Proposed Railway.
The following Mines and Mineral Fields would be within the influence of the Railway and the
Proposed Extensions: — „ , ,
MOUNT BISCHOFF DISTRICT, which affords a steady and remunerative traffic to that part
of the Railway already constructed. . , .
HEAZLEWOOD, WHYTE RIVER, and MAGNET silver-lead mines.
ROSEBERY DISTRICT, including Rosebery, Colebrook, Hercules, Mount Read, &c.
MOUNT LYELL, embracing en route Mount Sedgwick, Mount Tyndall, Lake Dora, &c.
Mr. Montgomery, M. A., M.E., late Geologist to the Tasmanian Government, says
“ The proposed line lies through mineral-bearing country from end to end, ana will open dis-
tricts where no mining has been done, simply on account of their inaccessibility.
“ The prospects of such a Railway as this cannot be judged on the basis of already existing
population and established mines in the region to be served, for till it is made there can be no
serious mining. The value of the country is, however, so thoroughly established that there can
be no fear that the line will not be a commercial success within a short time of completion. It
opens one of the most variedly valuable mineral districts in the Australian colonies.
“The estimates of population and traffic in Mr. Norton Smith s report of 31st July, 18J7,
seem to me to be studiously conservative, and should soon be greatly exceeded.
“ This railway is urgently required, and there is every reason why it should be made ; and 1
am convinced that its final cost will not be excessive, and that its earnings will be large from the
d a^lr. f Norton Smi th, the Manager of the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway Company, says
f( Jt is impossible to form even a rough estimate of what the aggregate annual output of ore
may eventually be from all sources, but that it will be exceedingly large seems a matter beyond
all doubt, and the belief appears to be a safe one that it will equal, or even exceed that of Broken
Hill, where a daily traffic of over 1000 tons in minerals, materials, and supplies is furnished to the
railway by which Broken Hill is served.” , , . . ,
“ The northern terminus of the railway is at Emu Bay, a convenient deep-water port, close to
the regular route of ocean steamers trading to Australia. Facilities exist at this port for handling
cargo directly from railway trucks to ship’s slings, in 26ft. of water at low tide. Ihe harbor is
accessible for steamers of any size. This terminus has the further advantage of being centrally
located on the north-west coast of Tasmania, where the richest agricultural land of the colony is
situated, and which is capable of providing food supplies for a very large population.
“ Macquarie Harbor, the port now used, is the only other possible port. Ihe entrance is an
exceedingly dangerous one, through the existence of an exposed bar, which takes the heavy roll
of the great Southern Ocean, and is impassable for all but vessels of very light draught. 1 'V s 13
the raison d'ttre for the railway from Emu Bay, and must ensure for it the entire traffic of the
country through which it passes.”
Mr. H. H. Schlapp t> ,
“I am acquainted with many of the mines that are being prospected in the Mount Read
district. The ore bodies exposed are in some cases of great magnitude, but as a rule low grade.
“ From what I know of the country as a whole, I believe that your railway would soon create
a traffic which would make it a highly payable undertaking, even if we consider only the mines
discovered at the present time.” . , ~
Mr. John Pro vis, F.C.S., Ass. Mem. Inst. C.E., Manager of the Western Silver Mining Com-
pany, Zeehan, in the course of his report, points out: —
“ The capabilities of the district are so large that one cannot venture on even a rough estimate
of future traffic, and I can only say that some years’ residence in the district and a close study of
this question have impressed me with the fact that the Railway has a long and successful future
“ Although the deposits are very extensive at Mount Read, Hercules, and Rosebery Com-
panies’ claims, their development is very seriously retarded, and almost altogether impeded,
through want of proper railway facilities. In these two districts alone Mount Black and Mount
Read —there are immense quantities of ore, of a gross value of about <£3 per ton and upwards, in
copper, gold, and silver; and the mines only require opening up to ensure a large daily output or
ore being maintained for an indefinite period.” , , ~ , , ,
“ The Port of Emu Bay—the terminus of the Waratah-Zeehan line—has a substantial break-
water and 26ft. of water at low tide, so that no transhipment would be necessary. It is impossible
to avoid loss in handling and transhipping coke and fuel, and I am inclined to think that a low
rate of freight would secure the whole of the West Coast traffic.”
In addition to the foregoing advantages, it may be pointed out that the Government Railway from
Launceston, along the north-west coast, is opened to within 18 miles, and an Act has been passed
authorising its continuance to Emu Bay. Its construction would ensure for this company the benefit
of connection with the general railway system of Tasmania.
Estimated Profits.
The profitable nature of railways serving mineral fields is universally recognised, and may be aptly
illustrated by the Silverton Tramway Company, of which the Vendor was a promoter. The annual
profit of this most successful company has considerably exceeded £lOO,OOO, and it has paid its share-
holders, since completion in 1888, over £4 on the £1 share, or more than four times its capital.
Mr. Norton Smith, who is exceptionally qualified to form an opinion on the subject, estimates the
net annual earnings of the Company’s Railway, when completed, at £98,500 an amount which would
it is estimated, after making allowance for interest on the authorised debenture issue of £250,000 and
liberal deductions for other charges, leave an available annual surplus of over Thirty per Cent, on the
capital (£250,000) of the Company. In reference to this Mr. Norton Smith says .
“ I have given earnest and careful consideration to the preparation of this estimate, bringing
to my assistance a knowledge of the resources of the great mineral country to be traversed, and a
lengthy experience in the working of the existing Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff line. In arriv-
ing at the conclusions set forth, I have taken as the basis of my calculation, first, a population
such as I am convinced will certainly find comfortable support in the country ; and, second, such
an output of transportable metals, ores, and mineral products as it is reasonable to suppose will be
m&dc »
<< As regards population, I have taken this at 20,000 persons, a number which I have no doubt
will eventually be considerably exceeded. It is generally acknowledged that the population of a
mining district is as 4tol of the men actually employed on the mines. The Mount Lyell mine,
with three furnaces in blast, at present employs over 1000 hands, and I find that this number is
likely to be increased to about 3000 as soon as the proposed additions to the plant are completed.
So that, upon the above computation of 4 to 1, this mine alone should support a population of at
least half the number of my estimate for the entire district. I have referred to this particularly
as evidence that my estimate of 20,000 persons is by no means excessive.
“ With reference to the Mineral traffic, I think that a daily output of 400 tons of metal>,
transportable ore, and mineral products, on which I have based my calculations, will be regarded
as a moderate estimate by everybody acquainted with the great resources of the country, in
point of fact, I have been strongly inclined to considerably increase this item, and am nrai in my
belief that it will be largely exceeded by actual returns. It will be observed in connection there-
with that an exceptionally low freight is shown in the calculations, viz., 12s. 6d. per ton to deep
water from all points on the line, for metals, ores, and products of whatever value.
A considerable additional profit may be expected to accrue to the Company from possession ot
;he sheltered foreshore of Emu Bay. The length of frontage defined in the agreement is about 6<>oft„
md it should be of great value for wharfage and warehouse purposes. Under the Acts the Companv
will have the right to obtain grants of certain blocks of mineral land along the line at a small
royalty, and it is possible this right may also prove valuable.
The following contracts have been made, namely T ,
1 Agreement between the Van Diemen’s Land Company, Limited, of 31 Finsbury Circus, London,
of the one part, and James Smith Reid, of the other part, dated the 27th day of August, 1897.
2. Agreement between the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Railway Company, Limited, of 31 Fins-
bury Circus, London, of the one part, and John Smith Reid, of the other part, dated the 27tn
day of August, 1897. . , . , _
Various contracts have been entered into m connection with the above matters, but the Company
is not a party to any of these contracts. In the circumstances, applicants will be deemed to
agree with the Directors, and with the Company as Trustee for the Directors and other persons
liable to waive any claims such applicants may have against them for not more fully comply-
ing with section 21 of the Companies Act (Tasmania), 1869, and shall accept this statement as
sufficient notice of such contracts within the meaning of that section ; and also not to make
any claim or take any proceedings under the Companies Act (Tasmania), 1895, in respect of
any misstatement in the Prospectus made in the belief that it was true.
Copies of the proposed Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and of the con-
tacts above mentioned, may be inspected at the office of the Solicitors in Melbourne.
Dated the 21st day of September, 1897.


Hotels.
Visitors to : ~=
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and .Residence *1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
QXJBBKT’S hotel,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY O a te of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Medical.
nOUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST, BRONCHITIS and
O asthma,
Rapidly Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, coarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
LL “Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Aon of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure, I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne's Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria,.”
“ VVe, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents. ......
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria,.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
H £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
menials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NcrVoGS WeakQe&S . . .
AND
Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful m the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS. , , ~
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing .]
Every V ariety* of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
43T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Ada rs)5 Hotel,
PITT ST., SYDUEY.
AdaroS Cafe, (Seorge Street.
, ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«—
SPLENDID A CCOMMODA TION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
VISLTOHS GAN DINK IN HOTEL OH GAEE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Tel. 728
WHITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Dep&t. 484 George-Street, Sydney, fcr photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the -try latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—ixon-frained, trichord, in walnut or ebony-direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with-buying them froni dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeater with front escapement, made by tho foremost firms m Ginnany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is tho
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by Wrewa at al!
joints, ft can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
J Hammer-shanks or
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. Tho photos
6how the exterior. Tho
Hapsburg Pianos can
be had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
cold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. Tile touch is _?*?/nrin^'misUtv
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass ; a ncll, round, *W|B W***
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness m tho treb e. Smger. find the timbro
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. P ,
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands G 1 f
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of celebrity, Oovernors
oolonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BFAJjJh &W. ,Xi ~
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South \Vale3.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
baas wires copper
covered. The clavia*
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu*
rath workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD.. SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.>
55?
1
I
1
J 55
1
0
bm
Your Attention !
Most Important!
t,, ‘REIVIIN<STON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS AS 3 TO 1
THE COMBINED FORCES
OF COMPETITION.
IT KEEPS PACE
with every discovery in Typewriting machines, and
combines every known improvement up to date.
The Proprietors purchase and patent every important idea in connection with
Typewriting machines, and the NEW NO. 7 is protected by
SEVENTY-SIX DIFFERENT PATENTS.
it) all Spsed Contests
the EEMINGXON has come out “top.” Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on an y
writer, and more especially because the Key Board of the BEMINGION
has only 26 Keys to do the same work that other Typewriting machines
require 52 (!) to perform.
STOTT & HOARE, Sole Importers,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Medical.
v Rheumatism, Lumbago,
A Sciatica, &c.,
can be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace: —
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, anc
has kept m better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured._ I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir,— I wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me. —Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir,—ln grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick :—Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all ;■ all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, £.l*
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Send for Illustrated
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M. NAST, 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
T
H E
LAST
O E
SIX.
PRICE—Is.: Per POST, Is. 3d.
1897)
1897)
FIVE
-RECREATION DAY
FIVE
Traders — You can sell as much in five days as you can in six. Then why heepthe
shops open six days ? Let all work a little longer each of the five days, and walka little
better each of the five days, and there is no reason why there should not be a whole holiday
every weekM a Recreation Day. Men used to work (and do so still in many places)
twelve hours a day on six days a week; therefore, we can easily work nine hours, or a
little longer on five days a week, and work in many cases a little honester, to gain the
areatboonofa wholeßccreation Day-a blessing, if rightly spent, to both employee and
employer. Believing this, 1 would suggest the following programme as a great improve-
ment on our present system:
TIME IN SHOPS.
Monday—From Bto 6; 1 hour lunch.
Tuesday—From Bto 6; 1 hour lunch.
Wednesday—Recreation Day.
Thursday—From Bto 6; 1 hour lunch.
Friday-From 8 to 8 ; 1 hour lunch.
Saturday—9 to 9; 1 hour lunch, 1 hour tea.
Total—46 hours per week.
TIME IN FACTORIES.
Monday—From Bto 6; 48 minutes lunch.
Tuesday-From Bto 6; 48 minutes lunch.
Wednesday—Recreation Day.
Thursday—From Bto 6; 48 minutes lunch.
Friday—From Bto 6; 48 minutes lunch.
Saturday—From Bto 6; 48 minutes lunch.
Total—46 hours per week.
FIVE POUNDS!
FIVE POUNDS
FIVE POUNDS
FIVE POUNDS,
FIVE POUNDS|
Five Pounds
FIVE POUNDS
FIVE POUNDS
FIVE POUNDS
l -IVE POUNDS
1.-'IVE POUNDS
: " 7 me -o ,u most of us, it is put here aa
Pound Notes to the reader, ij rationally carried out.
All the various and partially kept holidays, such, as
Queen's Birthday, Prince of Wales's Birthday, Cup Day,
Separation Day, Constitution Day, Federation Day, Whit
Monday, etc., etc., can be kept on the next Wednesday, as
some of them are now on the Monday when falling due on
the Sunday; (the two sacred holidays, Christinas Day and
Good Friday, to be excepted). The inclination and deter-
mination of these later times seem to be in favour of numer-
ous holidays; and if they are to be, let us fi x f th .em vn a.
rational manner so as to be useful and happifying. Ihe
present Saturday half holiday is very unsatisfactory mi its
operation. Some get it and some do not. Very little work
is generally done on Saturday forenoon by those who get
the afternoon, and they might in many cases nearly as weu
be away from business. They leave, say at one o clock, go
home, lunch, tidy themselves, then only about thue hours
remain for recreation. As thousands upoh
thousands have very sensibly remarked, It is
neither one thing nor the other! it « not a
holiday at all f If a icholeday is setapartfor
recreation,everyone when he wakes in the moi li-
ma can reflect-" This is our day-this is my
day, to go where I please or do what 1 like,
and if the day be rationally used, it will bring a weekly joy-
ful sunshine to break the monotony of everyday
occupation. If properly spent it will make life better worm
living. I believe that Recreation Day would become me
sunny day of our week, to be looked forward to by the worker
as a child looks forward with joy to its holiday: a day to be
independent, to expand the mind and, invigorate the body.
Of course there will be a difficulty in getting such a day
started; but if everybody were asked in a friendly way to
individually assist in the cause, and not shop on If ednesday,
it would not pay to keep open, .
Of course Recreation Day—Our day—would be variously
used by various people. All would follow their hobbies,
whatever they might be. Some would go cricketing, foot-
balling , baseballing, tennising, riding, cycling, boating,
athleting, picnicing, attending military dial, etc. some
would go shooting, fishing, photographing, etc. some would
go into the country for health, exercise, and veereation—some
would lie in bed to vest —some would go drinking, gambling,
prize fighting, cock-fighting, dog-ughling, and doing other
objectionable things—some would beautify their homes —-
some would culitivate their gardens, and get pleasure and
profit in rearing fruits, Houers, and vegetables for their homes
—some would write books, essays, etc.—some wouldinventand
perfect macldnes-some would read for pleasure,
improvement of their minds,and some foi both T! o P£, u i° u n ,,
visit libraries and picture-galleries—sortie woiM deliver or
attend lectures, debates, concerts, theatre matinees, etc.
some would visit their friends—some would visit the sick,the
afflicted the poor, the criminal, and the unfortunate, and
try to do all the good they could for them.
With respect to the shortening of laboui hours, the times
are changing; men can now make ten times “
in a dau bu the aid of machinery, as they did by hand a
hundred years ago; and the hours oj f fdj>oui- *s**£££
be as little as four a day, if it were notfoi oui unfm lunate
competitions and over-production. ariangeihw,, it o y
wants good management: but how is it to be done . That is
the great question of the hour. Respecting a weekly Reae
alioh Day —Australia has led the way in
several reforms —notably in the Eight Houis
Day—might it not be first with this day also t
Native Australians, you dearly love to play,
So work a little longer for Recreation l>at.
5
Friendly Reader— l am
Convenient Holidays.”
about to publish a book on this and. other kindred subjects, and also the 160 concise essays
I remain, yours respectfully—E. W COLE, Look Arcade, Melbourne.
contributed by the public on the question of
1897
7SU STRAIN SITS.
(1897)
▲ Vote of the People mkht be taken about Recreation Day.
Printed at Cole’s Book Arcade, ivulbourne.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
' To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Ghranuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Assets “ ” £38,513,664.
PURELY MUTUAL.
The Chief Offices for the Department of Australasia
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
—FROM—
BOND STREET CHAMBERS
—TO—
-76 Street Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country-
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Avt Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Ilooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
VVATEifEE Bu ydlev & Go., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
ora CHIEF,’
THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
No man can be a Republican in Aus-
tralia, and a Christian.”— Clergy Chorus.
‘‘ There were times, in the days of M‘Cul-
i i Higinbotham—and Berry—when Australian
loyalty was almost as cold as death itself. Melb
Advocate. True.
, Has anyone heard anything recently about
that N.S.W. Local Government Bill that has been
wu go ! n ? happen any time for the last 25 years?
When is it just going to happen next ?
The Victorian general elections are to be
held on 14th October. That peculiar odour you
notice in the air is the great national egg going
bad so as to be ready for throwing at T. Bent.
The “ rumor ” is again revived that Chief
Justice Way intends to resign his Judgeship, and
that .Premier Kingston has his hungry eyes on the
“het. This prophecy is the favorite device of
o.A. lory writers.
Anarchical placards, imprintless, are libe-
rally stuck upon the Melb. telegraph-posts. They
declare war against all rule,” say “ Government
down »” recommend “Force,” “Re-
volt,” “Revolution.”
Despite the Age’s allegations to the con-
trary, Duncan Gillies’ first Toorak meeting was
largely in the snaky man’s favor. The hall over-
flowed with bulging Flinders-lane tummies and
treble-chinned boom-directors.
Brisbane (Q.) Courier wants the Customs
duties on malt either abolished or decreased. In
the interests of Sydney importers, of course ! Q.
should be well able to grow its own malt, and
could easily so improve its beer.
Adolescence of 18 years is now allowed to
■elect land in Q. A bunch of the Assembly is
trying to have the age reduced to 16 years, and to
permit a father to help pecuniarily his son (or
daughter) without his act being interpreted as
dummying.
Central and North Q. members want the
next Federation Bill put before the Q. Assembly
to provide for the separation of Q. into three pro-
vinces, or, at any rate, three plebiscitum pro-
vinces. they threaten to oppose any other
I ederation Bill tooth and nail.
Sydney Trades Hall is much exercised over
the loss of revenue entailed by Attorney-General
Want s decision to abolish art-unions. The back-
bone of the Eight-Hour celebration was the art-
union drawing, and new means will have to be
found to meet the debt on the Hall.
Queensland and Maoriland are the only
Australasian provinces which wrote to Chamber-
lain direct, requesting that on resignation or
retirement, after ten years’ service, members of
the local Upper Houses should be allowed to
retain the title “ Honorable ” for life.
After the disjoined sections have rusted
peacefully for several years, the Q. railway from
Gladstone to Bundaberg has at last been com-
pleted and the first train passed through the
other day from Brisbane to Gladstone. The iron
chain around the Commonwealth extends by slow-
forged links.
Will Q, Labor-leader Glassey, or any other
Q. Labor-member, in committee upon the Foxton
Band Bill, move to repeal the Special Sales of
f.and Act, under which the present Govt, is sell-
ing at a sacrifice vast hunks of the public estate, in
order that a future Government may buy it all
back again at ruinous prices ?
e Ex - Labor - member Charleston re-enters
S-A- Leg. Council as an “ Independent Liberal.”
If S. A. Labor-party is capable of learning a lesson,
its recent defeat should be to the profit of the de-
mocracy. Hitherto some of the ablest men in the
Liberal ranks have been shut out of the Legisla-
ture owing to the selfish Labor tactics.
Among the demands of the recently-
formedVic. (R.C.) Defence League is the appoint-
nient of a Royal Commission to investigate the
operations of the Yellow Pup in the Public Ser-
v i ce. The Orange authorities profess acquiescence
provided that the inquiry is extended to the in-
luence of Catholicism in the same direction.
I he Bulletin hopes to see it all threshed out.
J or each side to tell all it knows about the other
•idei would be a healthy eye-opener for the general
public.
Macleay Argus gives space to a political
catechism, as per sample :
Who placed the Land and Income-tax Bills on the
Statute Book? The Reid Govt. Who were bitterly
opposed to land monopoly and the National Association’
Vhe Reid Govt. Who appealed to the people when the
’"3tructi°mstBo f the Upper House would notpassthe Land-
L’x Bill. The Reid Govt. Who are making the Kempsey
"Urthouse look a new building? The Reid Govt. Who
•..pphed our worthy sergeant with a comfortable house
t" live in? The Reid Govt.
And so on. The reason why N.S.W. cannot run
an avowedly comic paper is now quite plain.
In 1896 N.S.
W. had the smal-
lest birth-rate it
has ever shown so
far back as statis-
tics go. It had
the smallest num-
ber of births re-
corded since ’B7.
It had the largest
number of deaths
recorded since ’93,
and, with the ex-
ception of two
years, the largest
number ever re-
corded in one year.
It had the largest
death-rate in pro-
portion to popula-
tion since ’93. The
gain by excess of
births over deaths
was the smallest
since 1885. The
province gained
only 117 people by
influx of popula-
tion from other
provinces so far as
the reliable statis-
tics (which deal
only with depar-
tures and arrivals
by sea) go, where-
as the worst year
since 1870 showed
a gain of 5275.
After making
what the Statisti-
cal Department
regards as a fair
allowance for un-
recorded depar-
tures and for arri-
vals and depar-
tures by land, it
estimates that
N.S.W., in 1896,
lost 897 people by
excess of emigra-
tion —the first time
such an event hap-
pened since the
very early sixties.
The number of suicides in 1896 was the largest ever
recorded in N.S.W., and that year also showed
more suicides in proportion to population than
any previous year. These are a few evidences of
prosperity in the first year of Reid’s Freetrade.
Past Q. Governments sold the splendid
Darling Downs areas to land-grabbers at farthing
prices. They were magnificent sheep-lands, And
the system successfully locked out all close settle-
ment, while a few sheep magnates had their hands
fairly fixed in Queensland’s wool. For the last
couple of years the Q. Govt, has been buying back
those lands at about a million per cent, (more
or less) on the original price, and selling them
on easy terms to small farmers and graziers. Now
Govt, has discovered that the Central West is
grand sheep-country (and good wheat-growing
land, too, but that squeak is gagged for the pre-
sent), and it proceeds openly to auction that land
in large areas at cheap prices, with the certain
knowledge that a future Govt, will have to buy
most of it back again at ten-thousand per cent,
rise ! Now, where and what is the secret, combin-
ation that is thus “ working the oracle”?
CRUEL TO BE
KIND.
“If you loved me you’d never
stay out so late.”
“ M’dear, thatsh w’ye'rong —‘ abahensh,’
shays Shakesphere, 'makeshartgrofonder. '"
Sydney Telegraph still wails persistently
against a heavy Federal tariff on the ground that
it would give N.S.W. about 000,000 extra re-
venue, and the province “ would not know what
to do with her extra million, and it would probably
be squandered.” Well, N.S.W. had ,6170,000 de-
hcit last year, and charged ,6800,000 of unpro-
ductive current expenditure (sand-shifting, forest-
thinning, roads, bridges, repairs, salaries, &c.) to
loans, else the deficit would have been i>970,000.
lhat extra million, properly applied, would just
enable the province to keep honest.
STARTING SHEARING.
THE CROWD: “ Majority rules —
Sam’s in.”
THE RAGER: “ Who is this
Majority, anyhow? ’E’s
been puttin’ on cooks and
allowin’ us to have coffee for breakfast, and’s goin’ to git us The Bulletin
reg’lar, and won’t let us deal off Chows. I’d like to see this blanky
Majority. I think I can make it pretty willin’ for Mr. Majority if
he’ll step this way!”
The alien population of Q. numbers alto-
gether 20,029, of whom only 848 are females or 22
males to one female. The cheap and reliable thus
pans out in prison statistics : Out of 3954 criminal
charges in 1896, 415 were against colored aliens.
On an average it might be estimated that the
average Kanaka woman is re-sold to a fresh
Kanaka syndicate once every six months.
At the Federal Convention a little while ago,
B. R. Wise strongly opposed the inclusion of “ mar-
riages and divorce ” among the subjects to be left
to Federal control. And yet 8.R.W., in his pub-
lic addresses on Federation, insisted on the uni-
formity of the laws of marriage and divorce
throughout Australia as one of the great advan-
tages to be derived from Federation ; and drew a
vivid picture of the “ social scandal ” occasioned
m U.S. by the divergence of the laws on these
subjects in the different states. The newly-
married Mr. Glynn, of S.A., desired to have the
subsection omitted, because the people of his
woman-suffrage state objected to their notion of
the marital tie being dragged down to the level
prevailing in N.S.W. 1
Parson Fitchetfc, in the Review of Re-
ViEWS, taiks eloquently about the “general
feeling m Victoria in favor of Bible-teaching in
schools. If there is any such general feeling the
best thing the party can do is to agitate for a
referendum on the subject, and overwhelm the
secular crowd with a popular vote that will simply
blot it out of existence. But apparently the Bible
party doesn t want any referendum after the
experience it had in S. A.—at least, a straight-out
national vote is the one thing the Fitchett lot is
keeping a loud silence about just now.
The Brisbane (Q.) “ Council of Churches ’
has “ expressed satisfaction ” that the Federal
Constitution has “recognised” God. The atti-
tudinising parson is always superb. As who
should say : “ God, we barracked for You, and
You’ve got there. We congratulate You, Old
Fellow. You are now God by statute, so long aa
You behave Yourself, and don’t You forget it ! ”
This blasphemous? Can the interpretation be
more blasphemous than the original text ?
H. : “ Federation lacks a blast. Where’s
Samson ? This is the man to stump. It is no use
putting up a lawyer. The people never believe in
the sincerity of one, unless a Higinbotham, who is
not muoh of a lawyer. Organisation is apt to be
mistaken for life. Because the railways enable all
the heads to be laid together, therefore the heart
is in it. Where is the orator to light the bonfire?
The one to set Niagara going, and bear down the
inertia that is worse than opposition. ”
The cable-news about the lynching of the
would-be Italian assassin of the Mexican Presi-
dent, General Porfirio Diaz (whose name seems to
invite sudden death), and the subsequent intelli-
gence that the Italian was unarmed and drunk
and only gave Diaz a rude slap on the back, did
not astonish Botany Bay. It merely proved that
even Judge Lynch can occasionally commit a mis-
take similar to those perpetrated frequently under
the administration of Cornstalk God-fearing In-
justice.
The Australian Star thus begs the ques-
tion re the Lucknow explosion: “Nothing about
the matter seems quite certain, save that a bomb
exploded, and that the bomb could not have been
placed in position for purely benevolent purposes,
or mere amusement even.” To get right back to
the beginning—did a bomb explode, or was it a
big cracker, or one of the explosives that Bland
Holt puts on in the military drama? Has any
reliable person, or any other person, produced any
remnants of the alleged bomb?.
Henniker Heaton, or his ghost, has struck
°Sf- kyight spot in the Imperial penny-postage
affliction. The Postal Union Congress has refused
to allow Britain to reduce her foreign postage
from 2Ad. to 2d. per oz. This, it is admitted,
would have cost Britain a loss of 53,000,000 half-
pennies. But penny postage to the colonies would
only cost Britain 30,000,000 half-pennies. This,
too, is admitted. Now Heaton argues that the
money saved by the foreign refusal should be ex-
pended m establishing his penny post.
Judging Chamberlain from the Imperial
standpoint, and recognising that as British Seere-
tary of State for the Colonies he is colleague of a
British Secretary of State for India, his action re
Colonial Bills prohibiting “colored ” immigration
pans out logically enough. Of course, he must
object to the nigger, who is a British subject, being
sat upon by a mere kawliny. Federated Aus-
tralia under the Crown won’t be strong enough to
refute the Imperial logic. Perhaps, though, the
British Secretary of State for the Colonies may
consent to be a trifle illogical to keep sweet with
Australia. Not, however, till Australia, really
autonomous, has done with the Imperial Veto for
good and a! will she be able to deal with the
colored question on her own. When she can do
so her position will be logical. And not till then.
Versatile, volatile Randolph Bedford, after
poking round, ha>' settled down to run for the
Eastern Suburbs, probably Victoria’s most howl-
bigly Conservative electorate, not even excepting
Toorak. The unspeakable Frank Madden is the
sitting member, the constituency having the dis-
credit of being the last place misrepresented by
Gillies. Bedford, of course, is a strong, dashaway
Tuberal and Protectionist, and in former airings
at N. Melb. and Richmond showed himself a
fluent and attractive speaker, with all the con-
fidence of an old stager. Bedford can shoot
straight and destructively ; also, he has returned
from Westralia with a most Respectable bingey.
According to the speech at the opening of
M. L. Parliamentj the Seddon Government “is of
opinion that the invitation to the Duke and
Duchess of York should be renewed.” The last
Premier who particularly wanted to invite the
Yorks was Patterson, of Victoria, and imme-
diately after that he was made a knight, and lost
his billet, and died. Then his proud obituarist
remarked that during his long political career he
was partly instrumental in having the postal-boxes
painted red. The Bulletin has a vague idea that
the York grovel isn’t healthy. It has since been
announced that the Yorks, and probably baby
•'ll L anc * as as not the other baby which
will have accumulated by that time, are really
coming out in a war-ship, with two more ships as
a guard to prevent the infant being embezzled by
foreign Powers. Later still it is announced that
York isn t coming.
The joy of the Melb. elections seems to
centre mostly round Wintle, whom “ the push ”
insists on hailing as Winkle, candidate for Rich-
Wintle describes himself as a geologist,
and serves as a source of mirth to a large crowd,
which offers him ‘ pea-nuts and declines to regard
him seriously. Even his chairman doesn’t take
him seriously, and generally states that Mr. Wintle
has been induced to come forward as a protest
against the new law providing for the analysis of
manure. Then the cheerful mob takes possession,
and asks Wintle if he will vote for having a light-
house on the Reilly-street drain, and if he is in
favor of tar-paving the Yarra and putting a tax
9P. unripe goats. Wintle takes most of these
things pleasantly ; but the other day, when a depu-
tation read him a flattering address and then pre-
sented him with a black pudding, he lost his com-
posure and threw the victual at the heads of his
supporters.


HEART & HAND
BRAND
OT
M
,8.
f“I II HI MM. BH pMVi
* -AT
ESTABLISHMENTS,''/
■ -'■ -T ASK**?#!* l - f • <“***TV>
: j */ " ■* i
IK FAVOURITE,,
ilul',
rare
£3»
-:' 8*
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
EuEGAMT IN-SHAPE,-
IN WEAR;
AMO IN TRONT OF
EUROPEAN OR AMERICAN
co.IDS at’l OWOOWN PRICE
EVERY PAIR GUARANTEED.
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace ..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
Colony.
WITH
COPYRICHT BOPK.
"How to Disinfect
S £ N T R.E E
The Samt as C- L-
Lk Bethnal- Oreen
Min lowp^n
■
Telephone, SG KOQARAH—
connected with. Sydney Exchange.
THE “LICK HOUSE HOTEL,”
Distant from Sydney, 31) minutes.
LADY ROBINSON'S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
THE FAVORITE HEALTH RESORT.
LOFTY BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FURNISHED
DRAWING ROOMS, READING
ROOMS, BILLIARD ROOM and BATH ROOMS.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties carefully
provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private Dinners,
etc., a Speciality.
Grand TTall will accommodate 500 persons.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Hot Salt Water Baths (a
Sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints), only one minute’s
walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating; also, splendid
Stabling Accommodation.
Terms; From iis~ a week. Special Tariff for Families.
For further particulars, apply to
“Lick House Hotel,” or 16 York Street.
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case ,|
Outvie every effort for the production of J
. natural perfumes.
*5 / J
Vi Obtainable of Chemists, 'M
&to res, Perfumers, .
or direct from
*°*d Stree' t^^ r
Pubications.
G-eo. Rotoertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Gkorok Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-baskets. Smokers' Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photof/rajtlm of Enylish A Colonial Celebrities
Diamond song book.
600 SONGS, WORDS, and MUSIC, complete,
the greatest collection of songs ever bound together
between the covers of one book. National Songs of Every
Country, including War, Patriotic, Conuc, Sentimental, &
Other Songs. Many old-time favorites long since out of
print, and cannot be had elsewheree. Complete list of
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sent
(post paid) throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d., from
ANGLO AM. PUB. CO.,
Agents wanted. Box 1163 G.P.0., Sydney.
“ Phraseographic Shorthand,”
A development of Pitman’s Phonography, by F. H.
Cole, Shorthand Writer and Reporter. Is.
STOTT and HOARE, Martin Place, SYDNEY.
F.H.C. holds Classes at 292 Victoria-street, Darlinghurst.
WANTED Complete Files Bulletin— lBB4,
1886. Apply, A. 8., Bulletin Office.
(BALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
x Price Waning. Is. 3d.
EDWARDS
I
)
WORLD-RENOWNED
air producer # Jleatercr
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specia'ly prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLEHE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
1
V
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unrqualled for promoting
i lie Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Tiestoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
I/-, 2 6 and (triple 2 6size)4 « per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “H ARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
_' _ .
VI CTO
Violios-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
A£ito Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyoCitl) NarrpopKaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordcops & CoocertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
jOitarS &
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStopS & PolypbopS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bat)d lQStr6n)€QtS of all kiods
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EAST TIME-PAYMENT TFKMS.
c
[CTABUSHED
338 George-street, Sydney
The Best
Advertisement
A
lIAVE
IS
TEE
FACT
THAT
THE
ilbg^
And WHY?
Because
THEY ARE RELIABLE.
THEY ARE SPEEDY.
THEY ARE EASILY REPAIRED.
First in
1888.
/ Foremost
\ ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ;
Also at>
SWANBTON STREET, MELBOURNE J
Franklin Street, Adelaide ;
Kino Street, Perth ;
Litchfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
It is not generally known that there is a
Mormon settlement in Gloucester (N.S.VV.) dis-
trict. Of course polygamy is not recognised. The
boss elder is alleged to be a descendant of prophet
Joe Smith
Brisbane (Q.) and Rockhampton editors
are leagued together apparently to keep Gladstone
down—Rockhampton, because it stole Gladstone’s
“ mess of pottage ”; and Brisbane, because it is—
nearer to Sydney.
The suspension of Captain M‘Gee, of the
wrecked steamer Tasmania, gives point to a grow-
ing conviction among shipmen and others that the
most careful navigators usually come the worst
slump in the end. In all the big local wrecks of
recent years—instance the Catterthun and Wai-
rarapa—the skippers held enviable reputations for
skill and carefulness. It is also noteworthy that
when the grand mistake does happen the careful
skipper nearly always makes his ship his coffin.
Duncan Gillies, who is struggling in a dis-
masted condition against heavy storms as a can-
didate for Toorak, says that he is against woman-
suffrages and believes in the plural property vote,
also he opposes the minimum wage and the totali-
sator, and he explains that he is a candidate
because he feels the country requires his services.
On the latter point he is quite correct; Duncan
should be offered the portfolio of Shocking
Example to the Turner Government. It would be
a calamity if Victoria lost its Duncan, whoso
value, as a proof of the evds of being a flippant
fat man and running the Treasury on champagne
and high-kicking principles, is beyond reckoning.
Some constituency ought,to elect Duncan, just to
keep the country from forgetting what that dread-
ful boomer was like.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to liend.
FIIM'IIKK KKUIICGD KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch 262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every =£l to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales •
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The H a. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Oilier - Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The '!.mk allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other hanks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund „ 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability „ 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. COHEN, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.0.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de Y. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant,-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAU OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH SIS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
FREE-ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 255, and 39s : Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s; Zither Banjos, 75s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 255; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
t/thers’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
useil in the Company’s business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.;
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
*T>HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,702,622 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 805,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability oi Share-
holders 760,000 0 0
2,805,78i:
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken HilL
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. „. £100,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ... 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A.;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc.; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C;; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo ~ K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE-
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Tbi& Conjpaijy
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
sr., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Mokeing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarice & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Minim'
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’ invaluable to Investors
free O ' application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG I]
PORTLAND
warrna.uboolJ
Leura, Saturday, October 2, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
EsPERaNCE Bay
Tyrian, Saturday, Oclober 9, 2 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GER\LDTON
Buninyonjr, Tuesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
! j
OUGH V
I'TON \
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMI"
Peregrine, Satin day, Oct. 2, 2 p.m.
•Kelloe, Tuesday, October 5, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 2, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, October 9, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CIIKKEiVT FAKES TO ALL FOKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Ss SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Arrive ab
San
Francisco^
Nov. 18
Dec. 16
Jan. 13
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN Oi>! BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
THE . .
Universal Land & Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874.
37 Victoria No. 19.)
Registered Office: 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
William Newcombe, Esq. (Chairman); Ernest A. Bonnby,
Esq., L.S.; E. C. V. Broughton, Esq., J.P.
TO INVESTORS.— Debentures issued at 3 and 5 years’
currency. Interest, 6 per cent, and 7 per cent, respec-
tively, payable quarterly or half-yearly. Fixed deposits
to limited amounts—l 2 months, 5 per cent. ; two years
51 per cent. " ’
. This Company did not suspend payment or re-construct
m any way during’ the building society smash of 1891, or
the bank panic of 1893. The Company buys and sells
land on easy terms, and the success that has attended its
operations is proof that there is scope for a well-managed
concern, and security for investors.
Ernest C. V. Broughton,
Managing Director.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,
Office-43/, Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
Melbourne Ore Testing
Works:
& Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processed
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers.
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGIRS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUEEN S'l\, MELHOVItNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
trahan and New Zealand Properties Partioulariv Wanted-
Deposits laid on suitable First-class Properties
London Agent -B. R. HAKKIS, Montague ' House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
be^spateheda^olloTs--^ 3 ° f ** above Company will
For
, , « nui leave a
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
® etu ™> * 6 5 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, ±55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia.. Passage - money can be paid here on
te r n >s for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
EVAgent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAIL W A Y.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply ’
. HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)
Saturday, October 2.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney) Tues-
day, October 12.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innainincka (from Syd-
ney) Saturday, October 2.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, October 12.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
October 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide,
October 5.
Tuesday,
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., f/i'D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,. ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Tassenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamer was built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare—London, £47 ss. ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. A "ents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL.
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,.
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


1207
N. 124
372
1208
403
126
m
N.W,
125
127
234
078
igBHSSS
56
*
&
*
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co,, Ltd,,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc CoolP"t Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUlt TRADE*
MAI! K
(jCITW)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A ISTBALI A V
K EEDLEIVOOD
PIPE, *
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 12\ 12(5, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/ 3 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/C
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81.207, 7/6 E 56, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE FROM
«EW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Go., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Cbristohuroh.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzki, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
SHAKE THE BOTTLE !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce.
PURITY
PAPAIN
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it beinpr
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
Medical Annual, 1897.
Page 203. *‘ In the treatment of dyspepsia
dependent upon deficient secretion of the
gastric juice, Stewart ‘ Philadelphia Poly-
clinic,’ July, ’96) speaks strongly in favor
of Papain given in a liquid form. The
results obtained from this artificial digestive
are far more favorable than those which
accrue from the employment of pepsine and
hydrochloric acid.”
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
FINKLER ON PAPAIN.
After giving the result of a number of experiments, Finkler goes on:—“Papain,
therefore, shows a more energetic peptonising power than pepsine, and especially so when
the proportion of the liquid to the albumen is small— i.e., in the proportion of concentra-
tion in which food generally exists in the stomach and intestines. The great variability
in the quality of the commercial pepsine (some of which, under the most favorable circum-
stances, do not peptonise more than 20 per cent, of the albumen of the meat) gives Papain
( Paw-Paw ) also the preference, as it is always made of one uniform quality.”
Hunter’s
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from the following Wholesale Firms :
John Barlow & Co. - Haymarket, Sydney.
John Connell Co. - Kent-street
Dalton Bros. - - - - Pitt-street *
ALSO AT THE
Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street, Sydney,
AND SHORTLY FROM ALL THE LEADING RETAIL GROCERS.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
m
Traction.,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po’. table Railway
Loco m oti ves f
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & c ., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
■ ■ . - WALTER M. NOAKES, M.f.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
UTI
Ml
M*TC\
GUINEA-GOLD
k nrvT
VIUHnLIi
AGENT for the following
Poker Macbiijes.
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
M ick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
direct importer of tobacco, cigars,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for the “ Victory ” Hairdressing Chair.
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, YIOLETA, La
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIEE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
-tS" Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY*
RELIEF
from
COUGH
HAYMAN’S
w.
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price is. I id. and 2s. 9d.


Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
‘‘ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Significant.—Until recently it was a long
time since l(>d. has been obtained in Sydney for
scoured wool, but this price was realised last week
by Pitt, Son, and Badgery, Ltd., for a good-sized
parcel of Messrs. Wright and Abbott’s scoured
extra super, clothing, which was got up in usual
careful style.*
Book-arcadian Cole is now issuing from
his remarkable Melbourne stronghold an appeal
for a “ Recreation ” Wednesday, whereon nobody
shall toil in shop or factory. Cole bases his
scheme on the argument that a trader can sell,
and a factory hand can produce, as much in five
days as in six. The new Act ordains certain
maximum daily and weekly limits of working
hours, and Cole —honest old soul !—would extend
the five daily limits for the sake of converting the
present half holiday into a whole one. Such an
arrangement would suit Cole, presumably, nor is
there any surface reason why it shouldn’t com
mend itself to the shop and factory world at large.
Anyhow, the Arcadian trader believes sincerely in
his latest advt., which, being published in the
attractive semblance of a five-pound note, ought to
command live minutes’ noting from the public eye.
I7IOR the person <vho is not a millionaire, there are
- ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIK ( KKSI K.\T," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
‘••ill s’ Kin ..'-street Collec Pnlncc,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS
Packets
Li cars
M
Pl/RC
pULD
nu/hc,
red
Is.
Payerne
t
Are RED BIRD.
ON A
|jy
i m
m
f ,
&
r/
lbs
Q
JTI
£T
As we have said before RED BIRDS are strong 1 Cycles, and “ never require repairs.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY LTD.
64 KIN G STREET, SYDNEY,
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
N
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Frank P. Slavin, the boxer, is reported from
Klondyke, B.C. as dead. He was born at Maitland,
N.S.W., thirty-five years ago and was a fighter of the
give and take sort. A meeting between Slavin and Peter
Jackson in Australia was much talked of, but, beyond a
rough-and-tumble in Larry Foley's White Horse bar, the
pair did not come together. When they did meet
the other side of the water, Slavin’s savage rushes
did not avail against Jackson’s phenomenal clever-
ness, and Slavin went under in ten rounds. Jem Smith,
Joe M’Auliffe and Jake Kilrain were amongst Slavin’s
successes, but clever Jack Hall knocked him out, and
since then the list of outsiders who have knocked pieces
off him would fill a page. Fighters who rely upon brute
strength and stamina to pull them through against clever
men cannot afford to take liberties with themselves.
* • * *
“ Before Frank Slavin left his native land to be
contaminated by British influences,” writes “ M’G.” to
The Bulletin, “ two of us were at the Victoria Hall one
night and, vacating our seats in the interval, returned to
find F.P.S. and another thick-set individual calmly
occupying them. 1 knew the men, but my friend didn’t,
and ere I had time to give him a tip he had touched the
champion rather roughly on the arm and said, ‘ I don’t
know who you are, but you’ve got a big front collaring
our seats’ . Before he could get out anything further
Slavin rose, and just as I was preparing to carry the sad
news to my friend's relatives, he said : ‘ I really beg your
pardon—l didn't know those seats were taken.' My friend
turned pale-green afterwards when he learned the truth.
Another time, in M.L., a drunken idiot came up to Slavin
and knocked the hat off his head and the cigar out of his
mouth just for the fun of telling his friends what he had
done to the crack pug. Slavin did not lift a finger, but
simply gathered bis fallen belongings and told the man's
friends to take him to bed.”
Slavin’s one weak point was his chest, which,
despite his training at the anvil, was not proportionate to
a nun of his height. But he was a good fighter—not a
boxer—possessing long reach, deep-set eyes, high cheek-
bones, square jaws, and the pluck and ‘ devil ’ worth all
the science in the world. Goddard was a great puncher,
but Slavin was without doubt the finest fighter Australia
has produced, and probably the best in the world at the
time he fought Jim Smith. His death following so closely
on that of his old opponent, Jack Burke, is a peculiar
coincidence, especially as it was his defeat of Burke which
first made him ambitious. The Bulletin trusts that the
old adversaries will shake hands when they meet on that
beautiful shore and that they will have manv a rattling
‘go’ behind the jasper gate, with Peter as referee and
Gabriel holding the watch.
* • * •
The recent successes of Fitzsimmons strikingly
prove what a marvellous little man Dempsey must have
been. He vvas simply unapproachable among the middle-
weights until he met the present world’s champion to
whom he was conceding much in height, reach and
strength. Fitzsimmons was probably a better man then
than he is now. Anyhow, it is acknowledged that he has
learnt nothing since he crossed the Pacific, and at his
time of life six or seven years make all the difference—on
the wrong side. Yet Dempsey, the unbeaten hero of 50
battles, stood 13 rounds against him, and took far more
punishment than did Corbett, Maher or Sharkey. The
sad part of the business is that the petted Dempsey went
to the bad after failing to accomplish the impossible task,
for one of his size, of beating Fitzsimmons.
* * * *
One of the prettiest finishes imaginable was
that provided last Saturday, at Flemington, in the weight-
for-age race. Wait-a-bit was apparently winning easily
when Ayrshire came out of the bunch and, gaining at
every stride, just caught the leader a few yards from
home and won by a neck. Ayrshire was probably the
greatest outsider of the crowd, and would have paid a
thumping tote div.
* • • *
The Marvellous mare, Alabaculia, won the Stand
Handicap at Flemington, last Saturday, so easily, after
having a race in her, that she must have an outside Bhow
for Melb. Cup, in which she has “nothing” on her back.
Manfred was made favorite for the Stand
Handicap, being backed down to 3 to 1 in a field of 19
and once again failed miserably, although he had the
services of that clever boy, Holmes.
People stared at each other in amaze at Flem-
ington, last Saturday, when two jumping races were held
without a fatality.
* * * •
The rest from horse-racing last Saturday gave
Kensington (Sydney) the chance to show that a well-con-
ducted “ pony ” meeting is not necessarily a scene of
horror. Two of the races were for 15-hands horses, from
which it would appear the term “pony” races is some-
what a misnomer. Fitzroy, winner of the Kensington
Plate, 15 hands, is a top-notcher, by Russley from Young
Mona, and carried his 7st. 4lb. over a mile and a-quarter
In 2min. 12Jsec. He showed reversal of form worthy of
Randwick, as on the previous Thursday at Kensington,
with 7st. 121 b., he failed to get a place in" the 14.3 handi-
cap. However, his party must consider his Saturday’s
run true form, as he left on Monday night for Melb. to
run in the V.A.T.O. Toorak Handicap, in which he
carries 6.13.
• * * •
Dear Bulletin,—Which gives the public the
better price, the tote or IkeyMo? Take the Randwick
Plate, for instance, and the prices returned by theS.M
Herald : 6 to 4 on Holbrook, 7 to 2 Projectile, 8 to 1
Fuoile and Newman. In a £lOO-book, it will work out as
follows
60 to 40 on
77 to 22 „
88 to It „
88 to 11 „
£lO4 to pay 100, 99, 99, 99—or a profit of less than 6
per cent, to the bookie. And, actually, the punter could
obtain better prices than these about each horse,
through the effects of competition, which is absent in the
case of the tote — e.g., best price obtainable
6 to 4 on 65 to 44 on
4 to 1 agst. 80 to 20 „
10 to 1 „ 90 to 9 „
10 to 1 „ 90 to 9 „
Total, 93 to pay 100 and 99—or a loss of 6or 7 per cent.
These prices are not, of course, obtained from the indi-
vidual, but from the combined Ikey Mo. Again, in the
race which Standard won, in a field of 15, 8 to 1 on the
field was freely obtainable at flagfall. Can you produce a
tote-record showing a dir. of £9 when the first favorite
wing in a similar field ? Please note that the public benefit
when a favorite wins, not when an outsider pays an
enormous div. V«rb sap. — Yours, Professional Sport.
• • • •
P.R.; The record attendance at a Melbourne
football-match wis about 33,000. This was in August,
1890, at the M.C.C. ground, the game being Carlton v.
South Melb ; 25,500 odd people paid for admission, and
the balance would be represented by M.C.C. members
and their lad}’ friends. The biggest Melb. Cup crowd was
in Bravo’s year—lBB9. Impossible to give the number of
people, seeing that perhaps two-thirds of the crowd are
“flattites,” and there are no means of telling the flat
attendance. Estimates of Melb. Cup crowds range from
80,000 to 130,000.
• • • *
Aurum has eased considerably in the market,
and disquieting rumors are about re his condition. On
the other hand, the story in Sydney is that Amberite is
“ coming on ” every day.
• * * •
Wait-a-Bit’s defeat by Ayrshire in September
Stakes has caused him to be “ khocked-out” for Caulfield
Cup, for which he has been scratched, but his Melb.
Cup fanciers need not lose heart, for he is sure to be on
the premises in that event.
• • * •
One Melb. bike-agency, with a racing specialty,
has decided to dispense with pacing-teams during the
season, and, with a view to providing pace for its riders,
it is building an oil-motor, expected to be on the track
before the Austral.
• * * •
From Launceston (Tas.) Daily Teleoraph :
\V r ANTKD—A good-looking gentleman as ladies’
help, accompany six ladies cycle tour, Hobart,
able repair bicycles. Send photo. By letter, “ Ivy.”
D.T. Office.
• • • *
Suggested Australian Eleven, picked on last
year’s form; Giffen, Iredale, Darling, Trott, Noble,
Gregory, Hill, Kelly, Trnmble, M’Kibbin and Jones.
Twelfth man, Lyons. Weak, however, in bowling.
Geelong football team, in its Adelaide matches,
aptly illustrated the decadence of S.A. football during
recent years. None of the local teams could get within
three goals of the visitors. Geelong, however, put up the
finest football yet seen in Adelaide.
* • ♦ *
The fact that two Adelaide football clubs, in the
Geelong matches, recruited from lacrosse teams which
had finished their season, is an eloquent commentary on
the present state of the game in the pious city.
* * * •
Mather and Coleman, the would-be transcon-
tinental cyclists, have been stuck-up again, this time
between Tennant’s and Barrow’s Creeks, a sprocket-
wheel going. This is about the worst stage of the whole
journey, and the loneliest. As far south as Tennant’s
Creek the supplies for the telegraph stations come from
Port Darwin ; as far north as Barrow’s Creek they go
north from Alice Springs. The intervening 156 miles is
therefore but rarely traversed ; and you have your only
chance there, too, in ordinary circumstances, of encoun-
tering “ awkward ” natives, who have come across to the
Bonney or some other waterhole. When Muriff did his
trip he made a dash across this stage, weighting himself
with absolutely no provisions beyond meat-extract.
The MS. of Murif’s “ From Ocean to Ocean ”
book is in the hands of the publishers, George Robertson
and And the name of any particular bike or bike-
firm isn’t mentioned from cover to cover.
* * * •
M‘G.: “ The Melb. Friendly Societies’ Gardens
cycling-track is really not circular, though, to a spectator
on the ground, it looks so. The track is formed of three
segments of circles and one straight line, so arranged as
to form the most suitable of all shapes for cycle-racing.
The flat straight for the finishes is opposite the stand, and
at each end is a high-banked stnall circle ; from these
the competitors turn into a low-banked-Circle, sweeping
round the ground opposite the straight, and from thip
home. For the riders, this shape is far preferable to the
two flats and two circles, seeing that there is necessity to
‘ straighten-up’ the machines only twioe instead of four
times, but, from the spectators’ standpoint, it is of course
desirable to have the riders as close as possible, and the
outer curve naturally increases the gap between them.
Taking everything into consideration, the new track is
far and away Australia’s best, though the great Zimmer-
. man himself did denounce the three-lap track, from its
liability to windage.
» » • •
Barden, the English cyclist, who comes Aus-
traliawards, is accompanied to all race-meetings by his
dad, who yells instructions to him during the progress of
a race.
* * • »
Ed. Bulletin, —Ex-coachdriver, outside N.Q.
Sub., dilating upon harm the bike has done his trade.
lan happens along on wheel, and down goes Jehu on
his knees. “Strike the cussed bike stiff !—break its
bally back, O Lord 1” And, sure enough, down goes the
machine on the spot and breaks its back, according to
specification. Any person game to quote this instance of
prompt answer to prayer?—lko.
* * * *
Vic. Rowing Association has lately passed a
rule disqualifying from competition as an amateur anyone
who enters for a professional or cash event whether he
intends to compete or not. To even think about trying
to win money is thus made criminal.
* * • *
8.E.: “John Higgins, ‘Champion Jumper of
the World,’ was, if The Bulletin' mistakes not, born in
Victoria. He went to England with his parents when
quite a child. His feats at London Pavilion are * laying
over’ anything previous in the leaping line. Inter alia,
he jumps over two chairs, 12ft. apart, on to a mah’s/nce(!)
and off again without injury to the owner of the counten-
ance, who. is full length on the stage ! He also takes a
flying leap over a horse and brougham. In ’93, Higgins
won the championship of England by defeating Darby,
and the following year jumped Watson’s claim in America.
His music-hall salary is said to be over three figures
weekly, for a half-hour act each night.”
• • » •
A patent “ Puncture Stop ” is aiiout to be
pressed upon the biking world by a Limited Co., and,
judging from one or two names of people interested in
the co., the new idea ought to knock the market. The
Puncture Stop is a thin metal protector for the tyre. It
claims to preserve riders from the evil effects of the
treacherous tin-tack, <fec., without affecting his pace, and
this proud claim seems to have stood the strain of experi-
ments innumerable.
* » » *
Three men in a boat had a wild time in Bass’s
Straits the other day, after leaving Melb. for Tasmania
in a ricketty little steamer which promptly sank just out-
side the Heads. The captain and crew (three all told)
got afloat in the 12ft. dingy just in time, and set. off with
a blanket-sail and a southerly gale for King Island, which
they missed in the dark. Two nights they hove-to and
rode out the gale with a sea-anchor improvised from two
life-belts and a piece of tarpaulin, and eventually reached
Devonport (Tas.) after a sleepless perish of 84 hours.
Despite the abolition of the whaling industry a few good
sailor, still cleave unto the Island of Bad Dreams.
* * • •
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd. is keeping its
reputation handsomely to the front; its Beeston-llumbers
are winning on road and path all over Australasia; and
the first shipment of the famed Dunlop cycles, both
racers and roadsters, may now be seen at any of the
firm’s depots. This firm is selling the Dunlop mud guards
at 3s. fid. per pair. These mud-guards are easily attached,
are light and handsome, and keep the rider spotless on
the muddiest of roads.
* * * * .
At Clyde (M.L.), 13th Sep., Maxwell, on a
Massey-llarris Roadster, won the five-miles championship.
“Dunlops across Australia ” reached an inter-
esting point the other day, and both the Dunlop and
Austral cycle firms got a magnificent free advertisement
out of Coleman’s cutting the telegraph-wire in order to
get assistance after being poisoned by eating potted
tongue. Mather wires, " I think bad water had a lot to
do with Coleman’s illness; the water at Ti-Tree well had
myriads of dead birds floating on its surface.”
» • • •
The Victorian road championships for D 7 season
resulted as follows :—25 miles, J. Green ; 50 miles, A. C.
Middleton ; 100 miles, J. Carpenter ; all riding Dunlop
tyres. In the 100 miles the first six men to finish rode
Dunlops ; while Carpenter, through losing several spokes
by accident, rode the last 75 miles with his tyre scraping
against the front forks.
• * • •
Two tons on a Red Bird ! It crushes every
squeaker who ever had anything to say against the
famous wheel. one heavy"man on one bicycle, but a
whole waggon-load of heavy men. Yet, under 44801 b. of
solid men, while the strong plank bends, the light, sturdy
wheel looks as bright and comfortable as if it were out for
an afternoon with a pretty little girl on its back.


The latest move of the Melb. fortune-
tellers is to ask for a contribution instead of nam-
ing a price for their peeps into one’s future. This,
they think, will free them from the danger of pro
secution for false-pretences. It is interesting to
note that a discussion is raging in a Melh. paper
as to the boml-fides of the “science ’’ of palmistry.
One enthusiast contends that it is quite as much
a science as phrenology. Most sane people will lie
inclined to agree. By the way, the present incar-
nation of a much-intending, egotistically-tinctured
Democratic newspaper runs a seemingly liopular
column of palmistry or astrology, or something of
that sort. How would its proprietor pan out if
brought before a bench of Pantons, with, say,
O’Halloran as prosecuting attorney, on a charge
of obtaining thruppences by fortune-telling ?
“In the long run, a profession is like
marriages—we oome to feel only its annoyances.”
—Balzao.
It is surprising that nobody struck on che
right idea at the Federal Convention. It is said
that genius is the power of seeing what is before
the eyes ; nobody had genius at the Federal Con-
vention. There was a Babel of tongues, an ocean
of talkee-talkee, but no big, strong result. Why
is it ? Why couldn’t someone devise a plan to cut
talk down to common-sense limits and to concen-
trate the collective intellect on practical considera-
tions ? There was Reid, the great orator who
doesn’t say much. If he had only had the inspira-
tion to arise and shout “ Gentlemen ! smoke Our
Chief Tobacco ! ” he would have done everlasting
good to the whole of Australasia.*
Under the Distinguished Patronage
of His Excellency Viscount Hampden.
LEAGUE OP N.S.W._WHEELMEN.
TnAMpToNSNIP MEETING
AGIiICUT.TUIt A L (/ROUND. SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, 30th OCTOBER, and .SATURDAY, Gth NOVEMBER, 1807.
£5OO FRIZES £5OO thi Sydney Wheel Race, 2 Mile Handicap, value £3OO.
Race Committee— \V. E. Uorben, T. 11. Barkell, Fred llawlev. 'Single Fare to Competitors travelling by rail.
PROGRAMME.
The Race Committee reserve the right to alter the programme, or to postpone the meeting in the event of un-
favorable weather or other causes.
First Day—Saturday, October 30, 1897.
Event.
League Cup
Sydney Wheel Race
Paced Race (2 heats)
Australian Championship
(Open by invitation to Inter-
national and Intercolonial
Competitors).
Multicycle Handicap...
Second Day—Saturday, November 6, 1897.
Paced Race (1 heat) ... 5 miles
Hampden Plate ... 1 mile
Final Sydney Wheel Race 2 miles
Paced Race (Final)
Scratch Race ... ... 10 miles
Final Handicap ... 3 miles
ENTRTES FOR ALL
10/-
Invitation.
2/-
5/- Lap Prizes.
EVENTS CLOSE SATURDAY, OCTOBER
No Entries will be received under any circumstances unless accompanied by Entry Fee.
made to this rule in the case of international or intercolonial visitors
2/G
2/-
1«, 1897.
No exception will be
. . Do not leave your Entry till Last Minute . .
For further particulars and conditions see Race Bills. All communications to be addressed to
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary, Wynyard Lane, SYDNEY.
eight-Hour Demonstration and Picnic.
-> -
ROSEHILL RACECOURSE,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4th, 1897.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of 11 IS EXCELLENCY TIIE GOVERNOR.
Splendid Pay’s Sports. For Prizes yalCie £l5O.
Grandest and Most Novel Programme yet Attempted, including
EIGHT-HOUR WHEEL RACE. 1 MILE BICYCLE RACE.
COMICAL COSTUME BICYCLE RACE. ALL-COMERS’ HANDICAP, 1 mile.
PROFESSIONAL AND NOVICES’ HANDICAP, 150yds.
NOVELTY RACE. OBSTACLE RACE.
SACK RACE.
TOGETHER WITH MANY OTHER AMUSTNG EVENTS,
FOR PRIZE MONEY BMOUNTINg TO £l5O.
Professor Le Roy , the Great Australian Blondin,
HAS BEEN SPECIALLY ENGAGED, and will give SEVERAL EXHIBITIONS ON THE
SLACK WIRE DURING THE DAY.
A few spaces—suitable for Caterers’ Booths and Side Shows —are available, and can be obtained
on application to the undersigned. Showmen and others must be provided with their Booth-holder’s
Ticket, otherwise they will not be allowed to take their stand on the Racecourse.
DAKTCIKTG- in. tile LARGE PAVILION !
Splendid Floor. Under the supervision of Mr. GEORGE MOODY, assisted by Six Efficient M’sC.
AMUSEMENTS OF ALL KINDS PROVIDED FREE ON THE GROUNDS.
Also, Hot and Cold Water in abundance —“FREE.”
Tlxe Grand. Procession!
Embracing a large number of Societies, will start from the TOP OF BRIDGE STREET, along
Macquarie-street, and proceed to the Circular Quay, thence along George-street to the Railway Station.
Special arrangements have been made with the Railway Commissioners, whereby TRAINS will
RUN EVERY FEW MINUTES, starting at 9.20, and RETURNING from Rosehill at 2.50 p.m.
Time of journey, 30 minutes.
ADULT TICKETS (including Railway Fare and Admission), Is. 6d.; CHILDREN between
the age of 8 and 14 years of age, 6d. Children under Eight Years of Age, TREE.
TIIOS. W, EUE.SE, Secretary.
m
T=.
H
m
m
mm
m
■m
m
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
XT nitedL Typewriter & Supplies 00.,
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON— HedIky Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Us«.
Send for particulars of Free Trial.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle.
1
For LADIES and GENTS.
'p'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
_ fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tb€ lotcrcbaQgeabk
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
“Imperial" Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an « ■ iwi pr p■ n ■ •
Duplicate parts always in stock. lIVI mniHL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT.
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Eight-hour Demonstration
Holiday.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1807.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS will be
issued from all stations to all stations (except for
distances 13 miles and under, between stations in
the Metropolitan Suburban and Newcastle Subur-
ban Sections), commencing with the day trains
leaving terminal stations on Friday, Ist October,
and thereafter by all trains until Monday, 4th
October, available for return until Monday, 11th
October, 1897.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS:—In addi-
tion to the Cheap Excursion tickets ordinarily
issued on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, similar
tickets at 2d. per mile first class return (minimum
Is.) and Id. per mile second class return (minimum
9d.) will be issued at Sydney and Metropolitan
Suburban stations to stations outside the Metro-
politan Suburban area by the undermentioned
trains, AVAILABLE FOR RETURN BY
ANY TRAIN UP TO AND INCLUDING
MONDAY, 11th October
SATURDAY, 2nd OCTOBER. 1.55 p.m. to
Nowra; 1.15 p.m. to Newcastle.
MONDAY, 4th OCTOBER: 7.30 a.m. to
Wollongong and stations beyond as far as Nowra;
7.38 a.m. to Wollongong ; 8.0 a.m. to Goulburn ;
8.15 a.m. (7.50 a.m. from Milson’s Point) to
Gosford ; 8.10 a.m. to Mt. Victoria ; 8.20 a.m. to
Eskbank.
The Cheap Excursion tickets ordinarily issued
at Sydney and Suburban stations, on Friday,
Saturday and Sunday, 24th, 25th and 20th Sep-
tember will also be available for return up to and
including Tuesday, sth October.
HAWKESBURY RIVER EXCURSIONS:
Cheap Excursion Tickets to Hawkesbury at ss. 6d
first class and 3s. 6d. second class, including trip
on the steamer General Gordon, will be issued by
the trains leaving Sydney at 9.5 and 9.38 a.m. and
Milson’s Point at 9.33 a.m. on Monday, 4th
October, available for return on day of issue only
by trains leaving Hawkesbury at 4.20 and 5.0 p.m.
Tickets at specially low rates will be issued from
Sydney and Illavvarra Suburban stations to
National Park on Saturday, Sunday and Monday,
2nd, 3rd and 4th October at Is. 6d. first class and
Is. second class, available for return on day of
issue only.
In addition to the ordinary trains special trains
will run from Sydney as under.
SATURDAY, 2nd OCTOBER ■: 1.55 p.m. for
Nowra ; 7.30 p.m. for Wollongong and Kiama;
1.15 p.m, for Newcastle.
MONDAY 4th OCTOBER- 7.30 a.m. and
11.30 p.m. for Nowra ; 7.38 a.m. for Wollongong ;
9.30 a.m. for Kiama; 8.0 a.m. for Goulburn ;
10.30 p.m. for Liverpool; 8.15 and 9.38 a.m. for
Hawkesbury and Gosford, 9.5 a.m. for Hawkes-
bury ; 9.50 a.m., 6.32 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. for
Hornsby Junction ; 8.10 a.m. for Mt. Victoria ;
8.20 a.m. for Eskbank.
A special service of trains will be run from Syd-
hey at frequent intervals to Rockdale (Lady
Robinson’s Beach), Kogarah (Sandringham and
San Souci), Como, Sutherland and National Park.
An improved service of trains will also be run
on the Milson’s Point and Richmond Lines.
CLOSING OF GOODS SHEDS AND
CENTRAL BOOKING OFFICE.
On Monday, 4th October, the Goods Shed at
Redfem and Alexandria will be closed, but the
Goods Shed at Darling Harbour will be open
until 10.0 a.m. for the delivery of perishable traffic.
All other Goods Sheds within the limits of the
County of Cumberland, viz., to Penrith, Picton,
Hawkesbury, and Waterfall inclusive, also the
Police District of Berrima, i.e. Mittagong,
Bowral, and Moss Vale will be closed except for
the receipt and delivery of perishable traffic.
Goods Sheds at other places outside these limits
will be kept open as usual.
The Central Booking Office will be open until
10.0 a.m. for the sale of tickets and delivery of
perishable parcels only.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. M'LACHLAN. Seoretary.
Sparkling Eyes and Rosy Cheeks.
Th« acquisition of perfect health is ehe aim of
everyone. A few remarks, therefore, on the
subject will be acceptable to all young ladies who
are not the happy possessors of sparkling eyes and
rosy cheeks. Mrs. Bowe, of North Maldon, Vie-
toria, whose daughter, Miss May, had been seri-
ously ill for some time, gives he following account
° <• er res *' ora *'i° n to health and strength again :
“My daughter had been strong and healthy
until almost two years ago, when she grew very
pale and thin. She became weak and low-spirited,
lost her appetite, her sleep was troubled and
restless, and the least exertion fatigued her —in
fact, she had to take her sister’s arm for support
when out walking. She was of a wonderfully
active and cheerful disposition before this change
took place, and the alteration, therefore, caused us
great concern, and medical aid was sought. But
no good resulted. Several medicines were tried,
but she became weaker and more listless every
day. The doctor said she was suffering from
anaemia, or poorness of blood. We then became
seriously alarmed, and consulted different medical
men, who prescribed, and told Miss May to take
as much exercise as possible. She, being fond of
flowers, naturally turned her attention to the
garden, but had to abandon the work, as the least
exertion exhausted her. Often, when I thought
she was out taking exercise in the fresh air, I
have found her in the drawing room with her
head resting in her hands, and in a somnolent
state. Then, when disturbed, she would steal
quietly to her room, and remain there for hours at
a time. At this stage we became extremely
anxious concerning her health, and again sought
medical advice, as we thought she was going into
a decline. It was of no use though ; nothing did
her any good. She was then so thin and weak
that the slightest exertion tired her. She also
suffered from severe cramps in the legs.
“Friends then recommended patent medicines,
and two or three kinds were tried, unsuccessfully.
“At last I decided to take her away to the
country for a change, but just as I was about to do
so, I saw in the Takrangowek Times an advertise-
ment about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and noticing that people with symptoms
similar to those of my daughter had been cured, I
determined to give them a trial.
“After using half a box a great improvement
was noticeable, and after using three boxes she
regained her appetite, and was able to sleep with
comfort, and was so strong and well that we con-
sidered there was no necessity for her continuing
to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. So she discon-
tinued them. I honestly believe my daughter’s
recovery was due to this great remedy, she is
now as well as ever she was in her life. She has a
fine color, is able to eat and sleep well, and can
take any amount of outdoor exercise without feel-
ing fatigued. I feel very grateful to Dr. Williams
for my daughter’s recovery, and would like to
have the case made known, as it may induce others
who suffer as my daughter did to try this remedy
to their benefit, and thus, perhaps, bring sunshine
and happiness to their homes.”
Great satisfaction has been expressed by Miss
Bowe’s large circle of friends that she is again
enjoying good health, and able to take her accus-
tomed place at local social gatherings.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have a remarkable
efficacy in curing diseases arising from an impover-
ished condition of the blood or an impairment of
the nervous system, such as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, nervous prostration,- and
the tired feeling therefrom, the after effects of
la grippe, influenza, and severe colds, diseases
depending on humors in the blood, such as
scrofula, chronic erysipelas, etc. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills give a healthy glow to pale and sallow
complexions and are a specific for the troubles
peculiar to the female system, and in the case of
men they effect a radical cure in all cases arising
from mental worry, over-work, or excesses of any
nature.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold only in boxes
bearing the firm’s trade mark and wrapper (printed
in red ink). They are never sold in bulk, or by
the dozen or hundred, and every dealer who offers
substitutes in this form is trying to defraud, and
should be avoided.
These pills are not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by all
chemists and by Dr. Williams’Medicine Company,
Sydney, who will forward (post paid) on receipt of
stamps or post order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-
dozen for 15s. 3d. They are unri vailed as a tonic
for both sexes.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<aR€VILL€
BKYQL€S.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(SrcVillc TCirfl€r Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
Tlxe A.CME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
'reporter of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET BRISBANE.


Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the surift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
IvOse fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth's coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “ A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the "World’s
Chief Expositions.
for saw-gulleting, planer-knife
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
Tb.e Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Pr6I)k€QQ?SS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OP VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Ag-riculfcural show-time in Adelaide, and
big-pig records have been trotted out for compari-
son. One beast, weighing 4001 b., was sold for £9
ss. But butcher Conrad remembers that, “at the
show held in 18G7, which was visited by H.R.H.
the Duke of Edinburgh,” he purchased a trifle in
pork which, slaughtered and dressed, weighed
7041 b., price £.12 ss.
Parry Okeden, Q. Commissioner of Police,
often tells his friends he is the only man who
ever got a white man convicted on the evidence of
a nigger only. The case was tried by Pope
Cooper, J., who proceeded to test the darkey as to
his understanding of the obligations of a witness.
The blackfellow spoke first-class English, anyway.
“Do you know the nature of an oath ? ” —“ Yes.”
‘Where will you go if you tell a lie ? ” —“ To hell.”
“Where’s hell?”—“Down there” (pointing a
forefinger at the floor). “ Where will you go if
you tell the truth?” —“To heaven.” “Where’s
heaven?”—“Up there ” (pointing at the ceiling.)
“ Who told you this ? ” —“ Mr. Okeden.” “ Who
lives ‘up there’?” (and the Judge pointed roof-
wards). —“God.” “What do you know' about
God?”—“ I don’t know' much, but Mr. Okeden
knows a lot about God.” The nigger was sworn.
“England, the country with a hundred
religions and only one sauce!” Well, Australia
also has a hundred religions, but until now it has
been without a sauce of its very own. Hunter’s
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce, made at Cairns, Queens-
land, has a big future, because, besides being,
upon The Bulletin’s personal affidavit, emphati-
cally a palate-pleasing concoction, it strongly un-
resembles other sauces in carrying out the whole
contract by enabling you, in the second place, to
dispose to the best advantage of what it has first
prevailed upon you to swallow. For the man
with a No. 16 appetite and a small 6 digestion—
and he is the typical Australian —Paw-Paw Sauce
is simply a long-lost brother. “ Papain,” the dis-
tinguishing element of the paw-paw, is recog-
nised by the pharmacopoeia as a marvellous diges-
tive. See advt. on page 30 of this issue.*
Dear B., —Rather surprised that your
recent funeral number contained no refer-
ence to the late prince of Australian under-
takers. His professional experience taught him
(so he said) that gin was the best for a genial
face, and whisky for a woeful one. His even-
ings were devoted to geniality and gin, business
hours to whisky and woe, and his leisure moments
to writ-racing. ’Twas in the latter sphere that he
shone. The ideal qualifications of a “bum-beater,”
i.e., fleetness of foot, the art of disguise, and the
Heaven-sent instinct that enables a man to know
when “bums are about” (without seeing them),
were highly developed in him. I recollect one
week many years ago (glass hearses, were not
known then) when there were six writs out against
him. The six process-servers hung about his es-
tablishment for nearly a fortnight, and not a day
passed on which that undertaker did not smile
sweetly and bid them “Good morning, my friends,”
from his drawing-room window. What puzzled
them and enraged the plaintiffs most was that,
during the fortnight’s siege, funerals conducted
personally by our friend were of daily occurrence.
The mourning-coaches, as they emerged from the
yard, behind his house, had been scanned narrowly
every time by the bums, but without success, and
it was only when it dawned at last on one server
as good biz. to serve him at the late residence of a
Btiff-’un that it came off for the first time. His
instinct told him not to get out this time, but he
chanced it, alighted from the interior of the
hearse, and was served. He had met his Waterloo.
—A.R.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6d.
“ I'll Try It." Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
Medical.
THE drum
IN POSITION
PeafQcss AI NOIfES AD
Wilson’s COMMON n_| J
SENSE EARDRUMS
Relieve all conditions of Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill fails.
The only Scientific Aural Sound Con-
ductor. Safe to wear, comfortable,
invisible, no dangerous wire or metal
attachment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book—Free. J.
Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rpo LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE. SYDNEY
Sydney, May 19th, 1897. —I hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I tried it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which I have avoided. —M.J.R.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
WasbiOgtoo H. 5061 &Co.,m’sp.s.,
THE PITT STREET DRUGGISTS,
Hold a Large and Varied STOCK of GOODS in General,
and DRUGS in particular.
Do You Doubt It?
YOll need not. We run no one-horse show ; it is the LARGEST
RETAIL DRUGGIST STORE ON TERRA FIRM A.
Of course, you believe us!
Yes !we are not jesting. But our business is run upon solid lines, at a
large outlay. WE ASK FOR SUPPORT.
Inquire of Your Grocer for
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, at fid. per tin. Take no other,
and do not be persuaded that any other brand equals ours. It is
not in the same running.
SPARTAN TONIC, the invigorator of the age, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
YAALA, for INDIGESTION. 2/- per bottle.
SOAPS, SPONGES, PERFUMES, &c.
Prescriptions Faithfully Compounded. Correspondence Invited.
150, 160, and 268 Fitt-Btreet, Sydney; and at
Ch.nroh.-atreet, Parramatta.
Contains more digestible nourishment than the finest Beef
Tea. For Breakfast, Buncheon, or Supper, it is unequalled.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEAJLTHFDIi BEVERAGE.
ONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees—
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
? THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., iand 2'- each.
Proprietors I GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OfK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SVDNKV.
UIncRoBERTSon s cneiitine eum
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes , Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Eull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works :
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD fo*
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINC HCRBAL R€M€DI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that, a
course of your Aifaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Aifaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUOKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Aifaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Aifaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all Iravellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. HJTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit in writes later:- “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
w'hen three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
yon that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Aifaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal bind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Aifaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Aifaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
at
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSIMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Basmussen.
X am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERYIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
16 gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills oured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Haring for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmvssen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir, -It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of Ihe liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Par.es Range, Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to inform \on that your ■ Ifaline
Blood Pills completely cvired me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmusskn. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the. same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Kennedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long he spared
under God to be a hlessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra.
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussek. January 9, 1897
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. lam willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
rtJJSgSBSfcj AWARDER
I®WO GOLD
EDALS
AL F A I ShS E
CURED !00 000 TOR THE BLOOD v NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfallne Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfallne Asthma and Cough Pills— A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline IVorm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills-An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most, perfect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 68. ’
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt-This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without’® doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 * ' „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hing
when ordering one. H
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HFR.R will Post his Valuable Book*
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR
HEM DIEd can only he obtained from his own Offices
and “ranches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Mate Cheques
or Money Orders payable- to HaNS KASSMUSSEN
whether you send to his IL ad Office or ' ranches
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane —160 Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellingt*
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers. Hannan-st.


Prospectus.
UNDER and by arrangement with the owners
of the freehold estate referred to in the pros-
pectus, mining leases have been applied for, cover-
ing 55(5 acres, contained within the freehold. Full
particulars will be obtained from the following
wire :
“ Five hundred and sixty acres additional mine-
ral leases outside Mount Stewart proper secured
yesterday, making altogether six hundred and
forty-six acres. This enormously enhances actual
and prospective value Mount Stewart, as it em-
braces about two miles of outcrop hitherto unavail-
able for mining purposes. Smelters, machinery,
and mine in thorough order.”
„ (Signed) C. L. GARLAND.
September 21, 1897.
PROSPECTUS
C
Of the
MOUNT STEWART MINES
(To be registered as a no-liabi)ity company),
MJNTY of BLIGH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
COPPER, GOLD and SILVER.
CAP IT AL. — £ loo,ooo, in 100,000 shares of .£1
each, whereof 60,000 contributing shares are now
offered to the public at ss. per share, and 40,000
shares fully paid-up will be issued to the vendors
as part consideration for the property, plant,
chattels, and effects.
Out of the proceeds of the shares offered to the
public, the sum of .£lO,OOO clear will be placed
to credit.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
*Hon. Jas. H. Cox, M.L.C. (director Sydney
Meat Preserving Co.)
James Grice (Grice, Sumner and Co.)
Henry Dodds (director B.H. Block 10, and Sil-
verton Tram Co. Ltd.)
Hal. Sheppard (chairman B.H. Junction North
Co. Ltd.)
*C. L. Garland (Avenal, Neutral Bay, Sydney).
BANKERS:
English, Scottish, and Australian Bank.
BROKERS:
Melbourne—Clarke and Co.
Sydney—Soutar and Hoare.
Ballarat—Bell, Lambert and Co.
Bendigo—Wm. Keating.
SOLICITORS:
Blake and Riggall, William-street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER (Pro. Tern.):
Jno. L. Wharton, 359 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Will join the board after allotment.
OBJECTS of the COMPANY.
This company is being formed to acquire the
property known as the Mount Stewart Mines, in
the colony of New South Wales, consisting of
Leases Nos. 4280, 4819, and 7514, containing an
area of 90 acres, or thereabouts, and also the
option to purchase the adjoining freehold estate,
covering some 1713 acres, which contains the ex-
tension of the Mount Stewart lode system.
The Mount Stewart Mines were developed and
equipped with a smelting plant suitable to the
treatment of the then disclosed OFe bodies at a
cost of .£19,000. The smelting operations were
continued for a period of fourteen months only,
during which time an overdraft of .£4OOO was paid
off, and dividends amounting to .£2500 were paid
and at the time of closing down the company had
in hand .£3OOO. It will thus be seen that in the
period under review, i.e., 14 months, the company
actually made a profit of JE9500 from the treat-
ment of the ores. The heavy decline in silver and
lead, and a change in the nature of the ore to
copper sulphides, necessitating different treatment,
were the only factors that contributed to a cessa-
tion of smelting o|)erations.
The disclosed ore bodies resemble, in their
metallic nature, the ores now being so successfully
by the Mount Lyell Company and the
Lake George Mines, Limited. Having in view
the great improvements that have taken place
in direct pyritic smelting, and being desirous of
fully ascertaining the extent and value of the ore
bodies, and whether same were amenable to the
same treatment as that successfully worked at the
Lake George Mines, Limited, by Mr. W. H. Tre-
wenack, the metallurgist and general manager of
that company, it was decided to secure that gen-
tleman’s services to report on the property. The
full report can be seen at the brokers’ offices, but
the following extracts will serve to indicate its
highly satisfactory nature :
Mr. W. H. IREWLNACK, General Manager
of the Lake George Mines, says :
The Mount Stewart mine comprises Lease No.
4280 (20 acres), Lease No. 4818 (50 acres), and
Lease No. 7514 (20 acres), all in the parish of Tal-
bragar, county of Bligh.
THE MINE.—The striking feature in connec-
tion with the surface formation at the mine is the
surface outcrop of ironstone. It is not bold, inas-
much as it does not stick up very prominently out
of the ground, but so distinct that one can deter-
mine at least three parallel outcroppings, covering
a width of from 250 ft. to 300 ft., and running the
full length of the company’s property.
The southern section of the property, which is
the least developed, I consider much more favor-
able for large ore bodies to exist in than the
northern section, as the iron outcroppings are
more massive and stronger.
PRINCIPAL DEVELOPMENT WORKS.—
Carried out on the main or centre lode—Chief
source of supply obtained from these for furnace.
ENGINE SHAFT is equipped with a good
powerful engine and other accessories necessary
for mining operations, and has been sunk 257 ft.
vertical on footwall side. ... At 157 ft. the
line of oxidation proved to exist. . . . Below
this level unaltered sulphides made their appear-
ance. ... Am of opinion that a very large
quantity of ore is left standing which was con-
sidered by the company too poor to pay extraction
costs, and which will now yield a good profit if
worked in conjunction with unaltered sulphides
and on lines of modem metallurgy.
217 ft. LEVEL. —Instead of finding oxidised
ores as in upper levels, we now have sulphides.
Quantity sent to surface whilst driving crosscut in
ore body—average width 15ft.—is 1500 tons. This
ore carefully sampled by me at surface gave 19oz.
silver, 2Jdwt. gold, trace copper. South of
Engine Shaft a shaft known as Copper Shaft sunk
145 ft. Sample taken at face assayed 5£ per cent,
copper, l£oz. silver, trace gold. I formed the
opinion that this chute of copper ore has only
just commenced to develop itself. Believe only
requires judicious exploration to make this section
of the property the more valuable, for to the east
of the Copper Shaft another shaft was put down
125 ft. m splendid-looking lode matter. This, with
ore obtained at Copper Shaft, should make a
splendid blending mixture. I must draw atten-
tion to this section of the property very strongly.
257 ft. LEVEL.—A crosscut was run from the
Engine Shaft west, and cut through the lode. The
width at the point of intersection was 15ft., with
sulphides showing in the back and both sides of
main crosscut, and still going down very strong
underfoot.
ORE IN SlGHT.—Between 167 ft. and 257 ft,
including IfiM tm a* 5895 toaa,
estimated worth £14,337 10s. Total costs treating,
*1 5s. Id. Net profit of £1 8s. Id. should be
made.
ORE INFERENTIAL!/? - IN SIGHT between
the 15(ft. and 257ft. levels, 10,14(5 tons, estimated
value, .£24,427. In addition to this quantity, it is
possible that a further 6667 tons will be extracted
from No. 2 chute, having a value of from .£12.000
to £14,000.
PLANT.—1 large water-jackpt furnace, with 2
boilers, 2 horizontal engines, and 3 bakers’
blowers, with all necessary appliances on ground
for carrying on smelting operations on a much
more extensive scale than I found. There are
other furnaces on property, which have not been
PAST RECORD OPERATIONS. -From April
14, 1892, to September 30, 1893, 16,124 tons of
payable ore extracted and 14,624 tons smelted
producing 1591 tons of bullion. Contents!
304,594oz. of silver and 1582 tons of lead, having
a gross value of £64,804. I consider, if the mine
development is carried on equally as fast as re-
gards ore extraction, the company will become a
constant producer, as the country rock is, generally
8peaking, soft, and exploration work can be carried
on at a cheap rate.
Supplementary to his previous report, he writes
on August 6,1897 :—
To the Directors of the Mount Stewart Mines.
Gentlemen, —Since my previous report to you
was written important and more economical
methods have been adopted for the reduction of
sulphides of the charac ter that your property has
developed, and l have pleasure herewith in sub-
mitting the following supplementary report on
Lter working costs for this more modern work.
1 he unaltered sulphides of the Mount Stewart
Alines are massive, containing high percentages of
iron and sulphur, and in every way suitable for
partial pyritic smelting, and should this method
of reduction be adopted in the future the mining
and smelting costs for high-grade auriferous ship-
ment matter should not exceed 15s. per ton of
crude ore treated. It is my duty, however, to
inform you that the installation of this process is
somewhat costly, and I therefore advise you that
before such a process is installed at your mine that
your property should be opened up more thor-
oughly in the lower levels, so that more extensive
sulphide ore bodies would be developed. Your
plant, I consider, is quite equal to your present
requirements, and I have no hesitation in sayin tr
from actual work performed by the writer lately’
that your mining, surface, and smelting cost
should not exceed 18s. per ton of ore.
Yours faithfully,
Wm. II. TREWENACK, M.E.
The perusal of Mr. Trewenack’s reports reveals
the fact that the ore in sight and inferentially in
sight above the 257ft. level can be put down at
22 198 tons, worth £52,764 10s., of an average
value of £2 13s. 2d. per ton. As the cost of min-
ing, surface, and smelting should not exceed 18s.
per ton, and London realisation charges 5s. Id.
per ton, a net profit of £1 10s. Id. per ton should
be made on the ore in sight and inferentially in
eight, or a total of £33,381 3s. 2d. Sight should
not be lost of the fact that the whole of this ore is
practically immediately available, and as Mr
lrewenack says in his report that the lode at the
2o<ft. level is 15ft. wide, and going strong under-
foot, vast reserves of ore should follow the opening
Up of the mine at lower levels.
The freehold estate previously mentioned con-
sists of the following Hotel buildings, brick
&nd cement, containing’ 1G rooms j large general
store, shops, and 1495 acres of freehold and 12134
acres non-resideiitial selection, upon which all
conditions are fulfilled. Buildings were recently
valued by expert valuation at £2555, and are in-
sured for this sum. The company has the option
of purchase for £4500, either all cash, or £2500
cash, and'the balance at three years, carrying 6
per cent, interest. 6
WATER SUPPLY.—There is a large amount
of water conserved on the mine, and a permanent
line of pipes laid down for two miles to Coolah
Creek as a means of supplementing the supply in
times of drought.
FIREWOOD is cheap and plentiful.
ROADS.—These are all in excellent condition
and the road to the railway station is good and
level, thus cheapening the cost of transit of mining
and other materials.
Arrangements have been made by which the
company will receive the advice of Mr. Trewenack
m connection with the proposed alterations and
starting of the company’s works.
n SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING!
We undertake to GIVE a Silver Watch
of magnificent value, Lady’s or Gentle-
man’s, to every reader of this paper. Our
list price for this watch is 50s. ; but, as
stated above, to readers of this paper
who carry out the conditions below,
We Charge Absolutely Nothing.
. w f are constantly receiving testimonials express-
ing delight and satisfaction at the value we give.
THE ONLY CONDITIONS
we impose are, that you should send us the correct read-
inj» °f the following- Rebus, enclosing stamped addressed
envelope for reply. And that if correct you will purchase
one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains.
REBUS:
A S,L,D S*LY*R W.T*H
I G**N *F I GTJ.SS
R*G.T & B.Y A CH**N.
Address : The Manager, The English Watch
& Jewellery Co., No. 9 (2 Floor), Post Office
Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney; or 33 and 35 Old
Exchange, Adelaide.
I
Ease, Comfort, Elegance
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
MASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR'S GUBE6S CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jection* to all Gelatine Oapeules.
CAPSULES
S***r*M’i CapwJfli m nt m*U sf Gdatiar
Amusements.
CINEMATOGRAPH K.
gALON
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
TIIE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
SHERWIN CONCERT TOUR.
RETURN TO AUSTRALIA OF
Amy Sherwin
(THE AUSTRALIAN NIGHTINGALE),
supported by
BARTON McGUCKTN
(The Celebrated English Tenor),
ARTHUR DRANK
(The Well-known Baritone),.
G. RIVERS A LLP It ESS
(Solo Violin),
8. SZCZ EPA NO WSKI
(Pianist and Conductor).
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, October 2; MONDAY, October 4, Special
Popular Programme; WEDNESDAY, October 6,
Only Matinee; SATURDAY, October 9.
For Particulars apply to W, H. Paling & Co.
Special Rates for Schools and Families.
L. Q. SHARPE, Manager.
JJXHIBITI O N B U liTdTncL
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, October X,
And EVERY EVENING at 8.
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH,
EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
The Greatest Horse Trainer since the days of Itarey.
The Rage of Melbourne I Adelaide’s Favorite 1 And
now awaits Sydney’s decision.
SATURDAY NEXT, 2nd OCTOBER.
ATTENTION! OWNERS OF HORSES, Bring or
Send your Kickers, Runaways, Jibbers, Shiers, Plungers,
Strikers, Fighters, Nervous Horses, Horses afraid of
steam and other objects, Biters, Halter Breakers, Young
Colts, Wild Mustang’s, Bronchos, Wild Ilorses, and
MAN-EATING STALLIONS
And I will handle and subdue them FREE OF CHARGE.
A WORD TO THE LADIES OF AUSTRALIA.
Follow the example of the grand dames of England, who
have regularly visited Professor Smith’s Exhibition, and
sent their Hunters, Hacks, Carriage Horses,and Children’s
Ponies to be handled.
Doors open 7.15 ; Exhibition at 8.
Prices—3s, Us, and Is; Children half-price.
Persons wishing to have horses handled, write or apply
at the Exhibition Building. 3
NAT. BEHRENS, Manager.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of the Messrs. MacMahon.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY Last TWO NIGHTS of
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Saturday, October 2, Last Night of the Dampier Season a
new play for this occasion only, “ FORTUNE'S FOOL."
STARTLING PRICES: 25., Is., and SIXPENCE.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Under the Direction of the Messrs. MacMahon.
MONDAY, October/,, EIGHT HOURS NIGHT,
lirst Production in Australia of an entirely new stirring
military play (by arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway)
entitled
-A-t Duty’s Call.
A Specially-organised and Powerful Co. Over 100
Auxiliaries. Elaborate Scenery and Effects. The Startling
and Popular Prices maintained-D.C., 2s; Stalls, Is;
*.U. and Gallery, 6d. 9
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Patronage of his Excellency the Governor
Viscount Hampden and Suite.
NEXT FRIDAY, Ist OCTOBER,
A Farewell Complimentary Matinee will be tendered to
Miss LILY DAMPIER
By the Theatrical and Musical Profession of Sydney
previous to her leaving for London. Full particulars on
bdls and dailies. Prices (for this occasion only), D.C., 6s-
R. Stalls, 3s ; Stalls, 2s; F.C. and Gallery, One Shilling.
TXER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING. WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Musical Comedy,
Tb« Frgpcb Maid.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES-55., 3s„ 25., and Is.
|" HEA T R E ROY A L, SYD N E Y
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT. SATURDAY Evening
Next, October 2. RE APPEARANCE for a Limited
Season only of
-AdCx*. Gr o. Tvl
And his Powerful Dramatic Company, when will be
produced Geo. R. Sims’ Celebrated Military Drama,
“IN THE RANKS.”
n £r" a f r Prices—3s -> 2s -- Is- Box plan at Elvy & Co’s
George-street, M. MARC US, Acting Manager
Amusements.
J> ALA C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee »nd Managing Director — Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Most Popular Entertainment in Australia,
The JBiograph Vaudeville Co.
The \ ery Latest and Most Marvellous Invention.
The Biogfraph. Lillian Tree. Fannie Wentworth,
rrof. Chas. Morritt. Lillian Morritt. Arthur Sherwin.
rhos. Beririn. Fanny Liddiard.
Prices—3s., 25., & Is. Plan at Paling & Co., George-st.
Matinee Performances, Wednesday and Saturday, at 3.
r P I oY ( ? LI theatre, SY9NEY.
Sole Lessee* Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success oe
Mr. CHAS. DILLON Miss DOLLY ELCON
8 - Tbs Scfbipi Farpily - 8
ATHAS and COLLINS. FRANK LEON.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
. DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY,
rrices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
QIIIE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee * Mannerinir Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTOBS The 3 AVALOS-
v ueen 8 Jvbtlee Cinematograph Pictures
WOOTTWELL end LYNEDALE. ALLEN and HART
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON,
and the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s 6rl t 2s, Is, & 6d. Plan at Allen’s, Colli ns-street.
Matinee Pei formances every Wednesday at 2.30 D.m.
IN CESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE beg to an-
nounce that, after months of careful preparation, there
will be presented at the Princess’s Theatre, on
Saturday, October 2, ISO 7,
A grand romantic drama, semi-historical in character,
founded upon leading incidents and events in the mar-
vellous career of the great Napoleon, and entitled
“•A. Royal Divorce."
Written by the late W. G. WILLS, Esq.
IJOU
MELBOURNE.
JJIJOU THEATRE,
LAST NIGHTS! FRANK THORNTON.
___ Four More Nights only,
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES of MISS BROWN.
Tuesday, 6th October, for Three Nights only.
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Friday, Bth October, Once More, with all his Goods and
Chattels. THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
POPULAR PRICES I Dress circle and reserved stalls,
3s ; stalls, 2s ; family circle, Is. No early doors.
BRISBANE ~
Saturday Shilling Concerts.
YyANTED ARTTSTS. Lady and Gentleman VOCAL-
c ~i ac^r, owledged position in Melbourne or
Sydney. Return fare and fee, with opportunity of other
Letters with full particulars to
WALTER BENTLEY,
Treasury Chambers, Brisbane.
concerts.
Music, &c.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash.&c. Qneen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD'S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com*
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Aceordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs.,ali
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs ($ tone), from 6d.
tc> l guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
O WARD'S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h'ra.
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
_2ls., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to3o
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W'h’ra.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
1 Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-at.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from (id. to 2ogs.; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
! rench, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
LAT6ST NOV€LTY BROOCH,
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CogliSb Hall-Marked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Unapproachable Value -
£1 Post Free,
New
(Sold Scroll Bar Broocb,
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and Links.
REAL IVORY. QUITE NEW, NOVEL, AND UNIQUE.
Brooches.
Silver Mounted 4/6 each.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Lioks
Silver Mounted
Gold
Post Free.
4/6 pair.
13/6 „
Avt <JeweUers and tv fitch Mg,
KOTK Ora Char Apwramait Adpmm- &Q KING STREET. BYPIItV


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Have received ex Duke of Sutherland,
Polynesien, Hawke’s Bay, and other
steamers, a further
138 I*A.CIEA.&BS 138
making 655 Bales and Cases of New
Goods to hand this season.
Newest Fabrics and Latest Styles and
Novelties in all departments.
Finest Assortment and Lowest Prices
in Queensland.
[nspection and Comparison Invited.
Samples, Price Lists, and Fashion Plates
post free on application.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connbll & Co., Ltd.
HAIKUIIESSKKS ASI» WIGMAKfcKS
To tlic Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12,. and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
SlGNET^C»CWEfTE5
.’L^r^WiuiaS
w.
-'Vi
r
d?
3> B ei
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION VL AC ARDS.
Railway Official : “You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist: “Zen vy? You say schmolce signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco."
Tales of the convict system, by
Pbiok Wabcng ; Is. 3d, posted.
Adye Douglas, the Tasmanian political
antique, tells the Federation delegates with a fine
contempt for Vic. and N.S.W., that Tasmania
was a nation when these places were sheep-walks.
True ; but if Douglas and his clique live long
enough, Vic. and N.S.W. will be nations when
Tasmania is a sheep-walk.
Anecdoted of Joe Chamberlain that a
woman of title once told him that though the
Tories considered him a very dangerous man, they
hadn’t any fear of him, because all the snobs were
on their side. And now Chamberlain is on the
side of the snobs, as Disraeli was on the side of
the angels—only Dizzy couldn’t play tunes on the
angels as Joseph does upon the snobs.
“ D.F.” to The Bulletin from Mel-
bourne :
Scenes of frenzied enthusiasm, such as greeted Ben
Tillett during his Melb. lecture, “ What shall we do with
Australia? ” are, fortunately for the Upper House, rare in
Victoria, especially rare in audiences who pay at the door.
Whatever Ben’s alleged limitations, one seems now to
understand why such a fair proportion of strikes, &c., are
successful in England. It would seem, in fact, that Eng-
land has begun to realise that Democracy is a religion,
and to choose as its exponents men of the prophet type.
The need and value of comradeship in work and play as a
motive power in reform is another lesson which the visit
of Ben Tillett has impressed deeply on Vic. enthusiasts in
the Labor ranks. Oratory, organisation, strike-funds, a
press—all are as nothing compared with the creation of
an atmosphere. This, Ben and his comrades have done in
England, with the result that it has proved such an in-
fectious one that the old stale English atmosphere is
rapidly ceasing to be smelt. And now despondent Aus-
tralians begin to hope just a little for something of the
sort here.
On the Mossman River (Q.), where the
white inhabitants go to dances in a tip-dray with
a nigger to drive and curse the horse, the mild,
reliable kanaka breaks out periodically and wants
to smash things. There are 300 of him, and only
about 100 white Queenslanders ; so, if it wasn’t
for the fact that Tommy Tanna, in his festive
moments, is undecided and drunk, and spends too
much time on ornamental corrobboree before he
gets down to business, he might do a lot of
damage. One recent Saturday, about 40 gentle
heathen decided to burn down a boarding-house
with its inmates, but they spent 30 minutes in a
preliminary canter, and then armed assistance
arrived before they had quite finished tearing
down the verandah and chopping it into con-
venient fuel. So a really picturesque tragedy was
spoiled.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
R. : “ Local color—as J. Bull swallows it.
From ‘ The Blind God’s Irony,’ by A. J. Dawson
in London Sketch summer number. Two men
dine at the Cafe Anglais, in Collins-street, Melb.,
and smoke on the Cafe Anglais balcony there-
after. Well the cafe is, or was, in Collins-street,
but it never had a balcony even the size of a pill-
box. A young Englishman shows artistic talent,
and the Australasian takes him up and pays him
great prices, because a Sydney artist avers that he
has talent. So like the Smellsome city to take its
jealous cue from the harbor village. Then Melb.
Leader, the Syme-governed, starts, of all sheets
in the world, paying him fabulous prices for
dreamy verses. Then, when this artistic person’s
best girl comes out to wed him, he takes her for
an afternoon drive to Sorrento (Jfi miles), where
they meet others who have come by train (although
the railway is still 20 miles from Sorrento). And
the same evening, before midnight, the artistic
person is taking a walk in Fitzroy Gardens. Oh,
Bull! ”
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
A well-advertised. Cornstalk, promin-
ent in a certain trip ’Ome in search of Jubilee
baubles, celebrated his arrival in London by
announcing that he and his wife “didn’t want to
know any damned colonials.” The individual
upon whom he unloaded this chunk of snobbery
gasped for a moment and then blurted out, “ Why
you (parenthesis) asterisk ! you (hyphenated)
parvenu 1 You were bred and born in Australia !
You were reared on money found by Australians.
Your swelled head is bloated with champagne
paid for with Australian money ! The business
out of which you make your living is in Australia,
and depends for its success on the patronage of
Australians ! And now you come here and spit
at the men who feed you ! you ” (Left
cursing).
u
CS-O TO HELL-
ItiOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind UVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
Foe Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING.
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
-for—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
9
m
PAKRoT
#Wp%
ft,, OJ I.
V/OUNDC
(OUGMS (OLPS lc
Beware or
IMITATIONS'
MELBOURNE.
"ffifflE?
POST FREE v^»
Watches-Clocks-Jewellery- Birthday*
WEDD!l\lc l CHriSTEiIhJg PRESENTS
H NeWMAISI- l755177-FM7ARFTri Sr.
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.— -
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York stsl
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
•Rocialla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
'|-tod.alla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
) —goda.lla. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYONEY.
David graham § Co.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
<S*Otl*n)so’S —h —
—H — SOitiogS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOE,
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyWE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing: demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all staged, how-
ever caused, and restore the
iwe ar e r to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
[ Belts give a steady, sooth-
i ing current that can be felt
j by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving [
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also i
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical. ■
Address : r
GIERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking*
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia,to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tel T
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi>
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As .unscrupulous persons ar«
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
.9 _


TAKEN IN TIME.
OBSTINATE INDIGESTION BEATEN.
(Port Melbourne Standard.)
Having heard so much and so often of the won-
derful efficacy of the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, we were glad to hear of a case in our
own district in which benefit had been derived
from the use of the pills.
A representative was therefore told off to visit
the residence of Mrs. Austin, 108 City-road, South
Melbourne. It being Friday morning, this lady
was in the midst of her work when our representa-
tive called, but she expressed her pleasure at being
able to give up a few moments to extol the virtues
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. She
explained that she had not been very ill—that was,
she had not been compelled to call in a doctor,
but she had been so unwell for several months
that when she noticed the advertisement relating
to the pills she determined to give them a trial.
She complained of having suffered from severe
indigestion and drowsiness, which almost pre-
vented her from doing her daily work. Alto-
gether she had taken four boxes of the pills, and
when our representative saw her she had quite
recovered from her trouble, and her verdict was:
“The pills are grand for curing indigestion.”
From feeling miserable and being unable to do
her work, she said life was now a pleasure, and
her appearance quite justified this assertion.
This is a case which should attract the atten-
tion of housewives in general. Many such go
r\
about for
months in a
melancholy,
s e m i - (1 e-
spondent
condition.
They are not
ill enough to
call in a doc-
tor, and yet
they feel as
if they could
scarcely do
a n y t h i n g
but lay down
all day and
let the house-
work go as it
will. In time
many hus-
bands get
weary of the continued complaints of the wife,
and unhappiness creeps into the home. If such
at length to such an extent that she was quite
prostrated, and, in fact, unable to move about.
Her limbs refused their office, and she was eaten
up with almost unendurable pains. Year after
year this state of things went on, until at length,
having fairly well tried every available so-called
remedy without relief, she resorted to Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and is now
quite well again. A visit of our reporter to her
charming little cottage, which is a pattern to
those around her from its neatness and the care-
ful way in which it is kept, was prolific of much
that was interesting as well as instructive. Mrs.
Mallott detailed her former ills with a readiness
which was quite a convincing proof of her sin-
cerity, and she is indeed pointed out by all her
somewhat widely distributed circle of acquain-
tances as a notable example of what Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills will do.
“ So you think, Mrs. Mallot, that the medicine
has done you good ? ” was asked.
“ Oh, yes ; just look at me. Ido all my own
housework and attend to the garden. We grow
more than enough of vegetables for our table, and
I moan to keep off the pains for the future, I can
tell you.”
“ What induced you to take Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills first ? ”
“ I heard about some of their cures, and thought
if they didn’t do me any good they wouldn’t do
me any harm. And I was pleased to find a relief
after the first box. I kept on with them, and
found the indigestion leave me entirely, and
the rheumatism began soon to go also. I gradually
began to regain the use of my arms, and after a
while could walk about quite easily. Then I went
on getting better until I am as you see me now.”
She certainly looked, as she was told, as healthy
and fresh as her own garden, and furnishes a
striking proof of the value of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People as a curative medicine, act-
ing when the best of all other known treatments
have proved to be inoperative. The details of
the troubles experienced by the sufferer furnish
auite a volume of interesting matter, and now
tne lady has apparently not the least difficulty in
carrying out all her duties, life being apparently
a pleasure, where previously it was a burden.
She looks forward with much thankfulness to
many happy years of life, and acknowledges
heartily the blessing of passing one’s declining
days in peace.
♦
Anaemia (Bloodlessness) Cured.
The acquisition of perfect health is the aim of
everyone. A few remarks, therefore, on the sub-
any amount of out-door exercise without feeling
fatigued. I feel very grateful to Dr. Williams for
my daughter’s recovery, and would like to ha 6
the case made known, as it may induce others who
suffer as my daughter did to try this remedy to
their benefit, and thus perhaps bring sunshine and
happiness to their homes.’’
CHANGE OE LIFE.
(From the Hobart Clipper.)
Persons advancing in years, and more especially
females, are, especially in a rigorous climate like
that of Tasmania, subjected to considerable in-
firmity. In some cases the patient has suffered
from a complicity of disorders which have baffled
the skill of the medicos in attendance, and have
either eventually succumbed to the triumph of
Nature or else have settled into a chronic disease.
n i
ST
B
Ti
As a rule more
persons die at
the change of
life that at any
other period of
existence, and
even after that
time has safely
passed the ills
appearing are
frequently nu-
merous and
mysterious.
The case of
Mrs. E. Wil-
liams, under-
matron of the
Home of Mercy,
Cascades, Ho-
bart, Tasmania,
is one which in
itself offers a
fair sample of what a judicious selection of medi-
cines will do after the “regulation service” has
entirely failed. This lady some months ago
commenced to feel unwell. Nothing very
much at first—only a little, out of sorts—
and being a naturally active woman, and
of some spirit, she paid no heed to it at all.
However, after some weeks it was evident that
she was far from being well, and one morning
found herself unable to rise. Every attention
was paid her, but without avail. She fell away
in flesh, and was so weak in body and spirit as
to become an old woman long before her time.
She suffered from sharp, shooting pains in the
back and limbs, heavy throbbing aches in the
Influenza and its attendant evils
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People.
“Influenza,” said Mr. Tate, of Ithiea Cottage,
Illawarra-road, Marrickville, to a reporter, “ was
the malady with which I had to struggle. Of
course, I didn’t want to neglect my work, so I
went in just as usual. But I didn’t feel just as
usual—not by a long bit. Prior to this I had
never experienced sickness at any time in my life.
I’m naturally strong and stalwart. But after
thirty years’ immunity from trouble, influenza
gripped me, and it gripped me pretty tight.
Without warning, I suddenly became ill. I al-
ways had a first-class appetite ; it left me alto-
gether. Positively I could eat nothing at all.
Heavy headaches attacked me, and they continued
to increase in violence ; a spasm shot across my
chest and an overpowering weight oppressed me
there ; I felt a sickening coutraction of the skin
and an ominous gathering of phlegmatic matter
that choked free respiration ; my whole chest,
once firm and sound, became sore, tender, and
irritable ; I found myself unable to sleep, whilst
on top of all these strange and unaccountable sen-
sations came a sharp and persistent cough that
sucked up all my strength and stirred the phlegm,
but failed to move it. Dull, heavy, listless, faint
and aching, I went to work, and got through
somehow. How I got through, and how I felt
afterwards, you can imagine. I—can remember !
“ Take half-a-dozen boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People,” said a friend, “and you’ll
be saved.”
“It was kindly said and kindly meant. The
pills had been spoken highly of before, and I took
his advice with the result that I’m well now, and
well I intend to continue.”
“ But how soon did they affect you ? ”
“ After a few boxes had been taken I was,
honestly, completely cured. I kept on taking
them a little longer, just to make doubly sure,
but there was no necessity. I was absolutely
cured, felt tip-top, and had bade farewell to in-
fluenza and its ills. Yes,” he said, delibera-
tively, “ the marvel had been quicker that even I
had anticipated.”
“ How did you take them ? ”
“Oh ! just according to directions.”
“ And you’re sure that all your ailments dis-
appeared ? ”
“Yes!” was the good-humored reply, “I’m
dead certain of chat. Influenza, headaches, sleep-
lessness, want of appetite, listlessness, racking
KTORTH
Used
Throughout
the
World.
EAST
DR. WILLIAMS’
PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
STAIN'D UNRIVALLED.
WEST
They Have
Cured Others
and
Will Cure You.
SOUTH
cases were promptly dealt with, and this valuable
remedy, now used so extensively, were applied,
we feel certain that much misery would be
averted.
Mrs. Austin explained that we were quite at
liberty to make use of her statements, in order
that others might be benefited by following her
example in using the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.
Prostrated With Rheumatism.
AN APPARENTLY HOPELESS CASE.
THE DOCTOR FAILED.
ANOTHER HOBART CURE.
(From Hobart Clipper.)
Cases bf long standing rheumatism are always
difficult matters for the doctors to wrestle with,
and so seldom is a cure effected, or even relief ob-
tained, that as a rule such are generally considered
hopeless. Few have given even a reasonable
definition of the disease, and none seem to be well
informed upon the subject. For that reason it is
probable that the medical fraternity have been so
unsuccessful in their treatment, for until the cause
is known the remedy is difficult to seek. Patients
suffering from indigestion also complain of ex-
periencing great trouble in being relieved, the
more especially if of long standing, and from the
many evils following in the train of this trouble-
some complaint it must be looked upon as a very
serious matter indeed.
The case of Mrs. E. Mallott, of Lower Collins-
street, Hobart, Tasmania, furnishes an example
of what can occasionally be done with an obsti-
nate case of long standing disease when the pro-
per remedies are forthcoming, although the long
delay which happens frequently before the right
medicine turns up causes much hardship and ill-
ness. When she was quite a young woman she
suffered badly from attacks of indigestion. These
attacks increased in violence and frequency as
lime rolled on until she became ill. Slowly the
disease crept upon her, eating into her system
and wearing down her constitution. When the
demon rheumatism put in an appearance, her life
became unbearable. As she aged the diseases
seemed to increase, several other complaints also
being attendant upon them. She tried the best
medical skill which could be procured, but with-
out avail, and she was informed that her ailment
had become chronic. Nothing that she could do
pp •ared to have any effect in arresting the pro-
ress of the disease, and her troubles increased
ject will be acceptable to all young ladies who are
not the happy possessors of sparkling eyes and
rosy cheeks. Mrs. Bowe, of North Maldon, Vic-
toria, whose daughter, Miss May, had been
seriously ill for some time, gives the following
account of her restoration to health and strength
again :
“My daughter had been strong and healthy
until about two years ago, when she grow very
pale and thin. She became weak and low spirited,
lost her appetite ; her sleep was troubled and
restless, and the least exertion fatigued her—in
fact, she had to take her sister's arm for support
when out walking. She was of a wonderfully
active and cheerful disposition before this change
took place, and the alteration, therefore, caused
us great concern, and medical aid was sought.
But no good resulted. Several medicines were
tried, but she became weaker and more listless
every day. The doctor said she was suffering
from anaemia, or poorness of blood. We then
became seriously alarmed, and consulted different
medical men, who prescribed, and told Miss May
to take as much exercise as possible. She, being
fond of flowers, naturally turned her attention
to the garden, but had to abandon the work,
as the least exertion exhausted her. Often,
when I thought she was out taking exercise
in the fresh air, I have found her in the draw-
ing-room with her head resting in her hands,
and in a somnolent state. Then, when disturbed,
she would steal quietly to her room, and remain
there for hours at a time. At this stage we be-
came extremely anxious concerning her health,
and again sought medical advice, as we thought
she vvas going into a decline. It was of no use ;
nothing did her any good. She was then so thin
and weak that the slightest exertion tired her.
She also suffered from severe cramps in the legs.
“ Friends then recommended patent medicines,
and two or three kinds were tried, unsuccessfully.
“At last I decided to take her away to the
country for a change, but just as I was about to
do so I saw in the Tarrangower Times an adver-
tisement about Dr.. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and noticing that people with symptoms
similar to those of my daughter had been cured,
I determined to give them a trial.
“After using half a box a great improvement
was noticeable, and after using three boxes she
regained her appetite, was able to sleep with com-
fort, and was so strong and well that we con-
sidered there was no necessity for her continuing
to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. So she discon-
tinued them. I honestly believe my daughter’s
recovery was due to this great remedy. She is now
as well as ever she was in her life. She has a fine
color, is able to eat and sleep well, and can take
head, dizziness and sickness. At one time all the
symptoms of influenza were apparent, and on
being treated for this she developed other ail-
ments of such a remarkable character that it was
apparent she could not last at the rate she was
falling away. To walk was impossible, and her
friends despaired of ever seeing her about again.
Having, as she expressed it, “ pretty well ex-
hausted the pharmacopeia,” she did not know
what was to become of her, and, in fact, got into
so low a condition, to use her own words, that
she “ did not care.”
“ What I suffered,” she explained to a repor-
ter, “no one but myself can tell, for I am a
woman who never likes to give any trouble. But
I tell you that I was a wreck. I don’t look much
of a wreck now, do I ? ”
“You do not, indeed. I would say that you
are as healthy a looking woman as one would
meet in a day’s walk.”
And I feel it. I’ll do a day’s washing or
scrubbing with any woman in Tasmania, or out of
andl Wot Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People to thank for all this. lam a
favorite here with them all, and am never once
out of spirits.”
“ How did you find out about the pills ? ”
I read some of the accounts of their cures, and
being sceptical by nature, T merely said, “ Bosh 1 ”
and thought no more of it. When they were sug-
gested to me I merely laughed at the idea, and
then, being very weak and low, became irritated,
thinking they were poking fun at me. I cannot
tell you what was the matter, but I suffered from
violent fits of trembling, great shooting in the
back, head, and limbs, intense burning thirst, and
giddiness. Everyone said I would die.”
“ What induced you to take the pills at last’”
A young lady friend who visited me told me
of the good they had done her, and to oblige her I
commenced taking them. It was only, as I said
just to please her, and we kept it a secret at my
request, for fear I would be laughed at. How-
ever, to make a long story short, I took in all only
a few boxes, and here I am. The very first dose
made me feel better, and I can tell you that I am
not ungrateful The best part of it all, to my
mind, is that they have effected a permanent cure.
There are some medicines, as you well know,
which will relieve you for the time being ; in fact,
make you feel splendid, but once you stop taking
them then see where you are. It' is three months
now since I took Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
with the exception of a slight cold in the head,
caught by standing in the draught, I have never
had an ailment or an ache since. lam better than
ever I was in my life.
cough, chest-pains, weakness and phlegm all dis-
appeared as if under a magician’s wand. I was
as right, as fresh, as healthy, and as high-spirited
as I ever was in my life. _
“Of course,” he added, conscientiously, ‘ its
only a fair thing that I should tell you this after
the benefits I’ve received. My case may not have
been as severe as some, but it certainly gave my-
self and my family the greatest anxiety as my
cure gave them the greatest surprise and pleasure.
I give you these particulars exactly as they
occurred, without exaggeration and with truth in
every detail. Nor do I wish it to be exaggerated.
Indeed, there is no necessity ; the cure was a good
one, and speaks for itself. More or better I can-
not say. ”
For Men and Women—Young
and Old.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered the public
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished condition
of the Blood, or Shattered Nervous Forces, which
they will not cure if the' directions are faithfully
followed and the treatment persisted in ; they are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly
scientific preparation, the result of years of carelu
study. They have an especial action (through the
Blood) upon the Sexual Organs of both Men and
Women. It is a well recognised fact that upon
the healthy activity of the sexual apparatus
depends the mental and physical we^ u f in f ,o v,
every person come to adult years. It is that, whic
gives the rosy blush to the cheek, and the so
light to the eye of the maiden. The elastic step,
the ringing laugh, and the strong right arm o
youth own this same mainspring. How soon
irregularities rob the face of color, the eye o
brightness! The blood becomes impoverished,
the victim pale. The pallor of the skin is often
the only outward mark of the trouble wit in.
“Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
enrich the impoverished blood and then VI K
returns, and the bloom of youth again mantles
faded cheek.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People posi-
tively cure rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, an
neuralgia, and influenza’s after-effects, and are
specific for all diseases of women, such as anaemia,
poor and watery blood, female irregulari les,
nervous headache, and hysteria, and are sol y
chemists and storekeepers generally, or the ur.
Williams Medicine Company, Sydney, will tor-
ward, on receipt of stamps or post-order, one
for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 15s. 3d.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developos a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London,* -
Spring BOds BOrst
MARK FOY’S.
A RIOT OF LOVELINESS.
Fp6Re5T
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
by tl )<l
T*%D\G\L?
MofgSitofVi
FRO/A
*\LL
hotsls
fsNO —>
Spirit
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUC
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO. SYDNEY
LANS OF THE CROCODILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yesterday I said good-bye to J. 0. Heus-
sler, M.L.C., and wished the genial old Teuton
God-speed on his way to send out a cargo of im-
migrants “ made in Germany, ” fair-haired, blue-
eyed, sauer-kraut consumers such as fought under
Arminius at Teutoburg, or with which the Roman
legions of Caesar fertilised the valley of Aquae
Sextia. I can recall old Heussler delivering an
oration at the opening of Ipswich woollen-mills,
20 years ago. It was an after-dinner speech—at
that stage when the table is decorated with empty
bottles. Heussler entangled himself in a Cretan
labyrinth of mixed metaphors, and out of the
awful chaos came the following oratorical conun-
drum : —“ Yell, now, vas not vine fedders makes
vine birds, und birds mit one fedder zeet down
togedder mit one perch, und squhatters mit one
sheep ven wool vas scheeper dan beef, und dere
vas an eggsize duty on trousers und shirts und ”
here another Teuton, in a state bordering on mad-
ness, yelled out, “ Goot Gott! vat ze teufel he
vash talkin’about ? ” The audience howled, and
old Heussler smiled benevolently and subsided.
* * • *
Last week I met a retired officer of native
police, a great swell in his time, and still a high-
toned masher of susceptible barmaids. Since one
{ particular event in his own life he has never be-
ieved anything he hears about any man,
especially when a woman is concerned. He was
camped five miles outside of a north coast town-
ship, and on the awful night in question one of
his troopers was camped near him in a tent exactly
the same as his own. The trooper had a gin, an
attractive, stately aboriginal maiden named
“Albaleena.” In the night she strolled out into
the forest, doubtless for sufficient reason, and on
returning, went into the wrong tent and laid her-
self down softly by the side of the sub-inspector !
All parties overslept themselves next morning, and
when the haughty officer awoke it was to observe
Albaleena sleeping beside him, wearing only a
reed necklace, and at the door of the tent were the
faces of two ladies and two gentlemen who had
ridden out from town to make an early morning
call!! He swears that no such Dantean cloud of
gloom and horror ever hung over an innocent man
before or since !
* * * *
Governor Norman was on a visit to Chil-
ders, in the Isis Scrub, near Maryborough,
accompanied by Nick Tooth, M.L.A. A rather
rough, but friendly, crowd had gathered to wel-
come his Ex. Out of that crowd came a tall,
fierce-looking brigand, with a red shirt and mole-
skin trousers. “Are you Harry Norman?” he
observed, somewhat insolently, to the Governor.
“ That is my name,” said Norman, politely.
“ Well, I’m a red-hot American Republican ! ”
Norman extended his hand, and, in a most affable
manner, observed, “ I am delighted to meet you.
I have often wished to meet a genuine Repub-
lican, and now I am quite satisfied 1 ” This
knocked the Republican to a standstill in the first
round ; he shook hands with Norman, and walked
away. The Governor’s tact saved that particular
form of Republican from being caught in a sudden
thunderstorm, as the crowd was thirsting for his
blood.
• * * •
When Bully Palmer was Premier he
visited Maryborough and wasdriven round by Nick
Tooth, the Mayor. On passing the English church
an d the peal-of-bells tower “erected to the
Rjory of God andl the memory of Mr®; Aldridge, ’
Palmer asked, “ What s this old lighthouse?
« That is a p ’ eal of bells> » said Tooth “ Where
the Hades did you get the money from ? ” “ Oh,
that was a present from the late Aldridge.”
“What! old Teddy?” “Yes,” said Tooth,
At ?- well > a damned heavy fire-insurance, but it
wont save him! observed Palmer solemnly as
be dro ve away to look at some other local archi-
tectural monstrosity,
* « * *
A well-known Brisbane lawyer took an
office in a lace j occupied as a boot-shop. A
genial Hibernian, who had been an old customer
D f that shop and knew nothing about the change,
strolled in to the lawyer’s office and looked round
in some Burpris e. The lawyer was seated at the
table. “What moight yez be sellin’ heear ? ”
said t he descendant of one of the heroes of the
bat t le of Clontarf. “ Oh, we sell fools here,” said
t he lawyer pleasantly. “Be jabers, yir doin’ a
moig h t /foine trade whin yiv only wan left,” said
the visitor still more pleasantly, and the lawyer
realised that he had accumulated a balance on the
wrong side.
* * * •
The death of ex-Chief Justice Lilley recalls the
first Chief Justice in Australia—Forbes, who
arrived in Sydney on March 5, 1824, the year that
saw the first Australian Supreme Court and first
Leg. Council. That year also started the convict
settlement at Morton Bay, on the site of the pre-
sent marine watering place called Humpy Bong
(from “Oompee,” a camp, and “bong,” dead,
“ houses dead ”), the name given by the blacks to
the buildings deserted by the convicts when they
went to the new settlement where Brisbane now
stands.
*_ * * *
And this also recalls the fact that Chief
Justice Forbes wanted Sir Thomas Brisbane to
call the settlement “ Edenglassie,” after his own
birthplace, and the Queensland capital had a
narrow escape from that Caledonian baptism,
* » * *
It may seem incredible that any man was
ever fj ned j n an y p ar fc Q f the British Empire for
calling another a “Christian.” The chief char-
acters in this unprecedented and unparalleled
judicial drama were Charles H. Buzaoott, late
editor of the Brisbane Courier, Dr. Candiottis
(“ Candiottis the Greek ”), late medico at Cler-
mont, and Griffin, the gold-commissioner who
was hanged at Rockhampton for the cold-blooded
murder of constables Power and Cahill at the
crossing of the Mackenzie River. The scene was
in Clermont, in 1866. In Buzaeott’s employ was
a servant-girl who refused to accept notice to leave.
This Amazonian young person formed herself into
a hollow square and defied the whole Buzacottian
household. Buzacott went for a policeman, and
the belligerent slavey was arrested. A procession,
consisting of the young lady, the policeman, and
Buzacott started for the lockup. As they passed
the surgery of Candiottis, the descendant of
Hippocrates shook his clenched fist and hissed
through his clenched teeth in melodramatic
ferocity, “ Mister Buzacott, you are a Kerrristian !
you are a Kerrr-ist-ian ! ” Buzacott summoned
him for abusive language, and Candiottis was
tried before Commissioner Griffin, and actually
fined jive poundsl In ’64, when Buzacott was
starting the Peak Downs Telegram, a subscrip-
tion was raised to assist him, and Griffin headed
the list with £5.
* * * *
Travelling recently on the way to Charle-
ville, on the Warrego, my train-companion from
Toowoomba to Warra was old Edward Bassing-
thwaighte, of Jinghi-Jinghi station (pronounced
Jing-gie-jing-gie), one of the finest old fellows,
and also one of the most interesting men I have
ever met in Queensland. This venerable pioneer-
ing old warrior was born at Gravesend in June,
1822, and came to Sydney in 1834 by the David
Scott. His memory was phenomenally clear.
When a young man he went to Goulburn and took
charge of Campbell’s Winglo station. He told me
he was one of the first, if not actually the first,
man to put bells on cattle and horses. He bought
them by weight at Dan Cooper’s store (“Big
Cooper’s ”), and they cost ss. 6d. each. He put
them on with dog-chains and padlocks. Bullock-
teams were fitted with oak yokes and wooden
bows of small saplings bent in the fire. Cows
and bullocks were often yoked together. There
were no horse teams, as horses were too expen-
sive ; draught horses were not obtainable for
years after for less than .£lOO each. The freight
from Cooper’s store to “ Arthursleigh,” Ranken’s
place, 112 miles on the Goulburn road, was £2B
per ton. The drays took 50cwt. and the journey
occupied about 10 days in fair weather. When
Ebsworth started his boiling-down at Twofold
Bay there were no casks obtainable, and fat was
sent to Sydney in the paunches of sheep and bul-
locks and sewn up in the hides.
* * * *
Good old Bassingthwaighfce ! He is one
of the last of a race of pioneers unhappily almost
extinct. He told me he never had any collision
with the blacks and never shot one in all his life.
He and the aboriginal trusted each other. Ido
not remember any really humane man with the
natural instinct, and delicate sensibilities, and
just sympathies of a gentleman who ever had any
serious trouble with the Australian aboriginal.
• * * *
A recent reference to Governor Eyre, the
explorer who made that mad journey along the
Great Australian Bight, recalls a fact I found
among some ancient official correspondence. In
1844 Eyre offered the N.S. Wales Government to
undertake an expedition from Morton Bay to
Port Essington. He wrote that he would require
17 men, and the cost would be £5OOO. The offer
was not accepted, and Leichardt stepped into the
arena and started with five white men and two
aboriginals. One white man, Gilbert, was speared
on the Nassau, but Leichardt got through to Port
Essington with the balance of his party, and
entirely at his own expense.
* * * *
In after years Eyre, unfortunately, became
Governor of Jamaica, and was there during the
massacres of 1865. The records of those massacres
are amongst the most disgraceful in the history of
British colonies. The Athenaeum ol K g period
thus referred to them :
Such a crime as the Jamaica massacres, assuming Mr.
Eyre’s own reports to be true and his fears justified, has
not been committed in the name of England for a
hundred years. If the story which has reached our
shores be true in mass and detail, the Outrage is unutter-
able —all but inconceivable ; and, unless the offence is
promptly disowned, denounced, and punished, our
honorable name in the world will have received a stain
which twenty generations will not suffice to clear away.
And already—in one generation—the world has
mercifully forgotten those massacres and all
their dreadful details, and, in Australia, Eyre
himself is known chiefly to schoolboys as the man
who gave his name to Eyre’s Peninsula and made
a sensational exploring expedition which, like the
conversation, “ started from no premises and came
to no conclusions.”
Lupus pilum mutat, non mentcm.
MAROOGALINE.
Mullens ' Theory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were seated round the fire in the big, cheer
less bar of the Diggers’ Rest at Pianbong, dis-
cussing the origin of the human species. The
stranger had just argued in favor of the Dar-
winian theory.
“ Well, I never ’eerd tell on Darwin afore,”
said old Dolph, who was rouseabout at the pub.,
“so I can’t say nothin’ about man ’avin’ sprung
from a hape, but a mate o’ mine—’is name ’twuz
Mullens—as wuz a reel smart cove, ’ad this ’ere
theery—’e rackoned as Gawd made man ; thet is,
Hadam, ’n after ’e goes and puts ’im in the
Garden o’ Heden, ’e sees as ’ow man couldn't live
’ithout woman. So 'e qui’tly cops a rib outer
Hadam’s body, and leaves a hangel in oharge o’
the bleedin’ bone, atellin’ ’im to be asure
’nd watch it. Well, after Gawd goes away,
sayin’ as ’ow ’e’ll be back in the whiskin’
’uv a yow’s tail, the hangel goes ter sleep.
A bloomin’ monkey ’appens to be anigh, ’nd
twiggin’ o’ the hangel asleep, ’e collars the
rib, ’nd makes off fer a tree, the hangel ’appens ter
wake ’nd sees ’is nibs amakin’ off with the rib, so
’e makes a rush fer ’im, ’nd the monkey, ’e wuz
climbin’ the tree like blazes, when the hangel grabs
’is tail ’nd ’angs on like the devil, ’til the tail
breaks, ’nd down came the hangel ’nd tail, a sol-
licker. Gawd comes along ’mediately after, ’nd
’e, not anoticin’ the diff’renee atween Hadam’s
rib ’nd the monkey’s tail, jist wires in ’and makes
a woman out on it. W’ich haecounts fer the
female sects bein’ so mischevious l So, anyroad,
thet there Darwin ’nd Mullens’ theeries wuz
someth’n’ alike.”
As nobody seemed disposed to discuss Mullens’
acrobatic theory, Dolph merely remarked, after
emptying his pint, “Thet beer’s damned ’ard—
’twants plenty chewin’.”
CUMBO.


Are you blessed with
IF SO,
Our Suitable Suits
a Strong at Knee and Stout
at Elbow, to fit 8 to 12 years,
HALF-GUINEA,
are well worth seeing at
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street (Only)
(Economy is Nature’s first law).
P.S. & N.B.—We have also School Suits at a Crown (55.).
fc-Ti
m
m
m
•f/.v
«
il
! /M
m
¥
'//.
w
y/A
'/A
■m
m
?//
w
m
pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion,”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
The Might Have Been.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They met one golden afternoon,
And looked in one another’s eyes ;
They mingled glances till the moon
In creamy raptures soothed the skies.
They talked of love, and called it best,
And, wise in woman’s art to stain
A white life red with love, she drest
Her face in smiles, and like a chain
Her hair of gold she wound about
A brow that was as white as snow,
And lightly pearly teeth let out
Low song and soft, and laughter low.
The unkissed curves of her rich lips
Burned redder, till they seemed to him
Intense as coral veins that ships
In Island seas see under them.
He talked of Fame, and schooled his heart
To scouting of pink-bosomed love;
They rose and went their ways apart,
And clear the white moon shone above.
And now years go, and now they meet ;
The wonder of her face is gone;
And he is old, with leaden feet,
And heart long dead and turned to stone.
- She stretched to him a thin white hand,
And laughed (such laughter cometh wet
From some salt-strewn and starless land
Where grows the bitter weed —Regret).
‘* How fared it since ? ” her white lips said.
He answered : “ Tired of Time’s small jars !
The best of all my days are dead,
And pale and sick are sun and stars.”
She smiled : “But you have gained a name.”
He answered : “ ’Tis a worthless prize;
Paid love for it and missed true fame.”
His starved eyes looked into her eyes.
“ Too true,” she said; “ the way to win
Best wreath of all—my lips told true ;
And now that you have seen your sin
These withered breasts cry shame on you!
“ Here on their snow, the long sweet night,
Your head had softly lain at rest,
And you had gladdened at the sight
Of secret soul and self expressed.
“ But all is lost—too late ! too wise !
Bend down and shudder and behold
Your unborn children in these eyes—
The might-have-been ! —the more than gold.”
RODERIC QUINN.
“Wait till we get the motion carried, be-
fore we move any amendments on it.” — Malvern
(Vie.) Shire President.
A Singular Chain of Events.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Monday, the darkey, who was sauntering
through the open forest in the aimless way pecu-
liar to blacks, nevertheless keeping a sharp look-
out for any signs or tokens which might eventually
lead to the filling of his empty stomach, suddenly
came upon something which at once excited within
him visions of tobacco, dreams of small silver
coins, and after-thoughts of rum. It was a white
man’s saddle - pouch. It had evidently been
wrenched violently from the saddle, for the saddle
D’s were torn out, and the leather had been
bruised and scraped by a limb.
The nigger, of course, looked at the tracks.
The horse had been galloping and came from the
direction of a big scrub, and the pouch had evi-
dently been half torn away by being caught in a
branch in the scrub. It had finally been dropped
as the horse galloped through the open country.
There were no other tracks, nor marks of either
horses or cattle.
The blackfellow was fairly intelligent, and
understood the ways of whites. Somebody had
come to grief in the scrub. He started to run the
tracks back, to find the man. The pouch was a
good one, and the indistinct visions of tobacco and
grub grew more vivid, for the owner was in a
position to reward him with both.
He reached the scrub and ere long arrived at
the place where a brigalow sapling had caught the
Eouch and done the mischief ; but there was no
elpless rider with a broken leg nor any sign of a
spill. There were no foot-tracks. The black kept
on, and, by the time the sun was low, it was evi-
dent that the tracks of the horse came from Serano
station.
Hence arose a difficulty. He was not on speak-
ing terms with the people of Serano. In fact,
owing to his weakness for appropriating unat-
tached articles, he had been rudely chased off with
a whip, and forbidden to show his face there again.
On investigating the pouch, Monday was well
recompensed. Not only was there tobacco and a
bright silver match-box, but there was also a
silver-mounted meerschaum pipe in a case. He
spat in the direction of Serano station and sat
down and filled his pipe, as he now considered it.
There were other things in the pouch. A case
made of the same stuff as the pipe-case, and con-
taining a gold watch and chain. A piceaniny
watch such as he had never seen before, but
certain to be exchangeable for many little silver
coins. There were also some letters, but these
naturally did not interest Monday.
* * * *
When young Wilkins, the Sydney jackaroo,
began his course of “ experience ” on Serano, he
naturally thought the knowledge of how to crack
a stockwhip was the very first requisite of a bush
education. He was not particular as to the selec-
tion of a site for practising, and chose one imme-
diately behind a horse hung up to the garden
fence. This horse was a highly nervous animal,
belonging to Mr. John Jackson, who was on his
return to his own station (Jincanjin), and had
stayed a few minutes for a drink and a cigar.
The horse broke the bridle, jumped the paddock
fence, and made straight for home as though the
devil was after him, frightening himself more
with every step he made. The usual trouble
followed, and Jackson finally reached his own
place to find his horse and saddle there, but the
saddle-pouch, containing his wife’s watch and
chain, which he had taken to town to have her
monogram engraved on, was gone, nor could it be
found on tracking up the horse. Mrs. Jackson,
who was savagely jealous, said that it was a most
symmetrical story, but she, for one, did not
believe it—he had, no doubt, given the watch to
some other woman, and until that creature was
found, and sentenced to at least fifty years’ gaol,
she would never know peace, and Jackson would
know what Sheol was like.
* ♦ * •
Following on the course marked out by a
relentless Fate, the blackfellow disposed of the
watch to a traveller, who, in turn, started a spree
at the public-house half-way between Jincanjin
and the township, and traded it away, in the
absence of the landlord, to the landlord’s wife.
She was a stylish-looking woman in her way,
dashing in dress and popular; moreover, one of
Mrs. Jackson’s pet aversions.
Of course, the complication was bound to come
out in time. Mrs. Jackson wanted to go south to
recruit her shattered health, and poor, hunted
Jackson was only too ready to let her go. Mrs.
Jackson always passed the half-way house on her
road up and down, and camped out, but on this
occasion it rained unexpectedly, and they had to
put up there.
“My dear,” she said, when relating the awful
incident to her particular crony, “ that brazen
thing had the audacity, the insolence, to come in
to me, to ask if I was comfortable, wearing my
watch and chain.” Words cannot describe the
scene which occurred when this took place. Both
the women participants in the row had tempers.
Jackson and the landlord of the halfway-house
were naturally peace-loving men, but, urged on
by the taunts of their respective wives, they en-
gaged in combat and hurt one another. At last
the Jacksons drove away in the rain, and about
ten cross-summonses were taken out.
The traveller was found, and so, too, was the
blackfellow. The traveller, fearing that he
might get into trouble for not reporting the dis-
covery of so valuable an article of jewellery in the
Eossession ,of a blackfellow, swore strictly that
e knew nothing about it, had never seen the
watch in question, nor the blackfellow. The
blackfellow, who was not allowed to swear, made
statements which did credit to the fertility of the
aboriginal imagination. He persisted, first of all,
that he got the watch from a young black-gin in
the camp, and that he saw Mr. Jackson give it
to her. Then he said that the horse gave him
the watch, and the traveller took it from him.
He also found the horse, with the watch and chain
round its neck, and took them off and hung them
up on a brigalow tree, and when he came back
they were gone ; but, throughout all, the existence
of the pipe and its belongings was ignored by him,
nor could the pouch and letters be found.
Mrs. Jackson took to her lawyers, and the land-
lord of the halfway-house took to jealousy and
drink. The lady rather confused matters by
insisting on the production of the young black gin
in court as further evidence of Jackson’s profligacy,
and some leaves of letters have turned up, tending,
in Mrs. Jackson’s opinion, to still further implicate
her unfortunate husband, although he stoutly
avers that the only letters he had in his pouch were'
for the station-hands generally. A battered
jackeroo, named Wilkins, has been returned to
Sydney as quite unsuited for the bush, and a
simple child of Nature, in the seclusion of his
sylvan camp, smokes his tobacco in a silver-
mounted meerschaum, which he keeps strictly
hidden from the eye of civilisation.
D.
The Danger in India.
■‘Scotty the Wrinkler” discursively holdB
forth : —
“Mokanna,’* in The Bulletin of 28th ult., has spoken
the warning that it is not too late even now to publish.
Any Eastern traveller or student knows that at every step
he is jarring against the customs, religion, and hereditary
feelings of both Hindu and Mussulman, perhaps even in a
worse degree with the latter than the former. ■>
Having lived among both, I know that, whenever they
dare, they mock and jeer at our habits, dress, and alleged
religion. The Hindu papers throw slurs at the treatment
of the Moslem by the Feringhee, and the Mahomedans
return the shots by saying that all the Hindoo castes are
broken daily and hourly by the pig and beef-eating
Belaitee-log.
Once, with the police-officer of Mooltan, Mr Tucker I
visited a village just on the borders of a native state and
found it empty, but on a dunghill at the bank we found
the residents with a sort of Punch and Judv show takin"
off the connubial habits of the whites, or Gora-log The
punishment was quick, and, as my horse was lame, I took
the head offender’s stallion for my next stage, making him
walk alongside. “
But all this does not warrant the continual abuse
and beating of natives who don’t understand what
is wanted of them. Sir Donald M‘Lkod, once Governor
of the Punjab hauled me up for an article on
the text, That s a good stick for beating a
nigger with.” He understood their feelings and ex-
plained that even in joke they must not be interfered
with. Then, again, you can’t help interfering with them
Sometimes, like Artemus Ward’s bear, they must be
fondled with a club. I travelled through Cashmere and
the Punjab with one of the Campbells (of course he was
from Argyleshire), and, although they all appeared to
like him, I dreaded his iron hand. His principle was
Jedburgh justice, and I believe he was right These
Indian hawkers (mostly Sikhs about the Murray) must be
doing incalculable harm in their journeys to and fro
They must tell how the women and girls here cotton to
them and like them better than white visitors. It is no
use their denying it. I fancy I hear some women I know
contradicting this, but “if you want to rile anyone tell
him the truth.” It is disgraceful that vermin-covered
black sneaks should be harbored in the house, when the
white trash are relegated to the barn and cart-shed, but
that such is the case any sundowner will tell you. Again
I hear some of these nigger-loving women defend-
ing the practice by saying that the poor Indian is
trying to make an honest livelihood, as if the whaler
also is not looking for a chance to do the same. All this
is carefully told with variations at Jallundhurand Lahore.
The accounts of the modus vivendi of the noble John
Austrabull must show that he’s not a “ great lord and
ruler of the country and the heavens above,” as they call
us in ordinary address in the Punjab. The insulting-
(from an Asiatic view) language used by them, unless in
presence of someone who has been in India, would have
them stiffened and kicked if within 20 coss of a canton-
ment or Kutcherry. But when the ordinary citizen of
this commonwealth allows his sister to “ buy with him,
sell with him, talk with him,” and does not damage his .
boot on “him,” it is as well not to think of Alien Ex-
clusion Acts, and besides is “ he ” not a man and a
brother, if not a Christian. Lastly, I consider it a stand-
ing insult to the nation that Queen Victoria is always
attended by niggers, however good. It is allowable to
have a not-too-intimate John Brown, but, except when
journeying in the East, to be shadowed by coolies puts
one in mind of the time when ladies had negro dwarf
caddies and other queer things.


BLOOD PURIFIED. WEIGHT INCREASED.
Health Completely Restored.
Col. Jftfl. H. Carmichael, a Distinguished member of the Staff of the
Governor of Massachusetts, and whose portrait is here reproduced,
heartily recommends Ayer's Sarsaparilla.
%
< V,. I
fTx
fa
%
7
-**l have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with markedly beneficial results.
When I began using it 1 was very much out of nealth, and had lost a good
deal in weight. My blood was in an unhealthful condition, which was made
manifest in several unpleasant ways. Soon after commencing the use of
the Sarsaparilla I began to improve, my weight increased, and before very
long my health was completely restored. I heartily recommend AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA.”
The above testimonial from the gallant Colonel, and the many thousands
of others received from all parts of the world, are incontrovertible evidence
of the wonderful efficacy of AYER’S SARSAPARILLA as a blood purifier
and health restorer.
“ Imitation is the .sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worthless
imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is on the wrapper, and blown
ill the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Se Co., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
Leading Hotels.
EMPIRE ~zz~ HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CbntramiY Situated.
Terms:
From 10s, per Day. and
£2 l6s. per Week.
A. L, Peacock, Manager.
HOTEL . .
VICTORIA *
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES - - Pboprietob.
beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
fhcice sree puncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jaok and see for yourselves.
▼W6 GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.RO.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
K STOYK,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOT-E L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
TATTERSALL’S MOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
South. Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P^echam’s
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chilis, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Did, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
V
V
A,
/
l\u
\
\. i
t
ii m
VII,
Y
mi
r
CONSOLATION.
Doctor : “ Well, madam, how are you to-day ? "
ATatiam : “ Oh, doctor, I have frightful pains all over my whole body, and it
seems impossible to breathe ; of course I can’t sleep, and I have no
appetite at all."
Doctor : “ Urn—er—well, otherwise you’re all right, aren’t you ?”
TiOOK OF NATURE
'" —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, com.■ ■ ..ion, thirty
highly-spiced tides, pn-t free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by D ■ Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours op Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koctt, post free, Is 3d.
komancb OF A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Merrie England, by post 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptamrron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Macpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou's Harem, post free Is 6d.
Short Stories ok Love and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, liy Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabslais, faithfully translated from
the French, 422 pages. Full-page illustrations by
Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One's Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post. Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVtCT SYSTEM
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d,


r-THE-^
Ballet <sirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domea-
tic life
Post Free 1/-,
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERT
—AEE —
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
/SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
THE BLOCK,”
03 York Street, 3YD3XTEY. Collins Street, MIELBO^RKTE!.
Wortl)iQgtoQ PCitppiQg Eog!i)e Corppapy.
(Australasian Branch.) SimpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
Clarence-st.,
WORTHI NGTON
trade mark*
Sydney, N.S.W.
RKUUEAR PATTERN.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terraoe,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
lEEsjpt in Stools:.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
yj
C 0
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies) ; the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) :
REFRIGERATION ; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal plaoes of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King - Street and 23 Royal Arcade —for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
SEND ORDERS TO THE
Agents Everywhere.
KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARB >UR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
SOM€TNIN<S QUIT€ N€W!!
FOR THREADING PIPE.
as
lX ! *
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINART
THE
OSTER PfITEIT IDJUSTHBCE ME STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With. Quick-Opening and Self Cer.tering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off* from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking Powder>
X INSOLVENT ESTATE
WEADON, THOMAS * CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
leach, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal fo'r quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 los ea. complete.
8 Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usjial price £6, reduced £2 7s'6d each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, redueed £4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, wdl kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5,
red-ioed £5 5s each.
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoQQifygtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURB ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic).
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQiQgtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.
