

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEARER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ok& TWO SEAS JOBACCQ.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<RAck»CK>
_V^o
fly °
%
R, A- HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Stdnbt.
GIBSON, BATTLE &. CO.J
85 Pitt-st, SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Rcston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam , driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured hy Thomas Broadbknt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wii)€ & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACK AY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid. Luncli for Is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence 10/- per day.
Before vijifing rhe Gt/ wife to iKe Manager for
Card ejTariff. Correspondence promptly amended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BXIISBiLINrB.
Under Distinguished Patronage. ,
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
TIEUE - -
<£rosVsoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDNEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
TTbUAu/U
THE
RED BIRD
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
THE
Best
icycle
uilt
M
\% \\ i
m
VI\W
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots
f MELBOURNE.
\ ADELAIDE.
I WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lod., lid., la.
Large gtoeks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNEUS,
162 Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EbfSWAN
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EH & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SEP” Poverty U?»o±xxt;©x*sj
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
ch 4ftVers towers.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL*
HOJ3AKT.
——
HADLEY'S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Visitors to
■■■ Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.’
PLRTYPUS BRRNP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.'
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CI6ARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yol i B.—jN o. 902 ,
| Saturday, May 2d,
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'2J. KOUGB ROBhRTSON & CO.
ALtCX. iIONKiOMEHVs -TORIES (from Tub Bulls-
tin : m ice, Is. 6i1.; pouted, Ik. 9d.
TALES OF THE OL>> REGIME (new series, from Thj
Hullktin , hy Price Warunjf; price, 25.; post-free,
2*. 6d.
MOS MN s r,v YNE, hy Roderic Ouiun ; price, 2a. 6d.
ponied, 2-. Ihd.
Write to us for any Bool: or Magazine you want.
A. G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors a vised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE APDRESS TO THE QUEEN
. . . FROM BOTH HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT
rS^S°i n 8 °LTtI & -l **• RfilGX, wax seconded by an ho,
sn)km S any differences of opinion. A s „k; t'\ Oeo '' s '"" on they could all in
opinions never differ, viz., the superb smoking cpia’l'ities of 1 ' is ,l mAttel ' 011 wlliall
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
THE RED PAGE.
Albert Hanson’s exhibition of p lC tures and
sketches at Bridge-street, Sydney, is full of ex-
nlp^Q 68 de * terous ar t as a colourist. His
pleasant little pieces such as “The Land of
K.vpt and “In the Gulf of Suez” seem to have
acnieved exactly the right quality of light and
atmosphere. Through all Mr. Hanson’s work 1
indeed, runs a vein of natural charm which needs
only a little addition of intensity and power to
make hi a pictures really fine. And- hiHlack?
and-white is quite admirable.
* * * *
Apropos Aubrey Beardsley : There is a sketchv
uncritical notice of him in March Idler &
trated by a good portrait and many more examples
of his work than it was possible to give in Thk
Bulletin. Beardsley is represented as now dying
of consumption—at 23 years of age. He always
works by candlelight—“if I want to work in the
daytime I have to pull the blind down ar|d get
my candles in order before I begin.” (This ac-
cords with George Meredith's idea that the
brain does its best work in a dim light;
and the principle is correct, for glare,
like noise, absorbs cerebral energy and
makes concentration more difficult.) “Of course,
I have but one aim—the grotesque. If lam not
grotesque lam nothing. Apart from the gro-
tesque I suppose I may say that people like my
decorative work, and that I may claim to have
some command of line.” “ How many of our
young English impressionists know the difference
between a palette and a picture—save and except
Walter Sickert ? ” “Tomy mind there is nothing
so depressing as a Gothic cathedral. I hate to
have the sun shut out by the saints.” “ When an
Englishman has expressed his belief in the supre-
macy of Shakespeare amongst poets, he feels him-
self entirely excused from the general study of
literature. He also feels himself entirely excused
from tlm particular study of Shakespeare.”
“ Turner is only a rhetorician in paint. That is
why Buskin understood and liked him.”
♦
Roderic Quinn—born in Sydney, of Irish
parents—is 28 years old, with a weak chest.
Sydney air seems to suit the tubercle bacillus ad-
mirably ; and the local prevalence of phthisis and
phthisic tendencies —just now a current topic—
helps to sharpen wits and accentuate artistic ten-
dencies. For, in some not-understood way, the
consumptive constitution is allied with that con-
dition of the blood or brain most favorable to
imaginative achievement. As A. Mary F. Robin-
son says in her memoir of ‘ Emily Bronte,’ ‘ In-
sanity and genius stand on either side consump-
tion, its worse and better angels. Let none call
it impious or absurd to rank the greatest gift to
mankind as the occasional result of an inherited
tendency to tuberculous disease.’ Roderic Quinn’s
two brothers have literary tastes and are engaged
in literary pursuits, but with stronger chests
they have less imaginative power.
* * » *
When to a weak chest you add Celtic ancestry
you get a very promising artistic temperament.
Roderic Quinn’s mind transmutes all its impres-
sions poetically, with the peculiar Celtic bias
towards the uncanny and the weird. He runs
instinctively to rhetoric; and his rombustious,
periwig-pated prose sometimes reads stagey and
unreal. Thus his new book, ‘ Mostyn Stayne ’
(Geo. Robertson and Co.), opens—
The Mac Donnell Ranges lift purple peaks in a remote
region. They rise in a land of thirst, where white man’s
foot seldom falls.
No tourist visits them. Who essays the task oft re-
turns not. Yet to some they are ringed with fatal
allurement, such as whitens round the poles.
Jorkins, the Crown explorer, fell beneath their bewitch-
ment.
And so on. The staccato statement, the affected
phrasing—the ‘essays,’ the ‘oft returns not,’
the bewitchment’ in contrast with ‘Jorkins’
—grate on a cool ear and taste. And the worst
of it is that the author cannot always maintain his
style at the artificial Stevensonian level. When
his new wine gets into the old bottles the
bottles burst with disastrous results to the
reader. Phrases like ‘ one hand I inserted ’ (p. 62)
0,1 her incidental fighting having been done ’
(p. 69), give one a picture of a rude modern boy
thrusting a stick between the strutting i.ero’s legs
bringing him ingloriously to earth. These
lapses spoil some of the author’s most charm-
ing pictures. E.g. (p. 82)-‘I hid in shade,
waiting to glimpse [‘glimpse’ is irritating]
my love. She carne at last, attired [‘ attired ’
is awkward with ‘ bright ’ following] in bright
blue, flushed and beautiful as a tropic dawn. She
was tall and long of limb, and the curves of her
body were sweetened [delicious word !] by the
droop and cling of her robing. A music lurked in
her movement and her eyes ’’—what of her eyes *
her eyes [ O stale journalese !] sparkled with ex-
citement. Quinn was quite capable of inventing
fafled fcl him lraBe t 0 ° loBe the paBsaKß s but his art
* « » *
9nPh M* ib ! ta " dB , fcc [ him ’ Sydney ‘ Telegraph ’of
May printed this paragraph—
When the ship Jessotnene, which arrived yesterday
from Sharpness, was in the North Atlantic, a peculiar
phenomenon oc,-erred. The Jessomene was sailing with
a fresh north-east trade wind when suddenly she became
enveloped in a thick haze, and immediately afterwards a
fine red dust settled on the ship. Decks, rising and
satis were covered, and the sight is described by those on
board as being a most remarkable one.
See now how Quinn’s gifts of vision and lan-
guage turn a similar incident to gold-
I started up and saw a stately sloop a ship's length from
he wreck, nsing and falling on the ware. The morninc
sight. WaS ° n h 6r ’ a “ d reVealed a stran K e and splendid
Her sails were red, her ropes were beaded as with
rubies, her sides ran blood. At every roll she showed a
g istening deck, on which guns were mounted. A flag
of what nation I did not know-trailed from her stern
And it too had been soaked by that red rain, or rain of
blood, that followed the great wind many years ago.
* * • ,
Much of the matter of ‘ Mostyn Stayne ’ is no
convonciiiV l't Bnt as a wh(de « u„-
EnJl sb hL T ds l,kean echo of the current
English historical romance, mimicking the man-
nerisms of Stevenson. The w „, , ,
the author has n.ver he,,,
it,should beasconvineingas it is i« i .
short stories are more successful'. r,ck Quito
verses as verses, than ‘ Mostyn" St- f orits >bii
story. Nevertheless, ‘ Mostyn S& a H
greater capacity than anythin* y ? e exl| ibita
accomplished—for its slighter r*- 6 Se lle ha
a higher and more considerable field' 8 q W
performance, it is brilliantly promising a * s
One can pleasantly renew m,
favorites in A T. Quiller-Couch?s,nT ~° f ol <i
of English Sonnets,’ but oomnara L f'****
the similar treasuries of Willi ~ c y w 'tb
others the book has little value K “ P
new moderns are represented—the ne , oftll#
apparently stopped short on the 1 r ha ving
right. His introduction to” mlft ° f <%■
Sharp and Mark Pattisom Quert. W\ aBes
Drayton s masterpiece as well-known wit ?' chael
—the most passionately magnificent tdesetf e»
language? K e nt sonnet m tfi e
Since there's no help, oome let us kiss and ,
Nay, I have done, you get no more ot ml
And I am glad, yea, glad with all my heart ’
■ That thus so cleanly I myself can free • ’
Shake hands for ever, cancel all our vows
And when we meet at any time again ’
Be it not seen in either of our brows ’
That we one jot of former love retain
N th u 6 ' aSt SaBp ° f Love ’ 8 ,ateBt breath
When, his pulse failing, Passion speechless il„
" hen Faith is kneeling by his bed of death ’
And Innocence is closing up his eyes '
Now, if thou wouldst, when all have given him „
F rom death t 0 life thou mightst him yet recover™'
How grandly the monosyllables roll i with l
a noble intensity, what tingW
the side of this Rossetti’s conceite and 4 ■
Wordsworth’s sweet philosophical
pear suddenly thin and tame, mere raocS'S
such vital majesty. K 9UDB of
Mammal : ‘ Considering ‘ TrooDer P«to, u ,
ket, I find quite a lot of between 's£
Schreiner and Annie Besant • and becil i, n ,
, th ®. f ° rrn ?F will drop, like the Uttar frj
that high eminence ’ of reason into the abyss S
hysterical religion. D d you consider J
imposture of “certain ; iCTttIR
eke out Peter Halket’s ’ argument? Eg
Certain men slept upon a plain, and the night was chill
and dark And, as they s.ept, at that hour rten „i!
his h r u °"f r , red - Far off 10 the «*wud, through
h.s half-closed fyehds, he saw, as it were, one faint line
thin as a hair s width, that edged the hill top. And he
whispered in the darkness to his fellows: ‘The dawn is
connng.* But they, with fast-closed eyelids, murmured,
He lies, there is no dawn.’
Nevertheless, day broke.
Among the other 1 Dreams ’ this would tfo well
enough, for it would purport to be nothing more
than a parable of the thing that may be. Or if
introduced as is the story of the Hunter in ‘An
Atrican P arm there would be no jarring, But
when it is placed among matters of fact, as if to
support reasoning based on fact, there is no sense
m it, no relevancy. Take it this way—
Certain men walked upon a plain, and the day was warm
and bright. And, as they walked, one looked up, and
saw that the sun had passed- its zenith and was sink-
ing m the west. And he whispered to his fellows: ‘Tha
night is coming.’ But they, with eyes fined upon the
plain bathed in brilliant sunshine, murmured:‘He lies,
there is no night.’
t evertheless,- the sun set.
I his is just as valuable an argument or illustra-
tion as the other. But, like the' other, it has no
anchorage in experience or knowledge—is quite
arbitrary. One story is good only'till the other
is told. In ‘The Innocents At Home 1 Clemens
tells a yarn about an old admiral who voyaged
with him to Honolulu, and made the smoking-
room miserable with political arguments from a
secession periodical called ‘The Old Guard.’ If
the argument he wanted wasn’t in ‘The Old
Guard,’ be would supply it himself out of abound-
fill fancy, inventing history, names, dates, and
everything eGe necessary to make his point good.
He terrorised the ship until a quiet passenger
turned up who manufactured opposition history
with even more convincing detail, referring for
proof to copies of ‘ The Old Guard ’ known not to
be u: the admiral’s possession. Then tha admiral
wilted like a paper-collar in New Guinea—it’s a
splendid yarn. And just so Olive Schreiner would
be bowled out every time by a better inventor
than bets If,’
A Plea for Andrew Lang.
Writes Frank Morton—
A recent Red Page paragraph seemed to join with
George Moore in rather depreciating Andrew Lang. I
differ. I decline resolutely to be convinced, for instance,
that A.L. “ has lost caste with the younger men.” (With
the youngest, possibly. That was to be expected.) For
Andrew Lang is one of the most characteristic and most
loveable figures in modern letters. Likely, too, that he
will prove one of the most permanently popular—always
admitting certain definite limitations.
* • » »
Andrew Lang has been an omnivorous reader, with a
remarkable faculty for the assimilation and reten-
tion of good things. He is almost uniquely versatile;
but in his versatility, or the evidences of it,
there lies no trace of the deadly “smartness” and the
wire-drawn “cleverness” of this tremendous day. A
preeminently kindly and sympathetic critic, always; a
romanticist of the innermost circle, now happily becom-
ing restricted ; an optimist of the optimists. No wonder
the youngest men, who have their intervals of insight, do
not always like him. The younger men, and others their
elders, value a man for what he is; the youngest moodily
condemn him because of what he fails to be. There lies a
great distinction.
* * * *
Andrew Lang is more than a dilettante, a me
dabbler in the pleasant trivialities of Letters,
understands English, and cau use it as few livin j
men have been able to do. A masterly stylis i,
with a style delightful in its limpid lucidity am
consistent brilliancy and firm dexterity of touc 1.
Further, ordinary ineffective translators are as plentif
to-day as New Women, and even a little more irritatin
Andrew Lang is one of the best and ablest. In th
adaptation of old French verse he stands almost alon
for he invariably preserves the form of the origins
Viewed at large, indeed, there is a piquant Gallic touc
in everything he does. But give him French verse, no ;
too modern—the verse, say, of Ronsard, or Villon, or D
Bellay, or (among the moderns) Murger—and you hav
him immediately and delightfully at home.
* * * *
Yet more frequently pleasing are some of Mr. Lang
original essays in French verse forms. For the real intr
duction of these forms into popular English, I believe h
divides the honors pretty equally with Austin Dob
son. The triolet, the rondeau, the rondel, the villanell
the alluring ballade, and the imposing and difficult chan ;
royal—these, and others of their family, are forms to b
thankful for, and their occasional presence in our litera
ture is largely due to Andrew Lang. He uses them
himself with admirable effect, although Austin Dobso
is his master here, and Oscar Wilde has written per
haps the finest English villanelle ; and the same daint
exotics have taken notable root in America.
* * * *
So one might proceed. From translations of French t
Original stuff in Gallic garb, and so to vert de
tpciiti (which is but seldom typically French
form, and only retains its soubriquet to keep aliv
the faot that it is not society verse), and agai
to what the Philistines persist in calling “mor
serious" work. Mr. Lang, says the Red Page, ha
“trifled along pleasant paths.” Precisely — pleasan
paths are well-fitted for the purpose, and to trifl
artistically and with zest is becoming a lost art. We ar
too prone, all of us, to sit with self-respectless reverenoe
at the feet of some prodigiously important person who i
eternally bent on doing something. In dense forgetful
ness of the possibility of pleasure in being something, we
are content all too frequently to leave the goodlier part
of our heritage unscanned. And we die with our one
idea ossified, still struggling fatuously to reform—some-
body else. ‘ What,’ says Thoreau (he no fool)—* what,
after all, does the practicalness of life amount to ? The
things immediate to be done are very trivial. 1 could
postpone them all to hear this locust sing. The most
glorious faot of our experience is not anything that we
have done or may hope to do, but a transient thought, or
vision, or dream which we have had.’ If Mr. Lang has
been a trifler, he has trifled in good company. With
Dyer and Drayton and Lovelace and Campion, and others
their congeners ; and with dozens of others more modern
and better known, whose names will readily suggest
themselves.
• * • .
Truth to tell, we seem to be menaced unceasingly by
stuff-and-sawdust Shibboleths of our own clumsy contri-
vance. We have come to think of Genius as something
necessarily frenzied and grave and stately and almost ter-
rible—and it is, whatever else it be, necessarily nothing
of the kind ; as something which finds readiest response
in the hearts of a fine fit few—and, as a rule, the self-
elected fine fit few are fatuously deaf to its appeal for
recognition, until the mass who are neither—God help
us!—“fine” nor “fit" cry out their great-throated
appreciation. To be vital to-day a thing (written thing)
needs to be “fresh”: no writing is laudable and ulti-
mately good if it be not “original.” These things being
so, Andrew Lang may never haye said anything
“vital,” but the Domain resounds to vital speech every
Sunday. Nevertheless, a great deal of his writing, and
the apparent tendency of the whole of it, has been vital
Practically all his stuff is, in effect, tonic, invigorating
eminently healthful. Even his newspaper-articles they
would fill volumes-are uniformly vivacious and meaty
tinged throughout with refreshing allusion-learning
which is cheerfully appetising. In his most play”
ful mood there is even something deeper and more
convincing than playfulness, in his most humorous pas-
sages something likely to prove more permanent than
,he upper average of contemporary humor. He has a
strongly sensuous vein in his clear lyrism, but with it
some easily-reeognisable share of the quality, difficult to
define, which John Addington Symonds, writing of
Edward Craoroft Lefroy, calls “ the spiritual apperception
of sensuous beauty.” A fine sense of the fitDessof things,
too : to borrow an acute phrase from somebody, he “ never
forgets that the lyre is a winged instrument.”
* * * *
In short, he is—Andrew Lang; and for the life of
me I cannot satisfactorily express the precise depth and
direction of my appreciation of him. He has, of course,
his limitations, his weaknesses, his foibles, his utiadmir-
able aspects : who has not? Primarily, he has written
too much, at too high pressure ; he has, in one notable
matter already touched on, elected (as some of us will
have it) to walk in darkness when clear light is abroad:
he must have the glamor of the ideal, and he dearly loves
the cheap splash and splutter of occasional lurid incident.
He believes (or says he believes) that literature is, first
and foremost, a light amusement—an enjoyable recrea-
tion and relief from reality—a something exquisitely
varied and comely designed pour passer le temps. He will
have no nearness to common life, the life that is—no
absolute assertion of the pains and penalties of it; litera-
ture, he says, is not for this. He would fain forget these
things, cloak them sedulously, push them out of sight;
If only the nepenthe be foaming there—the delightful
draught of dear forgetfulness, the outside of the cup may
take care of itself.’ Unspeakable heresy! Fancy
George Moore, the choleric, in face of such a confession 1
» * » *
Mr. Lang is whimsical in his tastes, and curiously
candid. He is unable (strange man!) to wax enthusiastic
regarding politics: he seems to think that that were
waste of time for him ; and time is a valuable commodity,
useful for the production of fairy-tales and other matters
of moment! He does not oare for Racine, nor for Words-
worth. The one is “ elegant ” ; the other (genius ad-
mitted)—uninteresting ! Zola irritates him ;as does that
very stupid person, W. Dean Howells: and yet “he is
a nephew of Voltaire, and a cousin of M. Jules Lemattre.”
He has his weaknesses: he is a wee bit intolerant of
people and schools he does not admire, but he is never
peevish or querulous ; and he is occasionally a little rash
in the expression of his appreciation of his friends ; he
went to almost ridiculous lengths in his early eulogies of
Rider Haggard. He combines with a keen sense of
the beautiful a quite remarkable indifference to Art and
Music and the Drama. Although he is genuinely learned,
he has long been an embodied irritation to certain of the
sensitive erudite. When he brings forth an idea he does
not make pother and dust enough. So clear and simple
so comprehensible is he, that he has even beer, suspected
of writing with an eye on the Gallery. Horrible!
* * *
So! I have said little or nothing of his classical works
-h.s scholarly and luminous translations, for instance, of
Homer and (better still) the Idylls of Theocritus ; nothing
Of his position and authority at certain great seats of
earning; nothing of his characteristically original studies
in Anthropology, and certain novel and disturbing con-
tentions appertaining thereto ; little, perhaps, that can
be profitable or interesting in any case. For one’s esti-
mate of the man is necessarily complicated by one’s
unavoidable affection for him. But his position is no
mean one, none the less ; and the Youngest will doubtless
cease their worrying by-and-bye. It does not count for
much anyhow. And nothing nowadays is serious enough
to matter. 6
TOUT FINIT PAR DES CHANSONS.
(Ballade en guise de Rondeau.)
AH ends in song ! Dame Nature toiled
In stellar space, by land, by sea,
And many a monstrous thing she spoiled,
And many another brought to be;
Strange brutes that sprawled, strange stars that flee
tlr flare the steadfast signs among t
What profit thence—to you or me?
All ends in song!
All ends in song 1 But Nature moiled
And brought forth Man, who deems him free
Who deems twas his own hand embroiled
The tangles of his destiny :
Who fashioned empires—who but he?—
Who fashioned gods, a motley throng ;
They fall, they fade by Time’s decree
All ends in song !
All ends in song ! We strive, are foiled,
Are broken-hearted—even we ;
Where that old sinful snake is coiled
We shake the knowledgeable tree,
We listen to the serpent’s plea,
“ As Bha, l ye know Right and Wrong ”
And this is all the mystery—
“ All ends in song! "
Envoy.
Muse, or in sooth or mockery,
Or brief of days, or lasting long,
Our love, or hate, or gloom, or glee
All ends in song !
ANDRAW LANG.


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a; cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time 1 obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first, dose of
the medioine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Ycurs sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney."
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S. W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
r HE ORUM
N POSITION
PcafQcss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String'.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. <J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Dr. FREEMAN,
' -35
YoOljg Wei),
if j'ou are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
_ pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business —if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 21/-. 127 Redfern Street,
XTemr e n M P0 d st me REDFERN.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that H>r.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920.
29 York Street* Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
““of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
ro MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
jase. Remedy sent in plain package. When
jured, we charge you not more than £1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, hy purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life. 8
ALE. CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those who Wish to Marry.
Mumford's Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
VVill positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
10 s RICORD's
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of lUs, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <t Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.
An U pURIF e iER BLOOr) SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of six doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CipbrocatioQ.
Wfi
.1
2ND WEEK.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “ cure alls ”
specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Horoceopathic Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness mid F ailing
\ r i(rnr in vouncr udcl old men» All letters sent settled
** Address--Dr. IRVING CO., corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Eooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto oaused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your ease, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HURHOOO.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
TyEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
’ permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. Ail weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other _ causes, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions, etc., sent free on
receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church.
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially
In publishing the follounng remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable ,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes: —“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirety new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
m
m
Mr. M. J. DENARY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes .
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and mo .t marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwaa
m
7/1
mw
iw


TATTERS ALLS
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ELLESMERE S
June 5
25,000 Subscriloera at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
ItOSEIIILL C
June 19
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address _
MAITLAND C.
June 21.
10, 00 3 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name,
,shares in the above.
Address
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me— .sharesin the above.
Name
£
Address
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
3-0,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE —
Mill bank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 SarSat £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,005. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF—
City ai)d StibOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss, Each,
Ist Prize. - Terrace Houses* Glen more
Road, and large Dwelling-House,
Value
Woollahra... ... ... ... £8,500
2nd Prize. I and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, hut have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, CO’JCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
( Has a record of nearly 60 years
S in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
> Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
(Did Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
/-ccept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
Do not Hesitate I
BUT Call and See>
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Laivler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 6, 6,8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
MZatiame Rodney,
THE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consult ed either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
The “Korting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market.
It is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage It takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fahr. It is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
■
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, lOs (i<l.
Sole Agents :
The Result,
Craig & Altkcn, 680-692 George-st, Sydney.
Positively the Best Dressing
EDWARDS'
fHf
HAIR
7
M
%
4k
FOR
PRESERVING* Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“H ARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2 6 and (triple 2,6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDEP
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcSSoq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maher in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
mr Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms. "sa
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A.. P. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Rubber* Manufacturers .
•9
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING COATS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE,. DIVING HOSE, EIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
no AT. OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS
MXean Bros. & Higg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
Every V ariety of
TEA !
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tar SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. ls»
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE LAND OF TIERS’ DREAMS.
“ And there shall t. we all soft delight
That shadowy thougnt can win.”
There lies a land, dear heart of mine,
Beyond the world afar,
B&yond the moon, sweet heart of mine,
Beyond each glimmering star.
It is a land of loving,
A land of loveliness,
For there doth sit enthroned
The lost sprite Happiness ;
And she hath banished Sorrow
To regions far away ;
There is no sad To-morrow,
But only sweet To-day !
It is a land of blisses ;
The air is soft with sighs
From lips that ache with kisses —
There breast on warm breast lies.
It is the fairest Eden
The seed of Adam knows,
But there no serpent’s hidden,
No poisoned apple grows.
It is a land of roses
Where gentle breezes blow,
And whisper tender stories
Of lovers long ago ;
To whoso doth sit doting
On love with musing mind,
Sweet thoughts come flying, floating,
Like rose-leaves down tee wind.
And tears are not forbidden—
The happy tears that fall
From eyes with love so laden,
They cannot hold them all.
And needs there other token
Who dwell therein are wise? —
The only language spoken
Is that of loving eyes.
But who is fain to enter
Must seek while life is young,
For from its faery borders
Grey age is backward, flung.
So, dear, ere Time grow older,
Ere Youth’s sweet spring is flown,
Ere love-warm hearts grow colder,
Let’s make that land our own ;
When found its golden weather —
Its roses—winding streams —
We’ll conquer it together—
The Land of Lovers’Dreams.
N.S.W.
ZADIG.
THE SEA-SHELL.
Friend of my chamber, O, thou spiral shell !
That murmurest of the ever-murmuring sea,
Repeating with eternal constancy
Whatever memories the wave can tell,
Whatever harmonies may rise and swell,
Whatever sadness in the deep may be :
They are the ocean’s, and desired of thee ;
Thou treasurest what thou dost love so well.
And all my heart is one voluted fold,
Shielding one face —and evermore it seems
Upon the threshold of the prying day,
Hid in the tangles of reluctant dreams ;
And in the noontide and the evening grey
Its light illumines secrecies untold.
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
A BALLAD OF STYLE.
Having thrown aside that childish thing, the
simple style and luminous,
That pleased the easy-going folk of olden placid
land—
Lo! we revel in the technical —sidereal, bitumi-
nous,
Ethereal, leguminous, and glorious and grand.
For unless you tell your stories in a weird and
wondrous argot —
The which no mortal ever spoke and few can
understand—
You may lie for ever damned beneath a publisher’s
embargo ;
You may be indeed a classic—but you won’t be
in demand.
So we talk about the trammels that oppress the
soaring mammals;
We babble out a plenitude of ancient Buddhist
lore;
And we quote with ease the curses of the Afghan
on his camels,
And we blend them in our verses and our
sketches evermore.
Or at times we writhe and wriggle in a lingo
Aberdonian;
Our humor froths and bubbles in the “braid auld
Scottish tongue ” ;
And if Southron dare to murmur—why, we dub
him “base Bezonian,”
And tell him ’twas in “ Doric ” that our father,
Chaucer, sung.
And we paint Unreal Crimson and then call it
Realistic
(“Give us. color,” cries the public, “O, ye
Daubers, or we die! ”);
For a public reared on oleos has dainty taste
artistic,
And it’s woe to pen and pencil if the public pass
us by.
“ Hold the mirror up to Nature,’’cried old Albion’s
mighty teacher ;
And, obedient to his dictum, lo ! we bend a rev’-
rent knee,
Place the glass before the beldame, bid her note
each faded feature,
And then show her, on our canvas, what a beauty
she might he 1
P. LUFTIG.
A Bulletin correspondent, the other day,
met an old swagman leading a big, half-bred St.
Bernard dog, which, on a neatly-made and well-
litting pack-saddle, carried the old man’s swag,
tucker-bags, billies, and water-bag.


« » . . |. « m > ■ > f Established 1849.
AG&traliai) p ro yjd€Ot Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " 1 w "
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
EATES :
HOTEL
12/6 per Day upward?,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
»J»HE WONDERFUL
WaterbGry Watcb!
For Correct Time and Little Monet.
Ujaterbury matches WATCH the ||)orld \
THE UNIVERSAL TIMEKEEPER.
IRO^-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Condon Melbourne Tailoring (Jo.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
■'
OUR STOCK
is selected from the
Leading- London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape'Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cask
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example:—
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 50s.
Serge Sac Suits ? 50s.
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 455.
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QUALITY
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
sulkies, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES,from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
ill 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H- HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owino- to the laro-e increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-payment
System I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should'apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
AW
A
A Revolution in Dentistry.
COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
1
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEE'I'H
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can emplo3 r the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
JgiF" Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
Hodalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —goda.Ha. Bacon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
g—godalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
SWM
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30/- co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
£2T INSURERS SHA R E in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS. '
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making JE97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office*: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Gash Surplus at 31st December, 1894 —
' Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W. C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers,
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a 3?l*ice Hitherto Ull-
known HQF6 a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
’ jj '
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.1! —will at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “BONANZA”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury..
.a j
NotG- Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 902.
SATURDAY, MAY 29, 1897.
Prick, 6d.
"MY TURN NEXT"-A VISION OF JUBILEE.
"A benevolent Sydney lady suggests that surplus food , instead at being thrown a way, should be, placed where the necessitous can easily get it."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
4t Australia for the Australians .
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the ,o.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
„ . £100
Per Annum ... 1% 6
Half-yearly ... ... ••• n 0 6
Quarterly...
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thr Bulletin 0#ce Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added, where re'yWM ed
which you may pay by Post Office A °rd e r Postal Note
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian pi owwce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you eveiy
U Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. r.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, isheieby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for ’as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic cont ributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 IKooi Exchange,
London, E.C. \ Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Sc Co Cornhill
South Africa.—If. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetoivn. Also in the Transvaal : —The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fwi.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S . Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on lnterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1, with Us. 2d. added for postage. England £1 , with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
77i?
SATURDAY, MAY 29, 1897.
Patching the Federal Constitution.
This is about the time when the various Par-
liaments of Australia are to get together, and
talk over the draft Federal Constitution, and
suggest amendments to be considered at the
Convention’s next meeting. There is no
fixed or definite value attached to these sug-
gestions ; the Convention may adopt any or
all or none of them, as it pleases. Still it
is practically certain that if any particular
amendment is advocated by all, or nearly all,
the Legislatures it will be accepted, The
Parliaments of the separate provinces have
no legal authority over the Convention,
which is a Parliament representing six pro-
vinces, and a higher institution than any
individual Legislature ; but they have a moral
influence which counts for almost as much.
And it is all the more essential that they
should make good use of it, as this is their
first and last opportunity to do anything
valuable in shaping the Federal Constitution.
* * *= *
The great question at issue is whether the
Commonwealth shall be entrusted with as
much power as possible, or with as little as
possible, and the Convention has, in the
main, taken the latter view. No one can
enumerate all the authorities of the central
and provincial Parliaments, so it has to be
decided whether certain specified powers
shall be given to the Federal authority and
the provincial authority have all the rest, or
whether certain specified powers shall be
left to the provincial Parliaments and the-
Federal authority have all the rest. Here,
also, the Convention has taken the strictly
provincial side of the case. The Common
wealth Parliament will represent all Aus-
tralia ; it will command the largest share of
attention and all the most notable politicians
will get there, while the small ones who
can’t attain that elevation will be left
behind to be glorified aldermen in the purely
local Legislatures. The question is, there-
fore, whether the greatest share of authority
(for it can’t be divided with mathematical
accuracy) is to rest with the notable men who
can command positions in the Parliament of
all Australia, or with the small, parochial
men who are left behind by reason of then
insignificance, and the Convention has de-
cided that the aldermanic crowd shall get
the benefit of the doubt every time, ihe
purpose of the movement, as explained in
many grandiose orations by many wild-eyed
Daniel O’Connors, is to make the six Aus-
tralias one nation with common interests
and a common “destiny,” whatever that
may be, and to obliterate pro\ incial
boundaries and jealousies and squabbles
and the small meannesses that are born
of much subdivision and parochialism.
In practice, however, the Convention set
itself to discover just how little unification
it could get through with, and how few
interests it could unite under Federal con-
trol, and how many of the small provincial
interests and jealousies and squabbles it
could keep alive and in good working order.
Also, it must be mentioned to its discredit
that it succeeded admirably.
* * * *
If the respective Parliaments agree in
demanding a broader Constitution and vastly
greater powers for the Federal Government,
they will probably carry their point, even
with the parochial-souled majority in the
Convention. The matters which, in The
Bulletin’s opinion, specially demand atten-
tion are these : (1) The public debts should
be taken over by the Federal Government
either wholly or as far as possible, or at least
power should be given to the Federal Par-
liament to take them over, even without the
consent of the provincial authorities. (2) The
railways should be Federal property and
under Federal control. If they cant be
conveniently taken over now power should
be given to take them over later, with or
without the consent of the provinces. (3)
All rivers flowing through more than one
province, and all their tributaries, should be
under Federal control. (4) The powers to
be left with the State Governments should
be defined, and all other powers should belong
to the Federal authority instead of the other
way about. Wherever there is a doubt the
Federal and not the State Government
should have the benefit of it every time.
There are a few other matters wherein the
provincial tendencies of the Convention stick
out conspicuously, but these four are the
most-important.
The case for the consolidation of the public
debts can be put in a very small space.
These debts are always falling due and being
renewed. The credit of the Commonwealth
must be better than that of any separate
section of it, for exactly the same reason that
the credit of New South Wales is better
than that of Balmain or Bathurst or
Kiama, therefore it could renew these liabili-
ties at a lower rate and save much good
legal tender in the way of interest. Any-
thing that reduces the annual tribute pay-
able to the perpetual J. Bull is at least
worth consideration, especially now that the
British boom in Australian stocks is appa-
rently over, and the British creditor demands
£3 7s. 6d. per cent, where he lent a year ago
at 3 per cent., and this country is once more,
after a brief outbreak of cheap money, brought
face to face with the fact that J. Bull
is a very hard creditor. The difficulties in
the way are that the amount of debt per
head varies in the different provinces, the
interest rates are different, so are the dates
of repayment and the assets to be set
against the debts. But a great deal could
be done without raising these difficulties at
all. The smallest debt in proportion to
population is now Victoria’s £4O 9s. 2d. per
head. The Federal Government could
therefore take over from each province as
much of its debt as would equal £4O 9s. 2d.
per head without taking over any corres-
ponding assets, and proceed to convert it, as
it fell due, into a uniform stock at the lowest
possible rate of interest. Until the conver-
sion was finished any discrepancies in the
rate of interest could be charged to the
separate provinces. This would mean that
£142,000,000 out of £224,000,000 of debt
could be handed over to the Federal Govern-
ment without raising any of the awkward
questions involved in a complete transfer,
and if the superior credit of the Federal
Government saved even ss. per cent, on
conversion it would mean an economy of
nearly £400,000 per annum. Later on,
when the Commonwealth was fully rested, it
might think out some equitable method of
taking over the whole debt, but there is no
reason why the operation should not be
commenced in the meantime.
* * * *
The railway question is even urgent
than the debt problem ; the latter may be not
much more difficult of solution twenty years
hence than it is to-day, but the former is be-
coming every day more incurable. There
are two unanswerable reasons why railway
management and construction should be
put under Federal control at once. A uni-
form gauge must be established sooner or
later for purposes of economy, and a central
authority is required to force a settlement of
the matter, to decide on a uniform gauge and
to charge the cost of. the alteration to the
railway system of Australia in general, any
attempt to apportion it satisfactorily among
the five hostile departments of live interested
provinces being practically hopeless. Just
now it is only a question of altering, say,
7000 miles of line, whereas in some years
more it will be a question of altering 15,000
or 20,000 or 50,000 or more miles at a pro-
portionately increased expense. As regards
railway construction, the Federal idea in
building new lines is to give the producer
the shortest and cheapest possible outlet to
the nearest city or seaport. The provincial
idea is to force him to send his expoits, at
hjiv cost and inconvenience, ma the pro-
vincial capital, or at least to provincial sea-
ports. Therefore, the question is whether
the East Gippsland lines, which must be
built shortly, are to be so constructed as to
drag the local exports to Melbourne instead
of to their natural outlet, Eden in New South
Wales ; and whether the new West A lctonan
railways are to all point towards Melbourne
instead of leading, as they should do, to Ade-
laide ; and new Riverina lines towards Sydney
instead of Melbourne ; and new lines in
Western New South Wales to Sydney instead
of Adelaide or Spencer’s Gulf. In short, it
is a question whether many millions are to
be needlessly wasted in building the railway-
systems of three provinces more and more
askew, so as to be as useless and costly a,s
they can be, as a sacrifice to provincial vani-
ties and to the interests of two bloated cities.
* * * *
The reasons why, in The Bulletin s opinion,
something should be done, even at this late
hour, to shift the balance of power from the
provincial Legislatures to the Commonwealth
have already been explained. It is a ques-
tion of putting the principal trust in the poli-
ticians whose standing is high enough to
carry tlicm into the Parliament of all A us-
tralia or in the ruck of small men who aie
left behind. Many men of the present pro-
vincial crowd, when they climb into a wider
sphere, will probably see the matter in a new
light when it is too late for the new illumina-
tion to do any good. Just now Lyne and
Reid, of New South Wales, are conspicuous
among the narrow Feclerationists of their
own province. As Lyne and Reid of New
South Wales, the transfer of large powers to
the Federal Legislature looks to them like
an act of surrender, and they believe in
strictly limiting the Federal authority. A
year or two hence they may be in the Federal
Parliament as Lyne and Reid of Australia—
with their powers so strictly limited by their
own act that they will be little more than the
servants of the two Browns, and the three
Joneses, and the two Smiths, and Smailes,
and Goumly, and William Wilks, who were
left behind as not of sufficient intelligence to
deserve promotion. This is not a pleasant
prospect for any ambitious leader, and the
prominent men who keep up the provincial
end of the argument should think over it
hard. The Bulletin believes strongly in a
Federal Constitution of the Convention pat-
tern, if nothing better can be obtained, but
there is still a chance of something better if
the Parliaments like to make good use of
their present opportunity. It is absolutely
the only opportunity they will have, which is
all the more reason why it should be used to
the very best possible purpose.
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade Bag of Tricks.
When the present New South Wales Govern-
ment assumed office it pledged itself to a lot of
serious responsibilities. It promised to give up
a great deal of customs revenue for the sake of
Freetrade and in order to make things easy for
the blessed importer ; and though it never did
introduce Freetrade—for customs duties are
still the second largest item of revenue—it
sacrificed a good deal of valuable income.
Having sworn, in season and out of season, that
the Protectionist Government was accumulating
constant deficits, it had to promise—for the
sake of getting into office—that it wouldn’t
have any deficits. It also promised that it
would pay off the accumulated shortages of its
predecessors, and make the country prosperous,
and the people “ jolly and fat,” and that it
would shift the burden of taxation off the poor
and on to the rich, and that it would do many
other beautiful things.
* *
Being compelled, for the sake of being a
Freetrade party, to promise to do more than
its predecessors with less revenue, the Reid
Government brought up short against two alter-
natives. If it filled bv sheer economy the gap
it had (for the sake of its policy) to create, it
meant cutting down civil-service salaries about
one-half, or defaulting on the public debt, or
something else of a very large and original char-
acter. If it filled the gap by new taxation it
meant Is. 3d. in the £ income-tax and
about 3d. in the £ of land-tax, which would
have been altogether too overwhelming. Not
having the courage to do either, nor the
resource to find new and hitherto unexplored
sources of revenue, it struck three compro-
mises. It partly introduced Freetrade ; it
filled part of the gap thus created in the
revenue by new direct taxation ; it promised to
cover part of the remaining shortage by econo-
mies which haven’t yet developed ; and for the
rest it tried to make ends meet, or rather look
as if they met, by shuffles, evasions, lies, and
weird and wonderful cooking of the public
accounts. Sheer want of revenue has driven it
to these straits. It can’t raise the needful
amount from Customs duties without destroy-
ing the only reason for its existence, or In-
direct taxation without driving even the im-
porters from its standard, or by economy with-
out making economy develop into something
approaching sheer starvation. So it leads a
miserable, shiftless, shoeless existence, with its
political hair sticking up through the broken
crowm of its battered political hat, and is a
depressing spectacle generally.
The following are the principal devices by
which the Reid Government has, so far,
endeavored to make ends meet in the public
imagination: (1) In 1895-96 it partly dodged
the payment of the regular instalment towards
the old deficit; whereas Parkes and Dibbs
paid £150,000 a year, Reid only charged him-
self with £150,000 in 18 months, and thus
saved £75,000. (2). It evaded part of the pay-
ments towards sinking-funds in reduction of the
public debt; Dibbs’ payments on this account
were at the rate of £111,500 per annum ; Reid’s
for the first 18 months, at the rate of £BB 800
per annum. (3). It reduced the payments’out
of revenue for public works from Dibbs’ average
of £1,084,000 per annum to an average of
£905,000 per annum ; in other words, it charged
works to loans which were formerly paid out of
revenue. (4). In December, 1895, 16 months
after the Reid Government came into office it
charged all its own outstanding accounts 'to
loans, under the unaccountable pretence that
this was somehow essential to the starting of
the “ casli basis ” system, and called the amount
part of the “ Dibbs deficit,” though Dibbs was
even then ancient history. (5). It is now
collecting two years’ income - tax in one
year, in order to keep the finances of 1897
moderately solvent. (6). It tried to take some
£400,000 of loan moneys in as ordinary revenue
on the ground that previous Treasurers should
have done so in previous years for certain
reasons not very clearly explained. (7) It in-
cluded the alleged £333,000 surplus of 1896 as
revenue received in 1897, and thereby makes its
1897 deficit of £229,000 into an alleged new
surplus of £104,000. (8) It is still raising a
large amount of revenue (some £150,009 per
annum) out of protective duties. (9) The
“ cash basis ” not only served as an excuse for
charging some £476,000 of current expenditure
back to loans, but it enables the Reid
Government to charge the accounts of the cur-
rent year unpaid at June 30 on to next year,
and thus it permanently shifts forward about
£600,000 of its liabilities. Between what was
shifted back to loans and what is shifted for-
ward to posterity, the saving on paper is con-
siderable when spread over so short a space as
2J years. (10) In a general sort of way it
alleges that everything which goes wrong even
now is part of the “Dibbs deficit,” though
Dibbs has been nearly three years out of office,
and, apparently, if the Reid Government re
mains continuously in office till 1910 or later, it
will be found asserting that its shortage even
then is part of the “Dibbs deficit” just the
same, DibbS being a malign individual who will
be spending public money long after he is dead
and in his grave. It has never proved very dis-
tinctly that there ever was any Dibbs deficit
worth mentioning, but it gets over that diffi-
culty by treating it as a fact which is so beastly
self-evident that it doesn’t need proof. Its
attitude in the matter is that of the Almighty
addressing a black-beetle.
* * * *
Probably the Reid Government would keep
reasonably honest and straight if it had the
money with which to pay its way, it being much
easier to be honest than to lead the miserable
existence of shifts and expedients and hand-to-
mouth devices which is its customary lot. Butit
hasn’t the money. Parkes’s creed allowed him
to raise enough, or nearly enough, to keep
things going by a revenue tariff, and Dibbs’s
allowed him to find the necessary funds with-
out any apology or explanation, by a tariff
that was partly protective and partly for
revenue purposes. Reid got into office by
pledging himself to sacrifice a great part of the
Customs revenue, and though he is only keep-
ing his pledge by instalments still the loss
already incurred is very heavy. The promised
economies in expenditure haven’t eventuated,
possibly because a careful review of the posi-
tion showed that there was not the scope for
new economies that had been imagined. At all
events, apart from the saving made by charging
works to loans which ought to be paid out of
revenue, the Reid Government, which has a
decent reputation for economy, costs just the
same as that of Reid’s allegedly extravagant
predecessor. Premier Reid is pledged not to
increase the land-tax beyond the present Id. in
the £. He is pledged not to revert to the
policy of extravagant land sales, and as he
already raises almost as much land revenue as
Dibbs, not much less than Parkes, about
£400,000 a year more than Jennings and
£300,000 more than Stuart, any further ex-
pansion in this direction seems difficult. He is
pledged to sacrifice about £150,000 a year more
revenue by the gradual abolition of the remain-
ing protective duties. Next year he will have,
at the present rate, £150,000 less income tax
than he has this year, there being only one pay-
ment instead of two ; and this year ends don t
meet by a long way. If he raises the tax to
Is. in the £ he will even then only have as
much income from that source as he has this
year, and if he raises it to Is. 9d. in the £ he
will only have enough, on this year’s basis, to
keep things barely level. And the country, so
far as present signs go, wouldn’t take kindly to
an income-tax of that size.
♦ * * *
The present attitude of the Reid party is,
therefore, somewhat as follows : (1) There is a
surplus ; (2) Anyhow', there isn’t a deficit; (3)
If there is one it is really Dibbs’s deficit; (4)
If there is a deficit Dibbs had a larger one ; (0)
If there is a deficit it is caused by paying on
Dibbs’s shortage ; (6) Things are a great deal
worse in Victoria. And the party’s organs have
to follow in the same strain ; the business of a
party organ is to back up its leader in every-
thing, and curse the Opposition leader in every-
thing. They have to whoop up the weary,
hopeless tarradiddle about the finances, to
invent evidence that the country is prosperous
under Free trade, or that it was more unpros-
perous under Protection ; and to manufacture
proofs of the ruin of Protectionist ictoria and
Tasmania and Maoriland to show that free-
trade yields the better results after all, or to
maintain that where these provinces show signs
of prosperity their fiscal system has nothing to
do with it. Reid’s exploded list of tender-
prices was part of the same struggle ; so was
his bogus list of the Dibbs Government’s civil
service appointments ; so was the Telegraphs
sham catalogue of Sydney and Melbourne prices,
so was its bitter wail the other day about
the non-paying Victorian railways as an
evidence of the evils of Protection —the fact
that New South Wales has a worse list to show
as a proof of the evils of Freetrade being
wholly suppressed ; so was the Heralds
claim, the other day, that the increase of New
South Wales manufacturers in ’95 was a
glorious proof of the advantages of Freetrade,
regardless of the fact that Freetrade didn t
start till ’96. The existence of the New South
Wales Freetraders boils down now to the two


phrases, “Bibbs deficit” and “the ruin of
Victoria,” and both of them are getting to
be about threadbare. The best hope of the
party is that Federation may come along
promptly, and enable it to shift the principal
financial difficulty on to the shoulders of the
Commonwealth before the last of its dodges is
used up, and the finances of the Reid Govern-
ment have to burst on their own merits.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Japanese Invasion.
On 28th April the Q. commission on the mining
and pearl-shelling industries sat at Thursday
Island. Following are extracts from the evi-
dence taken, which was published in the north-
ern papers and carefully omitted by the Brisbane
Sup-Press :
In the evening Hon. John Douglas, the Government
Resident, was examined, and in the course of his evi-
dence, he said the Japanese influx was a more serious
question than the size of pearl-shell, and if the rate of in-
crease of lost year were maintained the whole place must
eventually fall into Japanese hands. At the beginning of
the year there were 231 Japanese in town in various occu-
pations, and 61 had since been added to that total. The
Japanese population in the town, on the ocean, and at
sea-side stations was probably 900. A Japanese boat
arriving next Monday (3rd May) had 200 Japanese on
board for this place. The majority would remain here,
while some would drift south. Ship and boat repairing
was absolutely in the hands of the Japanese, and there
was not a solitary white man boat-repairing here, although
the pearling boats numbered 207, and the beche-de-mer
360. They were also large property-holders, and the
Japanese business men were increasing, and property was
gradually falling into their hands. He regarded theJaps
as a positive menace to the white population. At the con-
clusion of his examination Mr. Douglas said there was
every appearance of Thursday Island and its vicinity be-
coming a Japanese colony, and stated distinctly a severe
blow must be administered if the place were to be kept
for the white race.
Mr. Hudson, the manager at Thursday Island for
Aplin, Brown and Crasiiav, also gave evidence. The
Japanese invasion he pooh-poohed, and said if the Japs
were prohibited from the industry it would perish. While
laborers were absolute failures at the business. Replying
to Mr. Hoolan, he said the Japanese were not large
property-holders, but he had reason to believe they
were money-lenders. He knew they owned boats,
and under cover were reliable laborers. He saw
no danger to Australian interests in the presence of
tile Japanese in large numbers. He cared nothing for
Australian interests, and had only one consideration, para-
mount and supreme —namely, his own interests. What he
cared for was to get labor for his boats. He only cared for
his own interests, by which he meant the interest of his
./inn. Australian interests, from a national point of view,
were nothing to him. The main thing was the interests of
his firm. In reply to Mr. Hoolan, Mr. Hudson candidly
said the words might be taken down.
The Postmaster, under authority from the Chairman of
the Commission, gave a return of the money sent to Japan
for the year ending March, 1897, which was £8455.
Mr. P. P. Outridge (of Clarke & Co., pearl shellers)
also gave evidence, and said that State interference was
necessary to preserve the industry for the white race.
White divers were superior to aliens, only they disliked
the occupation and refused to settle down to it. It was
lamentable that up to the present no remedy had been
tried. The depression on Thursday Island at present was
due to the presence of the Japanese ; no owners of boats
should hire or sell to Japs, and no divers’ licenses should
be issued to them. The other colored men have joined
in a common cause against the Japanese, who will extin-
guish them in time.
Mr. Thomas Farquharson (manager of Queensland Pearl
shelling Company) also gave evidence, and said he par-
ticularly desired to impress on the Commission the neces-
sity of repressing the Japs ; if matters continued as at
present, pearl-shelling would be completely absorbed by
them, and already their debasing influence was every-
where visible. Trade was depressed, and the business
people disheartened. The pearl trade would be of more
importance in the future than it had been in the past.
Hut its results would go to Japan if there was any change,
for the latter people were intensely patriotic and woulil
direct all trade and profit to Japan. The Japanese were
so established on Thursday Island that domestic servants
were entirely unknown, and all trade was drifting into
their hinds. The Jap, when entering the service of
pearlers, expressly stipulated for diving practice, with the
full intention when his term was up to start practising on
the first opportunity. The experience of the past 12
months iiad plainly showed him that the pearl-shell trade
and other branches of commerce were drifting over to
the Japanese. Thursday Island was becoming subservient
to the diminutive alien.
“ He cared nothing for Australian interests, and
had only one consideration, paramount and
supreme — namely, his own interests . ” That
speech may be taken as typical of the policy of
the half-dozen shipping and importing firms
which have their octopus-claws on the North
and its industries. Question is : What is
Queensland going to do about it ? What is
Australia going to do about it ? Year after
year for a long time now The Bulletin and
other radical journals have been advertising the
danger to ears deaf or heedless. Now the day
is at hand when the Japs will be so firmly
settled in Australia that nothing but gunshot
will shift them. Meanwhile, Premier Nelson
who “does not mind these things very
much,” and who announced a little while ago
that he was “making representations” to the
Jap Govt, which he “ had no doubt ” would be
attended to, and there was “ really no need of
drastic legislation ” —has trapezed to England
to crawl in the dust of the record reign ; the
Labor-party is moonshining after “Socialism in
our time,” or pulling strings in order to grab
Ministerial office ; and the bulk of the Q. popu-
lation lies torpid and indifferent. And a swift
new service of Japanese steamers is all the time
bringing the little brown men by scores and
hundreds to conquer Australia as their country-
men have conquered the Sandwich Islands. If
the alleged white Australian really has the
pluck and the patriotism that he declares, it is
time—past time—that he woke up and put
them to use. Otherwise, he will only wake up
to find himself the spittoon of a dominant
colored race, who will have acquired his land
because he is unfit to hold it.
The Masonic Sham.
The hollow pretentiousness of the Masonic
crafthood was brought under particular notice
by the array of some 1500 brethren at W. J.
Clarke’s funeral, and the newspaper reports
of their ancient religious service in connection
therewith, To the outside public the florid
beauty of a Masonic funeral oration—translated
from the Latin of ages ago, and only a little
marred by the interpolation of Scriptural ex-
tracts—comes as a surprise. Delivered, as in
this case, over a rich man and potentate of the
Order, it would suggest that Freemasonary
abhors grovel, despises selfishness, is jealous in
defence of the common weal, and admirable
from every point of view. Yet among the
aproned brethren who marched through the
Melbourne streets last week, “ maintaining
with sincerity the dignified character of their
“profession,” and “evincing their faith in a
correct moral walk and deportment,” any man
about town could pick out a very considerable
percentage of petty commercial tricksters,
inflated frauds, and grovelsorne snobs. A dozen
well-informed sight-seers, comparing notes,
might have passed a sweeping condemnation of
the Craft which unites so many bad citizens in
secret fellowship, no matter how loose its bonds.
The worthlessness of Freemasonry as a charit-
able profession is shown in the lives of most
persons who profess it. There are “good”
Masons dotted about the brotherhood, but these
exceptions needed no solemn swear to make them
what they are. Probably they would have been
even better fellows if they hadn’t joined a lodge
and formed the acquaintance of brethren whose
meanness by comparison tends to make small
virtues seem great. But though the Craft be
merely worthless as a religious organisation,
it is undoubtedly immoral in its politi-
cal bearings. The history of Melbourne
during the past seven years reeks of
legal corruption wrought by secret influence.
If Masonry denies that masonic influence has
worked in favor of corruption, The Bulletin
herewith fixes that Ancient Order in a corner
and wants to know why it didn’t turn its in-
fluence the other way, and maintain with sin-
cerity the dignified character of the Law.
Masonry stands convicted, by reasonable infer-
ence from facts, of shielding dishonesty, and
not all the spouting of a hundred grand-high-
cockalorums at a hundred impressive burials
could wash that conviction from the mind of
aDvone who thinks the matter over.
A Literary Obscenity.
The law in Westralia is a cast-iron affair with
the instincts of the gaoler and the gaol-flogger
in its little soul. The other day a Perth paper,
Western Table Talk, published a little poem
—one of those casual scraps of love-verse which
every editor gets by the bushel from all manner
of known and unknown correspondents. The
initials of the various lines made a stupid and
utterly indecent acrostic, and some lynx-
eyed person who was on the look-out for in-
decency—probably the writer himself—made
the matter public. Then the hog-law of Wes-
tralia swooped down upon the gulled proprietors
and committed them for trial for “ issuing an
obscene print.” Of course it was obscene, and,
obviously enough, it was issued by somebody,
and if tire issue can be fixed on anybody by
legal evidence, that person is doubtless punish-
able by the strict letter of the statute. But in
a decent community such a matter would have
been passed by. There are always fools who
love to hide obscene acrostics and tbe like in
apparently innocent contributions. No editor
has time, when he accepts a contribution, to
make sure that the first letters of each line
when read downwards or upwards, or the second
letters, or the third, or the twelfth, or the last
ones, or certain letters when read crosswise
from the beginning of the top line to the end of
the bottom one, or when read the other way,
don’t make up some indecent or libellous state-
ment. Therefore every editor is liable to be
taken in by the dirty and inane humorist who
writes this kind of elephantine mirthfulness.
No one seriously supposes that the proprietors
of Western Table Talk inserted this particu-
lar item knowing what was imbedded in it. It
wasn’t humorous ; it was so carefully concealed
that not one reader in a thousand would ever
notice or recognise it; and no sane journalist
would run the risk involved when there was
absolutely no profit of any sort to be made out
of it. Moreover, it isn’t absolutely certain that
the author knew what w'as in it. At all events,
an enthusiastic digger-up of unconsidered trifles
once showed the present writer a particularly
profane and indecent acrostic concealed in a
hymn in a volume which a highiy-respectable
sect uses, or lately used, every Sunday, and as
he presumes the hymnist didn’t compound that
out of an unclean imagination, the inference is
that acrostics do sometimes grow by accident.
Anyhow, the action of the W.A. Law depart-
ment has brought to the knowledge of almost
everybody a piece of casual obscenity which
would otherwise come under the notice of very
few, and its yearning after morality produces
more smellful consequences than tbe original
alleged immorality itself.
Mr. Pulsford in Reply.
Mr. Pulsford, M.L.G., replies as follows :
Your invitation to me to explain away my “ slander
upon that much-maligned financier, Dibbs,” is one which
I cannot accept, for the simple reason that I am guilty of
no slander. On page 329 of the Statistical Register, to
which you refer me, I read :
“On 31st December, 1885, the Consolidated Revenue
Fund showed a credit balance of £2901, but it was only a
nominal credit, as heavy liabilities were outstanding of
1885 and previous years, and the payments on this
account created a heavy deficit, which was considerably
increased by subsequent operations. To adjust the
accounts to 31st December, 1886, authority was given
under an Act passed in 1889 to issue Treasury Bills. . . .
The shortage in revenue was eventuallv found to be
£2,502,182.”
This, I take it, is the deficit popularly known as the
“ Dibbs deficit.” I think you will admit that Sir George
(then Mr. Dibbs) was Treasurer from 7th January, 1883, to
7th October, 1885, and from 10th October, 1885, to 2‘2nd
December, 1885. I think also that you will admit that in
the Jknnings-Dibbs Ministry—February, 1886, to January,
1887—although Sir Patrick Jennings was Treasurer in
name, that his colleague, Mr. Dibbs, was a potent factor in
the financial affairs of the province, and cannot escape his
full responsibility. It is this deficit of millions I had
in mind. The comparatively trifling deficit when Mr. See
was Treasurer (in the Dibbs Ministry of 1891-4), I do not
bring into the discussion. I admit The Bulletin is ex-
ceedingly clever, but I think it is beyond the power even
of The Bulletin to persuade people that the only deficit
with which Sir George Dibbs is connected is one of
£176,092 only.
The Bulletin points out, in reply, that there
is not one word in Mr. Pulsford’s letter to sup-
port the statement which he made in the Coun-
cil, and which this paper called in question.
Said statement was this :—-
During the last few years some hundreds of thousands_
of pounds had been charged to revenue to pay off the
deficiency left by the Dibbs Government, of which I
rather think the hon. gentleman himself (Dr. MacLaurin)
was a member. . . . The hon. member has spoken of
a difference of about £200,000 . . . the bulk of this
was represented by . the payment made. by the .Reid
Government in reduction of the old Dibbs deficit.
Mr. Pulsford’s logic is practically: (1) That
Bibbs is wholly responsible for the Stuart
deficit, if there was one, because he was
Treasurer; (2) He is responsible for the
Jennings deficit because he was not Treasurer ;
(3) He is responsible for the last Bibbs
Govt.’B deficit because he was not Treasurer;
(4) Also, he seems to be indirectly responsible
for the Reid deficit because he isn’t in the
Government at all. The case against Mr.
Pulsford is that not one penny has been
charged to revenue in reduction of the deficit
of tbe Bibbs-MacLaurin Government ; it was
all covered by Treasury bills, and the said bills
—issued against that and Reid’s after-deficit—
are all outstanding to this day. Also, the
whole amount which Reid has charged to
revenue during 2£ years in payment of any
deficit is ,£300,000, and he has added far more
than that to the accumulated shortage.
The Federal Chow.
Thirty-two (32) more Chows have just been
landed in Tasmania from the s.s. Australian,
which makes the third batch in about six
months. Sixteen of the latest swarm claim to
be naturalised, and produced the necessary
papers, but, on examination, only three of
these were considered genuine. The revenue
thus gained <£29o. The alleged destination of
the pigtails is largely and loosely described as
“ the East Coast tin-mines,” but, as a matter of
fact, the Chows are using Tasmania as a back-
door to Australia. The Land of Sleep-a-Lot
has no restrictions beyond the £lO poll-tax and
compulsory vaccination—a vessel may land as
many as her captain pleases. From Tas. they
filter across, or are smuggled across, to the main-
land. This looks as if the Chinese were willing
to pay<£lo per head for a few weeks’residence in
Tasmania, but bearing in mind the probable
proportion who get in on cronk naturalisation
papers it follows that it doesn’t cost the boss
Chow importers anything near £lO per head.
The Tas. Customs authorities aver that whole-
sale attempts are made to defraud the revenue,
and they quote instances of Chinese paying
importing firms a lump sum to be landed in
Tasmania f.o.s. Dealing wholesale, as they do,
the firm ships an agent with the immigrants
who coaches them in pidgin-English lies for the
entertainment of the Customs people. The
latter either have to adopt the rule of thumb or
place themselves absolutely in the hands of
their interpreter—also a Chow. And John
generally scores pretty heavily either way.
Though a certain proportion certainly drift to
the mainland in various devious ways, a good
many really reach the East Coast tin-districts.
The Anchor mine, Premier Braddon’s own
particular pet show, is in that same East Coast
district, and half-starved white miners are
wondering how long it will be before the rice-
fed heathen monopolise mining work in Tas-
mania. In any case the whole business shows
the remarkably fine sense of federal honor on
the part of the Tasmanian authorities, and ex-
plains that province’s frantic desire to retain
her “ state rights.” Unless federal action
(which The Bulletin has several times sug-
gested) is taken in this matter, pretty soon
it will hardly be worth taking at all.
The law’s gentleness to lawyers was exempli-
fied again last week in Melbourne divorce-case
of Bayles v. Bayles. Mrs. 8., the lively
daughter and heiress-apparent of a high-toned
solicitor, was applying for a release from her
husband, who is a legal practitioner and an ex-
member of papa’s respectable old firm. To the
surprise of a good many people, the case was
reported by the newspapers, not swp-pressed,
and in the light of sundry previous moral dis-
courses from the Divorce Court Bench, the
unhesitating decree nisi granted in this case
appears rather curious. The respondent made
no defence. Mrs. Bayles had the field to her-
self and told her own story as follows: In
1890 she accused her husband of unfaith-
fulness ; he owned up to the misde-
meanor, or several of ’em. She forgave him
and continued to live with him until February,
1894, when “being in very weak health and
physically unable to perform her wifely duties,
she took a trip to Europe and remained away
until October, 1896.” After these two and
a half years of absence Mrs. Bayles “ heard
from her husband, with whom she corresponded
regularly, that both he and her father were
anxious that she should come back.” Mrs.
Bayles, the long-lost wife of one whose ten-
dency to giddiness she had recognised, and for-
given, before she left him to his own devices,
accordingly came back. But, alas ! “ whilst
she was abroad she had heard from a relative
something which re-aroused her suspicions as to
her husband’s conduct. Consequently, although
he met her on arrival, she went to live with her
father. Then Mrs. Bayles collected evidence
of her husband’s familiarities with other females
during her long separation from him, and the
Court promptly granted her a divorce. Justice
A’Beckett it was who set the fair petitioner
free, without commenting on the queer character
of her case. As a very influential solicitor’s
daughter, proceeding against her father’s former
partner, she was treated with a consideration
which judges rarely, very rarely, show to the
ordinary kind of divorce-court suitor. It is
even conceivable that a stern matrimonial
moralist, such as Chief Justice Madden,
might have shaken his head gravely
at such a case as this. Mrs. Bayles was
“unable to perform her wifely duties.” She
went to Europe and stayed there recruiting her
health, until “ her husband and father wished
her to come back.” All this time she had been
in receipt of friendly letters, and since Aug.,
1895, she had had a monthly cash allowance
from her husband. Upon reaching Melbourne
she was affectionately greeted by ber husband,
but instead of going home with him, she re-
joined her father’s family circle as though she
had never been married at all. Then Bayles
conveniently took himself to Queensland, or
somewhere, whilst Mrs. Bayles took measures
to sever the marriage tie. And Justice
A’Beckett gave the lady a decree nisi right off
the judicial reel. No adjournment for further
particulars, no unfavorable comments)- Sassiety
laughs in its puffed sleeve.
The Westralian Government patty put forth
its supremest effort to defeat S. H. Parker,
Q.C., who descended from the Legislative
Council to contest Perth city, and to lead the
Opposition when returned. There was great
joy in the Government camp when Lyall Hall,
an ex-Victorian civil servant and member of
Perth City Council, but a comparatively un-
known man, defeated him by five votes.
Parker’s antecedents didn’t inspire confidence
in him as leader of the new Opposition which
is wanted to upset the Six-Family rule. He was
first an Oppositionist because he was not chosen
by “ Remember-me-no-more ” Robinson to
form the first Westralian Ministry; then, after
a time, he took office under his rival, Forrest,
but soon resigned, because, it is said, he was
too Conservative even for the Forrest Minis-
try. He retired for a season into private life
in the Leg. Council, but last year hungered for
office once more, and formed an Opposition in
the Council with himself as leader. The defeat
of Parker is regretted by the progressive
party, not because they would have liked to
see him turn Forrest out of the Premiership,
but because an organised Opposition would
have tended to keep the Forrest Government
up to the scratch. Parker would, in fact,
have been a noxious drug used in small
quantities as an antidote to another some-
what less noxious. To turn Forrest out in
favor of Parker would have been exchanging a
warm frying-pan for a comparatively cool fire.
Leake, the present Opposition leader, who
stayed in England all last session, and returned
only in time to speak on the motion of thanks
to the Speaker on the last day of the session,
was allowed to be returned unopposed for
Albany, which seat he won by one vote at the
previous election, and which he would never
have secured this time had the Government not
complacently allowed the seat to be uncon-
tested. He will now, possibly, retain the
leadership, unless it is given to ex-Victorian
land-boomer Illingworth. Anyway, Forrest
goes ’Ome in peace.
New South Wales Parliament should immedi-
ately take cognisance of the local Full Court’s
decision that the name of a “Gent One,”
charged with misappropriation of moneys or
other similar offences, shall not be indicated
until the final stage of the proceedings has been
reached. One of two things is clear—if this
decision is good for Gent One, it must be taken
as good for everybody, and, if it is not good for
everybody, its advantages must not be given to
Gent One alone. The Chief Justice’s statement
that unfounded accusations are sometimes
made against solicitors doesn’t justify an
exceptional treatment which means simply
craft-favoritism. The physician is as subject
to unfounded accusations as the solicitor; so,
also, the clergyman. Are those to be “given
away ” at first hearing and only Gent One to be
spared till the final ?
Thus the Cairns Post, N.Q.: —
It will hardly be credited that there are now In Cairns
37 Japanese women. They look very nice in their light,
flowing Oriental costumes, and, woman-like, know it.
These creatures are openly engaged for export in Japan
for a number of years—generally four—at a salary of
three or four pounds per annum. As prostitution-
machines in a town like Cairns, they are worth, on an
average, about £l2 per week to the Japanese pimps who
preside at the doors of the Chinatown hovels, and smilingly
receive the various members of Cairns aristocracy, many
of whom boast an acquaintance with the whole 37
Japanese women (!!!). Rows are now the order of the
night in Chinatown, and it is a common sight to see big,
burly, drunken Kanakas visiting these pretty little
Japanese, followed in turn by Chinamen, and then (noble
reflection !) by a party of two or three Cairns gentlemen.
The Japs are clever thieves, and it is a shilling to a
gooseberry about anyone leaving an establishment with
his pockets correctly balanced. They are also adepts at
the bully business, and the slightest altercation with a
lady is regarded as sufficient pretext to start an axe.
handle row, at the termination of which the visitor leaves
the presence of his fair Chrysanthemum looking kind of
anyhow. And there are 37.
Dear Bulletin,— lsn’t N.S. YV. divorce-law
disgraced by the possibility—to say nothing of
the demonstrated probability—of the following
sequence of circumstances ? Man gets down in
the world, and wife gets tired of the poverty-
sharing ideal of devotion. Thinks she might
do better with a fresh deal ; runs away to
parents with a bogus story of ill-usage, and
brings suit for divorce. Husband—having to
find money for her intermediate keep and costs
—can’t afford counsel on his own behalf. Wife
gets divorce, and husband goes to gaol for non-
payment of balance of oosls. This game has
been worked over and over again—generally
between daughter and mother ; the old man—
when there is one—being, as a rule, not equal
to the conspiracy and perjury whioh are such
trifles to “ the more moral sex.” A woman
with a design against a man will swear any-
thing, And the daughter-and-dam combination
has sent many a husband wrongfully, not only
to gaol, but to the triangles. Perhaps, after
all, the woman-franchise might help to remedy
some of the more glaring of men’s wrongs. It
takes a woman to understand what a woman is
capable of.— Benedick.
Chief Justice Darley —who errs with the very
best intentions—took the trouble to “explain ”
last week what he meant by curtailing to fine
only the normal fine-or-imprisonment sentence
earned by the Sydney newspaper-owners who
prejudiced Butler’s trial. And, by good luck,
be found a quite miraculous parallel to support
him in “looking at the position of these gen-
tlemen.” English Chief Justice Cockburn, it
seems, when sentencing two M’s.P. for con-
tempt in 1873, used almost Chief Justice Bar-
ley’s form-of-words in awarding fine and
refusing to award imprisonment; and, what is
more, found it desirable to “explain” next
day just as Chief Justice Barley “ ex-
plained ” next week. Exactly as Chief Jus-
tice Darley “ looked at the position of
these gentlemen ” and let them off the gaol
section of the sentence, so Chief Justice Cock-
burn thought it unnecessary to add that section
“ with gentlemen of your position in society.”
The parallel is so close, indeed, as to suggest
that Barley understudied Cockburn’s judg-
ment beforehand, and merely parroted it in his
own deliverance. And the fact that exception
was taken to Cockburn’s action is additional
proof how right The Bulletin was in taking
exception to Chief Justice Barley’s. The divi-
sion of. culprits into fish and flesh according to
their social position disgraces both courts
equally. Last week, The Bulletin was sorry
to find there was one court which seemed to
deal out justice according .to the apparent
status of the recipients—their clothes, possibly,
or their gold watch-chains, or their estimated
bank balances. This week, it is sorry to find
there are two.


Satisfaction .
—We want to sell you Boots. We can give
satisfaction both in quality and price
—'every time. Callaghan Boots have given
—satisfaction for forty-seven years. . .
—Let the next boots you get be a pair
—of
—Callaghan’s.
Ladies’ Glace Lace Shoes, 10 6, 12 6, 13/6, 15 6, etc. Ask all the questions you wish about
Gentlemen s Tan Lace Boots, 19 6, 21/-, 22 6 to 28/6. our Boots—they stand close scrutiny.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-street, Sydney.
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney.
It was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fight
took place made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Yitascope, Kinetoscope, and
Kinetophone, and the wonderful X-rays are still
on show in the parlor, and are attracting great
public interest.*
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT i
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £18,202,081.
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company :
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective forms of investments, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ;
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business oares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company’s Building, Martin's Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices—
-289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lii Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
Ideal
Portraits
Create a standard of excel-
lence that is the goal for
others to strive for. They
are low in price, because
competition has forced the
prices down to what is
scarcely payable. We have
never, however, lowered
the quality by any tricks,
known or unknown. Our
Portraits are IDEALS OF
EXCELLENCE, and you
get considerably more than
you pay for.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,')
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent bromide or t
Opal. Any sty le or pose. No extrasy
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR. NO STAIRS >
ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ A Village Priest.”
Her Majesty’s “The Sign of the Cross.”
Royal Stoltz’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli . Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace “ Living Models ” and
“Milky White.”
Opera House..... “Bohemian Girl.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ A Night Out.”
Royal. .. Bland Holt’s Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Brough’s new comedy, “A White Ele-
phant,” started rather late on Saturday night, and
the general impression during a ten minutes’
wait was that the pale beast had stuck in the
doorway and couldn’t get through. He wasn’t a
strikingly successful animal when he did arrive.
A want of perspective, or something equally
learned and abstruse, is what is wrong with the
“Elephant.” There is no central character and
no central incident, and no definite beginning or
end to anything, and the characters are so numer-
ous that they are difficult to sort out. The story
sets forth that Brough and his wife lead a mildly-
strained existence, the reason apparently being
that the lady gets up late and is only in her bath
at noon. The audience, of course, learns this fact
verbally and not by personal observation.
Brough’s elderly sister is secretly married to his
head clerk, who is hidden under the table.
Brough’s ward is secretly engaged to a man whom
Brough strongly objects to. Mrs. Brough’s scape-
grace cousin, a hardened co-respondent and stone-
broker, is engaged to an Amurrikan lady with
whom Brough badly compromised himself, in
very scanty attire, at a wild Parisian ball. Mrs.
Brough’s maid is engaged to the butler. Then
Mrs. B. is persuaded to escort her husband’s ward
to London to be secretly married to the
man Brough objects to, and her husband be-
lieves she is eloping with the stony-broke cousin,
while the cousin aids her under the impression
that she is bolting with the head-clerk. And all
these people, followed by Brough and his lame
father-in-law, arrive early on a cold morning at
the cold, shut-up family mansion in London, and
rouse up a depressed housekeeper with her head
tied up, and demand bacon for breakfast. As
there isn’t enough bacon the maundering old
woman speculates vaguely as to whether she can
borrow some from a similar cold old woman who
takes care of another enu>ty house up the street.
No very amusing complication ensues
when all these bewildered people get together.
There is no climax worth mentioning, and the
play tails off rather than finishes. It contains a
lot of good dialogue and a few incidents which are
more interesting than some other incidents, but
its tendency to straggle along towards nowhere in
E articular, and to disperse in various directions
efore it arrives there, is much against it. Six
characters have each an almost equal claim to be
called the principal individual. Mr. and Mrs.
Brough, Miss Titheradge, Ferris, Carey and
Ralph Roberts—the little man who first let loose
his curious metallic voice in the “New Boy ” —all
do good service, and shove the languid “ Ele-
phant ’’ along to its hazy destination with a vigor
and good-will worthy of a brighter mammal.
Miss Titheradge’s performance further confirms
The Bulletin’s previous good opinion of this
bright little actress, and it is hereby requested
that she will appear oftener for the future. Harry
Roberts, Miss Hardy, Wilfred Shine, and one or
two more, fill up the rest of the cast. “A Village
Priest ” follows on Saturday.
• * * *
An influential Sydney committee, including
George Dibbs, Edmund Barton, and R. E.
O’Connor, is working up a farewell presentation
to Mr. and Mrs. Brough. The Bulletin there-
fore suggests, in the interests of peace and good-
fellowship, that Barton makes the presentation
speech this time. The last speech—that on the
occasion of Boucicault’s departure —was entrusted
to Dibbs, and the large, good-humored, blundering
way in which G.R.D. complimented Mrs. Brough
on her perfect moral respectability was a hair-
raising episode. Dibbs’ breezy way of doing
things suggests a bull presenting a porcelain vase
to a friend with his front hoofs and making a few
feeling remarks with his horns. On that painful
occasion G.R.D. got away without raking down
all the scenery with his boots or trampling the
company under foot, but it was a very near thing.
* * * *
That old-time favorite, Edward Farley, has
been missing from the stage for a good many years
—barring a temporary resurrection as Dick Dead eye
in “ Pinafore,” the time when Juliet Wray was a
captain’s bright blue daughter—and his sudden re-
appearance came on the public as a shock. Farley’s
new venture opened with “ Maritana ” at Sydney
Opera House. “ Maritana ” is not, strictly speak-
ing, very new, and the Opera House has long been
regarded as the most luckless house in Australia,
but notwithstanding these circumstances business
has so far been excellent, and even standing room
was scarce the second night. The strongest fea-
ture of the co. is Miss May Glend inning, who
plays Maritana with a sweet, fresh voice, and a
capacity for clever acting which doesn’t always
go with such a voice ; also she brings to bear
on the character a picturesque frock, a bright
countenance, and a pair of feet that are
highly commendable. Percy Shannon’s voice
is also in good condition, and his Caesar de
Bazan is the same frivolous, airy, irrespon-
sible adventurer as of old. Likewise his
tattered finery and his melancholy hat, and the
hair which, by reason of his fallen fortunes, he
couldn’t afford to get properly cut in old Madrid,
look exactly, to a hair and a rag, what they used
to do ten years ago. Farley’s fine bass organ is
still in excellent repair, though his acting at times
is a little heavy and lifeless; and Mitchell’s orches-
tra is good, and the scenery respectable. The
ehorus is the weakest part of the outfit. Its cos-
tumes are moderate, but its legs, varying from the
appalling plumpness of the girl at the end to the
unredeemed boniness of the long person m the
middle, are woefully ill-matched, and the stout
lady who stands with her feet wide apart is an in-
centive to drink. A good part of the chorus can
bear inspection (within moderate limits) in the
matter of limbs, but the long person and the stout
lady arouse the kind of language which is usually
written on a piece of paper and handed up to the
magistrate. One or two other people, including
Lazarillo, are hereby let off with confinement till
the rising of the court; still, “ Maritana, at one
and two shillings, is good enough value for the
money. In fact, Miss Glendinning alone is good
value for the money. The “ Bohemian Girl fol-
lows on Saturday.
* * * *
There is, so far, no falling-off in the boom
at Her Majesty’s. Apparently the “ Sign of the
Cross ” has touched some unsuspected religious
sentiment in this land of beer and blanky, or the
fine old Latin magnificence of it rouses up the
hidden love of beauty which usually finds vent m
the wattle-poem. When one considers the gor-
geousness of the scenery, and the emblazoned
halls of the Caesars, and the jewellery on Neros
shaky hand and cataleptic head, it is almost pain-
ful to reflect on how the red-headed men presently
came down from the North and wiped their shaggy
red beards on all this glory, and drove their feet,
which were large and coarse, through priceless
ferns of art, and abducted the nice girls of Rome.
'here is a beautiful lesson in the “Sign of the
Cross ”; the pity is that the lesson is mainly
bunkum. It shows the pagans as tired and de-
cadent revellers, while the Christians are men
cast in a heroic mould who only require to
be more numerous to brace up the shaky em-
pire and give it a new lease of life. And
when the Christians did come uppermost they
proved to be quite unheroic ; they were the same
effeminate crowd of razzle-dazzlers as the idolators
who went before them, and the empire didn t
brace up, and the Christian legionary ran for his
life, if anything a little faster than the pagan
legionary who preceded him. And when The
Bulletin seriously considers Mercia, the Chris-
tian, and Berenis, the jewelled pagan, it decides
emphatically that the pagan girl is the nicer of the
two by a long way, and that Marcus Superbus,
when he chose between them, was a Roman wh«
didn’t know when to come in out of the wet. In
fact, the clever and attractive Berenis almost per-
suades this paper to be a pagan, only the constant
necessity for getting to press in time lea,ves it
very little leisure to be anything in particular,
and it can’t burn incense in the office for fear of
invalidating the insurance-nolicy.
* * * *
After a period of depressing ill-luck, busi-
ness at Sydney Palace has revived considerably.
The “ Living Models,” which is a cheerful scream
of joy, is still on the programme, but “ Milky
White” has been wisely substituted for the
“Dumb Witness.” The “Witness” was very
short, but it contained two dead bodies and a
bloodthirsty fight, and though it bad points about
it, if regarded simply as a compressed horror, it
was a rather gruesome episode. “Milky White
is a pleasant little comedy drama, and Gourlay’s
deaf milkman is hereby highly recommended as a
sketch of misanthropy in humble life, and as a
character who throws a lot oflight upon the short
measure in the jug one finds on the window-sill in
the morning.
* * # *
Leoni Clarke, the Cat King, is exhibiting
his menagerie of 170 cats and miscellaneous
animals at Coogee Aquarium, Sydney. They are
a quaint and clever combination, and honestly
earn their catsmeat by ground and lofty calis-
thenics and tricks of smart comedy, of which no
one would imagine the plain garden cat to be
capable. Moreover, they appear to much better
advantage as a separate exhibition than they did
when a tired pussy who wanted to be in bed came
on at a late hour to do its little piece in the third
act of a long pantomime. Clarke’s co. is a revela-
tion of unlooked-for intelligence on the part of an
animal hitherto mostly notable by reason of a
glassy eye and an untrained voice.
* * % *
Melville Stoltz’s variety co. gives its last
performance at Sydney Royal on Saturday, and
then goes on with its Australian tour. This ar-
rangement is based, of course, on the assumption
that Virginia Aragon doesn’t break her pretty
neck in the meanwhile over the performance of
some especially astonishing feat. If she does there
will probably be no more tour, but only a neat
little grave and a wreath of immortelles.
* * * *
The Tivoli programme remains very much
as described last week, the Selbinis being still
employed doing strange impossibilities on the
bicycle. The “silver-coin” show at the Royal
Standard is also alive and doing its 30th consecu-
tive week. It is likewise doing its 30th robust
horror or thereabouts, for Robert Henry’s co., as
a rule, dashes on a fresh horror every Saturday
night, and it gives six times as much gore, and
betrayed girl with her hair hanging down her
back, and stolen will, and unorthodox infant for
the money as any other show in Sydney.
* * * *
“A Night Out,” the inaugurate item of
the Paulton-Stanley comedy season at Melbourne
Princess’s, on Saturday, is one more case of the
middle-aged husband gallivanting with another
fellow’s wife to a restaurant, where they get
chased by misfortune and finally captured by the
police. Told in three long acts—the first being
rather slow —this narrative differs from a dozen
treatments of the same old theme in its French
construction and clever denouement. The things
that were bound to happen branch off suddenly in
unexpected directions ; also the best joke of the
evening makes a casual appearance just before
curtain-fall, whilst the finish is otherwise remark-
able for the escape of duplicity from a tight place.
For these and other reasons it seems probable that
“A Night Out” will do better business at the
Princess’s than fell, in former times, to the lot of
“A Night Off,” which was the brightest, most
convincing, and certainly the best-acted farce
ever staged in Melbourne.
* * *
The “Night Out” characters are quite
commonplace puppets, and the dialogue, as a nile,
is commonplace talk, but the bustling situations
and predicaments crowded into the last two acts
have 1 an air of freshness about them. The restau-
rant is an unusual place, containing a private
supper-room on one side of the passage and a
haunted dormitory on the other. rher ® f l ,
three beds in the sleeping apartment, and the
first man who engages it for the night desires
to slumber behind the curtains of a tour-
poster, with his clothes on, until the spirits
wake him up. The beds are meanwhile hired
by an idiotic father on behalf of his four daughters,
consequently, when these artless virgins dance a
mystic minuet in nightgowns, the startled sleeper
flies for safety to the supper-den of his gigantic
wife and her small cavalier, therefore the some-
what guilty pair disguise themselves as goblins,
and the whole population of the restaurant goes
mad. An attempt at explaining the later proceed-
ings is herewith postponed indefinitely, Enough
to mention again that the guilty pair cast suspicion
upon the innocent, and live to glory in the doctrine
that nothing succeeds like deceit.
* * * *
Harry Paulton, as the small husband of
easy virtue, is very much the same person as
Elton in appearance, voice, and method. in
short, the resemblance almost amounts to a charge
of plagiarism against departed William, his
reputation being younger and smaller than
that of the comedian who is now introducing
himself to Australian notice. There are points
of difference between the Paulton we see and
the Elton we remember, and the differences will
be summed up in favor of the recent arrival. He
never asserts his intention to be funny, yet he
gets there all the same. Miss Alma Stanley s
value to this particular show is mainly physical.
She plays a very secondary part with good humor,
and stands about half a yard taller than Paulton.
Mrs. Bryer, as the lawful wife of the small hus-
band, is another valuable foil. The other members
of the company, including Cecil Ward and two
new-comers —Ernest Shand and Miss Stafford—-
deserve a good word. In some cases the rest of the
company seems open to improvement, but the
openings are not very large.
*# # *
Harry Furniss, the illustrated monologue
entertainer, at Melb. Athenaeum Hall, proves to
be neither a disappointment nor otherwise. He
displays 150 of his original drawings upon a sheet,
in support of a discourse which is quite as
humorous as London Punch humor, and much
less heavy than the discourses of two previous
talking artists, who have dealt with battle and
murder. Harry Furniss deals with solemn Hing-
lish political institutions in a fairly broad and
lively spirit, his drawings are clever, and his sub-
jects interesting, as a rule. Moreover, he has his
discourse on the tip of his tongue, and the 150
pictures are all disposed of within 90 minutes or
so. Not a hollow, thin, or dry entertainment,
but essentially soft, like the comic address of a
pet parson at a chapel bun-fight.
*# * *
Bland Holt announces the last nights of
“St. Paul’s” at Melb. Royal, and it is even pos-
sible, at time of writing, that the Aspasia Club
and the Panther’s Paradise, &c., will disappear on
Friday. In which case “A Life of Pleasure ” will
be produced on a scale of vast magnificence next
Saturday.
** # *
The Bijou is to re-open on Saturday under
the management of W. B. Vanderlip, jun., whose
New York Vaudeville Co. has lately appeared in
Holy Adelaide. The reliable Opera House
flourishes as before.
There has been much interest displayed in
Melbourne over a peculiar halo round the moon.
A Bulletin man turned his glass on the
phenomenon, and discovered “God Save Our
Queen ” set round the pale orb of night in gas-jets.
The amateur lady-journalist often achieves
curious results by the promiscuity with which she
ladles out her conjunctions. For instance, the
S.A. Register lady-writer thus introduced her
description of the dresses at an Adelaide race-
meeting :
Not a little disappointment was felt at seeing the
Governor’s carriage drive away so early, but every one
was gratified to see that he was accompanied by both his
daughters.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
In last week’s issue certain figures regarding the
finances of the last four N.S.W. Governments got partly
mixed up, the repayments in reduction of the deficit
being allowed for twice over. The complication alters
the figures considerably all round, though it still leaves
Dibbs as the most solvent financier of the four, and Reid
as, with one exception, the most insolvent. The following
is what was intended :
Jennings Government.
Deficit (1886) £1,484,462
Paid off old loans 31,549
Net Deficit £1,452,913
Parkes Government.
Deficit (1887-1891) £717,924
Paid off old loans 289,483
Net Deficit £428,441
Dibbs Government.
Deficit (1892-1894) £176,092
Paid off old loans 334,595
Net Surplus £158,503
Reid Government.
Deficit (1895-1896) £830,520
Paid off old loans 133,313
Net Deficit £697,207
This is the state of things up to 30th June, 1896, as shown
by the net revenues and expenditures in the latest N.S.W.
Statistical Register (pages 350 and 351).
* * * •
South Australia, in ’95, temporarily fixed up
£849,225 of its little deficit by the issue of Treasury bills
at £4 11s. 3d. per cent. They fall due this month, and the
Kingston Ministry has £184,738 accumulated, not out of
revenue, but from special land sales, towards meeting
them. The holders of the other £664,000 worth of bills
were offered 3 per cent, stock in exchange, but apparently
they didn’t accept, so the usual loan is to be floated
in London. So the £664,000 will probably disappear ihto
the mass of the general debt, and be never again heard of.
This seems likely to be the general fate of the shortages.
Tasmania’s deficit remains about stationary. Turner has
just managed to keep the accumulated Vic. deficit from
growing worse this year, but it hasn’t diminished one
penny ; in fact, this is the first year for a considerable
time that it hasn’t increased. Queensland boldly con-
verted its big shortage into permanent debt and dropped
the painful subject. N.S.W. has been laboriously paying
£150,000 a year off its deficit for eight years, and instead
of being £1,200,000 less it is about £400,000 more than it
was in 1890. By-and-bye, in all probability, some un-
usually tired Governments will dump the Tasmanian,
Vic. and N.S.W. deficits into the permanent debt and let
the unpleasant problem drop. South Australia appears
to be doing this now. The natural fate of such an un-
pleasant subject is to be dropped, sooner or later, with as
little row as possible—unless some reckless Ministry
starts a series of state lotteries to raise the needful
funds, and gets rid of the shortage that way, and thereby
wrecks itself with the local Nonconformist conscience for
ever afterwards.
* * * *
The S.A. loan transaction is a fine example of
how darned unimportant the Australian is in his own
country. The local holders of Treasury bills had the
option of taking in exchange 3 per cent, stock—appar-
ently at par, for nothing was mentioned of any discount
in their case. Failing their acceptance, S.A. offers the
necessary 7 loan in London at a minimum of £95, and
when the extra expenses are allowed for this really means
a minimum of £93 10s. If the loan had been offered in
Sydney or Melbourne the chances are that it could have
been raised at £97 with almost no expenses. At all
events, the N.S.W. Government and the Victorian State
Land Bank are both able to float 3 per cent, loans at par
in these cities, and the S.A. Government’s credit must
be very bad if it can’t raise the wind at £97. If the
Australian had only a little more confidence in himself
and a little less abject reverence for the financial Bull it
would be better for him.
S. A. also proposes to shift the sale of the bonds
of its State Land Bank from Adelaide to London in the
hope of realising a higher price. S.A. is run on Protec-
tionist principles in most matters, but the fact that it
may be better to pay £3 ss. per cent, to ourselves than
£3 4s. per cent, to somebody 7 else doesn’t enter into the
scheme of its philosophy. Considering the bad disasters
which have fallen on the last two Westralian loans in Lon-
don, it is just possible that the Kingston-Holder Minis-
try’s experiment at making S.A. still more dependent on
the foreign usurer may meet with all the bad luck it
deserves.
• • * *
S.A. State Land Bank has, up to date, lent out
£232,265, and, so far, has contrived to pay all expenses
out of profits and have £BOO to the good. As the ex-
penses, in the early stages of such an enterprise, are
necessarily heavy in proportion to the revenue, succeed-
ing years should show a respectable profit.
* * * *
The solid old Bank of New South Wales still
keeps its place as the leading financial institution of Aus-
tralia. The half-vear’s net profit is £87,898, as compare
with £87,661 last half. Of this £87,727 goes to pay a «
per cent, dividend, and the rest, added to previous
balance, leaves £22,502 to be carried forward. The paid-up
capital is now £1,949,500, and the reserve-fund £1,191,. i •
The institution has £6,154,000 cash on hand ana
about £1,500,000 in liquid securities, equal to over 30 pe


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
■test |»«*»»|Hle prluw, far cheaper (linn Drug
Houses.
Ny.f^arkwald
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little 4>i;int"
Prospectors' CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
CHEQUE BANK LTD., LONDON,
Issues MONEY ORDERS to all parts of the world.
Cashed by over 25,000 banks.
Handbooks on Application.
135 Pitt Street (near G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
Power’s WbiSkey.
Aus. I PHILIPS & PIKE,
Reps. Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
fhe Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth—W. B. Gordon & Co.
Geraldton — W. Meadowcroft.
cent, of its liabilities to the publio, and the huge business
keeps continually growing. Deposits alone now amount
to over 18J millions.
* * * *
The Bank of Adelaide shows a profit for the
last 12 months of £31,046 compared with £31,225 and
£31,048 for two previous years. The usual 7 per cent
dividend accounts for £28,000 ; £3OOO added to reserve
makes it 1152,000 ; and the remainder, added to previous
balance, makes £15,561 carried forward. The Bank of
Adelaide is an intensely steady-going institution with a
solid cash reserve and a steady business that never appa-
rently suffers from fits and starts and booms and the like
disturbances. Also its modest 7 per cent, dividend is
about as regular as the sunrise or the drought.
* * • •
The old question as to whether the A.M.P.
Society should open an office in London cropped up again
at the recent meeting. Tiie Bulletin is emphatically
among the “Noes,” for the following reasons: (1) The
expense rate in London would almost certainly be higher.
In Australia the A.M.P. is so well-known that a lot of
business comes to it without any expensive process of
canvassing and with no commission to pav. In London
it is very little known, and would have to hustle for busi-
ness in the usual costly fashion and compete against local
offices of as good standing as itself. (2) The rate of in-
terest realised on the funds invested in England would
be lower, and the reduced interest and increased expense
would both tell on the Australian policy-holders. (3)
The British business, by reason of its remoteness, would
be more difficult to supervise. (4) The Australian busi-
ness should be large enough to satisfy any office. When
the bone is so large it is dubious policy to grab at the
shadow as well. (5) The Bulletin is a consistent advo-
cate of Protection for the Australasian insurance indus-
try, as well as for other industries. It hopes to see legis-
lation adopted sooner or later, which will oust foreign in-
surance companies, both life and fire, from this country.
But if local offices keep extending their business to Eng-
land they obviously can’t take up this position, and the
present competition must go on indefinitely.
• * * *
In the report and balanfie-sheet of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society published in The Bulle-
tin of 15th May, Mr. Leslie John Park is described by a
typographical error as general manager of the Sydney
office. Mr. Park is really general manager of the society,
having succeeded to that position on the death of Mr.
Jaques Martin a few months ago.
« • * *
Sydney Telegraph item :—“ In the worst
period of our distress every life assurance office remained
unshaken, and, from the largest to the smallest, not one
of them even bent to the blast. In other countries where
more stringent regulatory laws prevail better results have
not been obtained, and, generally speaking, there is as
much public confidence in life assurance in Australia, and
as much to justify it, as in any part of the world.” This
is the sort of thing that is accepted as proof that there is
no need for State audit, and that a State life assurance
department is wholly unnecessary. But, as a matter of
fact, nobody knows for certain, simply for want of
“stringent regulatory laws,' whether Australian life-
offices were or were not shaken, or how much they were
shaken. A shaky bank reveals itself when there is a larger
withdrawal of deposits than usual. People can only with-
draw from an assurance-office by death (and they don’t
generally suicide for the purpose of finding out whether
their office is sound or not) or by surrender, and they
don’t rush to surrender wholesale unless a great alarm
sets in. The shaky bank is generally betrayed, sooner or
later, by the anxiety of the managers and directors, and
others in the inner circle, to sell their shares. The shaky
mutual assurance-office can’t be betrayed this way, because
there are no shares to sell. If the directors stick together,
and the auditors are as complaisant as most auditors —
that is to say, if they take the assets, or alleged assets, at
their face value without inquiry—a-bankrupt life-office may
go on unsuspected just as.long as the premiums which come
in cover the outgoings, and that may be half-a-centurv or
more. For instance, in 1895, the offices doing business in
Australia had a total premium income of £2,928,000.
Their total outgoings (claims, surrenders and expenses)
were £2,574,000. Therefore, they could have gone along,
to all appearance, as smoothly as ever, even if half or
more than half their assets were waste paper, and they
were all bankrupt, provided the swindle was worked
artistically enough. The Bulletin doesn’t suppose for a
moment that anything of the kind took place, but there
is nothing to prevent it taking place save the private
audits, and as the private auditor certified cheerfully to
the accounts of every rotten bank right up to the day of
the smash, they count for absolutely nothing. And the
fact that such a fraud is possible, makes it absolutely
certain that it will be perpetrated some day by some office
or offices—perhaps to the tune of many millions. Which
is The Bulletin’s reason for barracking at the top of its
voice for State supervision and a State insurance depart-
ment.
• * • »
That delicate little plant, the Tasmanian Per-
manent Executors and Trustees Association of Launces-
ton, managed to earn £237 last half-year, and as the usual
5 per cent, dividend absorbs £2(LJ it naturally goes £25
to the bad. Previous half-year it earned £ll7 and paid
£262 dividend, so it went £145 to the bad. This institu-
tion, in the 9)4 years of its blameless existence, has con-
trived to accumulate £403, and it'has to hold on to that
little amount with both hands to prevent it slipping
away. And unless the co. sands its hands and gets a
better hold it looks as if the.£4o3'would slip.
• * <- » •
The liquidator of the Dominion Bank seeks to
make C. H. James, the long-bearded father of the Mel-
bourne land-boom, insolvent, in the hope of upsetting that
gentleman’s fat settlements—said to be £loo,ooo—on his
wife. The question to be propounded in Court is : Did
James know himself to be hopelessly insolvent at the
time of the aforesaid settlements, five or six years ago?
The case will be characteristically Melbournian in its dis-
closures.
* • * *
Ed. Bulletin, —Please listen to the grievance
of some of the unlucky. A young friend of mine
applied for a situation to a Sydney labor agency. After
paying ss. “ to join the membership of said agency,” and
another ss. for “ commission,” he was sent out to a place,
but found it had been filled prior to his application to
the agent. When he returned he 'asked for another
place or his money, and was/told he would have to pay
another ss. or lose the lot. What are we to do?—H.M.P.
* * ~ » •
The fares by Cook’s monthly excursion trains
between Sydney and Melbourne are now 70s. and 50s.
first and second-class return respectively. They were
formerly 60s. and 40s. The advance, which will not
materially affect the popularity of the excursions, will, it
is hoped, cripple the operations of the ticket-scalpers,
who are making a big thing over selling return halves of
excursion tickets to ordinary passengers during the
month, and employ touts on these trains to purchase un-
used ticket halves. In Victoria, drastic measures for the
extermination of the scalper are to be taken immediately.
A Bill is to be introduced by Government, and passed
as soon as possible, making the business of the ticket-
broker a criminal offence. It is to be hoped a similar
measure will soon be passed in N.S.W. Meantime the
combined annual loss to the railway revenues of both
provinces is little shortof £4OOO to £5OOO annually.
Tasmania is not to get her Great Western syn-
dicate railway, after all. Contrary to expectations, the
summer has passed without any ver}" big find being made
adjacent to the proposed gridiron, and so, and so-the
deposit which was to be put up won’t arrive, and as
Clarke is dead, and Officer and the others are very much
alive, the railway may be considered off for the present.
The Government will probably be forced to construct a
2ft. gauge line to the Wild West or resign. And there
shall be no more Fysh.
* * * *
A Brisbane trustee reports that the estate of an
insolvent Syrian consists of one share in the Co-operative
Commonwealth of Mount Lebanon.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 shows a profit for the
half-year ended March 31 of £17,077, of which £lO,OOO has
been paid in divs. The rest goes to swell the balance
carried forward to £29,305. The surplus of liquid assets
is £27,024 ; but of the £48,676 of assets only £152 is cash,
£28,644 is represented by concentrates and ore on hand,
£7240 by estimated surplus to be received on concen-
trates, £4546 ditto on bullion, and £5134 by value of
timber, coke, coal, &c.
A steady advance has been made in the opera-
tions of the Block 14 co. during the last couple of years.
In the corresponding period of ’95-’96 £27,639 was paid in
wages and salaries and £15,453 profit was made ; this last
half-year £40,238 was spent in wages, &c., and, as before
said, the profit reached £17,077. Fees (directors’), pos-
tages, and office expenses advanced from £llOB to £1544.
Block 14’s improved position is not due to ore
purchases, either. For the half-year ended Sept. 30, ’96,
the ore bought amounted to 32,958 tons, and the ore
mined 36,939 tons. For the half-year just ended the
figures were 17,744 tons and 48,315 tons. “At the present
time,” the directors say, “ more than three-fourths of the
total quantity is being raised from our own mine, and in
all likelihood this proportion will continue to increase.
The fact is that former ore purchases stood f he co. in good
stead, mainly because such enabled the full running of
our plant while the large ore bodies in the mine were
being opened up ; but, this being accomplished, the mine
now stands in a perfectly independent position.”
The developments in Block 14 mine during the
half year have been previously referred to as extremely
satisfactory—so far, at least, as quantity of ore exposed is
concerned. At the 300 ft. level, the Western lode is ex-
posed 800 ft. long by an average of 50ft. wide, and at 400 ft.
it is probably wider —at one point certainly 90ft. But it
is only just above paying point as to quality.
B.H. South has a bit in hand ; but the Adelaide
directors have been disinclined to announce a div., thou t
the Melb. people have been wanting one. By the way, a
Melb. weekly paper's anticipation of a div. in this co.
every second month is, in present circumstances, absurd.
.** * •
In the six months from October to March B.H.
Junction made a profit, according to the directors’ show-
ing, of £48,749. The total revenue was £93,508, so that it
was more than half profit. £30,000 was paid in divs.
The balance from the previous half-year was £20,445, and
£37,944 has now been carried forward. There was very
little outlay upon permanent improvements during the
half-year; but it will commence now. Wherefore the
directors have passed the May div., and announce that
“ they propose to defer the payment of divs. in future as
they think advisable, in order to accumulate a substantial
reserve fund.”
The fact is that, though they have not yet
braced themselves up to admit it, the new-chum Junction
directors lost their heads and miscalculated. Time after
time they were here told that the high-grade ores in the
mine could not stand the drain upon them. Now the
directors, in a choice scrap of English-more-or-less, tell
us that they “ have to report that their anticipation as to
the quantity of first-grade ore available for shipment
being' largely increased have not altogether been
realised”; also, “in consequence of the highly friable
character of the lode the manager’s resources have been
heavily taxed to provide for the satisfactory carrying on
of sloping operations consistent with the' proper securing
of the ground.” Obviously the ground was not properly
secured, for it collapsed. As The Bulletin said, the
manager could not drag out the ore that was called for by
the directors and secure the mine. Hence the creep.
Very magnanimously the directors don’t blame the
manager for the creep. But they don’t blame themselves
either, and therein are less just. They say, instead, that
“ the occurrence was quite unavoidable.’’.Further, regard-
ing this first-grade ore, though manager Phillips estimated
the quantity actually exposed 12 months ago at 199,536 tons
cwts. not mentioned), he now finds “it is impossible to
give anything like an accurate estimate of the quantity
at present immediately available, seeing that such an
extensive crush of ground has taken place and that a
thorough inspection of the ground has not yet been
made.” Notwithstanding which the directors reiterate
the assurance that this creep was really a capital thing.
Approximately 42,000 tons of ore was taken out
of the Junction during the past six months, and of that
21,800 tons was first-grade ore. In the previous half-year
the extraction was under 15,000 tons. On the manager’s
estimate of 12 months back there ought thus to be still
over 160,000 tons exposed, even assuming there have been
no developments. But there isn’t that much first-grade
stuff exposed, or anything like it. Wherefore the
directors rush the erection of a new concentrating mill to
deal with the second-grade stuff, and when that is ready
the Junction will have a bigger ore-dressing capacity than
Block 14 has at present.
Of the 100,000 Junction shares 39,735 are on the
London register, 30,976 are held in Adelaide, 23,704 in
Melb., 3100 in Sydney, and the rest in Pt. Pirie and
Broken Hill. Some time ago B.H. people held largely,
but they got out at the top prices.
A prominent Adelaide Broken Hill mining
man plunged heavily in high-class Westralian stuff,
bought on bills in England, and has had a bad fall. Big
Adelaide operators have taken up the bills and sold the
stock, and the victim has given long-dated acceptances for
the big balance.
**, * •
There is a little unemployed trouble at Broken
Hill. The supply had already overtaken the increased
demand, when a shortening of hands at the British and
Junction led to a justifiable outcry against the continued
introduction of men. Under the now almost universal
contracting system, an overstocked local labor-market
soon manifests itself in cut prices.
• * * *
The newspaper mining man at Carcoar (N.S.W.)
has risen to the occasion. “ The developments at Holl-
man’s mine are satisfactory. It is calculated there is
£lOO,OOO worth of gold in sight.” Under these circum-
stances, we should think they were. Carcoar, it may not
be too well known, has became a great opal-mining camp.
“ The Rocky Bridge opal-mine promises to be one of the
largest and most permanent opal-mines in the world. The
matrix is 120 ft. deep, and is sparkling with gems from top
to bottom.” That’s not too bad for an opal-mine !
“ About 120 acres of the richest portion of it has been
taken up by some Sydney specidators and is being floated
in London.” Why do all these big things go to London?
“The gems are of the milky class, with iridescent bars
running through them, a class of stone in great demand.
Experts say they are in every way equal to the best Hun-
garian opal.” But that’s not all. “In addition to this
there is a valuable gold-bearing wash underneath the
opal-bearing matrix which ought to largely enhanoe the
value of the property.” So it should.
* » * •
The Eleanora, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), has recently
put in its own electric-light installation, having wearied
waiting on the New England Electric Power Co. to supply
it. Its neighbor, the Garibaldi, which not long ago started
with a shriek, seems to have relapsed into that quietude
which, no doubt, Bull is sorry he ever disturbed.
* * * *
Orange, N.S.W. The Ballarat of N.S.W. g.m.
co. has been informed by the Mines Department that in
future a charge of 12s. 6d. a foot will be made for the use
of the diamond-drill. The co. has decided to pay the fee
“ and continue operations.” How very good of it 1
Months ago we alluded to a rumor that this co. was
working the mine at the expense of the Government, and
putting all call 3 in the bank to meet the ease when the
wet-nurse retired.
The output of opal from White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
amounts now to about £2OOO weekly ; there has been a
better demand for the gem lately, even inferior stone
finding sale; locally, this is attributed to the Record
Reign festivities. The English co. is the largest pro-
ducer ; it has 130 men on its blocks.
* * * *
Ere leaving Westralia for the jubilee junketings,
Premier Forrest put in a day or two at Kalgoorlie, where
he was banqueted with the usual result. “ The develop-
ments of Kalgoorlie were so splendid that, with the help
of other districts, they would make W.A. the greatest
gold - producing colony in the Empire.” It certainly
should be. It is by far the biggest, and no other colony
had a start with so many of Bull’s millions. Forrest
takes with him some “ beautiful specimens ” of the forma-
tion at Hannan’s, a golden casket for the Queen, and a
“ splendid specimen of telluride of gold.” He should get
his life fully insured if he shows them. Bull is full of
W.A. specimens, the sight of which makes his eyeballs
glare. He would probably take more interest in Forrest
if he brought ’Ome a few samples from the “ duffers ” and
“cats”—some of the “white quartz” from Bayley’s, a
few stones from the bottom of the Plunderderry, and a
“ piece of the formation ” in the Wealth of Expectations,
in which the Premier himself was largely interested, and
about the richness of which he made a memorable speech.
These would enable Bull to make a comparison between
the specimens usually sent to London and the stone left
in the mines. Forrest is also well loaded up with samples
of Bunbury butter and bacon. Esperance has recently
produced some fine melons and pumpkins, and two weeks
ago a big effort was being made “ to catch the Premier at
Albany with them.”
* * * *
Dr. Simon, who has been the means of putting
a heap of foreign money into Westralian mines, complains
of the hide-and-seek policy followed by many companies
out there. Estimates have been formed in London that
crushing could be done for 6s. and 10s. a ton, whereas
“ we all know that the cost varies from 20s. to 30s. per
ton for large parcels, and much more for small.” He says
they should all give the true cost of mining and milling,
and help one another to reduce it, and he is satisfied it
can be done. “ Nothing breeds suspicion like mystery,”
says the Doctor. He might have added that “nothing
kills confidence like lying.” Millions of money have been
scooped in by consistent, persistent, and almost universal
lying about W.A. mines. It helps to make a boom, but
always, sooner or later, kills it.
* * * •
Wittenoom, Mines Minister and Acting-Pre-
mier of W.A., has admitted that the reducuorf from one
man to three acres to one man to six acres, in the mining
labor conditions, had been decided on in view of the
threatened withdrawal of capital, and because of the
number of applications for exemption made on solid
grounds. This, too, will be given as evidence of the rich-
ness of the mines, and as the employment of wind has
more to do with a boom than that of miners, the writer
expects also to hear that the new boom is now coming
sure.
• * * *
Niagara, W.A. : “Two Japanese arrived here by
the coach yesterday, but the news of their coming had
preceded them. On arrival a party of residents waited
upon them, and intimated that if they did not return
again by the coach on the following morning, matters
would be made more than lively for them. They signified
their willingness to return if their company was not
acceptable, and left again for Menzies this morning.”
There will probably be trouble over this matter.
* » * *
W.A. mining news published in the S.M.
Herald :—“The Associated Gold Mines to date has sent
5000 tons of telluride ore to Wallaroo works for smelting,
and it is expected that the average yield will be about the
same as from the 160 tons already treated, which pro-
duced B*4oz. of gold per ton.” Great Scott! Why, this
would mean a yield of 42,5000 z. of gold. Of course, 500
tons was meant, but the poor, innocent old S. M.H. is too
blissfully ignorant of mining matters to see it. - The
hummer who sent it wears the belt. The 500 tons' have
since been treated at under soz. per ton—good enough in
all conscience, but these mine-barrackers cannot ‘leave
well alone.
* • * *
Hannan’s Brown Hill, W.A.—358 tons sent to
Wallaroo, S.A., returned 34840 z. gold—within a shade of
lOoz. per ton. Next to nothing is published in W.A. or
elsewhere of the developments in this mine. It has long
been known that a lot of high-grade ore existed above the
200 ft. level; also, that at about 180 ft. the ore completely
changed in nature and grade, and probably this change
more than anything else made the other mines in the
camp hesitate about going down. Has the high-grade ore
been picked up below the 200 ft. ?
• * • *
Kalgoorlie wire of the usual sort: “ A rich
strike was made in the Queen Margaret South, where, at
a depth of 100 ft., a large mass of almost pure gold was
discovered.” How much is a large mass? —a cwt. or a
ton ? And if even only a cwt., why don’t the shares jump ?
« * * *
Hamilton, manager of the Great Boulder, told
Premier Forrest recently to ask some of the London
brokers, promoters, and others, who had made money out
of floating W.A. mines, to invest a percentage of their
profits in development. But their business was to work
the public, not the mines. Men who make money by bur-
glary don’t usually spend it in offering rewards to the
police. Callahan, of Lake View, asked Forrest to tell the
Londoners that gold-mines were not found on trees and
they were not to be picked up anywhere. Another man
suggested that Forrest should do all he could to weed out
the “ cats.” Forrest, of course, promised to do his best
to remove the slump. Trying to “restore confidence”
after the boomsters have got off with the boodle is labor
in vain. Kalgoorlie is going to produce many tons of
gold, but without a boom. The so-called slump is only
the normal condition of things, and the sooner it is so re-
garded the better. A gold camp that can’t maintain a
mining-market of its own can hardly expect to have a
lively one in London.
* * * *
J. R. Hamilton, an old Bendigo quartz-miner,
who first Opened the reef now worked in the Queensland
Menzies mine, W.A., in reply to “ Victim ” gives the most
sensible description of the mine and its chances. He
admits bad management from the start, but thinks good
profits can be made even if the average is only 27dwts.
per ton. Also directs attention to the rich reefs worked
by mines at each end, which it is only natural to suppose
must run through the Q.M. ground.
* • * *
“ Rumored that Mr. Kaufmann is trying to pur-
chase another big block of mines near the Great Boulder
on behalf of the London and Globe Corporation.” How
many mines are there available near the Great Boulder ?
Now is the time for Kaufmann to get them cheap. But
why not go for a “ large block of mines ” near the Wealth
of Expectations? There they might be got even cheaper.
By the way, what has-become of that great mine ? Is it
crushing? Has it ever crushed? Will it ever crush ? Or
is it crushed ?
* * * *
“ Fifty tons of rich ore has been sent to Ade-
laide from Reefer’s Eureka mine, and it is expected that
regular shipments will be kept up.” Kalgoorlie wire east.
Share-market: “Reefer’s Eureka, at auction, Is. 7id„
Is. B£d.” Another wire : “ Hannan’s Eureka is looking
very well.” Share-market: “ Hannan’s Eureka, 7d., 7Jd.”
* * » *
Bayley’s Consols, once the rich water-mine of
Coolgardie, has ceased working water, and hired Bayley’s
South battery for three months to crush stone for gold.
• * * *
Poor Bull seems to be just awakening to the
state of the Hit or Miss (W.A.). The Financial Bulletin
says, from a perusal of the circulars, it is afraid that
something is radically wrong. “The shareholders should
not sit Micawber-like and await eventualities, as it js
obvious that there is something in the background that
requires explanation.” But the battery gave every
explanation six months ago. The prospectus said so
many ounces per ton, the mill said about the same
number of dwts., and, as the machine can’t lie very much,
something else must have been well up in that line of
business. The fall of the shares, from much above par,
to 45., is another full explanation. The market lies eve*
less than the mill.
* * * *
“No one is more to blame than the British
speculators themselves who, when the mad rush took
place to secure mining properties, never paused to con-
sider whether any leases that were under offer, were really
worth the enormous sums demanded by the owners, or
whether there was such a thing in the world as a ‘wild
cat.’ ” (Kalgoorlie paper on the slump.) “We rely” on the
thorough knowledge possessed by Premier Forrest to
“ inspire London investors with renewed faith in W.A.
mining.” Well, as neither the Premier nor a single W.A.
newspaper ever issued one note of warning at a time
when they should have had absolute knowledge that these
swindles were being perpetrated -everybody else on the
spot had that knowledge—hut all barracked for the boom,
neither one nor the other can now inspire confidence. The
bigger the drunk the worse the recovery. W.A. enjoyed
the stolen fruits of a gigantic boom, and it bas to suffer
for it in the teeth of the tons of gold coming from its one
big camp—Kalgoorlie, but for which the whole province
would have gone into liquidation, and the Forrests would
have been financially and politically burnt down.
* * * •
Wadnaminga, S. A., has long been disgraced by
reason of its gold pcckets. Usually there are a few rich
specimens in some Adelaide shop-window from some mine
in that camp, and they are kept on show so long that men
have been known to raise their hats for old acquaintance
sake as they pass. Of the latest find one boomster says :
“ You cannot put your hand on the stone anywhere with-
out covering hundreds of pounds worth of gold. If I
were to attempt to tell ail I saw there you would not be-
lieve it. You would think it was a wonderful fairy tale.”
No doubt, and he is a sensible man not to tell it. A
Broken Hill expert is “simply astounded at the richness
of the claim, and says if it were in W.A. there would not
be the slightest difficulty in floating it for half a million.”
But W.A. is not selling any mines of this sort at present
for the simple reason that there are none to buy them.
Two men are said to have dollied about £lOOO worth of
gold out of that Wadnaminga claim in 12 months. It
sounds well, like all the rest, but means a good deal less
than an oz. a day.
* * * *
Central Plateau, Ballarat, 441 tons, 91oz. No
divs. in 4dwt. rock. A few months back these shares
jumped from 15s. to over £5 : when the most absurd
tipster of them all said they wr ye quite good enough, and
advised inquirers to hold. They have gone back to 155.,
and the tipster is busy tipping other mines so as to make
up his usual appalling werage.
* * * »
The difference between money offered and
money in the bank. Said to be two definite offers for the
Long Tunnel Extended amounting to £4O a share —one to
put the whole of the money up in 30 days, and yet the
shares are selling at £2B. Like everything else, the busi-
ness is regulated by the law of averages. Talk as people
and newspapers like—and it is a cheap thing to do—the
market remembers that not more than one mine in ten
placed under offer, however definitely, is sold.
* * * •
There is a scheme afoot for reviving the ancient
glories of Stockyard Creek, a well-nigh forgotten Eldorado
within easy distance of Melbourne. Three quartz claims
—the Victory, Gladstone, and Jubilee—have been worked
in a small way for years past, and the new scheme
involves the amalgamation of these with the whole of the
alluvial claims in the neighborhood, covering an area of
two miles, or nearly, of country still untested below the
surface.
* * * «
Rumored that Victoria (Towers) level, driven
to test the country in the vicinity of the Victoria and
Caledonia Block’s prospecting shaft, gave some of the
local knowing ones a clue. Result: sales by the aforesaid
knowing ones and consequent fall in prices from 6s. to ss.
for contributing shares ; corresponding decline in
paid-ups.
* * * *
The striking of the Victoria reef in the Vic.
Caledonian Block, C. Towers, ought to fillip this consistent
field. Kelly’s Block, 766 tons, 11670 z.; Brilliant and St.
George, 600 tons, 7890 z.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan shares (now, say 705.) are estimated
to pay 6d. a month div. for the next 12 years.
* * « *
The Tasmania directors are not in love with the
work of their chlorination plant. The trouble is complex
pyrites. It was seriously proposed to close the chlorina-
tion shop, but as a final effort Victoria is to be scoured for
a skilled metallurgist willing to tackle the problem.
* * * «
The Gold Estates Co. of Australia is trying to
raise £lOO,OOO in London, by the issue of that number of
shares, to develope 385 acres said to be located on a con-
tinuation of the Mt. Lyell mineral belt. The property
has been “ exhaustively reported on.” Capital, 1325,000 - ;
and, as vendors are taking nearly all the purchase price
in shares, this has been regarded as “ one favorable
point.” The fact that the Tight Little Island is only
about 100 miles or so long is another. It is reasonable to
suppose that the Mt. Lyell belt will have to be confined to
the island, whereas, if it were ten times the size, some
mines might be floated that were “off the lode.” The
local Lyell pup boom having faded away, an attempt is
apparently being made in London to revive it there. It
is 100 to 1 that Bull won’t bite in Tas. after being so
badly bitten in Westralia.
A serious correspondent of Melb. Herald
makes the gorgeous suggestion that the Jubilee
shall be celebrated by raising a fund for taking
the clothes, tools, etc., of the poor out of pawn !
A Jewbilee !
The mystery of the Divining Rod is more
or less elucidated by J. Holt-Schooling, in
March Pearson’s Magazine. That certain per-
sons, of widely-different callings and stations in
life, should not only be able to locate the existence
of water, but also be able to state at what depth it
would be discovered, simply by perambulating the
arid area of investigation with outstretched
fingers—across which a stick lies, till it points
downwards when it arrives above water—has
always seemed magical or the trickery of charla-
tans. It need be neither; nor is the stick itself
of any particular importance, some operators
using a light metal (aluminium) rod, and others
trusting to their bare hands as indicators. Hidden
water conveys indications of its presence to some
persons, in whom it sets up very delicate and in-
voluntary nerve-muscular contractions. These
contractions cause movement in the delicately-held
rod, which is merely a tangible indication of the
nerve-muscular contractions that occur. The
water does not move the rod, and thereby com-
municate with the diviner ; but tlie (Jiviner trans-
mits movement to the yqcj.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garin cuts are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRULTH.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in a ij. tkxturks, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH - SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
KXTfIA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SP-ECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
l'he Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE unrivalled. patterns free by post. inspection invited.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
See tb e namf CORTO on thn bands, and beware of imitations
SOCIETY
Sydney is making arrangements to rejoice
with a dull, sickening thud on the Record Reign
day in June. The arrangements for the heavy,
stodgy festivity are in the hands of Acting-Premier
Brunker. Reid, the only man of the Ministry
who really knows how to rejoice cheerfully, is, un-
fortunately, away, so the matter has to fall into
the hands of Brunker, and that stout and mildly-
vacant cow-vendor rejoices with difficulty. If
Reid let himself loose he is quite capable of hav-
ing a howling good time with lib. of sticky lollies
and a bunch of squibs and a live locust, and being
really happy; his substitute gives way to mirth
the way another man would give way to a ton of
bricks. His one idea is to get a lot of people
together and have more roast cow than usual, so it
is proposed to have an open-air free show' in Syd-
ney Domain, with illuminations and music, and
“ refreshments are to be handed round.”
The Bulletin sees that great outbreak of joy
in its mind’s eye. It is a wet night with a
southerly blast blowing. Two hundred thousand
people in streaming macintoshes are demanding
that somebody shall “pass the kyke.” Everybody
has got the other man’s umbrella in his eye, more
or less. Everybody is asking who the other man
thinks he is a-shovin’-of. A vague odor of mud
and macinproof and moist gamp and tobacco
and heaving human being goes up, and the
combined smell is that of a dirty wet dog two
miles long and one and a-half miles broad. The
refreshments are damp; the trees are damp and
drip on to the refreshments; 40 different brass
bands try to bear up with the rain lashing into
the trombone so that the cold blue performer is
involuntarily drinking through his instrument.
Underfoot is a deep layer of mud, trodden-on
cigar-ends, lost hats, old newspaper, cake, banana-
AN AFFECTING SCENE.
The poor distracted wife bent forward to catch his half-whispered words. “Alas !” he sighed,
“one distressing thought tortures me, and that is — how, when I am gone, you will ever be able to
provide” (here his poor sunken eyes wandered wearily round upon his nine grief-stricken children)
“how you will ever manage to provide bicycles for all these.” (And then he turned his face to the
wall, sneezed twice, and was up and about as usual the next day.)
peel, orange-peel, and other debris. Pickpockets,
rowdiesand painted harridans calling out “ducky”
rage on the outskirts or the crowd, and all the
long evening it bears up manfully under much
“God Save.' Towards the small hours, however,
it grows cantankerous and partly drunk and
chilled to the bone, and bilious with much kyke,”
and it wants to tread on the head of a policeman,
and the exhausted brass band is fainting at its
instrument, but blows for all it is worth to the
bitter end. The audience gradually disperses and
is assaulted and robbed in bye-streets on its way
home. The police Rather up the lost infants and
the drunks, and the last of the illuminations fizzle
out, and the last Botany tram runs over the last
reveller who has gone to sleep on the rails, anc
flattens him out, and the show is over.
• • • •
A great row raged at Melb. Govt. House
on the day of baronet Clarke’s demise. With_an
excess of zeal, Aidekong Nevill no sooner heard o
the death than he ran up the Union Jack to naii-
mast and left it waving in the breeze. ror tour
hours the emblem stayed in its position, and then
Baron Brassey came home and rushed up the
carriage-drive with his veins standing out of his
forehead, yelling hysterically to haul it down.
When the flag of England had been reduced to a
multicolored heap the representative of Her
Majesty turned to the noble Nevill and gave him
a bad quarter of an hour, after which the rest ot
the day was spent squaring everybody to keep the
thing quiet. It appears that Govt. House flags
are only permitted to be half-masted in the event
of a member of the Royal family going under,
and, in signalling the death of Millionaire Clarke,
Nevill innocently committed a terrible breach or
international etiquette, which might have J' 0
the consul for Costa Rica withdrawing from Melb.,
or some equally appalling catastrophe.
» * * *
Disgusting how Melb. florists exhibited the
wreaths and other flowery things to be used at
Baronet Clarke’s funeral. The haberdashers who
were paid for the cere-cloths, the cabmen not in-
cluded in the undertaker’s eight mourning coaches,
and the man who squirted the street to prevent
ashes to ashes mixing with dust to dust, were un-
obtrusively silent. , , «
Slice from Melb. Argus account of the
Clarke funeral: —
Then followed the lesson, that beautiful elegy of the
Church of England over her dead, which concludes with
the words, “ O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where
is thy victory ? ”
Considering that the “ beautiful elegy ” is not the
especial property of the Church of England, but
is taken from an epistle of St. Paul, the credit for
the composition is slightly misapplied. It is to be
feared that editor Haddon studies the dog stud-
book more than his New Testament.
» * * *
How absurd the statement that the late
baronet Clarke was a man of no ability ! He
possessed in a remarkable degree, considering his
inoffensive style, the ability to avoid companion-
ship in public. Clarke walked abroad un-
“ nobbled ” and alone. Now and then a hardy
button-holer of the Parliamentary type might
stick-up the moody capitalist in the street, but
half a minute later Clarke would be walking on as
usual, leaving the other fellow to his own dark
devices.
The last act in the Clarke funeral melo-
drama was performed by torchlight, when the
undertakers unloaded at the graveside “ five vans
full of flowers sent as offerings of respect to the
memory of the deceased baronet, which it had
been impossible to stack on the two floral cars that
figured in the procession.” Ye gods ! No wonder
that the fashionable Melbourne florists showed
their respect for the deceased by putting their
windows into mourning.
• • • •
Proverbial philosophy for Sydney dailies :
Confessions are good for the—Treasury.
Position is nine points of the law.
Penny-a-lining wise, hundred pound foolish.
A lady who had
been attending the
Alfred Hospital, Melb.,
disappeared suddenly
the other day. The
published notice of her
disappearance describes
her as “an English-
woman.” It is evi-
dently supposed that
she will be most easily
identified by reason of
her inability to speak
the great Australian
language.
Puzzling are the
vagaries of the Factory
Act around Melb., re-
marks a Bulletin cor-
respondent. In Mal-
vern most of the shops
are open till 8 p.m., or
later ; Prahran favors
7 o’clock ; Richmond
almost unanimously
closes at 6 and keeps its
lolly and fruit shops
open sorter-casually all
day Sunday. Prahran
shuts everything save
chemists’ and gospel
shops. It is almost im-
possible to obtain re-
freshment of any sort
in Prahran on Sunday,
but Richmond is most
accommodating in this
respect—beer, tobacco,
fruit can be had openly.
* *
A disreputable
Sydney industry is the
manufacture of “gild-
ed ” sovereigns for the
South Sea island trade.
* *
Gov. Darling’s
newspaper libel-law pro-
vided that the proprie-
tor of a paper who
offended twice under
the Act was to be ban-
ished from Australia.
“It is characteristic of a woman that she
will walk past a dead dog in the street with tears
in her eyes and three stuffed birds in her hat.” —
American.
Australian - educated parsons
who go “ Home ” are not eligible for
appointment to church work in Eng-
land unless they undergo a theological
and literary examination there. Why,
except under similar conditions,
should Australia accept the squad of
English parsons the Lambeth visitors
threaten to fetch back ?
* • *
According to Mudgee Post, a
fair Mudgeeite, shopping at a big city
drapery, fainted, and was given a
plass of brandy, afterwards charged
m the bill as “trimmings.” De-
lirium trimmings.
• • *
Melb. : “Jotted this down, a
feminine interchange, in an audience,
last evening : ‘ Oh, I was introduced
to such a nice gentleman ! ’ ‘ Any
good?’ ‘Engaged.’ Poor Melbour-
niennes ! ”
• • •
The strongest bit of monu-
mental work in Melbourne cemetery
is a colossal figure of Angel Gabriel
(or somebody) sculptured by Summers
for the grave of old Micky Dawson,
Fitzgibbon’s father -in - law. And
about the most ghastly outrage ever
perpetrated on a tombstone (also in
the Melbourne cemetery) is a figure
of Christ on the Cross in between the
two thieves, who are represented ao
modern “lags ”in prison costume. A
reminiscence of the “broad arrow”
days.
At Gov. Brassey’s next which is not
to be held on Queen’s Birthday, as usual, but in
June, the wearing of evening-dress in the morning
is to be dispensed with. There will not, there-
fore, be a parade of boiled shirt-fronts up St
Kilda road to Govt. House. H.E. wants to “de-
mocratise ” his levee, so that anybody may go
anyhow.
• * » *
With boiled shirts and a veneer of piety.
Cow. Lee and Bung Hi can now have their pick of
the society of our nicest girls—as witness the fol-
lowing, cut from the report of a Sydney “service
It is estimated there were about 300 Chinese and fully
400 Europeans present. The Chinese choir, assisted by
the teachers of the mission, under the direction of Mr. D
Dash, led the singing. Several of the lady workers were
attired in picturesque Chinese costume.
Is it not remarkable that John, bent on a Caucasian
mash, assumes the garb of the Johnnie, while the
object of his slanting amorous glance tries to look
like his women-folk ? Allowing for an odd cen-
tury of the neuter sex, clergymen and trained
“ workers,” &c., every John of the 300 had his
Jill. Welly ni’.
* • • •
The bitter cry of a crippled mother, whose
daughter had married a Chinaman, was heard out-
side North Melb. police-court last week. The
poor old girl had made a wild, unavailing effort to
get her offspring imprisoned, or committed to a
reformatory—anything rather than leave her to
the Chow’s lawful embrace, and now the vic-
torious bride was flaunting out of court accom-
panied by Mow Wah and three of his yellow com-
patriots. “ Mary, Mary, for God’s sake come to
me, and don’t go away with those men until you
speak to me,” wailed mother. But Mary put out
her tongue, and departed on a tram-car in charge
of the heathen quartette, whilst the aged parent
stood weeping amidst a larrikin mob The old
girl’s folly had found her out. She was friendly
with Mow Wah a while ago : thought him a
decent man, and drank tea at his market-garden
domicile, never dreaming that the unsightly
faw-ner “ would take a girl of lb from her
home.” And all the time Mow Wah was spread-
ing his little snare to catch the fledgeling whosub-
sequently flew with him to Ballarat to be his
love. Mary’s fate should point a moral for sun-
dry other mothers, and warn them against expos-
ing their own flesh and blood to the hideous hyp-
notism of a Chinaman’s friendly leer —whether in
or out of Sunday-school.
* * » *
The Parramattites are arising in their
wrath to slaughter the proposal to lease to
King’s School 22 acres of their park. The trustees
appear to have been seduced by representations
that the desired portion isn’t of much public ac-
count, anyhow, and that if the school can’t get
the ground it will probably take the light of its
countenance elsewhere. These considerations are
entirely beside the question, if, as contended by
the townspeople, the trust was appointed for the
very purpose of preventing for ever any such
alienation as now proposed. If the dedication-
deed—which the trustees are challenged to publish
—is plainly to this effect, it should settle the ques-
tion in short order.
» « * *
A popular Coolgardie publican was lately
ruined by being burnt out, just after his insurance
policy had expired, and it was arranged to give
him a benefit in the shape of the gross takings on
a given day of all the other local pubs. Also it
was announced in the papers that “ arrangements
have been made that, in the event of anyone
getting a little hilarious, the powers that be will
deal lightly with them on Monday morning.’
* * * *
The Jubilee meat scheme, originated by a
clique of daily diners at Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne,
gave the Argus and Australasian a chance to
ignore David Syme’s connection with the matter.
The Age proprietor, it seems, was one of the
‘loyal ’ philanthropists who felt concerned about
the empty stummicks of the submerged tenth, but
“ ON THE BENCHES IN THE PARK.'
“ We may expect a disturbance shortly from the
East called ‘ Emma.’” —Meteorologist Wragge.
his name was not mentioned by the rival journals.
The Bulletin, therefore, hastens to give David
due credit for his anxiety to lay frozen mutton at
the Princess of Wales’ feet, and this journal feels
sorry that an “ anonymous donor ” has put David
and co. in the shade by contributing <£25,000 to
the slum-banquet fund at one fell pop. .£25,000 1
He ought to get a peerage for the money.
♦ * * *
Record-reign celebrations in Sydney —-Gas,
Guzzle and Gorsave.
* * * *
An irate N.S.W. alderman stoutly ob-
jected lately to vote any money to defray the ex
pense of receiving Gov. Hampden. “Jersey
was a different man,” he explained. “’E was the


"HARRINGTON .C-r
>fHOTO- OUTFITTERS V
<S6KING S-SYDNEY
■X A®* /
V-
i :
> 1
m
rfft r/fl/u / Buy ffioMr’
Complete and Up-to-Dat,e Stock of all Requisites.
EXPERT''ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION
Use of Dark Rooms -FREE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other U.vsiuunkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33; per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A -astralin.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS. Brisbane, Q'land.
JJOSE'S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Bliyht, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sijrht, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists, if. A. ItOUK, Chemist, 531 Georire-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their ojjal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager geer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF
only Governor as give ns aldermen cartey Manchey
at Guvment ’Ouse. ’E done it in me ow l ease
four times, an’ invited me whenever 1 .ixed to
ooine an’ do the heavy on the lawn. ’E was an
all-right Governor, ’e was.”
* * • •
At the recent Riverina Anglican Synod, the Bishop
complained that £lOOO per annum had been offered him.
He was now told he would not receive more than £5OO.
Miss PHOEBE HOWITT, the champion lady
lawn-tennis player.
Photo., Freeman.
Miss Phoebe Howitt, this year’s lawn-
tennis champion, is, besides being grand-niece of
writers William and Mary Howitt, daughter of
A. W. Howitt, one of the two men who really
know what they are talking about when Austra-
lian anthropology takes the floor. The other is
Rev. Lorimer Fison.
* * * *
Mrs. Williams, who got a divorce in Melb.
the other day, declared’that Williams Ipft her be-
cause he hated to see her soil her hands with toil ;
but he hated worse to soil his own hands, and so
Mrs. Williams had to work her mangle or perish.
She stuck to the mangle, and this was too -much
for the Spanish blood of Williams. He left, and
has never since been seen. The Bulletin is of
opinion that Mrs. Williams will be simply snapped
up. Another divorce arose from incompatibility
in re the lighting of the morning fire. Hubby
used to hoist his wife out into a cold world to huiid
the kitchen tire, and chase her with a razor if she
seemed reluctant. When The Bulletin considers
the misery this matter of lighting the morning fire
has induced in otherwise happy homes, it feels in-
clined to canonise the man who invented gas-stoves.
Melb.: “The
Catholio Apos-
tolic Church
i.e., the Irving-
ite seems to
flourish here.
Carlton hardly
possesses a bigger
church than that
of the Irvingites,
bought long ago
from the Congre-
gationalists. The
hours of worship
are odd and early,
because the Ir-
vingites, includ-
ing nice girls on
bicycles, come
from all parts of
the compass. ”
• •
The recent
case of a man
“accidentally
killed ” at a Tas.
sawmill brought
to light some of
de ceased’s nar-
row escapes.
Once, a piece of
timber came back
over the saw and
broke his collar-
bone. Later, he
was sawing laths
and one “ came
back” and passed
through his
mouth and out
through the mid-
dle of his cheek.
Then half a log
fell on him and
pinned him to
the ground.
The last wrestle
with a piece of
timber settled
him, by striking
him fairly in a
vital part.
* *
The otherday
at Maryborough
(Q.) a small boy
was seen crossing
the bridge ar-
rayed in five hats, with four bundles of clothes on
bis back and a pea-rifle stuck in his belt. A citizen,
glancing oyer the bridge-parapet, descried four
urchins swimming the stream right vigorously.
. . . They had only possessed one penny among
them to pay the toll, and this was how they
solved the difficulty.
The age of magnanimity is evidently not
past, for in a recent big Australian divorce-ease,
which caused the very Nicest people to agitate
like a blanc-mange, only the names of the demi-
monde co-respondents were set out on the pleas—
the sins of the frail sassiety damsels being appar-
ently overlooked or forgiven. Yet there would
have been little difficulty in tracing these fair
sinners, if indeed they were not vvell-knowu, for
the keeper of a temple of Venus, who admitted the
patronage of the respondent, described at least
one of his frail companions down to the buttons
on her gloves. The dailies mercifully excluded
these exact details, but many a heart must have
fluttered until it had scanned the pages of the
daily papers as the sun rose.
One demi-mondaine, whose evidence was very
materia], could not be found up to a few days
before the hearing of the case, and desperate
measures were taken to obtain her attend-
ance. A trusty private detective found that this
same nymph was the chosen of one of the most-
respected of the province’s Fatmen, who holds big
positions in his particular creed, and takes good
care to advertise the fact. This genial old boy
was accordingly interviewed and informed that it
was greatly regretted, but he would have to be
subpoenaed to elicit the whereabouts of the missing
witness. At ten o’clock next morning the barri-
ster found Miss Aspasia waiting at his office door.
When she got into the witness-box her evidence
was interesting—in fact, so much so that the major
part of it did not reach the public eye. She
stated that one afternoon the respondent visited
her bower with a “girl in a shot-silk parasol.”
After an interview of an hour the lady left, but
Don Juan still remained in the place, and scarcely
had his inamorata cleared the front gate before he
started paying his addresses to the lady of the
house - and with success. Ere long, however,
there was an interruption in the shape of another
girl friend of Mrs. Aspasia, who was admitted
and introduced just about tea-time. The pro-
prietress then left the room to prepare the meal,
and on returning to announce its readiness dis-
covered that Don Juan’s attractions had proved
insuperable to the newcomer also. After tea, the
original sassietv damsel with the shot-silk um-
brella returned, and the quadruply faithless Don
Juan went back to her loving arms as good as
new. Don Juan did not turn up to confute the
allegations, and at latest he was in Guam or some-
where.
* * * *
Woman is getting on to an equality with
man right enough. In Adelaide recently, accord-
ing to the tale of a local paper, a lady was carried
beyond her destination by a tram, and was wroth
with the conductor thereat. She was so wroth
that she became hysterical and slapped him on the
ear. Whereupon, without any sign of auger or
discomposure, he gave her two on the nose, then
stepped leisurely on his tram, rang the bell, and
departed. The last that was seen of her she was
draining off the blood on to the road and the
subject had apparently dropped.
A FAVORABLE SYMPTOM.
JOHNSON (who knows little Miss Smith, the jug-bearer) : “ Well, how is your
mother getting along?”
LITTLE ANNIE SMITH: “Oh, she’s getting along fine she’s able to drink
beer again!”
RUPERT CLARKE, a typical Australian
Baronet.
Photo., E. Baxter.
~ . ~ , ,
That S.A. earthquake-scare produced, per-
haps, a heavy crop of liars, but the one artistic
story, in a wilderness of commonplace fiction, is
that of the tradesman who rushed down street, hair
on end, yelling, “That earthquake changed the
spelling on my shop from Smyth to Smith, and
I’m a ruined man ! ”
THE BISHOP’S COMPLAINT TO THE
SYNOD.
The gentle pastor, in his peaceful British parish,
heard the call
That, from the under-world, came up for one to
save. He oped his ears,
Raised his kindly eyes, and calmly murmured :
“ O Lord, what is the guerdon ? ”
And once again the wail came from under sea full
charged with fiscal import:
“ Ten golden centuries of sovereigns shall be thine
to guide our souls aright.”
Humbly he rose and said : “Lord, I take on Thy
Southern Cross. Forth I’ll go
And face the untamed kangaroos and other quad-
rupeds, and do my mightiest to win
Thine erring sons in that land where birds are
mute and sin and infamy abounding.”
Hu came, the courtly Bishop, and labored hard to
teach his Riverina sons
The art of knocking down a cheque for glory of
the Lord and His true servant,
Instead of honoring the custom of chronic inhibi-
tion of “ blue ruin.”
But, lo ! those sinful ones were deaf to his good
words, and turned not
From their way, nor ceased their playful course of
wild, hilarious guzzle.
And a bank crash came, and the invested funds of
the Established Church
Gave forth not more than half the promised sti-
pend. And the goodly man
Was sore at heart, and filled with trials and tribu-
lations thereanent.
And then he stood before the synod and declaimed
at the baseness of his trust
Being thus abused. And there, too, uprose a
simple one, who said : “ Oh, brother,
Why mockest thou at five hundred quid when
many in this country homeless range
And penniless as was our Master?” But quick
his Lordship fixed him with a look,
And cried, in ringing tones, ’neath which the mild
one quailed : “ Stow thy gaff,
For nowadays we bishops have to hustle for our
grub.” And the Synod
Smiled approvingly, and having thus affirmed the
principle, piously adjourned
For creature comforts—the only heavenly bliss
upon this wicked, wicked planet.
May 14.
D.H.
THE “BUSSY” SPEAKS.
'Ave you ever rode upon an omnibus?
’Ave you ever noticed ’ow we git along?
’Ave you ever ’eard a “lydy” make a fuss,
Or a gentleman use “ language ” pretty strong ?
If you ’ave you’ll understand my song o’ woe
(Though—crikey I—these1 —these are not our only woes),
We git no time for “ tucker” or “smoke-oh” ;
We ’aven’t ’ardly time to change our clo’s.
It’s early morning when we leave the yard ;
We don’t come in till nigh on twelve at night;
1 reckon that our life is pretty hard,
But to keep our ’omes we all must make a fight.
And you blame us coz we “ don’t go fast enough ”
D’ye think we ought to go like railway cars?
You “cheek ” us and you swear at us and “ bluff”—
An’ you blame us for the jolting and the jars.
An’ when the blocks is slippery with rain,
And we’ve got to keep the brake upon the wheels,
An’ ’orse’ll slip p’r aps he’ll rise again,
An’ p’r’aps lie’s down ’is head between ’is ’eels ;
Or if you stop us ’alfway up a hill,
It’s then we’ve got to use the whip and rein—
You never think the strain’s enough to kill
The horses, when they try to start again.
We never gets no “ thank you " nor reward ;
We never get no blooming Chris’mas tips ;
One thing we gets when we have lost a pard,
We gets some crape to tie around our whips.
“ ’Ow do we live ? ’ -we isn’t blessed with wealth ;
We can’t afford to act the blooming snob ;
/ keens the kid, the missus, and myself
n a weekly screw o’ six-and-thirty bob.
NELL.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name arid address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Karl Van D. : The Bulletin humbly apolo-
gises and desires to drop the subject like a live alligator.
: T^ lle P er haps as a suggestion; as sketches too
8tl " L. : “ The Old Testament commends it.” Also it
commends slavery and polygamy. E.L.V. : You don’t
mention that it is not original. The thing is almost as
well-known as the Lord's Prayer or Hamlet’s soliloquy;
A.G.A. ; Your suggestions for illustration a failure.
Verse on an over-hackneyed theme I.L.VV. : The prose
excellently adapted to a goody-goody paper ; the verses
might suit any of the domesticated weeklies. Any paper
which publishes recipes for jam-tarts and hystericises in
its society column about Miss Smith's exquis'itely-godeted
new skirt would probably print, but not pay you, for your
verses about the moon D.M. (D.): Nicely written, but
over-gloomy for a paper accused of having a chronic
“liver.” Try some of the joyous-ass journals, which
can’t see that the world is a mere slaughter-house
W. P. : Lost Cat item received F. ; Deeming was
an epileptic and therefore very likely a madman. He had
epileptic fits on the voyage from England ; he was treated
as an epileptic at Calcutta general hospital ... C.H. (M.) :
See a qualified medical specialist. No good taking adver-
tised drugs under such circs.—it is mere shooting in the
dark. If you come to Sydney will recommend you to
skilled man L. ; Now, is there another alleged lawyer
on earth who would seriously expect such a string of
criminal libels to be printed by any paper? Your
yarn contains at least 26 statements for any one
of which we (not being a “ Respectable ” paper) would
get 18 months’ hard Red ’Ot; Old as the hi 115....
D. W. W. (M.L.); Unprintable.. .“One of the Passengers” :
Why don’t you first complain to the company’s agent in
Sydney ? It is the very first growl we have heard against
the co’s providoring S.H. (8.T.): Received W.K.
(W.A.); It would only get some poor ignorant wretch the
“sack.” Ernest P. (Melb.): Agonising humor
Craigee :Itis an enigma ...G.W. (Bamboo): Sorry none
available Arys (Q.): A new version of a very old story.
Even before the earliest days of Bret Harte the Chinaman
pleaded “no savee.” L.K.J. : Then the release of a
prisoner before the expiration of his sentence, should at
least, be made known to all M’sP. As matters stand, a
Govt, lets its friends out of gaol and nobodv is the wiser
for months Jeshurun : Now, do you really believe that
Queen Victoria ever sent Premier Parkes a basket-carriage
as a present? Bibbi : “ Converted Jews” are all hum
bugs—besides being preposterous snobs and crawlers.
The idea of improving a Jew by making him into a
Calvinist is too funny for anything. The Jew, like most
other men, is best in his raw or natural state .... C. r J
(Ad.): Little Pedlington again W.V. : Will print
“Poison Fever.” A.E.C. and A.A.R. : Sketches un-
available A.R. : Flat blasphemy The Old Church :
The clergy challenge church-avoiders to stand out and
give reasons? They want to solve the problem of non-
church-going. When will they understand that church
going will soon be the problem needing solution? It is
ecclesiasticism—not secularism—which is nowadays on its
defence. The clergy have virtually taken to apologising
for their own existence Mushrooms: Write Geo.
Robertson & Co., Sydney Stephen H. : That may not
be stolen from a Yankee paper, but it has the misfortune
to look so. Try and invent something which would make
a kangaroo homesick to look at it O.C. : Sentiments
beautiful; verse damnable S.W. : “Rise” probably.
Vera : Tender little thing like the wail of a love-sick
skeeter. Squashed C.A.J.T. : Nothingnew Rufus:
Tried to get your poem into the red-headed controversy,
but it wouldn’t go. Evidently time you dyed Billy T. :
Some merit; too tracty Beta Phi: Don’t think much
of it N.M. : Don’t want to dishearten you, but it’s
about the most miserable “first attempt” this side of
Xmas. Lucifer :If that poor retort really did kill
Brindley he well deserved killing E.P.: Won’t do
A.O. : It is not advisable nowadays to predict any distant
future arrangements in the theatrical way A.C. : Love
in C. a pretty little thing Walter A. B. : Sorry won’t
do. Too many things on that theme turn up A.B. :
Wairarapa Observer, before abusing The Bulletin,
should learn the English language. “ The most unique
event” certainly isn’t English P.M. : Have always
understood that the gentleman is a “ blowhard,” who can
afford to buy popularity in a small way X.Z. : Too
much vague imagination about red-hair par H.F. :
But what is called by phrenologists and some others the
abrous temperament practically coincides with your
“ muscular ” ditto Saul S. ; Kindly go to Damascus,
and see if a great light shines on you. You need it
badly J.H. : Tuberculous kind of thing—in the very
last stages Cygnet: Pretty flat E.M.P : “And
another soul was winging its way along that dark and
unknown road which leads to Eternity.” Nice of you to
supply both corpse and epitaph J.M.L. : Off our track.
Eugenia : Now we know what causes the drought
L’Abbd : “ Her forehead rose over her eyes like a
marble mantelpiece over an asbestos fire.” That’s the
sort of girl to hug now- winter's coming on . Enquirer
(Adelaide) : A recent Bulletin article re praying for rain
about covered the ground W.J.R. : Dreary 2-column
yarn about two ordinary young people who hugged each
other in Scotland G.P. (Wiliiamstown) : A bard who
makes “mug ” rhyme with “grub” is Lost T. Chump :
May use J.H.B. (Wagga) :In practice, at all events, it
is only the giver of the unstamped document who is
fined. He should pay for the stamp, therefore it is he
who defrauds the revenue Neville : “ Dav Dream” de
dined. Don’t want to encourage dreams like that. They
lead to somnambulism and sudden death, and then the
deceased’s ghost renders the house uninhabitable and it
has to be let at a reduced rent to Ho Cat C.A.J.T. :
“Bill and Jim” may do. It seems useless to struggle
against the Billjim disease Bob Mall (Longreach) :
The arithmetic of the yarn doesn’t hang together, any-
how J.M. : Yes ..Pax : Pars, haven’t aroused any
wild enthusiasm Geo. F. : Indian ,oldier yarn
weak Kipling-and - milk Duncan (Perth): Verses
cursed with the curse of grey, dusty commonplace.
Lothair : Apparently a red - headed woman
stole a horse. A white horse, no doubt
Enquirer : An elephant can pick up a single pin with his
trunk, but it doesn’t pay to keep an elephant for pin-
collecting. Anyhow, this elephant isn’t going after your
pin at present Caballus : Old racing-swindle told in a
way that sounds like the rain falling on the tomb of our
mother-in-law Yarrum : Cockatoo perjury to hand
Wobbler : Banquet of lepers too realistic and shudder-
some Sparks off the Anvil: Thanks J.F. (Nhill):
Can’t do anything so far as we can see. The LTD horse in
a raffle is generally worth just about £1 in the flesh —if he
has any flesh. As a rule, it is only when a horse can’t
stand up long enough to be sold in the ordinary way that
he is raffled Robert Hap : Hardly up to mark.


FURSaodFEATHERS
Are being largely used for neck-wear
this season. We have a magnificent stock
of fashionable collars, rut Hes. and boas.
Feather collars from 7 6 upwards; feather
ruffle- from 3 6 upwards ; fur necklets from
2 11 upwards ; fur or feather boas from 7/6
upwards : Victoria-shape furs from 5/11 up-
wards.
ir. r. nate its <f- co.,
I sidies Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
<.>«»•«/*• "till Kill)/ Stmts. Sydney.
WAHOO!
More Unsolicited Praise.
Buck St., Adamstown, N.S.W.,
20th April, 189/,
Manager, Loasbv’s Wahoo Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Rent-street, Sydney. j/M
Dear Sir.—l have much pleasure in reconiuien< In?
your " WAHOO” to any who suffer from
and Liver Complaints, as it completely cui .
be fort l 1 had taken two (2) bottles. To-day 1
l>etter man in health and spirits than ever 1 „g
1 attribute the change in my condition to LOAoo.
“ WAHOO.”
Yours truly,
ROBERT NICHOLS, JuS.
WAHOO!
Price 2 6. from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free
Loasbjr's “W&hoo” Ufg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists-
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 25, 1897.
Mi Dear Myee—
The evening-party given by the Chamber of
Commerce at the Town Hall, last Thursday, was
one vast hum. Guests crowded in, and it was a
race between music and chatter all the time, with
the music finishing a bad second. When the organ
pealed the jabbering ceased, but individual per-
formers seemed to be going through their efforts
in dumb-show. Some women stuck to their talk
even in the storm of Wiegand’s chords, and only
left off at last when the entertainment was over,
exhausted, but dauntless, in their attempts to talk
down the city organ. Violinists are bitter in their
complaints of the talking nuisance this winter.
At a crowded afternoon-tea, a soloist stopped
short in the midst of his runs, backed off the plat-
form without bowing, and retired abruptly; but
everybody was too busy chattering to notice the
sudden ending, and only heaved a sigh of relief
that the interruption to confidential conversation
was over. Another day, last week, I saw an
indignant tenor redden with wrath and walk off
with haughty mien, but his resentment was also
thrown away on an otherwise-occupied audience.
Cheap opera seemed to catch on with a first-
night house at the old Opera House on Satur-
day, when E. Farley’s co. put forward “ Mari-
tana.” That Spanish gipsy is getting a very old
girl now, but she still has her admirers. In the
full circle were numerous singers and musicians,
and also some evening-gowned persons, who gave
the theatre a fashionable tone. Miss M. Glen-
dinning, who played the heroine, has long dark
tresses, much too plentiful to be a wig, and a
graceful yellow robe in the last act; and Don
Caesar still wears those fascinating boots, with lace
hanging over the tops, that made him my child-
hood’s idol. A bewildering change of monarchs
occurs in this version. A little king patters about
in purple and black until the end, when he is sup-
planted by a tall despot in pink and silver.
The deadlock about the appointment of a suc-
cessor to Canon Kemmis at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, arises from the old, old squabble of High
v. Low. A sassiety congregation always wants a
well-organised service with plenty candlesticks
and millinery and as much trimming to the service
as the pew-rents will allow. As the stipend is
only .£51)0 a year, out of which the late incumbent
paid a curate, the question so often asked why the
church doesn’t attract able men is easily answered,
for St. Mark’s is one of the plums of the diocese.
Rev. Mr. Bond, nominated of the parishioners, is
located at Devonport, England, and is strongly
recommended by many officers of the fleet whose
influence is strong at Darling Point; and it is no
secret that his nomination is due to the great suc-
cess at St. James’, King-street, of the recently-
imported Rev. Carr-Smith, of whom he is an inti-
mate friend. The Synod nominators (who unani-
mously oppose Mr. Bond’s election) include the
Rev. Pain, of Darlinghurst (uncle of Barry Pain,
the author). He is popularly supposed to “run ”
the diocese, as his tastes are “ low ” and agree
with the Bishop’s.
To make things hum m St. James’s parish, the
energetic Rev. Carr-Smith aforesaid, who is
depleting pews in adjoining churches, has hit upon
a new inducement to auditors by advertising for
ladies and gentlemen willing to rehearse Gregorian
music, a doleful kind of antiquated melody much
in fashion at present. This is the latest of the
many devices (including smoke-concerts, flower-
hunting expeditions and picnics) which the rev.
gentleman endeavors to utilise as means to correct
the worldly tendencies of his congregation.
The annual meeting of the Home Read mg
Union happened last week in the large hall of the
University. Home-readers appeared in weird
clothing, as a tule ; a fashionable gown was a bright
exception. Announcements were made at the
door ; one large cluster of damsels being loudly
heralded as “Miss Blank and party,” and about
two dozen sailed in as “ the party.” An American
girl wore her hair in that tantalising way which
only an expert can attain to without adding at
least a dozen years to her age. A dusky belle was
hung around with gew-gaws in the style of a
South Sea princess. An interesting discourse on
Australian poets was delivered by a University
grad. ; he told the story of a child who was re-
buked by her mother for using “ such terrible
language,” and replied: “It’s not terrible lan-
guage, mother ; it’s Australian poetry out of the
Reader.” The lecturer quoted some thrilling
passages from English poetry on flowers, and de-
clared that until like associations should arise in
connection with local plants, all Australians must
remain Peter Bells. He also remarked that it
would be hard to be romantic about the flannel-
flower until it should possess a nameless suggestive
of sore throats and rheumatism.
The charity ball is flourishing in the suburbs at
present to a very large extent, and, on the whole,
promoters have been eminently successful in
solving what is always a great problem at subscrip-
tion dances—the supper. Dancers pay five shil-
lings or half a guinea for a ticket and expect a
gorgeous spread with liquor ad lib. At a recent
festivity, owing to the warm evening and an un-
expected demand for refreshment, the liquor ran
out early in the proceedings, and the thirsty men
were hunting around only to find cold water or
black coffee. Warned by this misadventure, the
committee of the next ball laid in a surplus ; the
night was cold and rainy and the attendance
rather meagre. Consequently, much uneaten
“ tucker ” was left on hand. One of the observed
of this dance was a popular leading lady who had
dressed her hair in a way that broke the monotony
of the eternal high-placed, twisted knob ; her coil
was low on her neck and had roses pinned in the
twist. Bangs are still in favor : the parting and
the puffing over the ears in the ’Murkan style add
years to the wearer’s age.
Mrs. Brough’s costumes have been so often
marked for future adaptation by the ambitious
copyist in front that there will be a distinct loss,
sartorially as well as artistically, when that lady
departs. Her gowns in the “ White Elephant ”
give useful hints for everyday wear; the morning
robe of pink has a “ princess ” front, low-cut neck
adorned with rich-looking lace; the skirt of her
pearl-grey evening dress falls in many pleats, and
the bodice is trimmed with chiffon and general
glitter, and has flouncey sleeves. Miss fern pie
adorns the gay and frisky widow in bright red,
and gives her a gold-headed cane like the Dibbsian
present to the Queen. Lily Titheradge doubles
her age by sporting an evening dress of dowager
cut. The slim Ferris acts the part of a Hon. with
fidelity, and puts much manner into the way he
rubs the back of liis head when agitated.
A “ metaphysical ” episode has become the chie
talk of the moment, and is causing trouble in
the ranks of the believers in the mind-healing
doctrine. ..
The new wing of the Art Gallery was formally
opened on Monday afternoon by Gov. Hampden
(accompanied by Lady Hampden, in a neat black
frock livened with pink), who, with the trustees
and some of the Ministry, was railed off from the
other inspectors of the loan-collection on a little
raised platform. There were speeches and cheers,
and the Minister of Instruction, in an “h -less
address, thanked His Ex’lency and Lady Am den
for coming. Contributors to the hung pic-
tures received cards for admission before the
ceremony and gazed lovingly at the gems from
their own walls. One of the most admired por-
traits was that of “ Trilby’s ” sister. Most of the
old masters are kindly placed in a separate
room, to be avoided except by enthusiasts.
The largest picture in the show is one lent
by Miss Walker; it looks like an advt. for
somebody’s soap. The face of “a Hungarian
lady,” lent by the French consul, has haunting
Chinese-slanted eyes. The Union Club’s 'Vicat
Cole had a crowd around it all the afternoon. The
’Arbor, from every point of view, gave an indigo
tinge to many water-colors. Many of the pictures
are of the kind which “no gentleman’s drawing-
room should be without.’’ Some few are so good
that it is a pity they cannot remain in the Gallery
permanently. The Trustees are naturally much
gratified at the very liberal response to their invi-
tation, which turns out to have been admirably
conceived —for few people had any idea of the
variety and beauty of some of the canvases
which lurk shyly in the “ big ” houses of
N.S. Wales. In fact, the community has
awakened to wonder if it has really been
“artistic” all the time without knowing it.
After the opening the populace surged up the
steps into the new hall, and the crowd already in
surged back, and there was much crushing, which
the policeman on the staircase seemed to ignore.
The crowd was so large and shabby that it
appeared as if every dead-beat in the Domain was
seized at one and the same moment with an
intense desire to gaze at art.
It will doubtless cause much rejoicing among
the wives of the visiting colonial Premiers to find
that the ladies are specially thought of in. the
jubilee procession next month. The procession is
being rearranged with the object of giving them
all a view of Queen Victoria. The colonial con-
tingent will get a good ten-minutes’ start and
wait for the rest of the show in front of St. Paul’s,
while the Premiers and their wives will alight and
stand on the steps. After the service the pageant
will be again broken in two, the troops from this
ide bringing up the rear. They will thus be
effectually shut out from all the glory and march
along dejectedly as a second-rate little minor
pageant—all the excitement and whooping going
on in front with the royal cavalcade, which
will be about a mile long. The fag-end of the
crowd will be left languidly beholding “ only the
colonials. ”
Fashion journals give illustrations of the new
head-gear for the loyal; the “Jubilee hat” is
still uglier than the ordinary topper, and is said
to have been evolved by some geniuses belonging
to a London club. The crown (in the pictures)
rises conically, and looks as if it would be the
better for being sat upon and flattened to the usual
shape.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The few poor remnants of Melb. ‘ society ’
made quite a show at the Princess’s on Saturday
night. A party from Government House spread
itself over two boxes, the sleeves of Mrs. Free-
man-Thomas’s theatre - cloak completely filling
a whole stage box. Quite the best-dressed women
on view were some dozen Rachels and Rebeccas in
the d.c., who were scintillating with assorted
gauds and rustling with satin. One little woman,
whose hair covers the whole gamut of shades from
‘ sunshine yellow ’ to * raven’s wing ’ in a perplex-
ingly short space, looked like a French doll whose
features had ‘ run ’ in the moulding. In a stage
box two pretty girls, both looking like under-
studies of Francillon and crowned with vividly-
colored roses, resolutely turned their backs on
the stage, and gave the audience a most admir-
able picture of social loveliness all the
evening. ‘A Night Out,’ which sets forth the
troubles of the * Pinglee and Perger ’ families (as
the Australian members of the co. call the leading
male characters) is a * dizzy ’ French vaudeville
clad in a coat of whitewash —not a thick, winter
coat, but a light, summer ‘ duster ’ very thin in
parts. The jokes are of a kind which turn all the
women of the audience preternaturally grave and
make the men shout and then wonder what they
have been yelling at. Emphatically not a piece
for evangelical clergymen. As a dress show the
farce is disappointing, and the vast leading-lady
looks as if she had bought some of her clothes at
Booligal. When she first appears she wears
a tawdry blue satin and net robe, low-necked,
though it is supposed to be 9 a.m. The hlack-and-
steel evening-gown of Act 2 is smart, but by no
means fresh. In Act 3, Miss Alma Stanley looks
like a blazing hayrick in flame-colored silk, with
hat and parasol to match, and she actively demon-
strates what a dangerous color this is for blonde
women to wear, for her own fair face looks
violently yellow in it. The green and fawn gowns
worn by Mathieu’s four daughters would serve as
excellent models how to fashion garments for
girls during the difficult age—between 12 and 16.
The floppy felt hats they wear are pretty and
artistic, but their nightgowns are the most
“ actual ” garments of the sort ever seen on a
Melb. stage.
“ The funeral of the late only Victorian-grown
baronet was the grandest procession of the kind
yet seen in Melbourne. High-class military
funerals we have had in plenty, but one in which
soldiers, sailors, Masons, and the ordinary black-
draped civilians all joined is, so far, unique
locally. As the procession passed, one looked in-
stinctively for the hoary-bearded Druids and the
block-tin knights of the whitesmiths. The private
carriages were occupied by their owners, too, in
direct contrast to a recent grand funeral, where,
among the dozens of private carriages which fol-
lowed the procession, only two contained
mourners ; and no farce is more tragically-
comic than a stream of unoccupied vehicles fol-
lowing the dead. Two carts, much resembling in
form butchcrs’lorries, piled up with floral offerings,
followed hard upon the gun-carriage bearing the
coffin ; and the fragrance of these paraded blossoms
was apparent along the whole line of procession.
Six waggon-loads of beribboned wreaths and
crosses wended their way to the cemetery by
another and circuitous route, arriving there after
the burial and heaping upon the' f*?; ve waiting
rrnnv feet high. Among the crowds waiting
“Se one heard on all sides personal memo-
ries of the deceased’s openhandedness;. not a
tenth part of the man’s princely generosity got,
or ever will get, into print, At the cemetery the
Liedertafel men sang a moist and mournful dirg<
while the wintry rain baptised their bare heads.
Despite the gaudy military and Masonic trap-
nimrs the elaborate display of wired floral extra
vagance, and the gush of some of the newspapers,
there was a genuine ring of sincere and heartfelt
regret throughout the whole proceedings,
whom money can make rich and generous and y
leave them simple and unostentatious, as it did
‘ Big ’ Clarke the Second, are very rare.
“ The Melb. florists hit on an ingenious device
for advertising their customers’ a '
‘ gentility ’ at the same time. All Monday the
windows of the city flower-shops were c ro '™™
with wreaths and crosses, each bearing a hug
label inscribed with the donor’s name ™ large
letters ‘ with profound sympathy following 1
small script. A discussion was going on before a
Collins-street shop between two women. One re-
marked that the Blanks’ wreath wasn t a patch on
the Dashes’ cross, and couldn’t have cost halt as
much. ‘That’s just a bit of show-off on the
Dashes’ part,’ remarked the other T they want to
make out that they were very intimate with the
family.’ One lady who ordered a wreath specially
stipulated that it was not to be displayed m the
window. The florist was much surprised, and
said it was the first request of the kind that had
been made.” , ,
“What the portion of Melbourne gathered on
the housetops of Swanston-street, craning at the
windows, and o’erflowing the pave, to the loss of
dignity and perspiration of many police—noticed
most when Sir W. Clarke’s funeral cortege passed
them, was the very perceptible odor of camphor
that apparently exuded from the Freemasons
brigade. It was but too apparent by the wrinkles
in their garments, without the chemical essence,
that many of the sartorial masterpieces had failed
to see the sun for quite an age, and had that morn-
ing been lugged out of obscure recesses to do honor
to the day. The owners’ mournful looks at the
coming rain shower lent quite a grim humor to
the proceedings, which, after all, were scarcely as
dull as an Eight Hours procession.
“ You could not help contrasting the pompous
funeral of Melbourne’s only baronet with the last
tokens of respect paid to its only baron a few
months earlier. When Von Mueller was borne to
his grave a red flag tied to a black-draped pole
was the chief embellishment of the ceremony, and
public interest was mainly confined to a small
crowd of Flis compatriots. These gathered, weep-
ing, in the little back street at South Yarra, where
the poor old botanist had labored so long, whilst
a disconsolate German band blew the march from
‘ Saul.’
“It will surprise many Melbourne people to
hear that there was a lot of romance in the court-
ship and marriage chapters of the ‘ new baronet’s ’
history up to date. At the early age of 12 he
plighted his troth to the juvenile Miss Amy Cum-
ming, and the engagement was one of sassiety’s
small jokes. Anon amorous Rupert was sent to
Hingland for a university education, such as had
been given to his pa before him. But the young
stranger in a strange land sowed his wild oats
with so much vigor that he —well, he left the
ancient seat of learning of his own accord and
was having the highest of times in London when
some of the family friends lassoed him and landed
him once more on his native salt-bush. Amiable
Amy Cumming was by this time quite a ‘bud,’
and she cast off her boyish sweetheart on account
of his misdemeanours. Whereupon Rupert lapsed
into a mild form of melancholia, and the heart-
broken lad of 18 was prone to button-hole his
acquaintances and pour his opinion of the buxom
inamorata into their weary ears. When it was
arranged that a cousin (Tom Clarke’s son) should
take the love-lorn Orlando to Africa to go big-
game shooting, the thought of a rampageous lion
chawing up a ‘ future baronet ’ was too much for
his one-time lady-love. She forgave him, and he
decided to leave the lions in peace and get married.
“The late ‘W.J.’s’ second son, Ernest, was
also a bit of a ‘boy,’ like Rupert, and a Mel-
bourne cabby tells a comical tale of the youngster
in a state of rebellion, bolting down the street
with his worthy parent in full pursuit. Cabby
came to the rescue of the latter, and the chase re-
sulted in Master Ernie’s capture. He was finally
placed on board a training-ship in British waters,
and will soon blossom into a naval lieutenant or
something else with gilt buttons on it. First-born
Rupert is more effeminate than his younger
brother, and he speaks with a lisp and walks with
a limp. The dowager Lady Clarke’s eldest son,
Clive, died, as every one knows, just after passing
his military exam, at Sandhurst. Her surviving
eldest is another lame member of the family, and
of poor physique. Now that he is ‘heir-pre-
sumptive,’ however, he will look much larger than
before. The results of the Rupert Clarke-
Cumming alliance have been two girls only, the
eldest blind from birth.
“Bayles, the absentee respondent in the gilt-
edged divorce case, has been for years quite a
sassiety pet. Tall, lean, grey-haired, well-
groomed, blase, he claimed attention as one of the
distanwy figures of Melbourne ball-rooms. In his
new character of enfant terrible the young man
has still some fair supporters, who say—but never
mind what they say.
“ The Earl of Shaftesbury spluttered painfully
at the outset of his oration on the last uight of
‘Lelamiue.’ ‘ Your Excellency, ladies, and gen-
tlemen, 1 crave your ingulden— aw—your ingud—
your indulgence,’ with an emphasis on the ‘ dulg,’
after which he dropped formality, and got along
very well with an ingratiating air. ‘Good old
.Shaft 1 yelled the gods, and the sentiment was
generally endorsed. It is astonishing how easily
an earl can appear a delightful person.
“ A wealthy Hebraic gentleman, booked for the
character of co-respondent in a divorce-suit to
occupy judicial attention next month, has gone off
for a holiday to a neighboring province. It would
seem that he is repairing his shattered nerves to
meet the legal foe, and yet they say that a few
hundreds out of his mighty thousands would have
hushed the whole matter up. To your tents O
Israel ! ’
“ A Scotch citizen, who wanted to see the Clarke
funeral at Melb. cemetery last Tuesday, presented
himself with the title deeds of the family grave as
an entree-card to the gatekeeper. However, the
deeds were of no avail, and a file of police baffled
pmr Sandy s efforts to get a wee peep at the
fashionable interment.
“ The Argos carries out its dislike of a learned
professional woman in the pettiest way. It never
referred to a recent American doctress, save as
Miss or Mm. —although the lady’s
diplomas are undisputed. J
.. ‘Mra-Miller, the massive and devoted wife of
the athletic Professor, was last week smashed up
through a cab colliding with a tram dummy
whereon she was taking the air. Her injuries are
serious, and it is feared that long will elapse ere
the estimable matron can be seen again in th
Melbourne streets linked arm-in-arm with he 6
swarthy Ajax.
“An elderly widow, Mrs. Rickarbv, who i.
evidently a perambulating ‘ Edith Thompson 1 !
giving a course of lectures on ‘English Queens’
at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall, or, rather, she w
giving them until she suspended operations f*!
lack of support. The erudite lady barracks loy
for the queens of long ago, but, at the same tim/
she bears no malice against their royal masters’
The audience learned that the chief cause of th
brutalities practised by kings in the good old
times, was Drink. Their majesties, having no tea
coffee, cocoa, or soda-water to fall back upon’
lived and died in a general state of intoxication’
and were not really much worse than th’
modern culprit who gets fined five shillings or 48
hours every Monday morning. Some comments
on Henry VIII. were novel and sprightly. Bluff
King Hal, according to the lecturess, reposed in
his historical ‘ four poster ’ with a naked sword
under his pillow. Had either of his six wives
talked treason in her sleep or complained of his
cold feet when he came late to roost, the Lord’s
Anointed would have severed her windpipe on the
spot. Not that he was naturally cruel. The one
thing needful to a man of Henry’s temperament
was afternoon tea. He wanted soothing.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Two N.S.W. Full Court judgments upset
by the Privy Council in a week !
Mitchell and Co’s “Newspaper Press
Directory ” is, so far as Australasia is concerned
by far the best published. The 1897 edition fully
maintains the high standard of editions preceding.
The Bulletin finds Gordon and Gotch’s
“ Australian Handbook ” very valuable for refer-
ence—containing, as it does, many facts, figures
and maps which are put together in no other
handbook published. The issue for 1897 appears
to be uncommonly well arranged, and the accuracy
of the multitudinous details does editor and pub-
lishers very great credit.
Hamilton Mackinnon, fatally-shot at Mel-
bourne while larking with a friend and a loaded
revolver, was old enough to know better. But he
did it, all the same. The deceased, who will be
remembered by old-timers as a burly, Japanese-
looking young fellow who played good cricket on
the M.C.C. Ground, was in the Bank of Victoria
with Marcus Clarke, of whom he was an intimate;
he afterwards edited the Clarke memorial volume.
He was a cousin of the Argus Mackinnons, and
once edited the Advertiser at Wagga under the
proprietorship of the festive A. G. Jones.
The masterful Tozer, acting-Premier, is
going to pick out ten delegates to attend the next
Federation Convention on behalf of Queensland.
He declares that his Bill to that effect will be
before the Assembly within a few weeks, and
brags that it is bound to pass. Also, Brisbane
Courier has vaulted clean over another fence. It
says that Kanakaland’s chance to be present at
the Federation Convention must not be jeopar-
dised by popular election. It hoorays for selection
by Tozer.
Dear Bulletin, —Last week at the Con-
ference of the Chambers of Commerce (Sydney)
Mr. De Lissa read a paper on the codification of
Mercantile Law. Treating of the Companies Act,
he gave the following erroneous statement of
company law :
Until a very recent period, the latter end of 1895, it
was supposed that a trader or firm could convert his or
their business into a company with limited liability, by
complying with the formalities of the Companies Act as
to the formation of a company, procuring the signature
of a memorandum of association by the requisite number
of seven members, through the allotment to clerks or
other nominees of t‘l shares ; and many trading firms
have been converted by this means into companies, sup-
posed to secure limited liability to the members thereof.
A judgment of the English Court of Appeal (binding
upon the colonial courts), has decided that such a
transaction is a device to apply the machinery of the
Companies Act to a state of things never contemplated
by that Act, inconsistent with and opposed to its policy
and provisions. It is stated in the judgments that the
Act contemplated the incorporation of seven independent
bona fide members, who had minds and wills of their own,
and were not the mere puppets of an individual who,
adopting the machinery' of the Act, carried on his old
business in the same way as before when he was sole
trader ; and that to legalise such a transaction would be a
scandal. It was also held that the assumed sale by the
trader of his business to the company incorporated was a
nullity.
The writer was evidently referring to the now
celebrated case of Broderip v. Salomons and Co.
It appears that Aron Salomons formed a limited
co. to take over his business. The capital was
.£40,000 in £1 shares, of which 20,000 were issued
to Salomons, and one each to his wife, daughtei,
and four sons, the remainder being unissued.
The co. took over the business, the consideration
being the 20,000 fully-paid shares issued to Aron,
and .£lO,OOO debentures charging the co. s asses
in his favor. The co. ultimately went a ,
tion with debts amounting to over an
assets rather less. Aron, by virtue of his deoen
tures, claimed the whole of the assets, and oo
proceedings to enforce his security, “ikii i
Vaughan J., and then the Court of Appeal, o
held, as Mr. De Lissa says, that the formation ot
the co. was a mere device to enable tealoinf* 11 ?
carry on his private business with a hmi
liability contrary to the true spirit of the C
panies Acts and was therefore illegal; they dec'
that Salomons should indemnify the co. aga,'
its liabilities. Mr. De Lissa, however, ouiitte
state that the case was taken on appeal, in ■ •>
to the House of Lords, which unanimously
versed these decisions. Isn’t Mr. De Lissa ser
in itself a cogent argument for the codinca
which he was achoeating?-
RUS. ROBERT.


Discussing' the Date.
Many are in doubt
When the twentieth century begins.
Many are trying to figure out just when the
twentieth century begins. Some say it begins on
the first day of 1900, and others insist that it does
not commence until the first day in 1901. Now
there are many anxious to sit up the night before
and see the new century “in,” and for this reason
the exact date is desirable. Problematical dates
occur many times during one’s lifetime, and are
difficult of Solution. The exact date of the re-
covery of W. H. Mitchell, Esq., J.P., of Caster-
ton, when suffering from flatulenby and indigestion
he would be unable to give ; but it was soon after
he commenced taking Warner’s “Safe” Cure; and
in his own words he explains : “I deem it just to
my fellow creatures who may be victims to flatul-
enoy or indigestion, and the many ailments result-
ing therefrom, to tell them that I received
infinitely more benefit from a few bottles of War-
ner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure than I did from the numerous
prescriptions prepared for me by the medical
faculty for years.” This important date will be
the same under similar circumstances ; and it is
easy to prove its accuracy. It is well worth the
effort of a trial.*
Caledonian Liqueur Whisk j
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Pbotograpbk Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak, price 21s .
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1 6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists
i iii'")iin
TuMUIU
i*
mOMm(
iiiii
"I
m
wj'
M
'i'lllllllllU'!
v;
£
Wl!
I 1 "-.
’.\N
i!)l.
‘P
ti
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OP—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHtN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY
Personal Items.
According to Sydney Deutsche Post,
John Norton’s paper, Truth, has been guilty of
Majestatsbeleidigungsgesetz.
A laundress, of Narrabri, N.S.W., dis-
covered to be next-of-kin to one Hobbs, of Eng-
land, has come in for £55,000.
Queensland’s Attorney-General, who in-
vited himself to the Record Reign celebrations, is
now known as “ the Lap Dog.”
Now that W. J. Clarke has gone, Fitz Gi-
bbon is about the most popular identity in Mel-
bourne. Under the thin surface of good-humored
ridicule there is a general belief that Fitz. has
always tried to make himself useful. And people
feel grateful to the old bard, anyway, as a source
of innocent amusement.
INGENIOUS YOUTH.
MISS VESTAL: " No, Algy, it’s only the young and beautiful who
can take to cycling.”
ALGY: “ Why don't you take to it, and show them that it isn’t ? ”
Philip D. Lorimer, the “ sundowner poet,”
who lived for a time in the gorges of the Blue
Mountains to absorb the inspiration of the weird
scenery, is now, poor fellow, very ill in Rookwood
asylum. Paralysis this time.
Mr. Brewster, the old Australian, who
died recently in England, was, according to all
the Australian daily papers that noticed the death,
“ the nephew of the Right Hon. Sir Abraham
Brewster,” and so on. Not one of them men-
tioned Mr. Brewster’s father.
Ben Crisp, a Sleepy Hollow (M.L.) teetotal
nonagenarian, claims to have lived longer in Aus
tralasia than any other record-maker. He arrived
in Tasmania 78 years ago, and went to Otago
(M.L.) just 60 years since. He left England in
1819, and has not since seen his native country.
Mrs. Hunter-Baillie is dead. She was a
sister of the wife of the celebrated Rev. Dr. Lang,
and, being rich and very generous, became a sort
of lady Presbyterian Pope. Among other things,
she spent £30,000 on a church in memory of her
husband, and gave £2OOO to Sydney University.
A foreign vocalist, recently in Sydney,
made a point of demanding insertion of advertise-
ments in the two morning dailies whenever he was
to sing in any church. One R.C. priest refused to
advertise, and the wrathful singer wrote to the
choirmaster: “ Your Father , he is no
gentleman. I will sing for you, of course, but I
will personally kick his reverence.”
One Melbourne paper rushed out on top
of W. J. Clarke’s funeral with flaring, full-page
process blocks of Rupert Clarke, the new
“baronet,” and “his lady,” with all titles
attached, and further over, in the hind part of the
journal, printed a small, shabby picture of the
defunct society •• nabob. Exquisite taste ! The
baronet is dead, grovel to the other fellow.
Yet another S.M. Herald “ personal” :
Among the passengers by the Victoria, which arrived
on Saturday from Europe, via Ceylon, was Mr. Suther-
land Orr, of Madras, India. Mr. Orr is a nephew of Mrs.
Sutherland Orr, celebrated for her life of the poet Brown-
ing, a work that in biographical literature has attained
to the position of a classic.
Well, suppose Mr. Orr is the lady’s nephew—
what then ?
At the banquet held at Bunbury (W A.)
to celebrate the first truck-load of stone tipped to
form the breakwater there, the father of Premier
Forrest was down for a speech. Now, it seems
that the old man is rather jealous of his son’s
fame, so he got up and said: “I hear of ‘John
Forrest ’ here, and ‘ John Forrest’ there, but what
I want to know is where the devil John Forrest
would have been without the old woman and me?”
Gov. Brassey has an especial fondness for
funerals. He was intended by nature for an
undertaker or cemetery chaplain, but, by some
mischance, was sent to the wrong address. It is
usual for a Governor to simply send his carriage
to a big, public funeral, but His Ex. goes himself,
looking lugubrious, with a black-edged handker-
chief in his hand. He went to J. B. Patterson’s
funeral personally ; he went to Clarke’s, and acted
as a pall bearer. His manner is so funereal that
he would prosper if he were to hire himself out for
corpse functions.
From 1841 to 1897, S.M. Herald has been
edited by ex-clergymen—Mansfield, West, Garran,
Curnow. It is understood that a lay Fairfax will
come next.
A pioneer journalist passed over recently
in the person of Ballarat Star Martin, aged 70
years. He was the first to establish a newspaper
on the goldfields.
The story is that Lord Rosebery will
shortly go on a yachting voyage in the South Seas,
personally conducted by Louis Becke, whose
trading company has been floated.
The Monaghan family in Charters Towers
is fairly well known for squatting and mining
enterprise. The Monaghans brought money into
the country, invested it in various directions, and
lost heavily. And now, just in the nick of time,
an old uncle dies and leaves the happy Monag-
hans heirs to a quarter of a million.
Sam Gillott, the well-
tailored solicitor, is said to be
willing to spend £5OOO over
his allowance if elected Mayor
of Melbourne for the coming
year. Considering that the
Jubilee shower of “honors”
will probably be followed by
a long drought, Gillott’s desire
to scatter his coin seems less
fitting than his frock-coat.
Melb. : “The current
opinion in the theologic busi-
ness market is that Pastor
Dunstan, of Sydney, will take
Dr. Bevan’s church. Mr. D.
has apparently been feeling
his way, and is liked, though
it is always a disadvantage for
a man to be preaching under
approval. Meanwhile, Pas-
tor Be van has got a cosy Eng-
lish billet, as the knowing
said he would, after despatch-
ing his family Home, and
then going himself only for a
month or two.”
John George Richardson
Oakes, who died at Bathurst,
N.S.W., the other day, was
grandson of Chief Constable
Oakes, of Parramatta, in the
early days. His grandmother,
who died not many years ago,
aged 90, was the first white
woman born in N.S.W. It
was Chief Constable Oakes,
says tradition, who was asked
if he would swear to a cer-
tain matter. After hesitating
for some time he cheerfully
said, “Yes, I’ll chance it.”
“ I’ll chance it, like Oakes’
oath,” is an expression still
heard amongst some of the old
hands in Parramatta.
During his “ record reign ” trip, Premier
Reid will visit the “ hoose ” where he was born at
Paislfey Scotland-the town that is made the butt
of all Scotch j okes . It
was a near relation of
M r . Reid’s, who, on being asked where he came
from, was silent for a long time, and at length,
after much pressing, said : “Ah dinna like tae
tell yae, bit ah come frae Paisley.” The drinking
propensities of the Paisley folk are said to be
phenomenal. It was in a Glasgow excursion
tram, when a “ chiel ” essayed to open a bottle o’
whusky and found he had no corkscrew. “Is
there onybody frae Paisley here?” he cried,
“ Yes,” replied a red-whiskered man in the corner,
“ Weel, then, hawn’s y’r oorkscrew.”
IN THE FAR WEST.
Mahlstick : “Bart. Clarke’s worst act was
giving Melb. Public Library those four hideous,
colossal, dough-dobbly, slobbery, sitting statues of
Queen Victoria, Prince Albert, Wales, and Alex-
andra. Summers sculped them in evident disgust,
merely for the cash. How delighted would this
genius have been had Clarke given him an order
for an allegorical group to emblemise Australia. ”
The Earl of Dudley, mentioned as the
likely successor to Brassey in Victoria, is said to
have insured his life for a million pounds, or so,
like his eccentric father before him. Old Dudley
started a craze for this form of gambling among
the British aristocracy. Heads—l live a long
time : tails —you lose. For the hereditary peer
who happens to find himself dying at an early age
there is satisfaction in the thought that his noble
corpse will administer a good hard knock to some
beastly commercial enterprises.
“Patra” from Melbourne to The Bul-
letin :
I lately saw a most gracious act performed by Jim Kelly,
eldest brother of Ned and Dan, and sole survivor of the
once notorious family. He, with some dozen others, was
waiting on a recent Saturday at a little wayside railway-
station when the train from Benalla drew up. A shabby,
draggled-looking woman nursing a baby, and with two
small children hanging to her skirts, got out and asked
how she could easiest get to diggings. The station-
master explained that she had come to the wrong station,
and that there was no possibility of getting to her desired
destination that night. The woman began to cry, and
explained that she was to have joined her husband at the
diggings, and that all she had in the world was three
shillings, and asked the S.M. if he would take her and her
children back to Benalla for that, “ though what we
shall do when we get there is more than I know,”
she wound up tearfully. The S.M. refused. I saw a
tall, bearded man of middle age tramp off the station and
make his way to the little store close at hand. He soon
returned with his arms loaded with parcels, then he
bought “one and a half second singles” to Benalla.
These he brought with the parcels to the weeping woman.
“Don’t fret, Missus,” he said, “here’s your ticket to
Benalla, and here’s rations that will keep you and the kids
for a few days. Go back to Benalla and then write to
your husband and tell him how it is you didn’t turn up.”
The woman broke into loud thanks, and just then the
Benalla up-train steamed in and the bearded man, taking
one of the toddlers fn his arms, bundled it into the car-
riage with its mother and then took his place in a “second
smoking.” Several people on the station well knew the
man to be Jim Kelly, and asserted, illogieally, it seemed
to me, that he was “kind-hearted like all the Kellys,”
and related several anecdotes of charity and kindness
performed by the members of this family.
Premier Seddon looked forward with the
keenest pleasure to meeting his old friend, Hori
Grey, in London, but at time of writing it is
doubtful if the great Pro-consul will be above
f round when the Maoriland leader reaches
ingland. Grey had a sincere admiration for
digger Dick, though they were not always on the
same side »f the House. A memorable scene, not
mentioned in Hansard and suppressed by the
papers, took place one night in the mid-eighties.
Seddon was acting as extra whip for the Stout-
Vogel Ministry, and an important division hung
on the vote of a Southern member who had been
on a gargantuan spree for a week —as a matter of
fact, the debate had been kept going for some
hours to give his watchers time to get him sober
enough to pass muster at division. At last they
thought he would “do,” and Seddon got “the
office ” and stopped the debate. The division
bells rang out, and in walked the boozer, not in
the custody of the emissaries of the Govt., but lean-
ing gracefully on the arm of Grey, who was leading
the Opposition. Seddon was thunderstruck, and
made a rush for the voter, who was being deftly
navigated into the “noes” lobby by Grey. An
unseemly struggle took place on the floor of the
House. Grey tugged one way, and Seddon the
other, and at last, amidst great excitement, Grey
secured the vote. Speaker O’Rorke looked on
sphinx-like and said never a word. When the
tellers brought up the division-lists, Seddon, pant-
ing with excitement, said, “ I draw Mr. Speaker’s
attention to the fact that there is a drunken man
in the House.” O’Rorke, who could always rise
to an occasion, said, in terrible accents : “ I see
no drunken man. Does the hon. member for
Kumara persist in the objection ? ” Seddon moved
as though to rise, when little Shrimski, knowing
that another word from the angry Seddon would
defeat O'Rorke’s benevolent subterfuge, and
effect the ruin of the drunken member, pluckily
garrotted the future Premier, while half-a-dozen
others, seeing Shrimski’s intention, took a
hand in the fun, and Seddon for the nonce became
the “mill ” for a pyramid of legislative “ sacks.”
“ Does the hon. member for Kumara persist in his
objection ? ” thundered forth O’Rorke, but as he
wasn’t bound to take official notice of the gurgling
of the half-suffocated Seddon, or his “d it,
Shrimmie, lemme up,” he proceeded to announce
the result of the division.
The surprising announcement that W. J.
Clarke had once been a private in the Vic. yeo-
manry cavalry paved the way for the further
revelation that J. S. Butters was his brother
warrior at the time. Therefore, if Butters, the
evergreen, would like to be carried to Melb. ceme-
tery on a gun-carriage, he has only to buy a piece
of artillery and die. Centuries, however, are
likely to elapse ere Butters will be ready for a
soldier’s grave.
Ricardo: “Alphabetical Clarke, W.J.T.,
father of the Bart, left W.J. about ,£BOO,OOO
worth, of which the personalty was comparatively
insignificant. W.J.T. was only financially con-
valescent, after being hit by the Colonial Bank,
or he would have left a good deal more. W.J.
immediately struck out boldly, capsizing his
father’s system, and in the ensuing 16 years, or
more, the estate went on gaining hand over hand,
despite what W.J. fooled away, in religion or
racing. In 1887 the current estimate of the whole
was a million and a half, swoopgd up to two
millions in the boom, a figure several times quoted.
Not being so much of a city man, Clarke did not
mushroom, or toadstool, like your Davieses and
Finks. Otherwise, he would be run up towards a
Vanderbilt. By reverse action;, the bust did not
knock him like others. Still, as Dogberry loqs /
‘ One that hath had losses.’”
POOR KID!
“ What name?”
“ Victoria Bridget Jubilee M'Ginnis !”
A Clarke statue! \Bj ali means! We
want more of this kind of thing. Melbourne is
gapped for the lack of statues to M'Bain, Patter-
son, Duke of Clarence, Prince Albert, and all the
truly great of pur'generation. r
Lusk’s School History standp N.S.W. over
£9OO to date, and is still “ under revision.” Of
the two principals—one (the author) has taken
himself out of the sphere of Australian history ;
and the other, Edwin Johnson, late Under-Sec.
for Education, has quitted all history, and rests
quietly at Waverley. The taxpayers and future
pupils are the persons in trouble.
The vast fortune of the late W. J. Clarke
came for the greater part from his father, “ Big ”
Clarke, without doubt the shrewdest man that
s'eepy Hobart ever produced. Regarding the life
of Big Clarke some wondrously, silly stories have
been circulated, ranging between the generally -
accepted yarn that he was a sort of gentleman
farmer with a heap of capital when he landed, and
the whispered one that he landed in chains after
receiving a lifer for burglary at the Old Bailey.
As a matter of.fact, Big Clarke landed at Hobart
with his liberty! but very little else, and for the
first couple of .years in V.D.L. earned his living
driving a water-cart. Of frugal habits, old Clarke
at last amassed enough to open a butcher’s shop,
and in that shop he laid the foundation of his
huge pile. Clarke was a man 5 well off when he
came to Victoria, and he took little time in adding
to his riches. Rupert Clarke, who now takes the
cash and the title, is even more of a nonentity
than his late father, W. J. The one shining act
recorded of the new baronet so far is that he filled
the piano with champagne at his final bachelor
dinner.


A Sydney Herald correspondent suggests
•< that the Government, by way of experi-
ment, engage the services of an English
‘ water-diviner.’ ” Speaking of the “ divining-
rod,’’ he proceeds to say that “ The waten
doe's, not cause movement in the rod, but it’
conveys subtle indications of its presence to
the diviner, in whom it sets up delicate and~
probably involuntary nerve-mus-
cular contractions. These con-
tractions cause movement in .
sthe delicately-held rod, which*
drops and points to the water.
It is easy to imagine
what would 'happen
should a “ diviner ’’
happen to get too near
to a Sydney milk-cart.
Her Most Gracious : “See what a lovely walking-stick that
dear soul, Dibbs,‘has sent me all the way from Aus-
tralia ! He made it himself ! ”
G. H. Reid : “ And not to be out-done,
ma'am, see what a nice cork-leg I
have brought you. I whittled it j
out myself while I was making'
up my mind whether I ought to
come to England to be knighted ! 1
O ! may I hope that you will
wear it for my sake?”
A TIP TO BOOKMAKERS.
A captive balloon cannot be deemed a
“place ” within the meaning of the Betting
Houses Suppression Act.
111 111
London, Thursday.—lt has been arranged that
servants of the Queen shall be constantly in at-
> tendance on the colonial Premiers during their
stay at the Hotel Cecil.
Answer to prayer from an unexpected quarter.—Hop.’s theory of
the cause of the water-boom in the West.
“The Premiers will also be attended bv a mint*™ „ , „
not of n ■ * t** escort on all Vl «*s made by them
not of a private character." y
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


Queen $ ’Birlhdtxy?
' Hi«jr I»<I
<Wt one qualification'll, poJ Mit was* to b|
™er '6O yea'ri of age. A finner ,* to «■
1 held in the afternoon, and t sftenvaias a
livelv evening's amusement.. vs to- be pru-
jvided for the old folkd in_the church.
* i . . whole place was
talwn *pt> Vlth bicycle Hiding, and now
cyclist*? }j o d taken to killing themselves
Th6y were perfectly reckless and Irre-
sponsible, end'll *ra_g nonsense that this
sort of thtag should be allowed. '•
18///.- rfssl/- ( y~s/cAen'/n /
T/tefiottaTx ' •
l one/an. a** /tapin'/a* 'nrajj- r
Tlj) #
tr
i"
I -T 1
!p»°"
OLD AGE PENSIONS.
FURTHER EVIDENCE BEFORE TELE
COMMISSION.
fj?
V
ikcieXtayM--' .
I all Ke lyV 4 '
*A
. «*C ,\\®v(l r .
O^V^®V* v V c
V^IV
■>y^
k ■'?*
I£ a tax oT
W wah paid on every glass of beer, a man
who insisted upon spending 10/ per week:
Til through life on beer would be contribut-
ing in taxation enough to provide not only
Kis own pension, but also that of several of
hie relations. (Laughter.)
" I l '*' *„/»'■- |
;
OUK
HEREDITnnr
> CWflMBErj
- . / e a-r-f
£~ * * be , r^c/ . i^ at
A mI>J A , ••
Many of the constituents of the late Sir
William Clarke tire desirous of doing
honor to the memory of their late mem-
ber by electing Sir Rupert to the seat
which hjnr become meant by his father's
death, and already a movement has been
(started to secure his election
Me.
f / e?a - h y~ °f ihe - '^°C;pJ‘ i "'s
j o/ fij// ri o}iAro‘ > ’q e ei~ .
" iL Vit> e 2 v
fr#** JrJ-S! *n»* **' h-
<je+nn,h!Uf^r*?~ , ”‘ucal “ i “''
life f-ac/ieure-t~i /A&f*
MELBOURNIANA.


Granuma for Health «
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Ho mah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there's really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive —
BAND SAW MILLS,
Cl RCITLAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TItAY NAYYY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
£LEMINGJS RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c„ apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.,
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents—
Kingston, S.A.; QUEENSLAND
5 DENNYS, LASCELLES, AUSTIN & CO,
GEO. EE ROUS CW & CX), Adelaide: JOHN GIUCE 4 CO,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The least that Premier Kingston’s enemies
wish him is a Privy Councillorship, and they are
willing to have another Assembly election should
it be G.C.M.G.
Twenty years ago, the population of Aus-
tralasia (including, of course, Maoriland and Tas-
mania) was 2,515,551, of whom 6561 were insane.
Now, according to Dr. Manning, N.S. Wales alone
has 3845 lunatics.
Papa Brunker, in the recent N.S. Wales
J.P. appointments, wrestled religiously with the
question of woman’s right to the post. He
admits that in many cases a woman on the Bench
would be an improvement, “but innovations are
so dangerous.”
Westralian Govt, has promised to give
Perth City Council .£2OOO towards its Jubilee
burst. What a vast and appalling headache Wild-
catland will have one of these days, when its
booms and bursts are all over, and there is nothing
left within its borders but empty bottles, and hag-
gard sobriety, and the echo of a weary curse !
A BUSH CUT.
“ Faith! an’ a noice guy Ned has made av yez, Paddy, wid
that hair-cut. Shure, look at all yer timples bare
thare! ”
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, in carrying the
second reading of the Bill to reduce the Public
Works Committee from 13 to 7 members, has
barely saved its reputation. Even now it sticks
to 3gs. a sitting for the chairman and 2gs. for the
other members. Three times the Leg. Council
passed a better Bill, but the Assembly succeeded
each time in avoiding the subject. The Council’s
Bill reduced both numbers and emoluments. The
public demands a non-political board, but, in the
absence of this, the Council’s view of the needs of
the situation is more just and democratic than is
that of the Assembly.
The defeat of the Age’s nominee at Kara-
Kara (Vic.) election is possibly the first sign of a
rural revolt against David Syme’s dictatorship.
Young Dow, who ran the winner to a head at last
election, is the son of old Dow, and old Dow is
identified with the Age and its policy in the dis-
trict which he formerly represented. Young
Dow, this time, stood as the supporter of a suc-
cessful Government, whereas last time he was
merely the adherent of an untested George Turner.
The Age took his return for granted under these
promising circumstanoes, and yet the result showed
that Dow had lost 25 per cent, of his previous
support.
The leadership of the S.A. Opposition is
next session to be in commission. Downer, Solo-
mon, Honrburg, and Copley will act in concert in-
stead of Copley by himself.
Mr. R. D. Meagher (who expects to be in
next N.S.W. Parliament) is lecturing “ under the
auspices of N.S.W. National Protection union.”
This ought to be a big lift for the N.S.W. Protec-
tion union.
Sydney Telegraph, 19/5/97 :
Maclean, Tuesday.
Over forty Hindoos arrived by steamer yesterday for
Wyrallah, where hundreds of them are already located
growing cane.
And the Anti-Mongrel Immigration Bill is still
pigeon-holed in London, waiting Queen Vic.’s ap-
proval.
S.A. has now not a single pensioner, and
the only public servants entitled to pensions on re-
tirement are Chief-Justice Way, Judge Boucaut,
and Judge Bundey. There is about .£300,000
due, however, for retiring allowances under the
Act of ’7B, but the sums are not payable except
through the death or the withdrawal of the per-
sons entitled to the money, which mean while bears
4 per cent, interest.
The Jubilee business takes its most ob-
jectionable form in a perfect epidemic of shameless
cadging. Because a venerable lady in the monarch
line of business has, by dint of taking care of her-
self, managed to keep going for a protracted
period, quiet, inoffensive persons are stuck-up by
bishops, priests, doctors, philanthropists, editors,
judges, shopkeepers, professional beggars, gover-
nors, and other persistent persons, and are ex-
pected to show their joy by subscribing t» funds
innumerable, advertising the aforesaid, or finding
billets for them, or so on. Why should they ?
They can’t help the lady’s longevity.
As the N.S.W. brewers and
publicans know to their cost, the
casefor Freetrade —the assumption
that a tax levied on any article
is passed on to the consumer —
rests on a fallacy. For instance,
the Parkes-Burns Ministry in 1887
imposed a tax on beer, and in-
creased the spirit-duty from 12s.
to 14s. per proof gallon. Did Bung
pass these taxes on to the drinker
by increasing the retail prices ? No
fear. Prices never changed, even
up to now, and the squealing of
the “ trade ” proves that it is not
the consumer who pays the taxes.
The Queensland Labor-party
talks a vast quantity of unspeak-
able drivel re the Q.N.B. business
being left “ an open question,” not
part of the “Labor platform,”&c.,
&c. If the proper expenditure of
millions of public money be not
part of the Labor platform—if the
cleansing of corruption in high
places be not part of the work of
reformers—if democratic legisla-
tors can be allowed to split and
“ vote as they like ” on the most
important financial question of
the decade, then the attitude of
the Queensland Labor-party (or a
section of it) is intelligible, and
perhaps pardonable.
The direct Westralian Oppo-
sition won only eight seats, and
some of these by the barest
majorities. At North Perth the
single Oppositionist with 73 votes
got in four votes ahead of the
nearest of several Ministerialists.
At the Swan the Opposition can-
didate polled 116, while three
Ministerialists polled 91, 82, and
13. At Yalgoo lawyer .Moorhead
was defeated by Kenny, the poll-
ing being 56 and 48. The Govern-
ment secured several narrow vic-
tories, Lyall Hall downing the
Opposition big gun, Parker, in
Perth by 5 votes, while the Oppo-
sition candidate who held the seat
was defeated at East Freemantle
by 6 votes.
Carlyle is good reading for this Jubilee
delirium time. “ The Thibet priests have methods
of their own of discovering what Man is Greatest,
fit to be supreme over them. Bad methods ! but
are they so much worse than our methods—of
understanding him to be always the eldest-born of
a certain genealogy ? ”
Sydney Telegraph’s very latest proof of
the ruin brought on Victoria by Protection is the
statement, in its issue of 19th May, that of the
Vic. population “97 per cent, are females.”
Ninety-seven percent. ! Ninety-seven females to
three males!! 1,113,641 women and 35,247 men !!!
Great Kangaroo !! ! !
Lyne, M.L.A., on the Federation Bill: “I
object to New South Wales being deprived of her
undoubted right to deal with her rivers.” This
would be quite logical but for one thing. So long
as the people along the Murray, Darling, Lachlan,
Murrumbidgee, Culgoa, Barwon, Namoi, Gwydir,
and almost all the other N.S.W. rivers, and the
Victorians along the Murray, Goulburn, Loddon,
Campaspe, &c., claim and use the right to drain
off their flood waters into S.A. territory, then the
whole river system is fairly the joint property of
the three provinces. If “her rivers’ are N.S.W.’s
sole property, then S.A. has a just claim for
damages when they are allowed to drown out S.A.
territory. No province has any more right to let
its private river do damage in its neighbor’s
country, than an individual has to let his private
dog do damage to the property of his neighbor.
If the waters are to be shared with S.A. in flood
times, when they do harm, S.A. has a right to a
share in drought seasons as well. Otherwise, the
best thing that province can do is to send along
a brief request: “ Please come and take away
your river.”
When S.H. Parker,Q.C.,
descended from Westralian
Leg. Council to contest an
Assembly seat, and to become
leader of the Opposition if he
got it, the natural assumption
was that the anti-Govt. Perth
Morning Herald would sup-
port him, and the West Aus-
tralian, the Govt, organ, op-
pose him. But the latter
mildly acquiesced in Parker’s
candidature, and only rebuked
him for some electioneering
pyrotechnics reflecting on the
credit of the province and the
Govt.’s conduct of Westralian
finances. The Morning
Herald, on the other hand,
repudiated Parker as the ex-
ponent of the ’Erald brand
of Opposition policy, and
threw at him all the scornful
language that could be drawn
from the editorial ink-bottle.
There was explanation of the
milk in each cocoanut. Herald
editor Lovekin wanted the
Council seat which Parker had
vacated, but the latter had
headed a deputation to George
Randell, who was vacating the
Perth Assembly seat in his
favor, asking him to contest
the Council seat, and promis-
ing him support. This crime
figured in the editorial indict-
ment as “insincerity to his
friends.” Parker in Council
had stood in the way of the
succession of Editor Hackett,
M.L.C., of the West Aus-
tralian, to the Presidency of
the Chamber when President
Shenton should retire. The
cat often jumps, apparently,
in the wrong direction in Westralia, but never
without reason.
London World — the Society journal—
says that 65 rooms at the Hotel Cecil “are re-
served for the colonial Governors and their suites. ”
Governors —a bit of unconscious veracity.
Stated that Nelson and Byrnes’ grovel
expenses will be put on Q. Estimates as one sum,
and, as Nelson is too strong to get his docked, the
glorified Tom-Joe will probably get even for his
N. Brisbane defeat.
More discussion in M.L. press upon an
appropriate name for the country, to be adopted
at the Record Grovel. The Bulletin’s choice,
“Maoriland,” takes first place; then come such
atrocities as Moaland, Antarctica, Terramoa, arid
Alpland.
A correspondent :
About the dummying' of homestead leases in N.S.W.,
which The Bulletin said the other day “goes on merrily.”
The fact is, many of the administrators of the Land
Acts are so much in sympathy with what technically is
dummying under the law, that they fear to come down
heavily in any, except the most extreme, cases. For
instance, the applicant always has to saj' that nobody
but himself has any interest in his application. Pretty
often that is tolerably close to perjury. A partner
HIS WEAKNESS.
SQUATTER JUNIOR : “ My dad's going to found your cows."
COCKY JUNIOR: “ Yah! that’s nothin’ fer him—he pounds
yer mother!”
in a business may be, often is, applicant ; and he looks
after the homestead lease as part of his share in the work
of the business. I know 30 such cases at the least. Or,
two or three members of a family take up adjoining
blocks and practically work them together. Each of them
would often starve if they didn’t. Land boards and
ministers shut their eyes ; and before they open them a
case of quite a different kind, but apparently the same
slips through.
Good old James Service, of Melbourne,
says he is against the Referendum because the
world has existed 6000 years without it, and that
is fair proof that it isn’t at all necessary. It is
almost a pity the depositors of James’s Com-
mercial Bank, when he appealed to them to recon-
struct that lamentable institution, didn’t reply in
his own words that the world had got on for 6000
years without reconstruction, so the defaulting
establishment had better shut up and James and
his colleagues proceed to explain in the usual legal
course how the trouble came about. Considering
how Service has twice been allowed to get his bank
out of the mire by a perfectly new and revolu-
tionary device, his jibe at the referendum because
it isn’t 6000 years old is a very dull and ox-like
piece of mirthfulness.
AN EQUIPOMOLOGICAL ITEM.
“ Why’s ’is bloomin’ legs bandaged?”
“’Cos ’e’s got the Codlin Moth!”
Contrast the platform of Q. Labor-leader
Glassey in ’93 and ’96 with the common-sense
policy he enunciated at Rockhampton the other
day. His, and others’, frothy demands for “ social-
ism in our time ” and other Lane-like visions cost
the party at least half-a-dozen seats,and much
useful sympathy. But for the ranting Glas-
seyites, the Boodlewraith would have: had to go
comparatively straight, whereas
The hopelessness in N.S.W. of expecting
even the simplest legal reform, where it clashes
with the prefits of solicitors, is shown in the three
abortive attempts, by legislation, to provide that
mortgages, under old system title, may be dis-
charged by a simple acknowledgment of the
mortgagee that he has been paid all claims under
it. This was intended to replace an unnecessarily
long reconveyance, for which from two to five
guineas was charged, according to its length and
the amount of the mortgage. For the short statu-
tory discharge, it was hopeless to charge more
than a guinea. Both Assembly and Council are
full of lawyers, surely capable of fixing up such a
simple matter. But, curiously enough, flaws have
been found in each, of the three legislative at-
tempts to effect this reform, and the old recon-
veyance is still in use—and charged for.
One reason assigned jwhy Aus-
tralia should join the Anglo-Japanese
treaty is that Newfoundland has come
in without any demur. Australia might
also come in without any demur if it
was a case of executing a commercial
treaty with Greenland or Paraguay or
Jupiter. Newfoundland is about the
only place on earth except Timbuctoo
that no Jap is ever likely to get
to.
In the Eastern Suburbs (Mel-
bourne) —the Pat-man electorate repre-
sented successively by Gillies and
Madden—the votes representing man-
hood are 541, and those representing
property—plural votes given for the
ownership of bricks and mortar, bridges,
trams, gas-mains, and other inanimate
property—number 800. It is about
time the Turner Government made an-
other vigorous attempt to pass a One-
man-one-vote Bill. Even if it takes
years to get it through the Council, it
should be passed by the Assembly, and
sent up to the House of Sargood every
session with awful regularity. Then
that House would be compelled either
to accept it or to advertise itself every
year (the only pity is that it can’t be
compelled to do it every month) as the
one stolid snag in the way cf reform,
and to keep its selfishness and fossilism
and scandal well before the public.
Queensland started its Parliament four
years after N.S.W.— 29th May, 18U0. The only
members of its first Legislative Assembly not
dead or forgotten are ex-Chief Justice Lilley and
ex-Premier Herbert.
The Dr. Fitzgerald who died in Cape
Colony lately at an advanced age, went to Wel-
lington (M.L.) as hospital doctor in Hori Grey's
early days. When Grey removed to the Cape
he opened an hospital there, giving it his own
name, and wrote to Wellington offering the resi-
dentship to his old acquaintance. Fitzgerald
accepted the appointment, and put in his working
life at the post.


MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon's Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
In Chicago there are sold each week about
50,000 cattle, all by weight, too. It ought to be
a good place for auctioneers, but there is probably
a lot of competition, and perhaps Homebush
knights of the hammer are as well off. Last week
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd., knocked down (not
literally) 1131 cattle and 21,477 sheep. *
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
WHY DO
PALING’S PIANOS
Sell so readily and prove easily VICTORS over all
competition ? It is because of the overpowering
magnet of well - known and honorable names,
such as —
STEINWAY & SONS, New York
JOHN BRINSMEAD & SONS, London
RICH, LIPP & SONS, Stuttgart
JULIUS FEURICH, Leipzig
GORS & KALLMANN, Berlin
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, Heilbroun ...
ESTEY ORGAN COMPANY
BOOSEY & CO., London
BESSON & CO., London
COUESNON & CO., Paris
&c., <Scc.,
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
AMERICAN ORGANS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
These names are sufficient in themselves to vouch for all that is meritorious and excellent,
but to make assurance doubly sure, we add our own guarantee that in every instrument suP;
plied, the very best material and workmanship have been used, and that they expel in all-round
merit and intrinsic value. In beauty and chaste elegance of design they are far in advance of
competition.
The “ VICTOR ” and the “ BELLING ” Pianos, constructed especially to our order at
and .£36 respectively, are extraordinary good value, and we can recommend them with
confidence.
Our new Showroom for Band Instruments is now full of every description and variety of
musical instrument, and well worth a visit. Our prices are extremely low—wholesale or retail.
We sell for cash or on easy time payment terms. Please call and see us, or write for catalogues.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNTEY & JSTIH3A7V CA-STLE.
• •
o •
es
FOB
THE ROAD.
Easy to Repair.
RESILIENT
and Durable.
GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
FIRST IN 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE COMPANY LTD.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, and New Zealand.
At Poverty Point .
A lady member of a big theatrical co. was standing in
the wings during the recent Melb. season, chatting with a
male member of theco. who is blessed with a large Roman
nose. Miss looked him up and down, and compli-
mented him on his costume—“ but,” says she, “ I really
wouldn’t wear that nose ; Mr. wears a nose, and
someone else wears one—there are too many noses alto-
gether.” “ But, madam, this is my own nose ! ” “ Oh,
no ! I've been too long in the business to be taken in like
that.” (Then the little talk ended).
Theorbo : “ Melb. demise : Armes Beaumont’s brother,
D.A., affectionately known as Dan and Dab, or Dabbv.
All his life he was a fair-haired, chubby boy, and nobody
can believe he was 54, Armes being now well on to 61).
Dan was emphatically the musical man of a musical
family, because he went in purely from taste, and was an
indifferent executant, anyway. Mrs. Fox, sister of the
Beaumonts, has quite dropped out of memory'. Armes
lifted her on to the operatic stage, but she was never at
home.”
A tip for Little Gulliver for jubilee time : Nature, in
building him, devised an extraordinary caricature of
John Bull in miniature. Let the widows’ mite decorate
himself with appropriate whiskers and the regulation
rig, and warble a written-to-order song as J. 8., and the
lo.val persons of this continent will take him to their
bosoms with a rapturous, suffocating hug.
Ed. Bulletin, —It is not correct that Card. Moran never
presided at an Australian christening until he operated
on the 48-hours-old baby of Mr. “ Mick ” Meagher. The
Cardinal christened one of conductor Hazon’s babies (a
girl) about four years ago. The ceremony took place in
St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, with Lilian Tree and Dr.
Laure as sponsors. —T. B«-D.
Sydney D.T. advt.
T ADY would give begin .irs music-lessons, two half-
hours’ lessons for Ud. Address Music, P. 0.,
Erskineville.
A music lesson can thus be obtained in Sydney for the
price of a long beer, or a pound of bad steak.
Snazelle writes from Birmingham, where he appears
every Sunday night, to say that Australia will see him
again early in ’9B. It is not likely, however, that he will
screw enough courage together to face another Warrnam-
bool audience. Snazelle, in a clap of anger, roused by
interruption, told the people of the sleepy potato-
town that they were “not worthy to be entertained by a
member of the Carl Rosa Opera Company and a man of
brains.” Having cursed them collectively and indivi-
dually, Snazzy fell foul of the piano, and when the
audience departed he was praying for the strength of
Samson to wreck the roof upon their heads.
Dear Bulletin,—The revival of “ Romeo and Juliet ” by
Mrs. Brown-Potter has set one of your correspondents
speculating as to the best Romeo that has trodden the
Australian boards. On that point there may be some
doubt ; but as to the greatest Mercutio there can be none.
Brian Darley first, and the rest nowhere.—Roscian.
But for Hamilton Mackinnon, accidentally shot while
larking with a pistol the other day, Marcus Clarke would,
perhaps, not be quite so well advertised. After the
demise of the novelist, Mackinnon organised the series of
light opera appearances, “Child of the Regiment,” and
so forth, in which Mrs. Clarke tried to raise some money,
but failed. Nor was the Clarke cult strong enough to
bear her up financially when she appeared in a quite un-
known comedietta of Marcus’s authorship.
W. H. Williams, veteran Melb. tenor and printer, has
furnished the local ’Erald with an “appreciation” of
good old basso Angas, deceased, whose colleague he was
in the early ’so’s, at the Independent Church, Collins-st.,
Melb. The choir at that time included only two bass
singers—Angas and David Mitchell, father of Melba. In
’57, it seems, Angas joined the choir at Christ Church,
South Yarra, and remained there, the recognised musician
of the Sunday crowd, until a few weeks ago. In the ’6o’s
he and Williams were brother members of the “ Orpheus
appearing under engagement at the original
Vic. Exhibition and the Theatre Royal when Barry
Sullivan was king. Of Angas, as an artist, his old col-
league says that “he could not sing out of tune or in-
correctly, because he always learned his music by a strict
process of .reading, often having recourse to the sol-fa
method, in connection with which system he once stated
that when he learned it he called and knew each note of
the scale by a special quality of its effect on his mind, as,
for instance, the fourth being the weeping note. This
forms a good object-lesson for all learners, and many pro-
fessionals., He had an abnormal range, from the lowest
of the basso profundo to the upper tenor G., doing the
run in the ‘Benedictus’ of Mozart's ‘ Twelth Mass’with
facility.” , It was characteristic of Melbourne that the
daily press forgot to notice the death of this modest old
artist. He was buried at St, Kilda cemetery with full
musical honors, and the Metropolitan Liedertafel will pre-
sently erect a monument to his memory.
Marshall's Loronette, in which tit-bits of Australian
theatrical history are often popping up, lately reprinted
the cast of “ School for Scandal ” as produced at old Melb.
Princess’ in Sept., 1862. Probably there is no stronger
performance of Sheridan's comedy on record. J. C. Lam-
bert-reckoned quite equal to the elder Farren—played
Sir Peter Teazle ; Robert Heir and wife were Joseph Sur-
face and Lady Teazle ; Harwood appeared as Sir Oliver ;
Barry Sullivan as Charles Surface ; Mrs. Alfred Phillips as
Mrs. Candour ; Dick Stewart, senr., as Moses ; and Joseph
Jefferson in the little part of Crabtree. Two members of
the Potter-Bellew company figured among that notable
crowd of 35'years ago—viz., George Ireland, cast for the
youthful Careless, and E. Gladstone as Trip.
Melb. : “ I do not remember ‘ The Merchant of Venice ’
here since Bates’s Shvlock. A vinous man, he was found
dead in Royal Park early one morning, not without sus-
picion of foul play.”
H. “ I have been talking with a histrio who acted a
part to G. V. Brooke’s Shylock. He assures me G. V. B.
was very quiet in it, with no rant. So that reading was
not altogether invented by Bellew—and Irving.”
Haresfoot : “ As it strangely happened, I never saw
Mr. Bellew act, except the Marat abortion, until this
season, and am surprised at his moderation and natural-
ness in ‘ Francillon ’ and the ‘lronmaster.’ But his
beautiful Romeo is a lolly-stick for the maidens. His
blank verse is remarkable for a flattish mispronunciation
of certain vowels spread in a gilt-leaf way over the whole,
infecting every line, not exactly turning O or E into A,
but as bad. The same defect is dimly perceptible in his
prose. Having known him as a young man with his
father’s elocution, I cannot imagine where he picked this
up.”
H. : •• ‘The-Sign of the Cross’ is suggested by Massin-
ger’s superb play, ‘The Virgin Martyr.’ Antony, a vic-
torious young Roman General (not Cleopatra’s, of course),
falls in love with Dorothea, a beautiful Christian. He
rejects the love of the Emperor’s sister, wherefore an
emissary is employed to ruin Dorothea in the most
effectual way, but retires baffled and converted. Theo-
philus is chief persecutor. He flogs his own grown-up
daughters on the bare backs for turning Christian, and
sends them to execution. After this he is himself con-
verted, and gladly goes to the stake. Dan Barry, please
note.”
They were dear, giddy, girlish, gushful things, and they
were among the “ gods” at the Princess’s, where, in these
degenerate days, society does sometimes go with an old
dress and a young brother. The play was “ The Merchant
of Venice.” All the evening Curly Bellew’s legs had fas-
cinated them as a wilv serpent the silly hen, and little
feminine thrills and whispers passed amongst them, whilst
younger brother growled because he couldn’t hear the
words of the actors. Presently the eldest sister could
contain herself no longer. “His legs are simply divine,’
she said, incautiously lifting her voice. “I don’t see
much in them,” growled the young brother ; “ Mrs.
Potter's ain’t much, but I’d sooner have ’em than his.
Then the sisterhood scowled on him, and called him a
wicked boy, and threatened to beat him with their pro-
grammes.
Rickards, finding himself cold and out of sorts when he
got to London this journey, tripped to Port Said and back
again before settling down to business.
Scenic-artist Harrv Grist is chanting “Gorsave” in a
business tone of voice, for the Jubilee brings grist to his
mill. One of his illumination jobs is a £3OO order from
Melbourne Stock Exchange, the central feature of the
design being a portrait of Her Gracious, 14ft. high, and
upon this wickedly misleading work Harry is piling pig-
ments regardless of expense.
Dr. Pat. Maloney, the Collins-street physician, vouches
for it that Gaiety girls suck red lozenges of a particular
composition in order to make their tongues of a nice pink
tint, which adds to their prettiness when singing or talk-
ing on the stage. What a Gaiety Girl’s tcngue would be
like (considering suppers, &c.) without a little artificial
tinting, the doctor hesitates to explain.
The founder of that popular place of amusement, now
known as Sydney Tivoli Theatre, passed away in Sydney
Hospital, from an affection of the lungs, on 9th inst.
Thurlinius Johnson erected and opened in the sixties, on
the site of the Tivoli, the gay and giddy Scandinavian
Music Hall, in which a remnant of the fast-disappearing
cabbage-tree mob, and the bucks and baldheads of the
town, used to revel in a “ free-and-easy.” No charge was
made for admission to the show, and the guests seated at
small tables were supplied with wines ana spirits or light
refreshments by girls attired in fancy costumes with very
short skirts.
Rose Musgrove’s bright performance in “ Lelamine ”
has, naturally, been over-valued by people who didn’t
realise the dullness of its surroundings. The damsel
showed a general aptitude for comic opera work as far as
she went, but she wasn’t put to a severe test in any par-
ticular line of business. To speak of her as a capable
successor to Nellie Stewart, on the mere “Lelamine”
evidence of her smartness in a soubrettish character, is an
absurdity.
Perhaps the crowning point of Lily Langtry’s stage
career—she is now 45, by the way—is her recent burlesque
on divorce. She got unhitched in California on the
ground of her husband’s desertion and neglect to main-
tain her. Think of any man trying to maintain Lily
Langtry ! Gilbert and Sullivan have nothing to equal
this.
Pattie Browne returns to Australia with some purchased
plays in time to open in Melbourne before the Cup. She
is slight and sprightly as ever.
Melbourne Town Hall organ is harder to handle than a
stump-jumping plough. David Lee, just dead, was a
large, athletic person, and could cope with it for an hour
or so without suffering serious injury, but the average,
slim, tender, musical person might as well go pile-driving
for his daily bread as attempt to subdue this malignant
instrument, and as it will cost £2OOO to fit the organ with
the necessary labor-saving machinery to make it tract-
able, the Council has resolved to await the appearance of
an organist who can thump like Fitzsimmons and pedal
like Megson. Applications, accompanied by chest, biceps,
and calf measurements of applicant, may be sent to the
town-clerk.
Grattan Riggs’ claim to be the only pro. who has walked
from Hobart to Launceston is, unfortunately, disputed.
“Pinero and H. A. Jones have broken out again simul-
taneously with new plays. Pinero’s—“ The Princess and
the Butterfly ” —is the fantastic tale of a weary baronet
and tired widow princess—the one having grown middle-
aged in respectable dissipation, whilst the other devoted
the best years of her life to nursing an invalid husband—
who mutually agree to turn the matrimonial question
over in their minds for one calendar month. They are
not warmly attached to one another, but they think they
might get that way after due notice has been given on
both sides Then the baronet finds a sudden affection for
a girl young enough to be his daughter, and the princess
accepts the hand of a johnnie almost young enough to be
her son, and the curtain falls. It is said to be the queerest
of plays, charmingly built and furnished with dainty
dialogue.
H. A. Jones, serious as usual, makes the hero of his new
play, the Physician, a specialist in nerve disease. A beaute-
ous girl persuades the specialist to undertake the cure of her
jianci, who lectures on temperance and suffers from some
mysterious affliction. She wants to have him cured of
the affliction that he may rail at drink all the louder, for
she likewise is an enthusiast in the Good Cause. The
specialist, in the first place, loses his heart to the beauteous
one, after which he discovers that her pet apostle is a
dipsomaniac in lamb’s clothing. In a self-sacrificial spirit
he attempts to reform this miserable impostor on the
strict Q.T., but the fellow goes forth upon the burst, and
the halo of sanctity drops from his swollen head ere he
succumbs to a surfeit of rum. The girl, glad to be quit of
her first love, bestows herself upon the noble-minded
medical man, and probably becomes a moderate drinker
after marriage. Critics speak well of “The Physician.’’
The new bridge connecting North and
South Brisbane will be ready on Ist June, but the
aldermen of the two councils have decided to defer
the opening until June 22. The horrid incon-
venience is to be endured for an unnecessary three
weeks, so that various loose slabs of unctuous
grovel may be dealt out to the aggrieved residents.
J. B. Castieau, clerk in the office of the
Vic. Chief Commissioner of Police, has won the
A.N.A. prize of .£5O (open to amateurs only) for
an essay on Australian literature. J. S. Jones, of
the Argus office, has captured one for a similar
amount on industrial development in Australia.
Alex. Sutherland and Tlios. Palmer were the
judges, but were unable to arrive at a unanimous
decision on the first prize, so Prof. Morris was
called in as referee with the above result.
Sydney Truth asserts that the foolish zeal
displayed by N.S. W. Crown Law authorities, in
recently prosecuting it for seditious libel, was offi-
cially snubbed by Joe Chamberlain himself.
According to a Canadian paper, Chamberlain, as
the result of a Cabinet conference, cabled out to
the Reid Government a dispatch to the following
effect:—
Her Majesty’s Government deprecated the prosecution
of persons for seditious libel such as that against John
Norton, the editor of Sydney Truth. While such articles
as he publishes are to be discouraged, his prosecution is
ill-advised, especially as similar articles are continually
appearing in England without prosecution, or even excit-
ing more than ordinary comment. Advise no further
proceedings he taken in the matter.
This despatch is alleged to have been cabled to
Sydney, and duly burked by the loyal Ministerial
Sup-press.
Western Table Talk, a Perth society
journal, obituarises the late Gov. Robinson
Sir William Cleaver Francis Robinson, K.C.M.G., has
passed away to realms above. Western Australia is in
mourning—it has lost its parent, its patriot, its pride. . . .
We admired our departed friend for his gubernatorial
ability, and loved him for his delightful social and home
life. . . . Sir William Cleaver Francis Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
was in life dear to Western Australia, and in death his
memory is cherished with a love that is ever binding. If
it were possible to learn the last words of the departed,
it would be little speculation to guess that they were in
eulogy of Western Australia. For, as we loved him, so
did he love us. We deplore the temporal removal of Sir
William from us ; for we believe that —
“ He is not lost ! though closed those lustrous eyes,
Though mute those lips and cold that classic form.”
Fortunately, newspapers never circulate on the
banks of Styx.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
lIKTIIEU REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CA STEER EAGII ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every .£1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£looand over—Special Low Kates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from ether Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ■ .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities 101 dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
-THE-
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,350,211 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJfice: 1 liisliojtsrfate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wvong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-
Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 18(53.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macgrreg'or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
jaROKEFt.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-C.vanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
( able Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
( ode— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TbiS Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
The United Australian
Mat uni Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-bt., Sydnbt, and 405 Colunh-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <s£ Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. -• £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0. 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., ALL. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ~ £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed JE20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
Authorised Capital .
Capital Paid-up
Preference Shares Paid-up
Capital Called-up ..
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. ..
HEAD OFFICE
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited. t>
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.
.. .. £4,000,000 0 0
£1,690,329 1 10
305,780 0 0
69,670 18 2
750,000 0 0
2.805,780
MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: VV. H.Tuckett,
Esa.; Ariarevv Burns, Esq. Chiet Manasrer: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. VVaylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND
£400,756
225,000
33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
1,949,500 0 0
1,191,934 0 0
1,949,500 0 0
Total
6,090,934 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.CJ.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrlson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
E2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879,
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIEH & CASILEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
099 0 9 0
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
999 9 O O
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. C&OWLIY,
Xanag9E.
Shipping.
thOoward smith line.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Leura, Saturday, May 29, 12 noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 5, 12 noon.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Leura, Saturday, May 29, 12 noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERxLUTON
Leura, Sat., May 29, 12 norm. Con-
nects with S.S. Gabo leaving Mel-
bourne Tuesday, June 1.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Mav 29. 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, June 1, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUGINOA POINT
GERALOTON
CAIRNS
Peregrine, Saturday, May 29, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 5, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO All PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wvnyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)
June 1.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Pacific (cargo only)
Tuesday, June 1.
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) June 1.
ESPERANCE BAY Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
South Australian, Tuesday
June 1.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & go's [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MOAN A
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
4500
3158
3158
June 7 June 12 July 1
July 5 July lOJuly 29
August 2 August 7lAugust 26
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
PriaeipaJ Agent.
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7o.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £65. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U- S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRTDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—W'eekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd.
LOND’S line of steamers
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
‘ LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SAN DERSON '& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents
Mining Notices.
T. ,1. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
TV. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each 6s. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMIUNGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllllnni-st. Only, Sydney.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpb..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Afi)€rKai> Injport Co.,
PACKER'S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Lending Warehouse*
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKEB
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES .
'-’ll/
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celesttal Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
ful Song, and the Merry Dance, can all be played on these
‘mauling instruments. "No KNOW LEDGE OF MUSIC KEQUIRED.
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Headers of the
" SYDNEY BULLETIN. '
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10/6
CampbelPs “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22 6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, 'or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price List for Musical Season 1897, now' res.iy.
160,000 of these, valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL A Co., Moaieal Instrument
US, Tro**»U. OLAseew KstMYwo. Jk#sM*a W*- '«A


NATIONAL CASH REGISTER TILLS.
All kinds of STORES use the
National Cash Register—
GROCERS, IRONMONGERS,
DRUGGISTS, BUTCHERS, STA-
TIONERS, BOOTS & SHOES,
CIGARS & TOBACCO, DRY
GOODS, RESTAURANTS, TEA
STORES, FLORISTS, and
HOTELS, etc. They save time,
work, worry, and money, and
systematize your business.
100,000 IN USE.
The N.C.R. stops the leaks by ex-
hibiting' the amount of each
sale, preventing disputes in
accounts : Keeping a record of
Credit Sales, Moneys Paid Out,
Moneys received on account :
showing the total amount of
Sales during the day, making
it impossible to open the Cash
Drawer without leaving a record.
Showing the amount of money
taken out of the Cash Drawer
and not entered.
We have all kinds of CASH REGISTERS—DetaiI-adding, Total-adding, Total-adding Check and
Detail-printing and Autographic, from .£5 to £GO.
We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments, or a Discount of 5 per cent, for Cash.
. . SPECIAL TEItMS FOR A NUMBER . .
We GUARANTEE every Register we sell for TWO YEARS—but it will last a business lifetime.
“ r h . e y perform everything- that is claimed for them.”—CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
‘ It is a most excellent machine for our business.”—WlLLlAMS & GIBBONS.
‘ The V pay for themselves in a very short time.”—PATTINSON & CO.
‘ No hotel should be without them.”—The AUSTRALIA.
Since August 29 we have used TWELVE of your National Cash Register machines. These have given us
every possible satisfaction Nothing would induce us now to be without them. These machines were purchased to
on lhe p “‘ *•
FISHER & LIN6HAM, Sole Importers for Australia.
Head Offices ... 1,2&. 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES ’
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN
AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
WARNER’S PATENT EXTENSION FENDER. . .
QLOSED, it is an ORDINARY FENDER ; EXTENDED, it becomes a NURSERY FENDER.
It may be RAISED or LOWERED as required, remaining firmly locked in either position.
FENDER CLOSED
Price from £1 up ward*.
FENDER EXTENDED.
BRANDT BROS., AgeotS,
422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
and at 236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL IRONMONGERS.
EVERY VARIETY OF
GEO
F
X)
PU
in All sizes,
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
SHINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
HANDSOME
Commemoration Box- of Butter Met}.
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Era. written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready June Isa.
Onto «* once of confectioner* u only a Dmfted
camber will be issued. ’
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON,
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
TLJDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
1 Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LEA THALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
oi
«
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand finished, full-capped jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extra quality,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, strongest, cheapest, and best, time-keeper ever
made—3, 4,5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-face Keyless, 30s.
Double case, 40s, t'2 10s. Short-wind Keyless, 7s Gd ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior
quality, 20s, guaranteed 12 months. Special Gold Keyless Walthams, patent
filled cases, £2 15s, £4 4s, £ss ss, and £6 6s. Cases guaranteed 5, 15, and 20
years. We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us,
you will not regret it.
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
'gflWiri*
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst, 21s ;
* 15c. Gold, a 3 above, 355.
Gold Brooch, 103 fd.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec
tion, 15s. Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
Gold Amethyst Heart Coronet, 20s
do.
do.
15c.
5 pure Diamonds, double-
cut, 18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s. Larger
Diamonds, £5, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
Similar, 15c. Gold, 20s, 30s.
MOW"!
sag- s&pf
&/
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
973
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 15c., 30s.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds
3 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. 5 pure Dia-
monds, ±4 10s.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
3 pure Sapphires,
4 Diamonds,
18c. £3, £3 10s, £i,
£5, £6.
Beautiful Opals and
Diamonds, same
price. Send tor
size card.
HI
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, t'2 ss, £3 ;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6 ;
with key padlock,
10s extra. All se-
cured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
, -Wl.
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
16c. Gold, 22s tid; Stone Set, 265.
Any isame.
o Solid Gold, 17s (id. 15c., 25s and 30b. 18c,
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
S*
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
Pure Diamond, 18c. Gold Band, £3.
150. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Sot with Pure White Pearls, £2.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel -
lined, 3s 6d, 4s; case,
is extra.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Rf pain
Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
E3
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold. 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 lUs.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. Pc.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 3: >*
355, 40s. Send for size card.
t? a terete
»J
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold ~ 328 6d.
a a a a a a,
W 3
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
<< crcvrrt PAD attr pptpp [ r«T ILLUSTRATED,” post free, and when in town CALL ON A. SAUNDERS, and see the beautiful show of articles suitable for Presents and Gifts, the Most Elegant and Extensive Stock of
Poontifni cni n TFWFT I FRY Handsomelv-chased SILVER PLATE, most reliable and perfect time-keeping GOLD and SILVER WATCHES, Solid GOLD and SILVER CHAINS, CLOCKS in every style and price. A Brilliant
Exhibition of the Jeweller’s Art a Panorama of Loveliness. Everything New and Most Unique in Style and Design. Our articles are guaranteed to give you every satisfaction, and Purchasers SAVE from 5s to 7s 6d in the pound.
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W
(NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION).
' Writes “ Scotty the Wrinkler ” under the
caption “The Other Side ” Editor Bulletin,—
We, you and I, are on this side, what is on the
other side of that high wall? I’ll tell you. A
shed in which a man is lying, his head upon his
grey jacket of dog’s-wool and oakum ; and nobody
cares ; only two men seem to know that the man
is dying. lam one, and remnant of a
great horseman and cattleman is the other. What
does anyone gare ? I care a little, because I kneW
the man when few could meet or beat him in
the field or elsewhere, and I hate cruelty to
animals by animals, whether the former be human
or otherwise, knowing that the latter generally
hold the form of man. I cut out portions of the
newspaper version of this most scandalous affair
and give my opinions also:
The morning after his admittance to Wagga Gaol
Edward Dwyer, aged 52, ill and weak, was seen by the
visiting surgeon, who recommended hospital treatment
and this was continued until he died on Sunday last ’
the prisoner was carefully attended to, and the instruc-
tions of the doctor were thoroughly observed.
The fact is that the man got one pint of milk when
he could no longer swallow it, and died on a mat
like a dog.
In reply to a bond juryman, the witness stated that the
man was more a subject for a hospital than a gaol.
A bond juryman asked if witness was aware when the
deceased was admitted that he was given a hot bath in
the morning and a cold shower again in the afternoon
which made him cry for mercy'?
The visiting surgeon to the gaol stated that he saw the
deceased the morning after he was admitted, when he
found him to be suffering from disease of the heart and
dropsical swellings, the result of chronic disease. He pre-
scribed hospital treatment and ordered medical comforts,
which he deemed requisite. The immediate cause of
death was failure of the heart’s action through weakness.
The last is a capital joke: my heart of hearts
would also/ai7 if I had “ disease of the heart and
dropsical swellings, the result of chronic disease,”
especially if I got a hot bath and then a cold
shower until I “cry for mercy.” Now I know
what medical comforts are : a mat to lie on, one
ounce of sugar a day, and nameless, tealess tea,
besides which there was beef-tea when the man
was practically dead.
A bond juryman asked if the beef used to make beef-tea
for deceased was not taken from the allowance of Soz.,
which each prisoner was entitled to receive. The deceased'
he said, died on a mat, and with only one blanket.
Witness said the cook made beef-tea from the meat
which was always over after each man’s allowance had
been deducted.
The jury, after retiring into the trial-yard for rome
time, returned a verdict that the deceased had died from
natural causes, and that death might have been accele-
rated by insufficient accommodation.
The reporters oust the fact that the “bond”
juryman asked more than that and that the
surgeon tautologued : “You can have a post-
mortem if you like. I did what I con-
sidered proper for a prisoner,” and finally
refused to answer the “ bond ” juryman, one
of the six prisoners called by the P.M. “ the
other side.” You must know that the six free
jurymen sit on one side of an open staircase and
the “ bondsmen ”on the other. There’s much
more if I cared to say it. I stayed, not slept, in
the single cell tenanted by an epileptic and the
dying man and myself. The papers called it
10x10 feet—it is 11x0. I measured it. December
in Murda Murda is hot enough in such a coffin,
for such it became soon after the frame of the
anthropoid was carried into it. I invite the atten-
tion of the chief medical officer to this matter,
SOOTTY THE \VHINKLEII.
Capital is Labor’s elder brother.”—
Parsons. And under the J. Bull law of primo-
geniture the elder brother takes the whole estate,
doesn t he ?
Suicide by the inhalation of ordinary coal-
gas now amounts to a craze in U.S. A. Eight deaths
from this cause were recorded in New York city
in one week last Eeb.


Packets
Of
5
SUGARS
POAL»t*
0 mmz* p w
fftanu/gcldred by A
j <i * ’ xik
*PyQYERNjE! swirz£ALA#£
Is.
Soft CafyVaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Successful Humber riders in N.S.W. on 22nd
and 24th May ; Sinclair, Meadham, Harrison, A. O. Man-
ning, H. Mutton, Pontey, Shaw, G. Parter, Legh, Remfrey,
Thorne, Peters, Elzery, Johnson, Ely.*
* * * *
T. Relph made a successful attempt on the
Ya. and J4 mile Australian records last week at the St.
Hilda track, Melbourne. The new times now stand at
24 4-5ths sec. and 51 3-5ths sec. respectively. Relph was
paced by the Dunlop team, and rode Dunlop tyres.*
PILES. —Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Federation. —This prize was awarded to
Mr. H. A. Bennett, 18 Rockwell-st., PottB Point
Sydney, for a list of 341 words.*
Fire is one of the most dangerous as well
as the most useful of domestic agencies— an excel-
lent servant, but a bad master. Its complete sub-
jugation is provided for, however, by Warner’s
patent fender, advertised elsewhere. This fender
may be raised so as to assume the form of a nursery
fender, in which position it offers complete pro-
tection to children, or to ladies’dresses, &c. Brandt
Bros., Melb. and Sydney, are Australian agents.*
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ King-street Codec Palace," situated 5 9
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
H
1
m
G
%-hlk
oca>
By Special (
KoyALWARIVM^T
gjoni
u»
ToHERMAJESTyTHEQoEEM. «
50 Cold & Prize Mec/ah Awarafec/.
(the whisky of his forefathers^
JVindproof Incandescent
6aS Arc LanjpS.
This Powerful
INCANDESCENT
LAMP,
fitted with our
PATENT
LIGHTING
TUBE,
consumes
4s. worth of Gas
per Month for 2
Burners, alight 5
hours per night.
Send for Catalogues.
HI
! I !
tj(P
Lighting
Tube.
For all kinds of JUBILEE ILLUMINA*
TIONS, apply Early.
BRANDT BROS., Lampmakers, &o.»
422 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE ; and
236 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
ROYAL PROGRESS CYCLES.
Messrs. GAVIN GIBSON & CO. have pleasure in announcing that then
efforts in selling the above Wheels have been so successful that they have
been encouraged to make arrangements for their more direct supply to the
public, and have, therefore, with that in view, appointed as agents,
Tbc ENGLISH ai)d AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
who will OPEN A LARGE CYCLE DEPOT on Ist JUNE,
at 416 Seorge Street, Sydney.
This Company intends catering for the cycling public in all branches of the
trade, and will keep at their very central premises a large stock of High-class
Wheels by leading manufacturers in England and America.
Note the Address:
The ENGLISH & AMERICAN AGENCY CO., 416 George Street, SYDNEY.
Z3T Sole Agents for the Favorite English ROYAL PROGRESS BICYCLE.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
45 York Street, SYDNEY.
S3|3fi3lj!
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
If the cabled news of his death be correct,
Charles Cavill dropped out just as Capt. Webb did, in
attempting a feat too big for his strength. Champions in
every field are continually pushed forward by the neces-
sity of beating their own records, and by-and-by they
touch climax, and another human fly is flicked off the
wall of the Impossible. The public is a hard taskmaster.
Do something better than ever it has been done before,
and the public sighs sa.isfaction-and clamours dissatis-
faction if next time you do not eclipse your own best, bo
Stevenson had always before him the spectre of his
most successful book; so diver Peart felt the popular
pressure urging him to put a little higher, and a little
higher, and a "little higher the platform from which he
leaped to his death. This yearning for better things is a
fine thing for the race, but it’s mighty tough on the
individual.
Charles Cavill was apparently trying a 28-mile
swim along the beach near ’Frisco ; and at present there
are only surmises as to his end. Previously he had swum
across the Golden Gate, ahd around the Sea Rocks—feats
never before accomplished—and on one of these occasions
he acknowledged that before he finished one of his arms
was paralysed with cold. ’Frisco waters are bleak swim-
ming almost any month of the year. Cavill at his death
was champion of America —having won the honor from
Yankee professionals on his last visit a few months ago.
General sympathy is felt with the fine athletio family from
which he springs.
» * *
The Inter-University eight-oar race, rowed on
the Parramatta River on Saturday last, proved merely an
excursion for the Sydney crew, who took the lead at tne
start and won from end to end. The other eights, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, were poor to a degree. Adelaide
pulled a plucky race, and seemed to throw some life into
their efforts, but Victoria did not appear able to put
enough weight into their work to keep themselves warm,
and finished up as they started, rowing in perfect form.
Sydney was a tip-top crew thrown away—their opponents
were unable to extend them.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Be Dave Riddle and his
father’s horse Streak-o’-Light. Young Riddle is, after all,
not the first lad 12 years of age to take a horse over a
6ft. and jin. jump. The well-known little jumper High-
lander, who delighted thousands of Victorians at the
Royal Show, in Melbourne, some seven years ago by clear-
ing 6ft. 3iin., was ridden by Master Frank O’Leary, a lad
of 10 summers. It was a wet day with a greasy take-off,
too. I saw it mvself, but, to be sure, have gotthese facts
vouched by Mr. Tom Hart, who then owned Highlander.
“ Honor to whom,” &c.—Three Railer, Wangaratta.
*** ' *
The silliest of all silly sports might have re-
cently been seen in full blast at Manly. The paper-chase
of schoolboydom is natural enough, but becomes ridicu-
lous when old and middle-aged adults take part. If
grown people want to run across country, they can do so
without “ hares ” or “ scent ” —though at best a man loses
all dignity under such circumstances. On the occasion
referred to, a harrier, rising fifty, was allowed to win a
score of younger and faster rivals agreeing to lag behind
and give the genial “old ’un” a chance for once. Yet
that venerable and much-loved party looked as pleased at
the finish as if Deerfoot and Ridley, Richards and Lang,
Cummings and George were struggling in the rear.
* * * *
Surcingle : “ The demise of Davis—Sam—re-
moves a bit of a lion from Byron Moore’s path. Sammy
knew all the ropes, not only as a Borough Councillor of
Essendon and Flemington, but also as ex-jock, and horse-
trainer. He was Byron’s prime foe m that deep-laid
scheme for charging to the Flemington Flat, and thus
getting even with Caulfield.”
Dear Bulletin, —You stated that Bevan, who
was unsuccessful in the long jump at the recent Eng-
lish Inter-University Sports, jumped a had third to
Roseingrave at the Championship Sports held at St. KUaa
last Nov. As secretary to that meeting I desire to say
that you have been barking up the wrong tree, for Bevan,
who jumped at Oxford, was not a competitor at the St.
Kilda Sports, and never jumped against Roseingrave.—
James W. Doyle, ex. Hon. Sec. V.A.A.A. Melbourne,
April 26,1857. [Was it his brother ?]
* * * *
The Macleay River (N.S.W.) aboriginal cricket-
team, having won the Hart Challenge Cup two seasons
consecutively, become permanent owners of the trophy,
and what to do with it puzzles them. One gfey old coot
suggests to “fill it whisky and drink urn! Old King
Billy, however, gives out that it be “ sent alonga Queen
Wikitoria.”
• * * *
Sydney “silver” gamblers growl because the
totes, even those for a long time conducted squarely, are
getting “ strong” and say that faked results are now
more the rule than the exception.
* * * *
The Sydney stipendiaries announce that, after
June Ist, anyone convicted of running a tote will be fined
at least £5O, and, for any further offence, the prescription
will be six months’ hard. Also, something similar is to
happen anyone found laying the odds publicly. Chest-
nuts 1
* * * *
The blackmailing of Sydney tote-proprietors by
the police may be taken for granted. To live by illegal
gambling is to have the profits sweated by ‘ guardians of
the pieces.” In London, Manchester, or any other English
city where bookmakers drive a quiet commission business
in sequestered offices, the first thought of the bookmaker
every morning is—how to get to business without being
greeted by the policemen who await his coming at various
points along his likely lines of route. Their salutations
have to be answered with a “ tip ’’ —such is the unwritten
law of the Bleeds and Pursians, which altereth not.
* • * *
“ At Surrey Bicycle Club spring meeting the
perpetual Challenge Trophy, presented by Sydney B.C.
for the Half-mile Scratch, brought out 21 riders, writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent. The Oval
irrass track was soft and also rough through recent rains
and patchy turf, and the times for the four heats were
from lmin. 22sec. to lmin. 36 2-ssec. J. M‘W. Bourke, a
medical from St. George’s Hospital, won the fastest heat,
and the final with lmin. 20 2-ssec. He deserved it, for
although a slabby stripling, he rode pluckily and all the
time. As usual, most of the races were cab-horse crawls
with the brief final flutter of the hired - horse when
within sight of the stable. 0. F. Barden won the pro.
880yda. handicap from scratch in lmin. 16 4-ssec.—slower
than his heat.”
» * * •
Tote dividends at Adelaide Birthday Meeting
(two days) :£2 18s., £ll 135., £l3 125.,, £5 19s £4 8s
£3 55., £2, £l9 75., £26 18s., £4 125., £6 10s., £l4_ss. Two
da\-s’starting prices at S.T.O. Meeting at Randwick were.
3-1, 25-1, 7-2, 5-2, 5-1, 5-1, 6-1, 25-1, 6-1, 12-1, which are
much better prices than usually obtained, However,
’twas an outsiders’ meeting, backers going down heavily.
* * * *
Victoria’s insistance upon rowing a cash cyclist
in its eight-oar-crew may have an effect upon the pro-
posed visit of a crew to England. The British amateur
definition is stringent to a degree, and will, without the
shadow of a doubt, debar all the oarsmen who this year
rowed with, or against, the cash cyclist. Victoria, wmcn
was so keen upon sending a crew to England this year,
cannot be expected to grow hysterical over the pro-
posal for next year, with its best eight debarred from
forming portion of the crew.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—The suggestion that ‘‘big,
solid bookmakers” in Melbourne are panting for the tote
to be legalised, because “a ring exists among the small
men to offer immensely long odds on a horse they have
stiffened, thus turning aside money that would be legiti-
mately laid,” &e.. &c., is the merest nonsense. Immensely
long odds are never offered about anything in this part of
the world. And everybody who knows anything about
the matter is aware that the biggest bookmakers were the
most determined opponents, in secret, of the Tote BUI
the last time it came before the Vic. Assembly. * e X? ra f
anti-tote letters appearing- in- the Melb. dailies at that
time were written by a barrister who was,.the myrmidon
of a well-known Ikey Mo.— Melbourne.
» * * *
When Spalding’s baseball team visited Aus-
tralia, nearly nine years ago, people thought we would
Boon be as prominent “on the diamond ” as in other de-
partments of sport. But we learn that the Australian
baseballers now in the States have been easily defeated
in every' match so far played.
* * * *
“Breaker” Morant’s annexation of the buck-
jumping* prize at Hawkesbury show was attended by a
scene just like that embalmed in Banjo’s “ Amateur
Rider.” “ What, Mm goin’ to ride the buckjumper ! /urn,
a newspaper Johnny ! ” was the scornful remark of a
Hawkesbury native. But “The Breaker” fairly aston-
ished those natives, and after the ordeal he could have
swum in free whisky for a week.
» * * •
Ranjitsinghi is proving himself the greatest bat
of this or any other age, and if he comes out with the
English team next season, the various grounds will be
hard pressed for room to hold the crowds. To hope to
bowl the Indian on such a wicket as Ned Gregory pro-
vides on Sydney Association Ground will be hopeless
indeed. The oniy chance to get him out will be with the
veriest of “ soft stuff,” to give the fieldsmen a chance, a
course of action too much neglected by our captains.
* * * *
High-priced cable in Melbourne papers, occupy-
ing, with display headings, four inches :
London, Monday night.
W. L. Kerr, the champion amateur cyclist of Aus-
tralia, who sailed from Sydney by the R.M.S. Oruba
on February 27, has commenced training.
Great Scott! how will these papers find room to express
themselves if Kerr should happen to win a race presently ?
* * * *
Returned members of Giffen’s cricket-team re-
port that Perth is the thirstiest place on this continent,
and easily leads Coolgardie in drunkenness. Perth is full
of all the failures and dreadful examples of aristocratic
English families, and one cannot happen down any of its
streets in early morning without finding an assortment of
faded British swelldom asleep in the gutter.
• * * *
Jerome Murif, of Broken Hill, who has ridden
across the continent from Adelaide to Port Darwin on a
bicycle, is an Irishman, 34 years of age. He did the
journey in pyjamas, which he had found to be cooler
than knickers, and rode all the way with a revolver slung
on his handlebar. The most remarkable thing about the
journey is that he undertook it entirely “ on his own” re-
gardless of the fact that, had he chosen, he might have
earned two or three hundred pounds to do the journey on
behalf of a firm of makers. He did not even receive a
free bicycle, though, when he returns, he will probably
have the price of his wheel refunded by the agent, who only
discovered, when Murif had half-completed his journey,
that the machine had been bought at his shop.
• * »
Dear Bulletin,—Died in New Guinea, recently,
Peter Sullivan, the almost-famous Sydney boatbuilder.
Beach has to thank Sullivan, and his partner, Joe Don-
nelly, for giving him the chance to become champion
oarsman of the' world. When Beach came to Sydney a
raw countryman, Sullivan and Donnelly, whose shed was
then at Glebe Point, took him in hand, found training,
boating, and backing for him to row black Reynolds,
George Solomon and others in light skiffs. S. and D.
were the men who discovered the latent talent in the
after champion, and it was only when Beach’s success as
an oarsman was assured that others took him up. The
first time I saw Beach, he was taking a shower, after a
row, in Donnelly’s shed, and I was so struck with the
man’s magnificent physique, and the determined cut of
his jaw, that I could not help remarking to Sullivan,
“ What a pugilist thrown away !”—W.
* • • •
The S.T.O. Birthday racing was a decided
success, though the first day the attendance was small,
and the two chief events were won by outsiders. The
Royal Stakes winner, Devoted (Splendor-Devotion), had
performed ignominiously in a minor race at Moorefield a
week before, but, well ridden by young Frank Fielder,
she beat the well-backed cracks, Hopscotch and Delaware,
her nearest opponents being the country mare Semiramis
and the two-year-old Kilt. Why Delaware was not
fastened on as a “ good thing” for Birthday Cup, despite
his defeat in Royal Stakes, is a mystery, as he is perhaps
as good as anything in N.S.W. at a mile and a-half, and
here he was handicapped at 31b. less than w.f.a. Making
nearlv all the running he won a good race from the two
outsiders, Talavera and Glendennon, the hot favorites
Rebel Queen, Cremorne, &c., finishing down the course.
The consistent but unlucky Kilt (Lochiel-Mantilla) was
rewarded with a win in the May Stakes, starting at 6 1.
By winning the Turf Club Handicap on Saturday, the
Chester horse, Projectile, incurred a 51b. penalty for the
Cup, in which he ran a good fourth; he is improving
rapidly.
The scratching of the much-fancied Aurea, The
Tola, Precaution, and Crfime-d’Or forS.T.C. Royal Stakes,
and Hindoo for Birthday Cup, was a bitter blow for
Sydney backers; and when Aurea and several of Hor-
dern’s well-backed representatives went down much de-
light was expressed thereat. Mr. Hordern’s colors were
regaining their popularity, but the “Hindoo” trick has
again relegated them to the limbo of execration. If
owners and trainers think they can bamboozle handi-
cappers by such capers they are mistaken, for, as in the
case of Cartridge, &c., weight will be put on, not taken
off. To protect the public, a rule should be passed
making it compulsory that all horses not struck out of a
race two clear days before date of running should go to
the post in default of a very valid excuse for their absence.
For the past month Delaware has not done a
fast gallop over a longer distance than 6 furlongs, and yet
he won S.T.C. Birthday Cup (H mile) from start to
finish. Tricolor did no Sydney Cup preparation, but he
won all the same. Oases such as these
cropping up, and yet trainers will persist in galloping
their horses’ hearts out on the track.
On first day of A.R.C. Birthday meeting
£12,609 was put through the tote, and on secon y
£12,164. The Birthday Cup was run mia ®hover,
and was won by Eleusinian, who paid the g. 0 0“ “ • ,
£26 18s The favorite, Acton, could not go in the mud
and cut up badly, but the Vic. horse, Chevalier, came
with a fast run and finished third.
* * *
The speedy two-year-old, Key (Padlock-Gover-
ness) won V.K.C. Royal Stakes easily in lmm. Ibsec.,
carrying Bst. 131 b. Which reads as if Aurum w. l have a
tough customer to meet next season. Don John w 3
unfortunate in running second for both Royal and Birth
day, the latter event being won by Trent (Trenton
Sumatra), who started at 8-1. This same horse was
saddled up a second time and won a Welter Mile, carrying
9st ’ ,
After running himself into first-class form in
N.S.W., Battalion has won the Brisbane Cup m his o'™
province, carrying the thumping weight of iOst. dio.
Brazenface won the Q.T.C. St. Leger and finished fourth
in the Cup. The Sydney pony, Perchance, easily won tne
High Weight Handicap from twelve opponents. GhecK-
mate, who raced for some time in Sydney, was second in
the Cup, but he never seriously troubled the dougnty
Battalion.
* * * *
After winning Newmarket Stakes (Eng.), Galtee
More has become a hotter favorite than ever for Eng.
Derby run next Wednesday, and, barring accl l*® n^s ’,"l e
will start the greatest favorite on record. The odds
mav, it is thought, be upset by Vesuvian, who hails from
a dangerous stable, whilst one of Lord Rosebery s will
probably be placed. # *
By easily winning the Doveridge Handicap at
Derby with 9st. 101 b., the Irish-bred Clorane proved him-
self the best handicap horse seen in England since
Isonomy was at his best 17 years ago. When the mail
left, his future engagements included Queens Prize,
Kempton, lOst. 21b. ; Jubilee Stakes, lOst. ; City and
Suburban, lOst. 61b.—feats beyond Isonomy. Taking the
line through Paris, Clorane must be better than Carbine
or Abercorn at their best, but the test is not reliable, for
the English Paris may not be the animal familiar to Aus-
tralians—very likely is not by a long way.
• » * *
Wray, the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) sculler who
went to England with Stanbury last year, won his first
match on May 3, when he easily beat Englishman Haines,
the conqueror of Charlie Stephenson over the Tyne course
on 20th March last. If Wray is as good as is generally
supposed here, Gaudaur should prove about the only man
on the other side with any show of extending him.
* * * *
The fact that there hasn’t been a drop of water
in the Castlereagh (N.S.W.) River for the last five months
draws special attention to the conspicuous notice near
Coonamble bridge, cautioning people against “fishing in
that river with nets.” Fishing with spades would be
more appropriate just now, and, by all appearance, for
some time to come.
* * * *
Peall’s second victory over Roberts makes the
merest shade of difference in their relative handicap posi-
tions. If the winner were willing (which he isn’t) to
accept a 47i per cent, allowance, instead of the full 50
per cent., the champion might be expected to “ take him
on ” again for a very big stake. In the course of their
two spot-barred matches Roberts scored 46,973, whilst
Peall made 24,000 points. At this rate, Roberts would be
freely backed to give the little man 11,400 in a game of
24,000 up. And yet Peall is the second best player in
England.
* « * *
Giffen’s eleven experienced some of the delights of
life in the golden West during their match with Kalgoorlie.
The cricket ground resembled a paddock prepared for the
sowing of lucerne-seed, in which the ball buried itself.
Frequently the players were hidden from the spectators
and each other by clouds of dust. Willy-willies traversed
the ground, carrying skyward on one occasion the re-
porters’ notes of the match. Nevertheless, the Austra-
lians played the game, and would have given the local 18
a “bad doing” in another few minutes, had not time
been called.
* * * *
Australian cyclists are desired (by advt. in their
trade organ) to note that Mrs. Somebody has opened a
massage boudoir, “ for development of muscle, training
for speed, and removal of bodily fatigue. Special terms
for clubs.” The idea of one weak woman developing the
muscle of several clubs—and at reduced prices, too—is
rather painful.
* * * *
On one road from Sydney to Parramatta are no
fewer than four mad-houses —Callan Park, Gladesville,
Rydalmere and Parramatta. These institutions were
passed in turn by a visiting Vic. cyclist. “What!” he
yelled, “is that another of ’em? Why, the whole country
must be full of lunatics 1 ”
• * * *
Later accounts show that Corbett was knocked
out by the old-fashioned blow in the “ mark ’’—pit of the
stomach—familiar to readers of Tom and Jerry. It was
puzzling how the left could take much effect over the
heart, which is the spot for a right-hand blow—formidable,
because the heart is about the only part of the body which
the right can conveniently reach — orthodox position, of
course.


A collection of pictures, by Albert Han-
son, is on exhibition at 12 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Particulars in “ Amusement ” advt. col.*
Electricity, in its modem developments, is
finding keen competition from admirable recent
inventions for the consumption of gas. One of
these is a patent incandescent gas arc lamp, an-
nounced elsewhere by Brand Bros., of Melb. and
Sydney. A conspicuous feature of this lamp is
its lighting tube, which does away with the neces-
sity for a pilot light, being also much superior to
the latter, which deteriorates the mantle. This
lamp is cheaper by far than electric light.*
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE .
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
♦ Sauce. <-
THK BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
*
lime-Frtnt
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:—" I
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
A Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle-
For LADIES and GENTS.
T7MEODTES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HY GIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc iQtcrcbaOScablc
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME,
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
<V D()WRII)GE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
-*• wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The G-reville, CfflEAPlfsT MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
w. w.
GREENER’S
CELEBRATED
euns * dikes.
Greener’s Rook and Rabbit Rifles on all systems
—Martini, Top Lever, Side Lever Hammerless,
and Ejectors. Accurate, Simple and Reliable.
Prices from 4 guineas. Twenty-one consecu-
tive shots put on half-crown size at 40yds.
with a Greener 320 Rook rifle, and nine on a 2in.
square at 100yds. Send for list.
Pubications.
Groo. Rotoertson & Co-,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
"Friends no Longer*” s ®uß?juf l '
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
6<l. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3<l. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton. & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MELBOURNE.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
David Braham $ C°
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S"
GOODS
SUITABLE
FOR
<jeotl*n7*i)’s
Winter SOitiogS
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BRAHAM k CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
tw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not Jeen
recognised by thousands ot sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments ot humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. (W™ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
rjj H E LAST OF SIX
* PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
TTT'F! PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. Write for Terms.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
CYCLES
Are made by the Oldest Firms in the Cycle Trade, and embody all
the features which experience has shown to be IMPROVEMENTS.
STYLE AND FINISH UNEQUALLED.
SOLE AGENTS:
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE ACENCY
LIMITED,
Head Office: 285 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Branches :
Melbourne —139-141 Elizabeth-st.
Sydney —393 George-st.
Adelaide- 33 Rundle-st.
Brisbane- —Adelaide-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
Charters Towers (Q.) - Gill-st.
Christchurch ( X .Z.) —Manchester-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.) —123 George-st.
Goulburn, N.S.W.
Hobart, Tas.
Launceston, Tas.
CATALOGUES FREE.


Special Advertisements.
Warm
Debilitating
Weather.
Many people, after a long spell of
oppressive heat, suffer from lassi-
tude, loss of spirits, and a general
“run down” feeling. They need a
course of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, a
medicine which has revived and
restored to active life and health
thousands of such sufferers. A lady
recently returned to England from
South Africa writes concerning this
“Wonderful Medicine”
“While in Cape Town the past
summer I suffered greatly from the
long-continued heat. I was com-
pletely worn out; my blood seemed
to become as thin as water, and I
lost all energy and interest in life.
My friends recommended Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and a course of this
wonderful medicine restored my
health and spirits. My husband suf-
fered in the same way as I did,
though not to such an extent, and
he also was greatly benefited from
the use of
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
AYER'S PILLS, MILD BUT EFFECTIVE.
& 4<v
& A NOVELTY!
r
* ALL KINDS OK
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of /J
natural perfumes. if
***> Obtainable of Chemists,
Cyf Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from ~
/} v°
StreeV,*
The Celebrated
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
V
3
V-'t
m
r i
A
Y
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS"
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sta,
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons- Customs Entries Passed.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
.... CO ?W>WT;? : BPOK t
£ How to Disinfect’
“* • SEN e.€vfo*'
L THE' SA N I T AS G 2 L ?jt
■ Bethnal- Green
IOnDOn
Wss E. Tweedie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FrockiSt.
S!(\N£T^CI^E?T£S
T© E 6 C<s> ■
©W s ~' 0) Baß3ffl
%
(Li
•;
<£cy
jw
7“ {1 >-7-/'
W|(* s
rf ,G:q (T*
I P' s
i o
C=j=] eJt
c
: '0C I( Mi
;
vt
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
“A SOVEREIGN REMEDY ”
TPor qnRE EYES (due to sandy blight or other causes) CHAFED SKIN,
r INSECT BITES, STINGS, SCALDS, CUTS, SUNBURN, EAR-ACHE,
■NEURALGIC and RHEUMATIC PAINS, THROAT COLDS, and SKIN
AILMENTS generally, is
CALVERT’S CARBOLIC OINTMENT.
Large Pots, 1/1£ each (English rate.)
w C Fitzgerald, Chemist, Wellington, New Zealand, writes “It is, without exception, the best
healing ointment I ever used.” _ _ __ . . 1/% .
F. C. CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER.
—r-
-1207
gggmm
-<«s«9RCMHRa.
:;{
124
203
403
126
N
125
127
:
234
078
56
57
4
%
B 2
-J
—THE-
Austvcilian
JNTeecllewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRAD&
MARK
(aTnvw^
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A V STItAL IAN
iN EEDLE WOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234— 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD
WHOLESALE PROM
JNKVV ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street»
Mr. Isidore Wartzfci, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
WaSbiQgtoi) H- So(il & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPAR lAN lONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor,- 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POY DER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used: 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., /VTsP.S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
263 Pitt-street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
RELIEF
from
GOUGH
'II,
mu
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cough.
pREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking’ this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearanee of Cold or Chill.
_ Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price is. 1 id. amt 2s. 9d.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
I INFANTS
&
#
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co. Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
THE ACED.
Two grovel items from Launceston (Tas.):
The City Council agreed to a special rate which will
amount to £2OO for the carrying out of celebrations by the
Mayor in connection with the Queen’s record reign. Ine
Council refused a donation towards the Maternity
Hospital.
So like a Council!
“An Irish member asked the Under-
secretary for War in the Commons about the case
of a private in the Royal Rifles sentenced to seven
days’ imprisonment for wearing a shamrock in his
cap on last St Patrick’s Day,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent. In reply the S. for W.
said the patriotic soldier was imprisoned for dis-
obedience of orders in not removing the grass
trinity when commanded, but, he added, Lord
Wolseley had removed the register of the penalty
from the record of the son of Erin—after the seven
days were served. The questions as to what com-
pensation the victim was to get, and whether it
was not true English soldiers wore roses on St.
George’s Day, were swamped by the baa-ing of
the Govt, benches. So Private Grindle walks the
earth a melancholy man eternally moaning,
1 Ochone ! ochone ! give me back my seven days,
and the Irishmen of the Royal Rifles may be a
little doubtful of the direction of their Lee-Metfords
when next that commander leads the regiment to
the fray.”
A new and profitable Melb. industry is
dealing in ready-made houses, etc., the boss of the
business being one W. M'Lennan. He has for
sale in his store-yards ready-made wooden cot-
tages, two-storey houses, iron, tin, and wooden
churches, public halls, flour-mills, mechanics’ in-
stitutes, dance-rooms, billiard saloons, even 16-
roomed villas. The bursting of the boom and the
exodus to Westralia and Scuth Africa have left on
the hands of Melb. banks and building societies
thousands of run-em-ups of all sizes, which bring
in practically nothing, but which, if left standing,
will still have to be connected with the sewerage
system at £lO a-piece. These McLennan buys up
in terraces, even street - fulls in the outside
suburbs, and re-sells to land-owners at one-third
the cost of building. He will sell you a 5-roomed
house for <£2s,and deliver it in Ballarat for £2O or
Bendigo for £25. A 6-roomed double-fronted villa
will go at £4O, a 12-roomed 2-storey house at £l3O,
and so on. McLennan during the past two years
has removed nearly all the seaside township of
Mentone, near Mordialloc, and with it created
the new township of Deepdene on the Lilydale
line. Since the boom he has been shifting 100
houses a year from Melb. to Geelong. Bendigo
and Ballarat also now largely consist of bits of
Melbourne. Once he shifted a Kyneton hotel
half-a-inile with the bar open and in full swing.
Another time he brought a house from Ballarat to
Melbourne with the family living, eating and
sleeping in it all the three days’ journey.
Finucane, Bananaland Immigration-agent:
“The mangosteen is a fraud of frauds ! ” The
Javans must have imposed on him with ancient
crab-apples. The mangosteen is one of the most
dainty and delicate fruits in creation.
An Oscar Wilde story concerning Lady
Jeune, who is notorious for the mixedness of the
celebrities she obtains for her functions. When
Neal Creame, the wholesale street-woman poisoner
was condemned to death, some one informed Oscar
that there was a prospect of his being reprieved
“ I hope not, I sincerely hope not,” commented
Oscar, with his ineffable manner. “Why not?”
was asked. “ I should have to shake hands with
him. I should be sure to meet him at Lady
Jeune’s.” 7


Herr Hanusn,
THE CELEItKATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING- PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfahne Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and so!e
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice; the
very fact of their having been before the publio
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
ifor these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts «">f the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEE’S
Testimonials.
A Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
TWi- qi. tv. , 160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
pnnrao of * * la '' e a *uch. pleasure to inform you that a
sevprp r.«/ 011 /vr ame p ' lls Co, «P'etely cured me of a
mlntfnn blhou f ness and nervousness. I may also
t n at several of m y friends to whom I have re-
fmm ?n de<l ?u Ur , remedies have derived great benefit
_r®"li 1 hen ?.> therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
Ully ’ A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
q^:. W B e knoWn and popu'ar representative of the
y • y Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Ji(r “W dut Y t 0 inform you that a course of
fa ln ? V,tallly P>lls acted very beneficially on my
" system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
menaed them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.-Yours, r. A . LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from &-.o ot
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
T) March 7th, 1895.
To Hekr R'SSmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear tir, It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
1 nave derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable lo all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. iUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. - eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:— “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
»Vangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to ail sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
„ Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr kasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates oan
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to iny friends.—Yours
t ratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, 1 saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of jour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity. I
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 16th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagbrman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Files.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A' Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to hear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEH’2
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The TVonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Bulletin. —“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, w’hioh his numerous testimonials will
prove."
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.SR. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Bally Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Keglster, Adelaide, S.A.— “Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
ootanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Conrier, Queensland. —“Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest, place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Rrisbarie, Q.—“ Herr Bass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
dhemfst and Druggist •l»urn»i t Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depdt at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening .Journal, Adelaide. “Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut' . — “ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r q tire any additional praise from Tkuth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times. Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
Tlie Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
Seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable."
The Nord Anstrnlfsrlic Zeitir g, Brisbane.— “We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South w ales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
m~ address YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN'S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent, free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTiAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
at^USSBr
Si
kW:
&
r lM*w
-a*
j AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
Medals
ALFA LINE TILLS.
•?.d ioc.acc r .v> the: elood v nerves.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood P : 11s
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections,
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - A Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 23e. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure —Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thie
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the sau. j time
as it supports the parts. Price 215,, posted.
THE “ NATURAE DOCTOR.” A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - - - 150 Bourke-street


A Lady’s Troubles.
FOUND HOUSEHOLD DUTIES
FATIGUING.
WANTED TO REMAIN IN BED ALL DAY.
HAD NO AMBITION TO DO ANYTHING
AND FELT TERRIBLY LANGUID.
From the Australian Courier.
“ Up to the spring of 1890,” says Mrs. Margaret
Layfield, of 69 Surry-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney
(in answer to a reporter’s inquiry concerning her-
self), I was comparatively healthy, and could carry
out my household duties without feeling in the
slightest degree fatigued, and would enjoy a sound
and restful night’s sleep. Then I began to suffer
from weakness, and a feeling of depression. Iha
a fulness and a pain at the chest and round the sides;
I was also troubled with palpitation of the heart
and a sense of overbearing exhaustion, lost a great
deal of sleep ; in fact I kept tossing about the bed
all night, in the morning I awoke unrefreshed,
and looked at the day before me as one of positive
torture. Frequently I had to remain in bed all day,
and call in the assistance of a neighbour, being too
weak to do anything; I also had a terribly languid
feeling, Having inherited a good constitution, and
being always adverse to calling in a medical man,
I endeavoured to battle through my troubles, trust-
ing that a certain amount of determination would
throw off this terrible nausea. Exhausted nature,
however, at last gave way, and I was on the eve of
sending for a doctor, when a friend drew my atten-
tion to a remarkable cure of dyspepsia and nervous
debility effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People. I got some of the Pills as an experi-
ment, and at once proceeded to take them in ac-
cordance with the printed instructions. After a
few days, and before I had completed the first box,
I felt a visible improvement, my appetite returned,
and once more food agreed with me. I continued
taking the pills, and am now happy to relate that
I seem as well and strong as ever, and have suffered
no more from that terrible indigestion. I feel deeply
grateful that chance threw in my way Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, as I tell everyone; m fact I should
consider myself a heartless woman if I should not
make this thing public, and endeavor to alleviate
the troubles of my suffering sisters.”
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are not
a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scientific
preparation, the result of years of careful study on
the part of an eminent Edinburgh University phy-
sician, and they were successfully used by him in
his every-day practice for many years before being
offered for general sale. They positively cure
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and Neuralgia,
and are a specific for all diseases of women, such
as anaemia, poor and watery blood, female irregu-
larities, nervous headache and hysteria. 1 hey
are not a purgative medicine, but brace up and
permanently strengthen the whole system.
To obtain Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills apply to
your chemist, or send to the Dr. Williams Medl-
ine Coy., Sydney, who will forward (post paid)
on receipt of stamps or post order, 1 box for
2s. 9d., or i dozen for 14s. 9d.*
rNPLENDID Accommodation for Visitors at
Jo “ Wyadra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mrs. LILLIS (late of Bundaberg).
Amusements.
QPERA H °King and York Streets), SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING!
Farley’s €i)glisb Opera Co.
&g- THE RECORD BROKEN.
High-Class Opera with the best available artists
at
TWO SHILLINGS and
Plan at Paling’s.
ONE SHILLING.
J. A. CRAIN.
booME
Reeds
centStf
ALBERTS
TAN
dhe
PATENT
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA-
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding covers,
price 2s. J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Amusements
rjl HBATRB ROYAL* SYDNEY.
LAST 3 NIGHTS 1 LAST 3 NIGHTS I
TN€ FLY IN<S JORDANS.
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
Don’t fail to avail yourself of these last opportunities
to see this Wonderful Company.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. No Early Doors. Book Plan
at Elvy and Company’s. Day Sale Tiokets at Power
Cigar Divan. Doors open, 7 ; commenoe, 8.5.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
Every Evening and Saturday Matinee,
“T\)c Sigo °f tb®
By WILSON BARRETT, Esq.
A Noble Drama. Splendidly Produced and Acted.
Plan, Nicholson’s. ZW PRICES-55., 35., 25., and Is.
237 CALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
Astounded visitors to date, and the ory is “Still they
come.” TO-DAY, PROM NOON ONWARDS.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. ROBERT BROUGH.
FAREWELL : APPEARANCES : OF : THE
I BROUGH COMEDY COM PAN V. |
LAST TWO NIGHTS! of LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“A. WHite Elephant.”
SATURDAY, 29th MAY —“A VILLAGE PRIEST.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
ijTfrBrnTUEIVIATOGRAPHE. “ LPMIERE.”
Mr. H. W. Barnett is now able to supply complete
apparatus for producing
animated photographs
bv the LUMIERE system, together with FILMS both
LOCAL and FOREIGN, at PARIS PRICES.
Full Particulars on application to
H. W T . BARNETT, The Falk Studios, Melbourne (only).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr Harry Richard,s’s Netv Ttvoh Mvnstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Onlv the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission— Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls Is; and Family Circ le ,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LE.LI It.
rjIIIE OPERA house” MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting: Manager .. Mr. Fred. Ayaon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY CO
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IyiHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
Magnificent Gala Spectacular Melodrama,
IN SKSNT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Ben twitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THE PAULTON - STANLEY COMEDY SEASON.
TO-NIGHT ! TO NIGHT!
“A : Nl<s NT : OUT.”
The Brightest, Cleverest and Most Irresistibly
Funny Farcical Comedy of the Day.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
Pay sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
EXHIBITION of pictures by
B ALBERT HANSON,
At 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Daily—ll a.m. till 5 p.m. ADMISSION, 6d.
STREET
KING
SYDNEY
the best value watch
X3ST
1 _
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, OPEN FACE
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, FULL HUNTER . ...
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, DEMI-HUNTLR
£2 0 0
£2 5 0
£2 15 0
Finely finished movement, full jewelled compensation
balance, and a most perfect timekeeper.
GUARANTEED FOR THREE YEARS. POST FREE.
AET JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
. Only Australian Address-
-90 KING ST., SYDNEY
mncRoBERTSon s mm eum
" " “ Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
‘UTavltcs ■
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
ADAMS NOT€L, Pitt-st, Sydo*y
Superior Accommodation.
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
HOT AND COLD BATES.
TERMS :
From Bs. per Day*
ID- J. fldams,
Manager.
'%-f
,v
main entrance
Plum
VUpHj
THE -•
* Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor atrial. This brand of razor is something super,or to any others offered to the pubho.
Tt is sS lVtempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
it is spec,any sempei , f o-pueral oublic. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
can highly recommen required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, m beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price 1 Razor in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle- in beautiful case, 30s
Registered aid smt Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CjrTYIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Lifts.
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with, ail
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
HOTEL
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
w
RIT& DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depftt, 454 Ueorge-Street,Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands-iron-framed, trichord, m walnut or ebony-direct from the makers,
at pnces that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost ihrms m Geinnany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are nvetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and soured by screws at Ml
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. . All
ba.BB wires copper
covered. The clavia*
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and'accu-
ratb workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANO
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be had m walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy>. *
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a neh, round, singi g Q y
in the middle coinpass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers fin
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss m transit. The P
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of * P .
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of 484 George
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions.
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
GOUTESE.
A New Scientific Remedy for Jf-S 0 md
RHEUMATIC GOUT, RHEUM A 1 ISM, and
SCIATICA. This wonderful discovery has now nee
in use 8 months; during this time 180 persons (mostly
cripples) in Victoria have been cured of theabove horrible com pi ai nts It lex!
Theonly known cure. Prescribed by the Medical Faculty. (Reference is kin yp . Gout by
J. Smith, an employe of the Vic. railway locomotive shops, who ww cured ofcure.
GOUTINE after five years of suffering, and after the f a J lure of ieading ys c s k t t Melb.,
In Bottles at 5s 7s. 6d and 12s. extra Agent
and from the holder of Australasian rights, OSCAR LAW»u«, u » ,
ROOK OF NATURE
—and —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by Dd Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kocte, post free, Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d.. post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox’s Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
New Realistic Novels: —The Serpent Tempted Her,
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free-
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted is da.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted zs.
How to become a Ventriloquist, post, free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
Tiie Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s. ,
La Ciiasse au Chastre (in French), posted Is oa.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free. ,
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. .
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new' work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; p n9t
free, Is 3d. .
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to remaie
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR ( OUK
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Claeap 800 It Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY-


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Banffshire :
198 —Cases & Bales —198
ex Southern Mail Steamers :
111 Oases & Bales 111
Now being marked off, making 1072
Bales and Cases to hand for this
Winter Season up to the present.
NEW GOODS FLOWING INTO ALL
DEPARTMENTS DAILY, and as quickly
FLOWING OUT AGAIN. The Public
know our values, and appreciate them.
Every Sale we make is an Advertisement,
and every Customer a Salesman.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.
• • •
Cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla the most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
( ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
hy excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. No other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE biliousness
X
Reginald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes \
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Co*oo’s Noted Accord^ooS,
Or call at one of our Branches —182 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Catalogue?
MT\* POST FREEyt-*
watches- Clocks-J^Vellery-BirtH day*
Wedding z CHristeiMg Presents
1755177-ELIZABETri 5T*
OPPOSITE C-.P.0- *
MELBOURNE-
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water —effervescing in all
mineral waters - and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
CEQ22SEQ
GrO TO HBI Jl.-
IGrOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS DROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
X
-DESTROYS—
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
| For the House, Conservatory
| and Garden.
k Destroys Aphis and Other
X Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from $
Moti I
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of |
Parasites. »
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
m
WOt.
m
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
m moTunc store,
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
£3T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIIIftItESSKItS AND WICMARKRS
To tlie Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Cured Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
The Smelting' Co.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office-Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
THE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Celebrated
Fer machine
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
FR
CIGARS
DROP 3? IN THESLO
■mil
mm
■
HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia.
Price - £5.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing' demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
Uucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
D?Wfl®K
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
A.re you nervously anxious about’
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: Depression of spirits, heartache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for y.ears, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
“ There are but two kinds of men in the
world —Englishmen and Rebels. ” — French.
A Maoriland small boy is in trouble for
stealing some money and spending it in the joyous
recreation of having two sound teeth dragged out
without gas. It is difficult to imagine what that
boy will develop into when he grows up.
H. : ‘‘ln Hansard, for 1821, at Melb.
Public Library, I turned up the first public refer-
ence to Queen Victoria. Brougham, in the Lords,
refers to her as ‘ a little lady, now two years old,
who. may perchance be Queen of England.’ Then
the intoxication over the girl Queen ! The public
craves glorious youth in royalty, as well as in all
other sorts of play-acting, and what not. How
they did grumble about the succession of old men
—two Georges, one William—though they shouted
for them as much as for—well, no matter.”
Kee Sam, of Melbourne, recently died and
went to be with Joss-Confucius in a better Flowery
Land. It transpired at the inquest that Kee had
been treated by a Chow physician who gave him
pills, each the size of a duck’s egg. There were
said to be 40 different ingredients in the medicine*
including blood, grasshoppers, ashes, bone-dust,
clay, dates, honey, sawdust, and ground-up in-
sects—which is very Chinese, and also very
Christian. When one considers how beautiful the
Christian says his Heaven is, and the horrid
messes he takes to prevent him going there, the
spectacle of a Chinaman wrestling with a pill the
size of a moderate ink-bottle isn’t so absurd after
all. The yellow man’s heaven isn’t so beautiful as
the white man’s, so he naturally takes a larger
pill to keep out of it.
We reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Parson Hosking, the teetotal lecturer who
alleged that Maoriland pressmen were ‘ ‘ the greatest
liars out of Sheol,” lately finished up a mission in
the Hawke’s Bay province with the statement
that it was “ the most immoral place in the
country.” The average sensational parson is
much addioted to explaining exactly how immoral
places are, while the ordinary person wonders
helplessly at the vastness of his knowledge. It
must take a deal of midnight marauding in the
bye-ways where Portwine Annie and Painted
Sarah wander abroad after dark, and much haunt-
ing of undress orgies, and a lot of stealthy linger-
ing at back gates, and lurking in many alleys of
many towns to enable any parson to say truthfully
and exactly which is the most immoral place in
any country. A certain amount of immorality
stalks abroad openly, but the bulk of it has to be
traced by getting personally on the roof of the
woodshed and looking through the window, or by
whooping in the festive halls of Portwine Annie
and Painted Sarah and playfully pulling down the
back-hair of these sirens. Therefore, the copious
information possessed by some preachers is a sus-
picious and blushful subject.
Dear Bulletin, —Re cyclones. I also can
swear that Never tire is not singular. Neither is
Bowen. In ’72 a hurricane struck Townsville fair
between the eyes. Besides other damage, it tore
the steamer, Black Prince, from her moorings and
cast her up high and dry 300yds. inland. The
skipper had both legs broken and his spine in-
jured. The hat was sent round and he was placed
in a pub., where he was alive and hearty in 77,
when I last saw him. In 74 a cyclone hit Rock-
ingham Bay, and lifting the heavy pilot whale-
boat out of the water sent it sailing through the
air like a leaf. It struck the roof of the P.M.’s
house and was picked up next day by the native
troopers at Cashmere telegraph-station in the
ranges. At Cobar, in ’9O, the roof of a large pro-
duce store was lifted off its walls and planked
down over my adjoining cottage in the middle of
the night, completely extinguishing it (the
not the night). I thought the Day
of Judgment had come. Next morning the
owner wanted to sue me for damage to his roof,
because my.chimney was sticking up through
the iron, and it took all hands and the cook to get
it off. Also at Jembaicumbene —but, enough.
Bowen and Nevertire are not alone in their
cyclonic bust-ups.-
YARRAN.


au\ns
XI
I
TRADE
MARK
WM
Warn wmm.
S O A F*
MONKEY BRAND
Jf|iJ
m
•mmKi
always read the directions
Name XcTrade MARK
Observe
m
■
P
m
Hi
s>
V
&
'Jr
«P
HM
>.?
•/>
mm
ii
r
: ::^
V/
mm
<k
wm
%
wm
■
w
22
*8
II
M
*
%
■
&
m.
m
<v
%
<£
V
M
v <?
i
C
&//.
m
W ■
m
m.
22
W ,[ :
%
*
.
an
m
■N.. m ......... <VSS! .vw^?
WON’T WASH OLOTHBa.
WON’T WA.BHL CLOTHES.
BBOOKE’S
MONKEY BRAND SOAP
For Cleaning, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
for polishing
Metals, Marble, Paint, Cattery, Crockery, Machinery, Baths, Stair-Rods.
For STEEL, IIION, BLASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS, MANTELS, etc.
Removes Rust, Dirt, Stains, Tarnish, etc.


A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new-remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free 1 or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Tb€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S
OXFORP STREET.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
And see that you get it.
**7
PROOF
Pn
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BELT! II t.lr*ri
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON 11AM)
WIGHT IMS. * GO
LIMITED.
m
hr
MUNI!
m
m
<um
pvDE
*7
PRDO
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given tor
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb Chambers, Bligb-St., Sydijcy
W orlts
Cbiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREE'I’, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Liz Kane’s Confession .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liz Kane’s me name, in Fitzroy reared ; I was
A-keepin’ dad before I switched the bloke ;
He took me to the diggin’s just becos
A city life soon sent him stony broke.
He never acted square a day ; but mopped
Our boodle up in booze—he was a tank.
His growlin’, swearin’, drinkin’ never stopped ;
The things my mother gave me, all, he drank.
I felt it awful lonely there, alone.
I told him so: he cursed, and said “ Wot jam ! ”
I’d nothing there to love, or call my own,
So fancied that I’d tame a little lamb.
The station missus sent me one at last —
A pretty pet, with soft, kind eyes, so mild ;
[ reckoned now my lonely days were past—
I loved my lammie like a little child.
1 always feared he’d hurt my little pet,
I felt he would ! the way he’d jaw and nag—
So when he’d come I’d always “do a get ”
And plant my little darling in a bag.
One day, while I was cleaning up, inside,
My pet was planted out behind the shed ;
He, mooching there, my lammie must have spied,
He dropped a rock upon it—killed it dead.
That hopeless, bitter pain I’ll ne’er forget—
It drove me mad ; I loathed his very name.
Next day I said, “I’ve got another pet ! ”
He said, “I’ll dam soon serve it just the same.”
I saw him hunt about to find the bag :
I ran, behind a tree, up in the glen.
So long ! no more you’ll drink, and beat, and nag;
I saw him drop the rock ! . . . and then ! . . .
and then! !
The Chowesses in China might, perhaps,
Have heard that Bang 111 It all the crockery
broke!
I’d filled the bag with dynamite and caps,
The blokey went “ to blazes ” in the smoke.
The jury foreman said he was afraid
There wasn’t much before the jury chaps ;
’Twas plain the bloke was either lost or strayed,
Through foolin’ round with dynamite and caps.
I’m back, y’r rev’rence, stitching at me trade ;
I’ve had no luck in married life, that’s flat.
(I wish with dear old dad I’d always stayed) . . .
D’yu think they’ll put a girl in hell for that ?
ALONE.
Sydney University Commemoration Day
falls annually on Ist May. What’s the matter
with Ist April ?
This Age advt. of the other day suggests
interesting possibilities :
pERSON who cruelly shot pet Cockatoo, Good
-*- Friday, —, chief companion years, kindly
explain. Mrs. H .
The next will probably be : “Will the gentleman
who brutally murdered my husband, whose
fidelity over many years was unquestioned, please
explain motives. Mrs. Guile. ”
Refreshingly straightforward advt. from
Melb. Age :
A N °. r( fi n ary workman, correspond with a person,
„ „ w * , a c h*ld not objected to. Open two days.
S. H., S. Yarra, P.O.
Melb. : “Re photographer Allan’s seces-
sion from the Salvation Army. It is said his
reasons are because of the Army becoming a trad-
ing business, and because large funds are accumu-
lated while officers are starved.”
Dear Bulletin,—According to Wesleyan
parson Waddell, it is as absurd to assume that
God can’t be expected to reverse His natural laws,
to promote the well-being of man, as it is to main-
tain that, to save a passenger’s life, an engine-
driver shouldn’t be expected to stop liis train, or
even run back for medical assistance. Unhappy
illustration for Waddell and co. ! The engine-
driver might know—though the passenger couldn’t
that the stoppage or the run back might involve
everlasting smash and the sacrifice of a hundred
lives for one. The “ well-being ”of Waddell, for
anything he knows, might involve the ill-being of
somebody else ; and, if the rev. gpntleman really
believes the universe is engine-driven, it would be
only decent of him to assume that the Great
Driver understands His own business.—Pagan.
In Melbourne they have also been humili-
ating for rain, and the aggregate local piety went
to church in its best suit and its newest frock, and
its duck of a hat with the loveliest possible feather
in it, and its jewellery and its bangle, and all its
other earthly vanities. It calls this sort of thing
“humiliation,” but it certainly doesn’t look like
it. The Bulletin is still waiting to see the aggre-
gate Christianity of this country show its faith in
prayer and humiliation by humiliating in real
earnest. If the pious ladies of Toorak will leave
at home the hair they bought at the barber’s, and
put on their oldest frocks, and procesh to church
in their bare feet, without their gloves, or hats or
jewellery, and with their own hair hanging down,
they may look a trifle ridiculous, but at least they
will show that they believe in their own professed
creed—or else that they think their feet can stand
public inspection and that their hair looks nice
that way. A barefooted procession of society
ladies going to church over new road-metal should
certainly bring down any rain there is in the busi-
ness—especially if they finish up by publicly
scrubbing the front steps of the tabernacle in their
oldest clothes and with the family Bridget’s apron
on, and then take turns at confessing their sins on
the pavement in front of the building.
An Anarchist-Socialists' Celebra-
tion.
London Holborn Town Hall (writes “Minyarah"
to The Bulletin from London) filled up into the
gallery and then overflowed through side-rooms
and down staircases into the greasy, misty streets.
A weird, warped gathering. Two out of five
were women, tidily though “ East - endily ”
dressed, and silently in earnest. The men were
undersized, with sunken cheeks, and lantern jaws
overrun with scrub. Dull and sulky eyes ; matted,
uncut hair; and a felt-hat slouched over on one
side. They had met to commemorate the anni-
versary of the “Chicago Martyrs’” legal demise
in ’B7, and hear those who could put in words a
quota of the hearers’ fierce thoughts. Some nota-
bilities in the World of Bombs and Barricades
were expected to harangue : Louise Michel, Tou-
zeau Parris, Prince Kropotkin, Enrico Malatesta,
James Tochatti, and more phlegmatic lights—
Edward Carpenter, Tom Mann, John Turner,
Lothrop Withington.
* * * *
The “ Laborers’ Battle Hymn,” melodized to the
“Marseillaise,” was sung by the “choir ”of solidly-
built young women ; apologies read from allegori-
cal-artist Walter Crane and Keir Hardie. The
former said his views were unchanged ; and the
latter that he was explaining his views to the
Bradford electors—who refused them and him.
Telegrams fluttered in from the different
anarchist - communists’ “Groups”: “Hurrah for
Anarchy ! ” “ Long Live Anarchy ! ” &e. Sounds
enthusiastically soothing to the lay auditor, whose
belief is usually that if anarchy prevailed no one
would “long-live.”
The dock-laborers’ idol, Tom Mann, followed
less - known “preliminary canterers.” A big-
boned, fair-sized man with a harsh, stone-smash-
ing-machine voice intended for open-air orating,
muscularly-vigorous delivery, and savage intensity
of utterance. Frock-coat no relation to the vest,
an absolute stranger to the trousers. Loose
black hair straggles down the prominent forehead,
from under the shady verandah of which the eyes
gleam with restless fierceness. A dangerous man
under direction and restraint. Much spasmodic
gesticulation and jerky gesture. “Trades-union-
ism that doesn’t develop a rebellious spirit is use-
less”; “I am a determined opponent of all
existing institutions ” ; “Rebel I am and rebel I
intend to remain.”
* * * *
Peter Kropotkin, after five years’ imprison-
ment, shed his title of “ Prince,” and looks a most
respectable, spectacled old gentleman, who
wouldn’t kill a March fly, but would drop a
melinite bomb on the pet corn of Nicholas 11.
with pleasure. He is a very fiery fiz-gig. The
hair has fled completely from the hot exterior of
his frizzling brain-pan, and, clinging to his cease-
lessly wagged chin, spreads itself out in a bushy
fan o’er his lucifer-box chest. His head bobs
like a China mandarin’s as he jerks out with a
thick foreign accent “hire-rid ass-sass'ins ” and
“ mass-sackers. ” He abruptly spun on one leg
and disappeared, letting on the Oxford man,
Edward Carpenter.
The educated anarchist or socialist wore a cheap
grey tweed sac, flannel-collared shirt, and the first
bit of jewellery visible on the platform—a steel
guard. A “gentlemanly,” halting, partly-stutter-
ing speaker, he told the crowd in a semi-conversa
tional way that the cheapening of food, progress
to and fro, education, &c., made wealth of lessen-
ing value daily, and in time it would have none.
This startingly-logical argument was too fine for
the audience, wh > listened in non-committal, com-
plimentary si leu v. Though a “swell,” he was
one of them ; and that was enough.
(Types. A bizarre object under an immense tam-
o’-shanter, like a plum-pudding cloth flattened out
after the contents were partly boiled away. Long
hair curling up in horror from his greasy-glazed
coat-collar. A pugnacious, stubbly moustache, and
a tussocky goatee that began at the under lip and
ended on the apple of his throat. There was a set
purpose of soulful desire in his eye which the blood
of a crowned head or the froth on a “ pint of four-
’arf ” might equally have appeased. No. 2
a ponderous, frock-coated, fat-faced German,
with thick matted hair suggesting Stanley’s
fallen African forest with its strange life crawling
and living in the interlaced undergrowth of for-
midable chaotic darkness. A “ plendy lager;
plendy pipe-smoke ” stamp of contentment on the
solemnly-listening face.)
* * * *
Louise Michel, an old woman whose like I have
seen selling apples at a street-stall, polishing up
the pippins with a ragged cloth and the moisture
of a warm breath. A black gown lay flat on the
curveless breast where hung a pince-nez. A
handkerchief protruded from the right-hand side-
pocket of her skirt. Thin, claw-like hands ; a
shrunken-skinned, scraggy neck threw forward a
hard, bony-featured, vulture face. On the back
of the dark hair a black, plate-shaped straw hat
was balanced as this matriarchal relic of the
“New Woman’ spoke her words in her own
tongue. Sana fire, sans energy, sans pantomimic
gesture, it might have been Sanscrit for all the audi-
ence knew, but they received her enthusiastically.
The nearest approach to the World’s Federation is
in the anarchist-socialists’ranks. Fourteen years
imprisonment had not broken the tough courage
of Louise Michel, and she was just back from a
leugthy tour for the cause in the United States.
Kropotkin gave an interpretation of her perora-
tion, and the listeners settled down into restful
bewilderment. From this state they were dis-
turbed by the announcement that the collection
total would not pay the meeting’s expenses, and a
second attempt would be made, during which the
“choir” would (appropriately) sing the “Com-
rades’ Song of Hope.”
* * * •
The unbiased observer would sum up the anar-
chist-socialists from this celebration as an ill-
assorted bundle of aimless efforts, resultless hopes,
and confused strivings after anything a,"' 1 no-
thing.


Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
. A
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
SB
m
m
&
fig
V 0&
%
WMWM
7/■////'.7, Z///Z
m
• ■ '' // ’/t'
7//f///f
m
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
am
Out Back.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We dumped our swags by the river-side when the
sun was getting low ;
To reach the boys on the other side we had four
good miles to go ;
But the winding stream that before us stretched
ran sluggishly and wide—
Twas a hundred yards from where we sat to the
sand on the other side.
The tailings washed from the claims above had
sullied the waters clear,
And thicker and thicker they slowly ran as year
succeeded year ;
My mate and myself wished heartily we had
reached the further shore —
The trip was the first he had made on the track,
but I “ had been there before.”
A raw new-chum of the boasting type, in his
stockings six feet two, „
He never tired while he “held the flute or
telling what he could do—
He had pulled a win with an Oxford eight; had
hunted on Yorkshire side ;
Had played with the Gents on the Oval, too ; and
Lord knows what beside.
“ Had never been taken in, bai Jove ! he was
“ far too smart, you know ”
Was a lot too good to carry a swag, and plainly
told me so.
A fortnight back I had picked him up, stone-broke
on the Sydney side, _
And we swagged it out to fossick a creek 1 knew
by this river wide.
“I think I’ll swim it, bai Jove !” he said, and
glanced at the opposite side ;
“I’ve swum the Rhine by the Drachenfels, and
that is tour times as wide. ”
Then he stacked his togs—they were few, Lord
knows !—on the log beside me there,
And turned to dive in the murky stream with a
proud heroic air.
“ I wouldn’t dive, for fear of the rocks, I
grinned as I said to him,
“ But just walk out till you get your depth, and
then you can safely swim. ’ ’
“ A good idea, old chap,” says he, “ for the water
is beastly thick ”
And then he stepped in the sluggish stream, and
stepped at the double-quick.
The first step covered his toes, I think ; the next
he was ankle deep ; .
While I struggled hard with a laughing-fit m
trying my peace to keep.
Then, bending low, he prepared to swim when the
water reached his knees, ,
With arms drawn up and his unkempt hair adrift
on the evening breeze.
Ten paces out—and the water still just reached to
his ankles bare,
While he went prepared for the sudden drop in
the depths that he knew were there.
Half-way across —and his ankles trim still fathomed
the mighty flood ; .
He threw a suspicious glance behind, and just
for a moment stood.
Then on he went with a cautious stride, while
around his spacious feet
The waters mingled with drifting sand and the
three-inch wavelets beat.
He faced about on the other shore—he found he
was fairly “had,”
And the words that fell from that naked man
were the sublimate of bad.
Then to wade across I tucked my pants they
were getting for wear the worse,
While my robeless mate who had swum the Khine
swore hard at the universe.
He cursed the stream and cursed the sand as he
fiercely paced the shore —
’Twas the first gay time he had crossed that creek,
but I “had been there before.”
Dundas (Tas.).
P. P. QUINN.
A Maoriland seamstress evidently pins her
faith on celestially-arranged marriages, for she ad-
vertises herself as “ Mrs. Dash, nee Mrs. Hyphen.
No need for a girl to anxiously search lor an
eligible if her wedding has already been made in
Heaven, and wedding-cake and cards provided
along with the infant’s layette.
H. : ‘“ln Sight of St. Paul’s ’ sets me
roaming in theology. The Cathedrals of Peter
and Paul, Rome and London, signalise the pat-
tern apostles of the Catholics and Protestants.
Observe that in Catholic theology there is a
studied depreciation of St. Paul, as m t rotest-
ant of St. Peter. A Catholic grievance against
the Bible is the ignominious way Peter is dropped
out of the Acts, when Paul takes up the running.
Whether or not Peter ever was in Rome, apparently
Paul was the founder of the Church there. Paul,
in the Catholic theology, is like Christ in the
Mahometan.”
The path of Our Sovereign Lady’s Jubilee
festival is being paved with affecting little anec-
dotes of the most artless character. For instance,
a choir-boy was summoned to the royal presence
to sing a solo, and he went away full of the fact
that Princess Beatrice’s offspring addressed V.R.
as “ Granny.” The choir-boy’s experience is cited
in support of the glorious allegation that Her
Gracious Majesty is fond of children, and does
not seem appalling to those who are too young to
know any better. The Queen is called Granny by
her grand-children. Let us tighten our silken
bonds and whoop for the Hempire !
The man charged at Christchurch (M.L.)
on his own confession with criminally assaulting
and murdering a young lady whom he met by
accident on the road, is thus described :
Quite a young-looking man, and gives his age as 20.
He is about sft. llin. in height, with longish arms and
legs. He stoops slightly when walking, and his chest is
somewhat contracted. He is fair, and has a very slight
moustache and whiskers. His neck is very much swollen
from goitre. His mouth is large and drooping, with
rather thick lips. He has small, blue, furtive-looking
eyes, with which he appeared to watch every movement.
His nose is large, as are also his ears, which stand out
prominently. He appeared to be quite unconcerned, and
apparently did not seem to understand his position.
Coming down in the train he smoked cigarettes and
chatted with his guards, and he did not take the slightest
notice of the crowds which had gathered at the various
stations anxious to get a glimpse of him. When arrested
the prisoner wore a hat which was too large for him, and
inside the lining was found a copy of a newspaper con-
taining an account of the Petone murders.
The long arms and the large, glaring ears and the
slouching mouth and the air of complete unconcern
are part of the description of most notable crimi-
nals. Either they are characteristics, or else the
ears grow larger and the arms longer in the police-
man’s imagination from the moment of the arrest.
The daily paper report of almost every sensational
murderer reads like an account of the arrest of an
ape of the most aggravated order.
Pannikin and Hand-out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Editor Bulletin, — We whalers must have a
Federal Convention to settle the question of what
is a fair thing to expect at sundown, when on the
The curious fact is that meat is the most difficult
article to obtain, except from the cooks. The
various rations are :
1. Flour alone : one pint, top shaken off. Why
it is called rations instead of ration I do not know.
At a Scotchman’s station, called the Almighty
Fountains, they will not give a traveller more than
the pint even if there is a flood all round and the
swaggy cannot move. Their plea is, We give
tea and sugar, and if one gets rations twice the
others expect it.” But they don t get a £lOOO
shout of rain from great Nature every day.
2. Flour and meat : at about one station in five.
3. Meat alone : very rare unless they are killing
worn-out rams or bulls. ,
4. Flour, tea, sugar, and meat : this is so rare
that the travellers’ huts are always mortgaged
th re ti deep.
5. Nothing on any terms : this is much more
satisfactory than—
6. A pint of flour, if you cut wood for the Oflow
or jap. cook. Fancy a Scotchman, pretending to
the title of “ The,” such as “ The Buck of Kin-
buck,” asking a footsore traveller to chop wood
after a 15-mile journey !
Things being as above, we have to work the
“Hand-out,” a “piece” given at all wayside
farms (where they have it) and at the back-doors
in towns. Beware of the large parcel in news-
paper ! It generally contains crusts and bones.
The best dole is given by Irishwomen from the
fist; one can excuse a little stain or two on the
fingers of “ a cheerful giver.”
By far the most comfortable place of call is at
big cookies, who have sheep. They like to treat
you better than the neighboring squatters, and
the girls are always good. Cookies who go in
for wheat are not so liberal. I don’t know why.
Now, it is uniformity that we want. What, is
the use of starvation to-day, feeding on mulberries
and green plums, and plenty to-morrow ?
I have not mentioned the cook’s poke. Where
a cook is “good,” i.e., a thief, one gets the where-
withal to weather out a day or two. The bosses
must know that the slushies stand to the swaggies.
Why don’t they sanction it ?
I have just met two old chums working on a
station. They say the only chance now for a
decent job is to tramp to Melbourne or Sydney
and get sent up from a registry-office there. This
has always been the Adelaide style, and we now
give fair warning that at the grape-picking
federal convention it will be proposed that a com-
bined attack be made on the cities, just as the
Bureau-men have shunted us on the wallaby.
Something must be done after the fruit and grapes
fail to support us. There is no burr-cutting now-
a-days, and no rabbiters’ camps. Road parties are
always brokers ; sheep-camps have disappeared
improved off by the railways ; surveyors do all
their little work from their homes; tanks have
been finished for years ; the remains of the camps
alone are seen. What shall we do ? Coxeyise ?
Jump the rattler to town ? Give ourselves up as
destitute ?or continue to tap the cook ? This is
the question of the night.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Apropos bearded women, crowing hens
&c. Mr. R. Gildea kept for five years at Bos-an’
dillon, on the Lachlan (N.S.W.), a ewe with
horns as big and curly as a ram’s, the ewe shane
being otherwise perfect. A big joke on the station
was to watch every new hand, whenever the ewes
were yarded, rush in haste to haul her out as a
stag. Like most female animals, including the
human, which ape the male, the ewe was sterile
“Some ghastly objects are now in the
possession of Major-General Robley, a ’64 Maori
War veteran,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “They are 16 embalmed Maori
heads, more or less seamed and scrolled with tat-
tooing. Though it is over 60 years since they were
cut from the bodies of the slain warriors, they are
in perfect preservation, and with their stitched-up
eyelids, from which the eyes have been gouged
out and eaten, the regular, white, grinning teeth
and haliotus-shell plugged nostrils, they form a
gruesome spectacle.
The Japanese official newspaper is on its
hind-legs re the probability of Jap-exelusion from
Australia :
Even should the British Govt, permit such a thin?
Japan can easily avenge herself by shutting her doors in
turn against Australians.
Well, even if Australians cared a tin-tack about
the British Govt., they’re not—with perhaps the
exception of Attorney-General Want particu-
larly anxious to go to Japan ; whereas the Japs
are eager to come to Australia—and to stay I
Which is the pinching-point of the shoe.
Dear Bulletin, —Re relations between
advertisers’ interests and writers’, “Large Adver-
tiser ” has simply chopped out the arc that suits.
him from the following circle of interdependence.
Large circulation, plenty of advts., big income,
good pay, effective writing, large circulation ; and
so round again. Effective writing, of course, isn’t
the only factor in large circulation, but it’s such
an important one that the writer is no more be-
holden for his increased pay to the advertiser than
the advertiser is for his increased publicity (which
is his increased pay) to the— Scribbler.
Dear Bulletin, —Some idea of the present
state of Melbourne can be gained from the fact
that I have, within this month of May, counted
from the dummies of the trams as they sped along
the following lines the number of shops and houses
“ to let ” as attached, suites of offices offered for
rental in the city being excluded:—North Mel-
bourne, 59 ; Brunswick, 33; South Melbourne, 54;
Prahran, 72; St. Kilda, 45; Port Melbourne, 48;
North Carlton, 47. Evidently the laundry busi-
ness is overdone, for I have already seen four or
five shops, on which the word “ laundry 1 ” is still
painted, showing also the “to let ” placard. No
doubt if one left the trams and penetrated into
the other thoroughfares, the tale of empty shops
and houses in each suburb could be marvellously
increased. It would not be a bad idea to illuminate
Melbourne during Jubilee time by burning down
a thousand or so of the unsightly wooden cottages
and villas which abound in its environs.—Yours,
&c., C.R.W.
A Record for a Sovereign.— Hordern’s
in Pitt-street sovereign blankets break a record
for sterling value, and the fact that they are for-
warded without extra cost to any town in New
South Wales should induce residents in the
country districts of New South Wales to send for
a pair.—Hordern Brothers, Government Con-
tractors, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Telegraphic address simply : “ Hordern
Brothers. ”


AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
Purifies, Vitalizes, Enriches the Blood; Gives
New Lit©, Health and Vigour.
\VV
w
:
V.W'v
'' ' ........ ' -
101 Gfanv;ile ’ So - 3 tralia, whose portrait we
AustralK ed At V Ses S i ,r was 'meet/'t nmlHoTv rf ef< Vif comin S to
Of the skin, caused, the doc ors to ne hvtil° l]S an . d other eruptions
system and general deimitv d’L nni, t]ie +1 ll [ n ™g down of my
form of flattery, and be sure tliat you tret AYER’S SAPSadadw . a
ss=:ss:es“#s=s
;rrry:,rE«
AYER’S Sarsajiarila
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated—Mild but Effective.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT
f. t\ HAVE YOU A COLD ? ' I
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
J-r ..r Tp y 't for a Cold j
Try .t for Whooping-Cough
” e “«*“* o t aavin g me many a doctor’, hill" th ® h ° U 8 1 belieTe il ha 9
W ' S> HOLLI NQWORTH. Clifton Street. Manchester.
The influenza left me with a h»/t
- ith °«*•‘ffisK h ii n fhXs"e e •5 ,ott,e 1 «
T ;i°r WALK °-°- BUti °**. Killybeg,, Go. Donegal.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W ‘ _°WBB»DGfi, Chemist, Hull.
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
BOLD rt the layers ™ Wi orvmsa co„ « Kmo .street, stdk
d
%
K!
■A. WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
F Giddiness, Fulness and i Wl rv and Pain in the Stoma cb. Sick Headache
S** L °" ° f ApS^lhSnesf^ T D,W E?"T C ° M CWI “ ’
wSflV P E RELIEF I^tMy
0116 B ° X t^eSe P^l 8 ’ and they be hl Lknowledged n to bf^Sr3 a
promptly remove any StocoJo the T 16 " to COmpleto health - They
"?* Stomach ’ Im P Digestion Disordered Liver
Muscular SnnVlexion 61 '}} UP ° n Y ital ° rgans = Strengthening the
arousing With the Rosebud of Health the Whole Ph viol r g Tr baCk the keen edge of a PPetite, and
are ‘ fac ts” admitted by thousands, in aU classes of 1,/ t E ™ HGY °J fche human frame. These
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills kav? tJ J e best uar antees to the
he world. 1 ull directions with each Box. largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
prepared only by
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND,
Sold Everywhere, In Bores, 9Jd, Is Ija, and 2s 9d each.
tobacco merchant,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
n tu ** **■ •
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
tobacco, cigars,
—AND— *
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods
CUTLERY, BRUSHW LEATHER
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—and—
CIGARS:
i-BEEAT, THREE Kf/'TTTO uajs
A1 CTOLS , TRAB
1IFE ®
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO tn fznnn
Sata furnished »■«„ £lO <■> £lOO.
MICK SIMMONS.
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMAKii ET, SYDNEY.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US ANT) SAVE 50 PER CENT.
tar £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Fa r ned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where*. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp, Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
The Manufacturers of GOODS
W. MAM MATT &
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECT IO
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
(SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
‘■THE BLOCK,”
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
York street, S "5T X 3 3E5 ~ST.
93
Street, MELBOtTRIffB .
Collins
Wortbinetoi) PCinjpiog Es>gis>€ Conjpaoy
“ * —•* 9 iaT»ea (Australasian Branch.)
(Australasian Branch.)
Sim]
i^rotliers.
32 Clarence-st. ?
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, KS.W.
ikgenciea :
REGULAR PATTERN.
V i ctoria : WELCH
South Australia:
. PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia : HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
Uew Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street AUCKLAND»;
j ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept xxx Stools..
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
LTD.
Pioneers of
' ■ m ■ w ■ mrs .a. s=p
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM 01 BUTT -
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sella only the very Beat Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fisk, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Befresji men King-^ treet and 23 Royal Arcade-for
Note-Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
ti wtcii QTTOP at 135 KING STREEI is one of the BESI IN THE \\ ORLD.
The FISH SHOP at ldO u harbour street-they will receive prompt attention
Agentß
SEND ORDERS TO THE
Everywhere.
H. PATESON, Manager.
v. i ill
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MIKTIKrO- MACBIM KHY. STEAM SKTOIWEa & BOtßßna.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Coarse Crushing Rolls.
CrusHitig Maobinerv. . _ . .
Hates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breaker*. Sample Grinders.
HENDY ORE FEEDERS.
Clean-up Pans. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators. Blast Furnaces.
Heater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
and Chloridizing Fm-nacea.
ROPP STRAIGHT “5f MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Cone entrati n tx IVlELcliiiiery- , n ,
a* with ~J« or «5T
Lixiviating MaoHinery. .
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting lurnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting Machinery. . _ .
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
„ „ Jlp vp Outside Packed Plunger Pumpe.
Boiler Feed end Tank Pumps. Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
npiYi ■pyfagqoT* sui3lc3L Drill -®-
Ingersoll-Sergeant DriU Cofs Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., &c.
Root’s Paten, and Baker Blowers, epeciaily adapted for Smiting Works. “ d “ “ 4 * Bmi ‘ h ' S
Water Wheels.
LEFFELJ TURBINE StlT 8 "' Hydro Steam Elevator, lor all pnrpcms.
BUll Silers. PennsJ.ani. BoUers. Columbia Boders. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supphes.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
All
siMasn
Sewing
Maolxinea.
Tllc Oscillator. The Chain stitch .
A.ll SING-EH Sowing Machiuea.
Batho s Baking Powder .
scale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
DidSoOUNTmoefnsi d S0OUNT m o e f n 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion, nett,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~ „ f „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE IS.
per Post, Is. 3d.
BoQQiOgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
VI7ILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
™ INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
:■ ■■ :
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
