

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reids London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
dbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
-3 WW dßb
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
Our Kindred Houses are —BIIDCOE and CO., Melbourne; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin;
BRISCOE, M A ONI-IT. and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BRISCOE and SONS, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<RAc^aJocK>
o Sr
R. A. HEIf\'EY, A-ent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE A. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps,
a Boston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Go., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadhknt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
‘ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric, Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mathkr
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.'
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
TEACHERS’ HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE POR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Cough ; and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROB ERTS’ HOTKL,
GEOROE and MARKET STS.,
STSen33XrDE3Y.
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d,
Before visiting fhe Oty write to (he Manager for
Qira c«-Tariff (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRTSSA.KTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM P-.TERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel MetropOle, Sydney.)
THE
(Siros^OorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
sydmby.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
Engineering and Electrical
EXHIBITION.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
Wondeful Show of the Latest Inve-tfons
in Elect' icity anl Modern Engineering.
Take your CHILDREN and you will not
regret it.
We have a Show there, and it may
interest you.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
XL Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. aqknts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Ilobart.
THE. HORNSBY-AKRQYfI
HHH
FIXED
PORTABLE
Both First Prizes RASE&lOO)
R Hornsby«<SonsL d Grantham
Henry Simon,
MEADOW HA N K,
THE LEADING MILLING ENGINEER,
(Branch ok Manchkstkr Firm)
Has recently been appointed agent for the HORNSBY
AKROYD OIL ENGINE.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CISARS. PACKETS OF 3 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
\oi iu.—Ku. LIS.J
[Saturday, August 28, 18^7.
registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robfrtson & co.,
George Street, Sydniy.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S 'TORIES (from This Lulls-
tin) ; price. Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OP THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Th»
Bulletin), by Price YVarung ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. «d. |
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to m for any Booh or Magazine you want.
\ G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All toork involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P.O M SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“riAHE BULLETIN" PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
Paperknife: * The fashionable Melh. Dante Society is
getting a rather large concern, but somewhat too muoh
like the Yorick Club, where the Yoriekism has become
small by degrees and beautifully less, since the days, or
rather nights (suppers of the gods), when Charley Bright
waved the silver ladle, and punch was punoh, not goose-
gog. Now lam a Dantite. Genuine. A series of years
ago I was sent to report a lecture on Dante, at the
Wyselaskie Hall, Ormond College, by Professor Harper.
“ What mullock 1 ” was my reflection, not on Harper, but
on Dante, as I came out in the middle. The Inferno
seemed to me tommy-rotty Christmas pantomime. But
gradually Dante clawed round me. I have broken the
back of him in the Italian. The Paradiso raptures me;
tlie Purgatorio genially delights ; the Infernoanvazes, and
still somewhat amuses. I can sympathise with the im-
mature minds' at the Melb. Dante Sooieta. The other
night they guyed a series of dissolving views, fromDor£’a
Inferno.*
“ALL WORK AND NO PLAY
. . . MAKES JACK A PULL BOy.”
It wouldn’t matter so much if you would limit your business to fixed business-hours ; but you are
always at it—day and night, Sundays and holidays, you are worrying over your business, and the
inevitable consequence is—break down. Be advised in time health is the greatest wealth ; eat
more ; drink less ; when business is over, think of lighter things ; and, above all,
Srpoke Cigarettes.
THE RED PAGE .
From a correspondent)—
... I think the typical Australian is degenerating
trom the physical standard of his British forbears. Our
two chief functions, as a genus, are nutrition and repro-
duction ; and he nourishes less well, reproduces less well
(yes, I say this despite the high Australian birth-rate—
whioh may be accounted for by peculiar environment—
which is in great part not the birth-rate of the typioal
Australian, but of his alien parents—and which is being
.owered as the typical Australian becomes proportion-
ately more numerous).
Look at the typioal British * new-chum ’ —especially the
steerage passenger. How is he known, even to the
Street-boys ? By his florid color, which means plenty of
rich blood ; often by his big frame, which means strength
and energy ; often by his fat head— i.e., by his big skull
and big jaw—associates of‘common sense’ and ‘push.’
We, on the oontrary, are a sallow, small-jawed, brittle-
boned race—and our children ?
Of oourse, I am speaking generally, giving you the
result of many years' travel and observation in Australia.
Take my own case: I consider myself a typical Austra-
iian, perhaps a little better endowed in brains and body
than the average. Well, lam a cleverer man than my
father: I beat him regularly at chess and am a
muoh better whist-player. I speak better, write better,
have more knowledge of books and ideas, and
more intelligence to weigh and oriricise them. But my
father is a stronger man than I; he can endure a greater
physical strain ; I am sure he will live longer, bar acci-
dents. (Compare on this point an interesting 1 Bulletin '
paragraph of not long ago relating how the swimming
family of the Cavills had • fined down,’ so that the English
father was the best man of the lot, and the sons had
(mailer chests and slighter limbs in ratio to their age when
reaching Australia.) . . .
Thus I find the typical Australian distinctly weaker in
Vitality, in manhood and womanhood, than his typical
British progenitor. At the same time he is smarter ; his
intellect is keener; but it is a nervous, excitable, spas-
modical smartness, lacking persistency and thoroughness,
flashing brightly rather than illuminating steadily. . . #
* * * •
And so on, through a number of interesting
imj sessions, whioh our correspondent avows
cannot, or cannot yet, be anchored to statistical
fact. But, transferring his conclusions from
life to literature, they do not go unsupported.
It is the writer’s experience that young con-
tributors to our literary journals who may
be taken as typical Australians prefer to
express themselves in verse rather than in prose
—and verse is the weak feminine of prose.
The body of Australian literature in verse is
probably superior both in mass and quality, con-
sidered as verse, to the body of Australian litera-
ture in prose, considered as prose. This affirmation,
indeed, is not capable ol satisfactory proof : it
would be safer to say that our verse-literature, so
far, tends to be superior to our prose-literature.
The familiar cavils regarding birth-place and re-
presentative character come to complicate com-
parison. But some result can l>e reached by
eliminating doubtful factors. Suppose we pair
Bruuton Stephens with Charies Kingsley, as
possible exotics; and Gordon with Browne;—
taking the best-known names. Clarke may balance
Kendall, for, though Kendall was born in Aus-
tralia, Clarke’s work is at least as intimately
Australian. Then vve come to the younger ones—
less well equipiped mentally, maybe, Imt some of
them with full as inuoh ol the bardic fervor.
Lawson scores against himself: some of his prose
seems better, as prose, than any of his yerse, as
verse; but one might hold that his total verse-
performance exceeds iu value his total prose-per-
formance. But Paterson and Boake are. almost
wholly known by their verse ; Daley is essentially
a poet—with a splendid achievement, yet less
splendid because he has hail to write prose
for a livelihood; .1. s . O liara and Jennings
Carmichael can occasionally charm in verse,
but their prose has not lieen thought worth
collecting. On the side of the prosers Becke
and Montgomery may lie set. But Mont-
gomery is alien ; and Becke cannot outweigh the
swarm of young versi-rs whose names recur in a
throng tovi numerous to mention. Of the women
writers it may be said, genenfily, that their verse
has more charm than tlveir prose has power. ...
And, the conclusion, after this haphazard survey,
is still doubtful. Apparently one may keep the
impression that young Australia runs to verse,
but there is no very distinct evidenoe to warrant
the impression.
• » • •
Macaulay argues, in an interesting passage, that
poetry is essentially the work of a youthful
nation, so that the bards of elder races will
never reach the imaginative height of Homer.
But he has forgotten that man is a microcosm ;
that though the race may wax old, the individual
is re-born continually—in an altered environment
indeed, but with radically the same impulses and
emotions as his predecessors ; and that, if it be not
possible for a bard of to-day to feel the same kind
of stimulus as the bard of 2000 years ago, he may
at least be stimulated to the same degree . and his
poetry may have equal potency. In arguing to
the race instead of to the individual Macaulay
argued to the wrong standard. There is no doubt
that poetry is essentially the work of a youthful
individual—simply because age dulls the senses
and sensations, and the kernel of lyric force is
keen feeling. But (and the gist of the matter
lies here) it is essentially the work of a nervous,
excitable individual . . . and this is where the
typical Australian constitution comes in, if the
typical Australian constitution really be (or be
becoming) excitable, nervous, comparatively weak
physically, very precocious intellectually (by a
natural correlation). Are we really ‘ good for a
spurt, but bad for a strain ’ in literature and life ?
• • • »
Here are three books of Australian verse need-
ing notice; and it_ may be remarked (as bearing
on the preliminaries) how frequently good local
verse comes for notice in these and other critical
columns, and how rarely good local prose. Occa-
sionally there come stories and sketches, short
or longbut where are our histories, our
biographies, our science, our philosophy ? Cer-
tainly Gibbons and Spencers are not born every
century—and this is a young country—and the
typical Australian has hardly arrived ; but is the
outlook promising ?
* * * *
G. W. L. Marshall-Hall has now three verse-
booklets to his credit—the last * A Book of Can-
ticles.’ He is sometimes hysterical, sometimes
fantastic, sometimes interesting, rarely or never
forcible. His feminine preponderance is well-
marked, in fact—which accounts for his recently-
rhymed admiration of Streeton ; for Streeton is a
big, dominating fellow of an artist, with plenty
of force to attract feeble-pulsed followers. ‘ A
Book of Canticles ’ shows the fluent woman’s
faculty for weaving phrases, and the fluent
woman’s fibreless flatness. Occasionally there
comes an attractive line or image;—and, for tast-
ing, this is the best of the most attractive * Can-
ticle ’ —
ON MICHELAGNOLO'S MASK OF MARY.
O lovely face—thou dream of love’s desire—
Just instinct with warm life’s voluptuous spring 1 —
Droops* thou those perfect lips to hide the fire
Within thy languorous eyes slow-ripening?
What half-born fanoy pouts upon those lips ?
Lips, O ! than sweetest fruit more sweet to crush !
How tenderly the chin’s full roundness dips
Into the round slim neck I—She moves!—O hush! . .
» * « *
Arthur A. D. Bayldon’s verses, some of them
reprinted from ‘ The Bulletin,’ have a curious in-
terest of craftsmanship. He is no poet, for he
has no lyrical faculty—if he has emotion he can-
not communicate it ; lie is no thinker—his ideas
are all commonplace or worse ; but he has a keen
eye for a good picture and a good phrase (little
ear, or instinct), and by dint of accumulating
purely objective impressions he occasionally pro-
duces an intellectual effect which almost raises
thought to the pitch of feeling. Naturally, there-
fore, he succeeds best in sonnets, which are a kind
of elderly, philosophical form of verse, where
phrase and thought may take the place of passion—
usually better served in a freer medium. (Shakes-
peare’s sonnets were probably composed during his
30 40 decade, when his emotions had lost their
first poignancy, and his intellect had gained
full ascendancy). Bayldon, as affirmed, has no
original thought; but he has impressions (his own
or others’), and with his phrases he paints admir-
able sonnet-pictures.* This, of Marlowe, does not
now look so flawless as it looked in a four-years-
ago ‘ Bulletin ’ to a younger critic ; but it is very
fine.
The last line reminds one of somebody’s * Saul
at Gil boa ’ —
... fled
A hireling dabbled from the dreadful deed—
a fine picture-hne. Occasionally Bayldon is
eehoish—of Poe, Emerson, who not: are the im-
pressions of the sonnet on ‘ Maurice de Guerin ’
won at first-hand, or borrowed from Arnold’s
essay ?
Here the well-sustained images—a series of arbi-
trary, external pictures—have the force of thought,
because applied to a man whose known charac-
teristics enforce them ; and the result is a fine
sonnet. Take away the title, and there is left
only an empty catalogue. It is an interesting ex-
ample of the writer’s method; and here is an-
other. -v
Now, that is pure Bayldon. You see, there is
no thought in it: he has nothing to say ; there is
no value in the mere affirmation that Satan made
a journey. But reading Bayldon’s verses is like
studying a chess-problem—you find the key-move
and straightway all’s clear. Now the key-move
in ‘ Satan Alert ’ is the very fine image italicised.
Perhaps it came to Bayldon through Milton, with
the reflection that a devil covering ‘many a rood ’
of Heaven ought to make a perceptible draught
when he went through space at celestial speed ;
perhaps he saw the stars quivering one night
through differently-refracting layers of atmo-
sphere, and, easting about for a cause, hit upon
the transit of Satan; —the Lord and Bayldon
know exactly how it was. Anyhow, there was
the image, and one would wager that was first
set down on paper and the preliminary lines were
written up to it. A fragment on ‘Sunset’ has
two splendid images, but Bayldon has not bothered
padding them to sonnet length because it is un-
necessary to ‘show cause ’ —they are self-explana-
tory.
SUNSET.
The weary wind is slumbering on the wing.
Leaping from out weak twilight’s purpling blue
Burns the proud star of eve as though it knew
It was the big king jewel quivering
On the black turban of advancing night.
In the dim west the soldiers of the sun
Strike all their royal colors one by one,
Reluctantly surrender every height.
* • * •
One does not remember anywhere to have met
such an exclusively intellectual relish for a fine
eye-filling phrase. Yet mostly, as shown, each is
a magnificent cul-de-sac, leading poetically no-
where. (The ease of an artist in ecstasy over
formless splashes of color is analogous.) It is a
pity ; for Bayldon’s book has many good lines,
and when he can lean on the reader for a pre-
liminary idea they make uncommonly good verses.
* * * *
Chris: Brennan is a verser in yet another
category. Bayldon wants a dash of the woman—
to give him laughter and tears, and flushes of
tenderness, and floods of passion ; and he wants
more vigor —his brain seems tired, anaemic, work-
ing slowly and laboriously. And Marshall-Hall,
as before stated, has plenty of woman and a good
deal of vigor, so Arthur W. L. Bayldon-Hal-1, if
we could only mix him, would probably marry the
Muse in immortal earnest. Brennan can woo
alone, but he woos very tardily his ‘XXI
Poems ’ (Angus and Robertson) are represented
as four years’ output, which means an average
of less than half-a-poem a month. And the
afflatus-years slip away so quickly ! Of course, it
is in verse, if anywhere, that mere quality is
better than mere quantity, but quantity of quality
is the final desideratum.
• • • •
And it is only at the end of his four years’
course that Brennan is beginning to do memor-
able work. At the outset he is lost in misty ideas
and whirling verbiage, through whioh by degrees
he gropes his way to lucidity and force—one can
see both his mind and his style strengthening as
he goes. (Even yet Venus has not quite risen
from the foam of words.) And at last he reaches
a fine poetical performance with a rare poetical
promise, as in ‘Romance’ —
Of old, on her terrace at evening
. . not here . . in some long-gone kingdom
O, folded close to her breast! . .
—our gaze dwelt wide on the blackness
(was it trees ? or a shadowy passion
the pain of an old-world longing
that it sobb'd, that it swell’d, that it shrank T)
—the gloom of the forest
blnrr’d soft on the skirt of the night-skies
that shut in our lonely world.
. . not here . . in some long-gone world . .
close-lock’d in that passionate arm-clasp
no word did we utter, we stirr’d not:
the silence of Death, or of hove . .
only, round and over us
that tearless infinite yearning
and the Night with her spread wings rustling
folding us with the stars.
. . not here . , in some long-gone kingdom
of old on her terrace at evening
O, folded close to her heart! . .
* * » •
This has what is called in critics’ jargon ‘ the
lyrical cry’—a bird not common in any latitude,
but most often met where names like Brennan, or
Quinn, or O’Reilly, cluster round the parallels.
And there are two or three other poetical piece*
in Brennan’s booklet which have the same feeling,
though it is not tuned to quite the same pitch.
The most powerful piece is ‘ Cities ’ : whioh waB-
- in ‘The Bulletin
Doubtless this is already enshrined in the scrap
books of the illuminati. There are not many
things in life better than, being a writer, to happen
across some one to whom your lone-forgotten
emotion has been translated through the magic of
print; some one who has had that emotion by sim
for years, and has lived with it and mingled with
it, and tenderly regarded your version of it at
times of birth, or marriage, or burial —at the
crises of joy or grief, or when se felt good or wanted
to feel good, or when the spring-change was thril-
ling ‘ this machine.’ Someone sent in the other day
an old scrap-book compiled mainly from Parkes’s
‘ Empire ’ in its lusty days, and treasured through
the years since. And upon certain pages where
verses nestle over the name of A. J. Evelyn,
there are stains probably of time, yet not impos-
sibly of tears —for the forgotten Evelyn was worth
a tear. A poet wants no better immortality for
his verses than tear-stains in an old scrap-book.
•The difference between thought and impression, as
here understood, is that thought is dynamic and impres-
sion merely static. Thinking is like grinding corn into
flour—whioh means motion, labour, foice used and con-
verted ; but you can receive and return impressions
almost as passively as a mirror receives and returns
images. Thoughts deal with things in themselves; and
impressions with the look of things—their outsides,
externals.
MARLOWE.
Vith Eastern banners flaunting in the breeze
doyal processions, sounding fife and gong
And showering jewels o’er the jostling throng
March to the tramp of Marlowe's harmonies.
He drained life’s brimming goblet to the lees.
He recked not that a compeer calm and strong
Would tune great notes to his impassioned song
And top his cannonading lines with ease.
To the wild clash of cymbals we behold
The tragic ending of his youthful life:
The revelry of kisses bought with gold ;
The jealous rival and the perilous strife ;
A harlot weeping o’er a corpse scarce cold ;
A scullion fleeing with a bloody knife.
MAURICE DE GUERIN.
The embodied soul of lightnings, winds, mid seas ;
A peal of bells archangels loved to ring ;
A garrulous Greek centaur that did sing
In modern woods and valleys at his ease ;
A bower of fancies murmurous as bees;
An aviary of all sounds of spring ;
A magic furnace wherein everything
Did kindle into golden melodies ;
A wave of frenzy fastened and confined :
A sparkling bubble on life’s turbid tide;
A dream of spring fresh from the Eternal Mind ;
A mosque where soirg was orowned and deified ;
A tube blown through by an Olympian wind ;
An angel bird that warbled, loved, and died.
SATAN ALERT.
Wild rumors of divinities o’erthrown
By dwarfs that nothing knew and yet were wise,
Their home ap earth-speck somewhere in the skies,
Roused into life the arch-fiend on his throne
Where wrapped in baffling darkness, proud, alone
With fiery thoughts all manshalled in his eyes,
He pondered o’er a mighty enterprise
To wrestle back those glories once his own.
He spreads his vasty wings and enters space,
And steers his way through systems without end
That travelling flash and thunder, singe his face
And ponderous bulk and shoulders that extend
O’er vaulted leagues—a whirlwind as he passed
Tossed all the stars like leaves tossed in a blast.
The yellow gas is flred from street to street
past rows of heartless homes and hearths unlit
dead churches, and the unending pavement beat
by crowds—say rather haggard shades that flit
round nightly haunts of their delusive dream
where’er our paradisal instinct starves—
till on the utmost post, its sinuous gleam
orawls in the oily water of the wharves,
where Homer’s sea loses his keen breath, hemm’d
what place rebellious piles were driven down—
the priestlike waters to this task condemn’d
to wash the roots of the inhuman town !
where fat and strange eyed fish that never saw
the outer deep, broad halls of sapphire light,
glut in the city’s draught each nameless maw
—and there, wide-eyed unto the soulless night
methinks a drown’d maid’s face might fitly show
what we have slain, a life that had been free,
clean, large, nor thus tormented—even so
as are the skies, the great winds and the sea.
Ay, we had saved our days and kept them whole
to whom no part in our old joy remains,
had felt those bright winds sweeping thro’ our soul
and all the keen sea tumbling in our veins,
had thrill’d to harps of sunrise, when the height
whitens and dawn dissolves in virgin tears,
or caught across the hush’d ambrosial night
the choral music of the swinging spheres
or drunk the silence if nought else— But not
and from each rolling soul distil in dreams
a poison o’er the old earth creeping slow
that kills the flowers and curdles the live streams,
that taints the fresh breath of re-risen day
and reeks across the pale bewilder’d moon
—shall we be cleans’d and how ? I only pray
red flame or deluge, may that end be soon !


Medical.
dr. freeman.
THAT THIS NOTED SPECIALIST
Stands pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
\e has investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than his quite worthy bub Jess successful associates,
is now acknowledged by all. His experience is
lifelong, and his record right here in SV UNHV
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts.,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
I'here are thousands upon thousands in this land
bo-day who are pra’sing liis name, because he has
ua le their lives happy and brought sunshine into
their homes.
fOONG MEN
if you are troubled with
vital losses, exhaust-
•ing complaints, pimples,
•ashfulness, aversion to society, stupidness, des-
oondency, loss of energy, ambition and self-coufld-
?nce, which deprive you of your manhood and
bsolutely unfit you for study, business, or
nai'riage—if you are thus afflicted you know the
cause. Get well and be a man.
MIIDLE-kfiEß i OLD Mil,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, and other unmistakable
signs of nervous debility and premature decay
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause.
The most obstinate cases of this character treated
with unfailing success. .
PRIUITE
Diseases Inflammations, Stric-
tures, Weakness of Organs, Hy-
drocele, Varicocele and kindred
troubfed" quickly cured without pain and detention
from business.
m\i.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away
from the city and unable to come to his
office. Treatment in this manner always satisfactory.
Write for Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise, NER-
VOUS AND PRIVATE DISEASES, post free on ap-
plication. A perusal of it might save much mental
and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life. Send £1 by post, and you will receive treat-
ment by return mail.
dr. freeman,
Comer Elisabeth & Bathurst-sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920.
29 York Street, Sydney.
medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than >£l ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sutperbr a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nbnt Curb. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
"MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 10/-. 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine REDFERN.
by Return Post.
99
“ABoro PbySkiaij-
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ,
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult hnn this day
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add irolden years to your life. . , , . ,
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the generaj.health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far m
advance of any institution in Australia female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles. , .
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston >Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all,- but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. rA friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano," nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dp. SPEER,
29 York Street:,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled Thei first week: <rf
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSE VLRAN
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient'
himself gaining in weight and flesh, follow and sunke
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered const
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor o
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will teU
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ij.Mwnnn mtor
-SPECIFIC CUES
FULL 'DIRECTIONS'
ENCLOSED^
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANTS
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rpo LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
y 26 IMPERIAL ARCADE. SYDNEY
Rockhampton.—l have tried Orange Lily, and have
found it to be all that is said of it. If it were not for
your remedies I could not get about. Ido all my work
for 6 now, and am quite strong.—Mrs. E .
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
female tablets
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
IQ* R * CORDS
?SS6-** Cg, °? U*,f
The only Infallible Remedy .for WFA h v I Sb
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughou . ie v\m < .
n Fssence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Tn oases of Ills, or four quantities in one for oGs. Ft
Jra Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
en AoZsfor Australasia— Perry ek Co., Baring Chambers,
Afnrkct Stvcct,
AgentsforN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
thf drum
«N POSITION 1
PeafQcss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String:.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
250 Collins-street. Mblboornb.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Booms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated _ their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a_ period or
many years, obtained the highest position m his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, fee.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your c&s© requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you post
free the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
aecret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, &.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
medical.
PERFECT RDM.
-)o(-
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day; soon know yourself a king among men in boy,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don t
despair even if in the last stages. Don t e "
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist,
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
P °jus b t Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, PARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of. ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow vour advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hlndley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Bake Harley to. the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been ' a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always .moping
alone, afraid to join m any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining: any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing: of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
zlad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure 1 have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to pro to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and 1 am thankful 1 took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. 1 cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OP DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“ Gentlemen,— I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years : purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whav
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes ■ — <c Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthings
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
cn
healthv and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
It a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or toy Letter.
78iuwM.


»•* MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address
DEMONSTRATION H. Oct. 4.
■ s ■" .'■■■■
25,000 Subscrilbers at 5.
T» TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address _
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me I shares in the above.
Name : •
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subacrlb
era at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
—shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C* November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me— _ shares in the above.
Name ■ '
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
’ —-OF THE —
Millbaiik Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 S.iar.s at £1 Each List Closes 25th September. 116,000 S':ares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee ... ... valued at £10,065
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
•Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the
Cash equivalent, of £10,005. For full particulars, sec Prospectus.
Homestead, or
lattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF—
City apd SobbrbaQ
Freehold - Properties.
100,000 Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize. - Terrace Houses, Glemnore
lload, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra . ° ... £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars nppl.it for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


All Sorts SGitcd.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks. of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
. for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can Jj
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you're almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ting, if you will, floating down the stream of lire,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you craye for. _ Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You d
like them all; wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
||nthony||ordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
KAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
< 3in curing affections of the Throat
■ and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
C Qrippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
l ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless^abstitut^.
M'GEE’S hollow-ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10,6 „
KROPP BRAND ... ...6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4,6, and 5/- upwards.
■PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting: an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M‘GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
Ihe Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Spec'ality.
PCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and 1-ERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NASI,
145 Collins street, MELBOURNE
Publcations.
Geo. Hobertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Georob Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Em.ry and Commercial Stationery. Eanoy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott h Vty't celebrated Cftbineb
Ifhotou raphe of MBnplleh A Colonial Celebrities
"I’ll Try U.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I'rlee, 10s. (Id.
So UK Aubnts :
Tht Rrivlt.
Craig & 6BO-682 Goorgc-st. Hydney
Wasbi OgtoD H . SoOl &Co.,msp.s
CERTAINLY
CAN sell all varied stocks cheaper than most folk.
BECAUSE they have a large connection,
are long established,
are thoroughly reliable,
and their goods are at all times the BEST.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin, is a beau ideal article.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. fid. and 4s. per battle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2s. 3d. _ ■
DENTAROMA for the TEETH and BREA IH, Is. pei-bottle. nj
Dr. ERASMUS WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, Is. COUGH LINCTUS, Is, j
j |
Trusses, Surgical Bandages, etc., a Speciality.
. . Hard Times do not count with us.
You will find us at
We run no half premises.
158, 160 and 268 Pitt Street, Sydney
"?’• a ;:J
Church, and Phillip Streets, Parramatta.
Write to us for quotations.
Specially
nreoared as a Beautifierof the Skin &. Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexu.u P free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or Pimples. Deliciously
mid expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its liarmlessuess, purity, and beautify ug qualities. Beware of injurious lmita
tions At'all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: I find Dr. Mackenzie s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent” S.HARVEV. Londonßridg^Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the. Richest Custard
v ' without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource tor every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu. v
-Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. ...
PIANOS bv HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from =62 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
D (Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. AGCORDEONS by all
Makers CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. _S. Stewart, from =63 3s. each.
g MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
TVTTIT .ROTJRUE
Every V ariety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY 4
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. 1£& . .
Plum
Hg
THB
Plum*
s i ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
1 H Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the pubho.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings-like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen o«raelves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use toi
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
„ . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Pr,oe \Sinule Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and lasmama, is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
CUSTARD POWDER,.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGOS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings,
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam tarts. Delicious to all kinds ot PTuu.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
,«„d it to >3'CO IM& |Ba£°‘"?‘
Sole Agents lor New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT mid LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
Bards of the Backblocks.
[For The Bulletin.]
THE OLD MUNDOORAN ROAD.
(After, and with apologies to, Patterdylaw and
Son.)
There are few to take the places of the many gone
below,
Since Lucretia kept the “ grog-shop on the old
Mundooran road ;
Many partings—few reunions—since the days of
long ago: _ ,
Times are changed. Lucretia’s well, she s
changed—her name and her abode.
From the four points of the compass, spots that
scarcely bear a name,
Little Hells or Heavens, damned or dear, but
far beyond our reach,
Storm-blown derelicts of Fortune on Life’s back-
water we came,
To be anchored at Lucretia’s, or careened upon
the beach.
Any tint but black or yellow; there we drew the
color-line. -
But in other things we none of us were squeamish
to a shade.
Most of us were old scow-bankers, and our motto
“ Mine is thine, ”
Or it might be “ Thine is mine.” What odds,
so long as “ she ” was paid ?
’Twas a harbor snug and landlocked, was that
“ pub.” Lucretia kept,
Where you dropped your bower anchor (if you
had one) in the sand ; _
Light in ballast, pooped and leaky, with a jury-
jigger stepped,
After knocking round the Horn, two hundred
days from land to land.
No one asked you where you hailed from ; no one,
cared where you were bound.
No one felt like one too many ; share alike for
great and small;
There was always plenty liquor and tobacco going
round ’
For a busted privateersman ; and Lucretia
bossed us all!
All ! the fuming “ free-and-eas;es ” on a keg of
“ Queensland tea ! ”
And the half-forgot ten “chanties,” trolled to
many a clinking can
Till the dawn peeped thro’ the knot-holes and the
magpies joined the glee
Mixing “Mother’s with the Angels” with the
classic “ Hog-eyed Man ! ”
But they’ve mostly knuckled under to the “ great
Australian thirst,”
Walker, Hennessy and Usher; and they 11 lie
no more to load
At the old familiar moorings, for the best are as
the worst, ■' •
And Lucretia’s left the shanty on the Old Mun-
dooran-road !
NIL.
THE CHARCOAL BURNER.
When the bush is cleared and the conquering
town
A march to the West has made,
And the forest is pierced by the roads laid down
Out under the gum-trees’ shade ;
Then the narrow mounds where the scrub grows
rank
And the twisted vines strike root,
Point the place where a forest giant sank
With the Burner’s axe at his foot.
For the sods were piled on his prostrate bole
And the biting flame applied,
And for days he burned while the hot sweat stole
And steamed through his rugged hide.
Then his bones were sold and the mound was
cleft,
And glowed with a dull red glow,
And the giant’s cremated flesh they left
A bed where the brambles grow.
'Twas a gay, free life when the land was young
And the gums were many and stout;
And despite all that’s been said or sung,
To the Burner the best life out;
For he went as the clock-bird chimed for day,
And the east showed the dawn’s red prints,
Through the bush where the dewstarred cobwebs
lay
In a thousand rainbow tints.
When came the December sun’s white heat
In a wave o’er the forest trees,
Then the shaded earth was a cool retreat
Where the Burner smoked at his ease,
Or lay in a long luxurious sleep—
For smoothly ran his life,
Like rivers that slowly through forests cieep
Unstirr’d by the storm’s rude strife.
When the red-gold flush left the western hill,
And the purple skies turned grey—
At the hour when the bush the shadows .All-
Then the Burner went his way
To the slab-built home where he slept, and
dreamed
Of gums that were miles in girth,
Of a giant axe that flashed and gleamed
And rang through the whole wide earth. .
But deep in the earth was a charcoal bed
That Nature had hidden there—
The remains of myriad forests dead—
And the miner laid it bare ;
And when from the earth’s exhaustless store
The thousands of tons were cast,
The axe of the burner rang no more—
His trade is a thing of the past.
ULOOLA.
A SURMISE.
When some sharp shock of fear or grief,
A spasm of sickness or of pain
O’ertakes us, Nature sends the boon
Of blest nepenthe and relief ;
She lays soft hand on heart and brain,
Our senses swim, we faint, we swoon ;
We swoon, and in a blank complete
We find surcease of pain and care.
What pleasing comfort here wo see 1
May not an age-long swoon be sweet?
If Death’s ambassador be fair,
Shall not the King all-radiant be ?
J. LIDDELL KELLY.


A6Straliai> f^OtOal
Established 1819.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Provident Society.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 8 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hotel
l2/6 /wda<//& a/m'a/
Aottraua
){ Mpore,.
Adairs Tattersall Hotel,
PITT ST., S3TX)lsr^!Y.
Adan>s Cafs, Strict.
SPLENDID A CCOMMODA TION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAT.
VISITORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CAEE.
no; extra charge.
'7r. < j ’ v.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Tel. 728
12,0-A.XD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
. STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
LocotnotiveSf
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWTjER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Spring and Summer Suitings,
SUITS.
45b to 90s.
TROUSERS.
12s 6d to 255.
For ELEGANCE OF STYLE, FIT and WORKMANSHIP
The Lonoon Hi IDEEBOURII6 Tailoring Cog.
Send for Patterns.
All Goods
. STAND UNRIVALLED!
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
delivered Free to any part of the colony.
s. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring, wheels 4ft. 4in.
with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O: DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STY LE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H- NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydnej r ,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to mv ohWHnn
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN dOST m wnvw Time-payment
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is lust coming n , The wholc of
Buyers should apply early os these goods cannot be bought again for the same money. K ’ Wholesale a "d Retail
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EltOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics..
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
TTHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Bridf/euiorJe,
Gold and Other Sto pin :s. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased ee ; 1 and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 KirLjs;-st., Sv<in.ey,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Vgodalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
Bodalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
j-godalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.—It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
329 -SUSSEX STREET, SYONEY.
<ariti)€ & Sn>itb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt St a.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
0^
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
alak Lancet
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
Public Companlea
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
43T INSURE RS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making JE97.1763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. O- ZEIiZDiaXIDG-lEJ &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
58
80 Toi)S rgore Imported Leaf
tbao all tbe other tobacco
Factories P<it Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of DixSCll’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manulac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yaijkse Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbarppioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooq(i«ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
CcQteQQial.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite IVCoilOpOie
zy " Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 915.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 28, 1897.
Price, 6d.
THU RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL—ONLY THE CALE ISN’T VERY FAT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Niwsnaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published : by William of
Botany-street, Waverley, for TnE Bu i.ehn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Slacleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
u hether in the form of Political, Social, or other Art icles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Pluck and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
null be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Louden,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 1S Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<(: Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. —R A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.-The Stan-
dard and Diggers NeiesCo., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— i) - . M. Smith .t- Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Bern lea.
Notice to Subscribers it) Victoria, S. Australia,
lVestralia and Maori!and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on l nterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l , with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 (is. (id. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 28, 1897.
The Laucknow Strike.
Ben Tillett, the English Labor agitator,
lately arrived in New South Wales to preach,
among other things, the old trades-unionism
to a benighted Cornstalk population. And
almost at the moment of his coming the
Lucknow gold-miners’ strike arose to put the
old unionism to the test for the many dozenth
time, and probably to demonsti’ate once more
that it is not altogether the thing it professes
to be. The old unionism has tried con-
clusions with Capital many times in Aus-
tralia, and on every important occasion
during recent years it has gone under. For
a very long time past it has not placed one
victory of any importance to its credit. The
great Broken Hill strike ended in lizzie and
disaster, and grievously reduced wages, and
hard slavery, and the gaoling of the strike
leaders, and every kind of failure. The
Newcastle coal strike ended in the most
abject collapse. The great Queensland
shearers’ strike appeared, at one time, as if
it was going to end in revolution. It looked
as if all the elements for an insurrection
of the good old Peruvian or Columbian type
were there ; but there was no warlike filibus-
ter to lead them, and the men were not of
the kind who make a day of barricades ; the
struggle was fought out on strict unionist
lines, and it ended in lower wages
and long terms of gaol for the chiefs
of the movement. The famous maritime
strike—about the biggest of its kind in this
country—went the way of all the rest. And
the main reason why unionism is at a com-
paratively low ebb in Australia just now is
that all these and many other failures ex-
hausted the funds and the confidence of the
unionists, and half-convinced them that the
old weapons are practically obsolete, like
the bow and arrow, and the club and other
things of the past.
* * * *
The Lucknow miners have every sem-
blance of justice on their side. The mining
companies are doing well, and no necessity
drives them to a reduction of wages. The
rate of pay is already low, and the proposal
to make it lower—to bring it down below
the minimum figure hitherto paid on the
cheapest goldfield on this continent—is mere
insolent greed and rapacity. But the fact
that the miners have a good cause doesn’t
improve their prospects in the least. The
strike opens with the usual enthusiastic
assurances that the men must win if they
only have patience—the same assurances
which have preceded every failure up to
date. All the evidences are that the men
must lose. The funds are low to begin with,
and the subscriptions front other districts are
a precarious source of revenue, because the
subscribers are poor and none too numerous.
Also, through past experience, they are
none too hopeful, and can hardly but feel
that they are subscribing to keep up a
battle that is already lost. While the miners
lose their source of income by waiting, the
shareholders lose comparatively nothing.
The gold in the ground does not deteriorate
by lying there a few mouths longer; the
price of it does not depreciate ; there is no
risk of losing a market—gold is the one
thing for which there is always a market ;
and, if there is a delay of three months now,
it only means that the mine will last three
months longer in the end. Therefore, if it
was impossible to get other miners, and the
matter was really a trial of patience between
the companies and their employees, the com-
panies have all the advantage. So long as
enough men can be obtained—as they have
been in this instance—to keep things in
repair (no labor conditions apparently enter
into the case at Lucknow), a rich gold-
mining co. can afford to wait more patiently
than almost any other joint-stock enterprise
on earth.
* * * *
Then there is a further consideration—the
places of the miners undoubtedly will be
filled. Even in the biggest strike that ever
took place in Australia enough men, of some
sort or other, were found to fill the places of
the strikers after a fashion. Therefore it is
hopeless to suppose that enough men
can't be found to replace the mere
handful who are out on strike at Luck-
now. There are abundance of unemployed
miners in these provinces to fill their places
several times over. The strikers can offer
these men no inducement not to accept the
work and wages that are waiting for them,
except the inward glow that comes of a con-
sciousness of well-doing, and Australia is so
poor and hungry and wretched nowadays,
and work is so scarce, and workers so many,
that mere inward glow is at a discount.
Even if the strike pay does hold out inde-
finitely, which is more than doubtful, it is
only one remove from starvation at the best.
The law is already covertly taking sides with
Capital, as it always does, by increasing the
punishment for petty assaults about sixfold,
it being the regular practice of the law to
regard solitary acts of “ intimidation ” by a
unionist on a non-unionist as hideous crimes,
while constant acts of intimidation by a lar-
rikin push upon a whole neighborhood are
hardly regarded as any offence at all. By-and-
bye, in all probability, the law will take sides
with Capital more openly. Amid all these
and many other disadvantages the cause of
the Lucknow strikers is practically hopeless—
if the companies consider the miserable little
grab, which is the sole cause of the quarrel,
to be worth fighting for. There is no pride
of prophecy about this utterance ; the situa-
tion is so obvious that everybody, even the
strikers themselves, must be aware of it.
They have justice with them and the big
battalions against them, and in such cases
the exact value of justice is about one straw
—a little more or less.
♦ * * *
Trades-unionism pure and simple has no
weapon but the strike. It is a good weapon
of a kind ; Capital almost always wins, but
in many cases the victory costs more than it
is worth, therefore trades-unionism pre-
vents a multitude of small tyrannies. But
where the robbery proposed is large
enough to cover the expense of robbing,
Labor nearly always is robbed ; therefore
trades-unionism is a miserably defective
weapon at the best. Probably the best thing
about it is that it is a means towards the
acquisition of political power. The chief
lesson of the Lucknow strike, likewise of the
Broken Hill strike and many others, is that
a statutory minimum wage is badly wanted
in New South Wales, as well as many other
items of labor legislation. They can’t be
secured by strikes, or by trades-unionism
alone, or by any means outside Parliament.
And it begins to be an open question if they
can be secured inside Parliament by the
Labor-party as at present constituted. It
is very rarely indeed that a mere third party
secures anything that is much worth having.
* * ♦ •
What New South Wales badly needs is to
drop its Labor-party and the uncouth desig-
nation thereof into oblivion and start a
Democratic-party in its stead.' The mere
Labor vote that is to say, the horny-handed,
jiick-and-shovel vote —is apparently not
-strong enough to command an absolute
majority in the Legislature, yet the name of
the party is specially calculated to warn off
everything but the pick and-shovcl vote. A
Democratic party, which invited into its
ranks everybody who would subscribe to a
Liberal platform, might command enough
support in addition to the pick-and-shovel
vote to raise a majority in the Assembly and
form a Government of its own. Also, it
might command enough ability, which the
present Labor-party, in some respects at
least, does not. The party, so far as appears
at present, has no financier whom the coun-
try is likely to trust with command of the
Treasury, and no legal member who is fit to
fill the Attorney-Generalship, and while it
remains so distinctly a pick-and-shovel party
it is not likely to have either. This is a
second reason why it has hardly any prospect
of getting the Government into its own
hands—the want of numbers being a first.
A third reason is the want of a complete
policy. It has no distinct fiscal belief, no
clear or definite financial policy, and though
it has a very definite and respectable pro-
gramme of social reforms the country will
never put it into power until it knows more
accurately what will happen to trade and
industry when it gets there The present
Labor-party, in fact, seems only to aim at
being a third party, and therein lies its weak-
ness. As a third party it can only urge Reid
and Brunker and M l Mill an, or else Lyne
and Copeland, and Nicholas Willis to do
things for it, and neither Reid, nor Brunker,
nor M‘Millan, nor Lyne, nor Copeland,
nor Nicholas Willis has any real sympathy
with it, or will do anything more for it than
can be helped, and what is done will be done
as badly and reluctantly as possible. The
only real hope for the Labor-party is to get
a better name and a wider programme, and
gather in more adherents, and get into a
position to do things for itself.
* * * *
This prospect may seem a long way off, but
the hope of achieving prosperity and indus-
trial freedom by the old device of trades-
unions and strikes alone is even more remote.
Yet The Bulletin is an enthusiastic advocate
of trades-unionism. Without it, wages and
labor-conditions would take the shortest-
possible cut to Tophet. With it, if the
workers rely on it alone, they will probably
get there also in the end, but the progress is
vastly slower. Trades-unionism in the recent
bad years has proved itself powerless to make
the condition of the worker any better, but
it has done an immense amount, merely by
making victory for the capitalist a costly affair,
to prevent his condition becoming anything
like so much worse as it w'ould otherwise
have been. Yet the fact remains that, in
every important battle for years past. Labor
has either gained nothing or has lost some-
thing. The fact also remains that its party
in Parliament is losing rather than gaining
in strength and repute ; that it is hardly
likely to do anything else while it remains a
mere third party ; and that while it- professes
to be only a Labor institution with a Labor
policy, instead of a National body with a
policy for all classes, it is almost certain to
remain a third party and nothing more.
These, however, are mere generalities, and
as there are already too many generalities
and too much mere poetic whoop and too
few business-like details in politics, The
Bulletin will endeavor to explain at an
early date exactly how it thinks the reorgan-
isation of the New South Wales Labor-party
might be attempted.
More Tote
The “ tote ” question, which has agitated the
pious people and the aggregate Ikey Mo of
New youth Wales for years, is again raised by
the Bill of which Sleath, M.L.A., is parent.
So far as things have gone, the chances of
Sleath’s measure seem to be infinitesimal. It
is a crude and unworkable affair at the best,
and partly on this ground, and partly with a
view of having it peacefully talked to death on
general principles, the Assembly passed it over
to a select committee. And the select commit-
tee will probably lose it in a corridor, or down
a sink, or let it accidentally blow away. In
many respects Sleath’s well-meaning little
Bill deserves no better fate. It is half-hearted
and apologetic, and its general tenor is to pro-
vide that the totalisator may be used under
close restrictions, on racecourses only, by a cer-
tain number of clubs, provided these clubs don’t
use it too often, and provided they give a cer-
tain amount in stakes, and on various other
conditions. The machine is to retain 10 per
cent, of the stakes, and of this the Government
is to get 3 per cent, (it certainly should be five),
the racing clubs receiving the balance. The
Government’s 3 per cent, is not to go into the
consolidated revenue, but the unclean thing is
to be put away surreptitiously into a separate
fund, and disinfected, and used for purposes of
charity. These are the main features of the
measure, and what they principally suggest is
that it sadly lacks the courage of its opinions.
* * * •
The proviso that the Government’s share of
the ill-gotten loot is to be set aside for the pur-
poses of charity, appears in almost every scheme
for legalising the hated instrument, and in al-
most every argument advanced in its favour.
It is obviously intended as an apology—an
acknowledgement that the money is unclean
cash from an unclean source, and requires to be
sanctified by the pious but misused name of
benevolence ; it is an offering up of incense to
snuffle, and a bowing of the knee in the house
of Podsnap. Yet the incense and the abase-
ment in the fane of Podsnap are quite uncalled
for. There is no need of apology, and no
reason why the three per cent. ' should be
specially set aside for purposes of charity. It is
quite as honest and quite as reputable as any
other source of income, and the Consolidated
Revenue may take it without any fear of con
tamination. The chief means by which that
revenue is raised are taxes on drink and
drunkenness ; the proceeds of the sale of lands
stolen from the aboriginal ; taxes on ditto;
taxes on incomes, including the incomes of the
bookmaker, gambler, drink-vendor and persons
of equally disreputable pursuits; lines levied
on account of drunkenness, perjury, brutal
assault, obscene language, theft, and the like—
the State actually makes a revenue out of these
things ; also opium and morphia duties,
and things equally horrible. There is hardly
die source of revenue which is any cleaner, and
very few that are so clean, as the totalisalot
percentage would be, therefore the attempt to
apologise for the instrument by devoting the
Stale’s share of the proceeds to charity is quite
unnecessary. The Treasurer who takes 6d. in
the £, income-tax oil the gambling revenue of
Isaac Mo, bookmaker, and has lio qualms of
conscience, is a very dull-witted hypocrite if he
expects the World to believe that his conscience
won’t allow him to take in the £ on the
gambling income of the machine Which is only
Isaac Mo in an inanimate form without the
jewels and the whisky-breath and the blas-
phemy. A Treasurer, in fact, considering
where his money mostly comes from, has no
right to possess a conscience. It is even an
open question if he should have a soul.
* * * *
In short, it is a sufficiently good reason for
making revenue out of the totalisator that the
Treasury is desperatel}’ hard-up, that the
deficit has become chronic, and that-New South
Wales wants at least another £1,500,000 per
annum of revenue to make ends meet honestly.
And, as a side-issue, there is the probability that
the Government is wholly damned already-
through living on drink and opium revenue,
and the price of stolen lands, and on the
income-tax percentage upon the proceeds of
drink, gambling, fra,ud, and miscellaneous
crime, and on the price (collected in the law-
courts) of outrage, wife-beating, cruelty to
animals, and all manner of horrors. And, as it
can’t well be damned any worse, it, might as
well take the tote revenue and make the best
of it.
* <: * *
Another weak point is the proviso, which ap-
pears in almost all schemes for the legislation
of the tote, that it shall be used only so many
times a year by so many clubs, on racecourses
only, and only on the courses of clubs which
gave so many hundred pounds a day in prize-
money. These are more needless apologies for
the instrument. Moreover, they are wholly
illogical, according to the practice of the State
in other matters. The law' doesn’t enact that
drink—which is always quoted as the curse
that is twin to gambling—shall be imported
only upon so many days a year, by so many
people ; that il shall be drunk only in certain
places and on certain specific occasions ; or that
no one shall drink it unless he gives £4OO a day
in stakes, or anything equally ridiculous. It
simply collects with all possible energy its
share of the proceeds in-customs and excise
duty, and license fees, and in fines levied on
the common drunk. If it considers that
further restriction is needed, its usual course
is to take a larger share of the proceeds.
It furnishes every facility for letting the public
have as much drink as it wants, merely devoting
itself to keeping the traffic as respectable as
possible. In like manner it is justified in sup-
plying the people with facilities for all the
gambling they want by letting the totalisator
do business (provided it is worked by reputable
men and the State’s per-centage, is duly forth-
coming) at every race-meeting, and also in
business centres, apart from racecourses, where
there is sufficient demand. If there is reason
to believe that gambling is cariied to excess,
or is likely to be so, the obvious proceeding is
to increase the tax and incidentally get more
money for the Treasury. If that is not suffi-
cient the next best idea is to increase the tax
again.
* * * *
One argument most enthusiastically urged
against the honest, reliable totalisator which
will yield a revenue to the State is that “ there
is far too much racing in Australia.” The fol-
lowing extract from a speech by Crick, M.L.A.,
is a fair sample of this kind of logic :
Well, the needs of 4,.'500,000 people in the matter of horse-
racing were satisfied by 80 meetings in the year in Lon-
don, as against 60 in four months in and about Sydney.
During the year 1895 there were only a few more race-
meetings in the whole of Great Britain than there were
within the racing district of Sydney. That would be
including the Hawkesbury and taking in Warwick Farm
and the old Liverpool course. Within that limited area
there were nearly as many race-meetings in 1895 asj there
were in the whole of England. Those are some figures
which, I think, would justify this House in saiyng that it
ought to have full information on this matter before deal-
ing with it in the slipshod manner proposed. Hon. mem-
bers know only too well that more gambling is,earried on
in the city of Sydney than in any other city of its size in
the world. Walk down King-street, not on Saturday, a
half-holiday and legitimate racing day, but on any other
day of the week, and you will see a stream of people
passing in and out of these betting-shops. There is .now
and then a spasmodic effort on the part of the police to
close them ; but notwithstanding all that has been done
within the last few weeks, betting and gambling are as
rampant in the city of Sydney to-day as they have been
at any time during the last three years.
The facts of the above statement are right
enough ; the inference drawn from them is
utterly foolish and illogical. The theory of
the opponents of the tote is that, because this
dreadful state of things has arisen under exist-
ing conditions—said conditions consisting of
bookmaker Ikey Mo and his satellites—there-
fore we should stick to the existing conditions.
The idea of quoting the horrors of things as
they are as a reason why these things should
remain as they are, is wildly original, yet that
is exactly what Crick and the other opponents
of the legalised and State-supervised totali-
sator are constantly doing. The weak-kneed
supporters of the machine are not much more
logical. Their theory is that, under the Ikey
Mo regime, there are far too many race-meet-
ings and far too many illicit gambling-shops.
So they propose to introduce an honest machine
which is calculated to supersede Ikey Mo—hut
to introduce it under such restrictions that it
will apply to about one race-meeting out of
every four, or less. And, as for the other three,
they propose to leave them under the same
bad conditions as at present so as to make
things better. In other words, they also agree,
though with certain limitations, that because
the Ikey Mo regime has produced the worst
kind of results, therefore Ikey Mo should be
left alone, to go on producing the worst kind of
results,
it incic ii*u tuo many race-meetings, as
Crick and others have stated, the short and
simple way to make them less is for
the Government to license race - courses
and racing-clubs under strict conditions, to
limit the number of clubs and the number of
meetings, to require that a certain amount be
given in prize-money on each day of every


meeting, and to shut down remorselessly on
pverv club which isn’t up to sample. As,
however, the opponents of the totalisator, who
mlain so bitterly about race-meetings being
so numerous, never suggest that anything
. 1,1 K e done to reduce their number, 1 hi.
Sdllbtis takes the liberty to assume that they
Jon’t want them reduced. The excessive num-
ber of race meetings is never heard of except as
nnrmiraent aganst the totalisator. And then
Hie' only remedy ever suggested is that the
bh ® hods which led to this excess should
T strictly left alone. The Bplt.etin’s
theory is the totalisator should be
remitted at every race-meeting If there
£ re too many of them, the fact that the
ones are held under the aegis of
Sy Mo instead of under that of the machine
WO n’t make them any less ; and if some of them
Tre so disreputable that the machine can t he
trusted there, then they are also so disreputable
that the live-meat bookmaker and the public
shouldn’t be there either. In fact, the argument
fl at the totalisator shouldn’t be legalised be-
cause there are too many race-meetings hasn t
go" a leg-not even the gouty leg of bookmaker
Mo—to stand upon.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Very Peculiar Minister Gould.
When writing last week on the curious pro-
ceedings in the case of Thomas Wield, Ihe
Bulletin was unable to say what had been
their final issue. It could only record that
Suffield had been approached, at the instance
of the verv peculiar Minister Gould, and had
been told that, if he petitioned for release at
the end of the year, his petition would receive
favorable consideration.
That, thereupon, Suffield declined to peti-
tion, on the ground that he was an innocent
man and did not want a mitigation of his
sentence, but an enquiry into its justice or m-
That Suffield was then written to a second
time and informed that, if he liked to change
his mind, his petition would still be favorably
considered.
That Suffield did not reply _
That Mr. Griffith, M. L. A., then interviewed
Suffield and urged him to accept the Depart-
ment’s offer. ... , •
And that Suffield asked time to consider.
That was as far as The Bulletin and the
very peculiar Minister Gould had got last week.
This week The Bulletin announces that, after
consideration, Suffield for the third time re-
futed to petition for release; and thereupon the
very peculiar Minister Gould let the matter
drop—because he had to.
Everybody naturally asks, “ What is there
behind these extraordinary proceedings of an
alleged Department of Justice, when dealing
with an alleged brutal prisoner, who is alleged
to have committed an abominable outrage on a
woman, and who only escaped hanging because
the jury did not believe or did not understand
the evidence, and yet did not wish to offend
the Judge, who believed and did not under-
stand the evidence ? The Bulletin replies that
behind these proceedings is the Botany Bay
maxim— Burlce enquiry ! cover things up! hush
things up! for God’s sake, don’t let the
'public have a chance of learning whether
or not Justice has blundered grievously,
and an innocent man has been sent to eat his
heart out in penal servitude.
That is what lies behind the strong efforts of
the Department of Alleged Justice to get Suf-
field to petition for release, and thereby to
inferentially acknowledge his official status as a
prisoner, to inferentially adm.t that his sen-
tence was more or less just, since he would
abandon his appeal for justice in order to sue
for mercy.
In the Legislative Assembly last week the
very peculiar Minister Gould asserted that lie
still believed in Suffi eld’s guilt—and this in
face of the strenuous efforts of his Department to
get this alleged guilty man to sign a paper which
would give a decent excuse for letting him out
of gaol, and for burking enquiry into liis case !
Minister Gould may still believe in Suffield s
guilt: but that his Department does—c redat
Judaeus!
Let Parliament now say if, in view of these
things, Suffield’s case is to remain where it is.
Let it insist, as a first step, that the papers in
the case be printed at once. I hey are not veiv
numerous ; the printing would not be costly ;
and the evidence in the case would then speak
for itself. So would the persistent malice of
certain police-officers ; so woinl the crass
obstinacy of the Department of alleged Justice ;
so would the appeals of Suffield himself,
wearing his life out behind the bars. And
with these papers, let there be printed
the four sworn affidavits of James W ar-
ren, Lydia Warren, Annie Warren, and the
young mail who was a co-boarder with hut-
field in the Warrens’ house—these affidavits
containing much new evidence ; compiled >y
Andrew Kelly, then M.L.A., four years ago ;
forwarded to the Crown Law Offices, as Ihe
Bulletin is credibly assured, through \\ . 1.
Dent, Mayor of Lambton ; duly acknowledged,
as The Bulletin is also assured ; and never
heard of afterwards —never collated with the
other papers ; never laid on the Legislative
Assembly table ; never referred to by the
Minister. Why??'?
*-
Bricks and Straw.
Dear Bulletin,— When the blood-torrent of
the Indian Mutiny had washed effectually out
of the oriental Briton his contemptuous in
difference to what the mere “nigger might
think or feel, there set in a reaction, wine 1
having worked fatally far in the reverse direc-
tion—confronts the British Raj to-day, with
what is something more than a possibility o a
similar catastrophe. The pendulum has swung
too far over; extremes have met; and, it
England is to keep India, she will have to >e-
take herself again to the strong hand with
which she seized it. The “ conciliation gunn
is played out, and, for all the cosset and
coddle to which the Hindoo has been treated,
he has but come to despise his white
master more—not to hate him less. In de-
ference to the clamours of a blatant evan-
gelism and a windy philanthropy that know
nothing of the true Oriental inwardness,
the Hindoo has been laboriously veneered with
Europeanism. He has been “ improved out
of the more distinctive of his hereditary cus-
toms —“ fitted up wit h all the latest improve-
ments” in Occidental education—given a voice
in the making of the laws and a status in the
administration thereof And the grimmest
satire on the utter futility of the whole business
is found in the fact that the better class Ben-
gali, the man who has fallen most gracetu ly
into line with this bogus Britannieism and
whose acute intellect conforms itself most
readily, to all appearance, to Western ways
of thinking—is the man who is most assidu-
ously and effectually blood-poisoning British
supremacy in India. Cowardly and effeminate
himself—sly, subtle and secret—the Bengali
babu turns to dangerous account his acquaint-
ance with both the European and the native
habits of thought, by hoodwinking in the one
direction and inflaming in the other. In a word
—while apparently more completely on the
conciliation “string” than any of his com-
patriots—the Bengali is an indefatigable sedi-
tion-sower amongst those manlier races oi tne
Peninsula who, because they are less abject in
'their subservience to the European, are less
treacherously virulent in their hatred of him.
The “ educated ” Bengali may be—he mostly
is —a gentleman of the most charming manners
and dulciloquent address ; lie may be, and very
often is, a journalist, a Government official, a
councillor, a judge even; but he remains to
the tips of his fingers a typical Asiatic, who
would gladly see cut, to-morrow, the throat of
every white man and woman in India ! the
super-Anglicised babu, it principally is, who,
as editor of a native print, increases gradually
for his readers the dose of disaffectionate sug-
gestions, until a faint-hearted and farcical pro-
secution warns him that it is time to star
afresh somewhere lower down the scale ; anc
he it is who, if England is not sooner or later to
face another slaughter-carnival, can no longer
be left practically unhindered in his propa-
ganda of sedition or patriotism. It Eng-
land shall ever again be forced to a death-
grapple with those of the Indian races who are
foemen worthy of any steel, right back at the
root of the matter will be found this antagon-
istically contemptible product of the hopeless
attempt to get Occidentalism in any shape
much deeper than the Oriental skin, and to
maintain, by elaborate machinery, an ascend-
ancy which was obtained by naked physica
violence. That is the one brutal, unescapable
fact which renders ridiculous the attempt to fit
on to the situation the fable of the peasant and
the snake. The Bengali maybe an admirable
analogue of the snake, but the parallel tails m
the fact that the hand which has now doctored
him up almost to biting point, is also the hand
that originally scotched him. And the Bengali
balm himself, keenly reminiscent of the fact—is
taking good care that none of his countrymen
shall forget it.—Mokanna.
The Resumed Areas.
A league of selectors has been formed in the
Western division of N.S.W., and branches are
being organised at various centres, with the
excellent object of securing to members assist-
ance in all matters connected with the land
laws and their administration. The weak
feature of the organisation is that the complete
policy was drafted by the promoters, and
apparently without a very full discussion of the
whole matter. It may therefore be doubted
whether, upon more ample consideration, the
league would hold to its plank of out-and-out
opposition to the attachment of resumed areas
to pastoral leases which is the backblooks
question in land legislation at present. 1 he
last Land Act authorised the Minister to make
these attachments where it is shown that the
resumed areas (which are those parts of squat-
that are open to selection) are not, and are
not “likely to be, required for the purpose of
close settlement before the expiration ot the
pastoral leasehold area.” But it also pro-
vibes that the areas so attached may be
withdrawn again on six months notice
being given to the lessee, and that with-
out compensation. The selector, however,
insists that the attachment locks up the land
against settlement, and that, anyway, even
assuming the present administrators of the
law, from the Minister downward, to be fairly
honest, they cannot tell what land is likely to
be required for settlement during the next lo
or 20 years. Also, assuming that a demand
will arise for some of the land which has been
attached, the selectors are not prepared to
admit that every Minister who will be in office
during the next 15 or 20 years will at once
withdraw it. The only safe plan, they argue,
is not to attach land at all—to let it remain
open. But that isn’t safe either ; for while
half of every Western squattage is a resumed
area held only until a selector wants it, so long
will these areas remain unimproved, especially
as though the selector has to pay for improve •
ments, he only pays what they are worth to
him. Further, while resumed areas are unim-
proved they yield far less wealth than they
could and should do ; and they are neglected
until they become the breeding-grounds of
vermin, which are comparatively a greater
curse to the selector than to the squatter ; and
the rental value of all surrounding country is
reduced, while from the resumed areas them-
selves the Slate draws a mere bagatel e
on account of the insecurity of the title
tenure If future Ministers could be absolutely
trusted to withdraw lands as they are wanted
for settlement, the present provision would be
the best one possible. The selector would be
fairly well satisfied ; he could easily apply six
months before he actually required the land.
The squatter would be fairly well satisfied also.
It would give him only a six months assured
tenure, it is true ; but his greatest trouble now
is the shark who comes along, drops his sheep
down on the best patch of feed or the best
waterhole, holds land and improvements against
the station by virtue of a lease application, and
then, when the feed and water are all done,
changes his mind and doesn’t select there a
thing which, of course, he never really intended
to do. A six months’ assured tenure would
stop that game. And the bush-worker would
be fairly well satisfied, too; at any rate,
the nlan would result in the further im-
proving of the country and in heavier stock-
ing, which are the things that ought to
benefit the bush - worker. The weak point
in the law as it stands is the entire de-
pendence upon future Lands Ministers. ul '
were removed, and if the withdrawal o lam
from lease took effect six months after an appli
cation was lodged, without any special refer-
ence to the Minister at all, the difficulty would
be about met The dangers resulting from at-
tachment would be provided aga nst without
altogether abolishing a system which, win e
admitting of abuses as the law stands, is calcu-
lated to do a great deal of good to a country
that very badly needs it.
Old-Age Pensions
The Victorian Old-Age Pension Commission is
rapidly degenerating into burlesque—if it hasn t
already arrived there. In fact, it was pretty
much of a burlesque from the beginning,
like Commissions in general. The members
of it knew' very little about the details of
an Old-Age Pension system to begin with ;
there never has been any such thing m Aus-
tralia, and the only thing resembling what is
wanted has to he looked lor in Europe. ie
witnesses knew just about as little, or less, or
exactly the same reasons. What the conn ry
wanted to know was (1) how many people there
were in the province of the proposed pension
age, which information could have been supplied
bv the State Statistician in a very tew minutes ;
(2) how' much it would cost to give these people
so much a week each, which could be woiket
out in five minutes with a pencil and a piece of
paper; (3) how to pay them the money m the
best and cheapest w ay ; and (4) how to raise the
money. The latter idea is the one on which
the witnesses mostly spread themselves, and as
they were mainly amateur financiers without a
workable idea among them the Commission has
got practically nothing but drivel to show tor
its time and'labor and expense. rhe most
vigorous witness of the crowd wanted to give
10s, {per week to every inhabitant aged over 00,
which would cost about £1,800,000 a year, and
proposed raising the required amount by a
tax on land. Unluckily, the amount that
can be raised even by the largest kind
of‘land-tax is not wholly unlimited ; it the
Government taxed all the land in V ictoria
to its full unimproved value—in other words,
if it seized the whole rental, which is the same
thing as confiscating the land bodily without
compensation—it wouldn’t gel, at present,much
over £4,000,000 a year. Therefore, the pro-
posal in question would mean raising the
total taxes on land to at least 10s. m
the £ of rental. The chances are that the
country isn’t taking any. Another individual
proposed an extra tax of fid. in the £ on all
incomes. This would yield barely enough on
paper, even if it could all be collected without
any expense, but a lot of the very smal
amounts owing by Bill and Jim would never
be collected, and a lot more wouldn t pay tor
stationery and expenses. Another idea was
the deduction of a percentage from sums re-
covered in the courts, which, considering that
the average verdict, even if it is collected,
pays very little more than law expenses, is
hardly promising. Several dozen persons came
forward to propose a tax of 24 per cent, on
theatrical receipts and the gate-money at open-
air sports, with a perfect faith that it would cover
everything handsomely, whereas the solemn
probability is that it wouldn’t pan out for more
than £50,000 of the required million or two.
Apparently the best device of all is to shut up
the Commission with every possible speed, and
let Parliament tackle the matter itself. Parlia-
ment may not be a very intelligent institution,
bub compared witli the oldest inhabitant who
maunders before the Commission it is wisdom
incarnate. The Pension Commission invited
everybody who had a great or valuable oi
original idea to come forward and help it m
dealing with an urgent but very difficult re-
form, and so far it appears that there isn t a
great or valuable idea in the community. 4he
nearest approach to one was the land-tax idea,
but even the biggest land-tax that the country
would be likely to stand wouldn t nearly fall
the gap.
Ed. Bulletin, — Re your recent articles on the
Suffield case, it may be of interest to youi
readers to know that even so early a writer on
English Law as Matthew Hale in his Pleas
of the Crown ” has pointed out the necessity of
taking extraordinary precautions in a trial for
rape. “ It is,” he writes, “ an accusatjpn
easily to be made and hardly to be proved, and
harder to be defended by the party accused
though never so innocent.” And Hale, o
course, wrote at a time when the legal definition
of “carnal knowledge” was by no means so
wide as now. After setting forth a number of
cases where, though the charges were entirely
groundless, the parties accused either suffered or
escaped with great difficulty, and no one knows
with what mental agony, he goes on to say, I
only mention these instances that we may be
the more cautious upon trials of offences of this
nature, wherein the Court and jury may, with
so much ease, be imposed upon, without great
care and vigilance, the heinousness of the offence
many times transporting the Judge and jury
with so much indignation that they are over-
hastily carried to the conviction of the persons
accused thereof by the confident testimony some-
times of malicious and false witnesses .” Sydney
people need not be reminded of the Buttner
case as a striking illustration of the truth of the
above remarks.—Yvon.
The scandalous case of murderer Lyfield
cropped up in the Vic. Assembly a few nights
ago, when somebody questioned Attorney-
General Isaacs as follows : “ Had his attention
been drawn to the fact that a solicitor had
charged Henry Lyfield the sum of £l2OO for
defending him on a charge of murder ? (2) As
Lyfield was afterwards adjudged insane, so
far as murder was concerned, was it not pro-
bable he was insane on financial matters also
when he agreed (as alleged by the solicit! r) to
pay him £l2OO for the case ? (3) Would the
Acting-Premier order an enquiry, with a view
to saving some of the amount from the solicitor
in order to provide for the relatives of Lyfield .
To which Mr. Isaacs replied that the law had
already made an attempt to tax the aforesaid
bill of costs, but the Chief Justice had ruled
that when a client contracts with his solicitor
for a certain defence at a certain price the
solicitor’s bill is absolved from taxation. And
in partial excuse for this grabbing of the client s
estate Mr. Isaacs said there was. no allega-
tion that Lyfield was insane at the time he made
the agreement, but only at the time the mm dev
was committed .” Mr. Isaacs further stated that
the Crown was anxious to do all it could to
obtain some of Lyfield’s money for his family,
but he carefully avoided the question of an en-
quiry as to the circumstances of themurderers
defence. An enquiry would probably reveal a
lot more sanity in Lyfield than was suggested
by the behaviour of that incestuous beast
during the hurried progress of his trial for
murder It would probably display Lyfif.ld
as a businesslike farmer authorising the solicitor
to engaee leading barristers regardless of ex-
pense. The general public has quite decided
that the hanging of anybody, whilst Lyfield
remains alive, will be an act of hideous in-
justice.
N.S.W. Justice Stephen, in the course of the
Norton contempt case, rightly condemns the
undiscriminating use of the phrase ‘ Contempt
of Court.” It is not contempt of court, the
Judge holds, that is involved in the general run
of these cases for attachment, but words or
acts calculated to prejudice a plaint;ff’s or de-
fendant’s chance of fair trial in fact, contempt
of justice, or contempt of the people. But there
are, of course, direct contempts of court as, for
instance, when the Brisbane police-clerk canied
a revolver into court as a menace to Judge or
counsel engaged. The shocked Judge, in the
fright of the moment, ordered the foolish youth
to imprisonment for life. Contempt of Parlia-
ment still figures among nominally awful
offences, but has been sadly burlesqued in
practice. George Dill, of Melb. Argus, was
summoned to the Bar of the House for con-
tempt, and committed to the custody of the
Sergeant-at-Arms, but was released on paying
fees. Hugh George, of the same paper,
was, for contempt, ordered to be im-
prisoned in Parliament till he paid fees.
But George wouldn’t pay, and after Parlia-
ment had made itself supremely ridiculous it
swallowed the contempt, let go the fees, and
ran the bold printer out again. N.SAV. Par-
liament is learning by bitter experience to take
whatever contempt is offered and say nothing
about dungeons or fees. In fact, any man who
can get himself summoned to the Bar of N.S. VV .
Parliament, and can be proved to have covered
the institution with contempt, is pretty sure of
being returned at the head of the poll at next
election.
. +
The one thing which is more utterly stupid
than the drafting of the N.S.W. Land and In-
come Tax Act is the drafting of the Validating
Bill which is to amend it. The blank in-
capacity of Acting-Premier Bunkum and his
colleagues sticks out conspicuously all through
it. For instance, take the following clause
Where, before the day of the commencement of this
act, a notice of assessment of land-tax or income-tax, or
a notice purporting to be such, has been given by the
commissioners to a taxpayer, but the amount of the tax
has not been paid, the assessment of the said tax and the
said notice shall be deemed valid and to have been duly
made and given, and the said amount, shall be due and
payable within 30 days of the day aforesaid, notwith-
standing any omission to compb' with or contra\ ention ot
the principal Act.
Consider the beautiful comprehensiveness of
this. The trouble to be remedied was simply
that the original Act required the assessment
books to be completed before the tax was pay_
able. They couldn’t conveniently be completed
in time ; therefoi’e an amending Act was re-
quired stating that their completion before the
collection of the tax was not essential. The God-
fearing Government probably didn’t feel sute
that it could draft that amendment properly,
so it proposes to make dead certain by enacting
that in every case where the lax Commis-
sioners have demanded any money off anybody
as landaninkum-tax, that money shall be
legally due despite anything either here or here-
after. The clause covers everything. And
now the question arises whether it would be
safe to validate even the angel Gabriel in such
a wholesale fashion as this.
One of the anomalies of the Vic. Crown Law
Department is its subservience to the tinpot
dignitaries of the municipalities surrounding
Melbourne. A number of the latter have
manufactured the rule that the Mayor for
the time being shall invariably act as chairman
of the bench! and, consequently, whenever a
police-magistrate arrives, he finds his seat
occupied by an aitchless person with a red face.
Instead of calling a six-foot policeman to chuck
the local intruder out of the chair, the I -M- 8
have contented themselves with making a “ tew
remarks” about want of courtesy and have given
these courts a wide berth in the future. Ihe
result generally has been to make such tri-
bunals stink with jobbery and virtually fall into
the hands of a favorite solicitor who pulls the
strings while the bench works. Indeed, the
chairman has been known to act as a tout lot
its white-haired legal boy and advise litigants
in the court building to retain the services of
one Mr. Shark. The litigants usually
take the hint—and get the verdict. In cases
outside the scope of the lawyer aforesaid, the
most ludicrous injustice and legal ignorance
prevails, and one court is simply a gold-mine
for strange lawyers who know their business,
in that adverse decisions invariably result, in
successful “orders to review.” The wild-eyed
Lormer did excellent service by showing up
the glaring injustices of the Vic. Bench, but the
greater part of the injustices are perpetrated in
cases between common persons, and cases of not.
sufficient public interest to earn a report and
possible exposure. The occasional presence of
a P.M. would shake things up considerably,
and why the Crown Law Dept, chooses td back-
down before the mandates of the tuppenny-
ha’penny local councils is a thing no civilised
person can understand. “1 he honorarium
magistracy ” the man who invented tins
phrase deserves a statue.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 189 G.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
1 ncrease in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552 744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 640,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, MLC ■
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as tho name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (lG2Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
We have
the Facilities
fK5>
@)\@
for satisfying all your
demands for high=class
Photography at low
prices
Therefore, we can give
you a better Portrait
than anyone else. . .
Better Likeness
Better Posing .
Better Lighting
Better Finish .
Better Photos .
AT
THE
SAME
PRICE
<§\(g)
Six F.namelled Cabinet Portraits,*\
with Beautifully Finished Knlarße-f
merit in Permanent Bromide or f
Opal. Any style orpose. NoextrasJ
7/6|
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR. NO BTAIRB ).
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
1?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Gay Parisienne.’
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace The Biograph.
Royal “Trilby” Burlesque.
Town Hall Hambourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Sign of the Cross.’’
Koval “ Lights o’ London.”
R IJOU ■ “The Private Secretary'.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Frank Lincoln, the American humorist, is
doing a week of hard glacial deposit at the Cen-
tenary Hall, Sydney. Why the genial cocktailist
should have resulted in so prompt and unanimous
a frost it is difficult to imagine, but the frost itself
is beyond all doubt. When Lincoln was here last
he was a great success ; the old Gaiety was as full
as it could hold ; the audience fell down and wor-
shipped the lady with the whistling front teeth,
and the demoralised passenger, and the maniac
musician ; and the visionary drink fell like dew
on a thirsty land. The memory of that spectral
refreshment remained green through nine long,
sad years; it survived the silver-boom and the
bank-burst, and the building society collapse, and
all manner of other woes, and half Australia told
the story, as its own particular joke, to the other
half. And now that Lincoln has returned there is
a thin smattering of audience in the Centenary
Hall —an audience that smattered very little the
first night, and less the second, till it
seems possible, at time of writing, that it will
presently not smatter at all—and the lost,
lorn joke echoes dismally in the great empti-
ness. Yet the humorist is as brilliant as ever ;
some of his stories are new, and if the cocktail and
the lady with the whistling tooth are not entirely
fresh, they are good enough to bear a lot of repe-
tition. Also, Bert Levy’s caricatures are a
powerful attraction, the sketches of Brough,
Thornton, ’Arry Rickards, the ancient King Billy
who hangs about Poverty Point, Premier Reid as
be will be when he gets back from the Jubilee,
Lincoln, Sayles —the eullud gentleman with the
mammoth mouth, Lonuen, and others being all
particularly excellent. Probably the explanation
is that Sydney is a more serious-minded place
than it was ten years ago ; or possibly it is a more
frivolous place, but it frivols with legs nowadays,
where it used to frivol with brains. One explana-
tion is as explanatory as the other. Anyhow, the
city has tendered Frank Lincoln a most cordial
invitation to go away.
** * *
Sydney Palace re-opened on Monday, and
if the success of the first night keeps up through-
out the season Rickards will probably make a
small occasional profit out of his venture. But
the show which the lavish ’Arry has put on at the
Palace can’t possibly leave much profit. It is a
highly expensive affair, and the Most Beautiful
Theatre on Earth is a small structure at the best
—so small that even when it keeps full the cash
margin can’t amount to much. Therefore the
public had better roll up vigorously. The Bio-
graph is the biggest feature of the new show. It
is our old friend the Cinematographe with im-
provements ; the mad and dizzy wobble, and the
flicker, and the streak-of-lightning aspect of the
original “ Gin.” have been considerably alleviated ;
the pictures are larger and better defined, and
they are all exceedingly beautiful. “ Niagara ”is
the best and most thrilling picture yet produced,
and the fire-engine race, “shooting the shoot”—a
giddy view of a boat going down a rapid at 00
miles an hour, and the sketch of a dude overboard,
are close up. The small, soapy nigger in the bath,
however, seems to take best with the audience,
and the encore which followed the infant African
shook the building to its foundations.
♦ ♦ * *
Rickards has imported a number of excel-
lent singers—even the boy phenomenon, despite
his silk knickerbockers, and his heavenly expres-
sion, and his fly’s eyebrow, and The Bulletin’s
objection to the boy phenomenon in general, must
be admitted to be above the average. Professor
Morritt’s illusions are mostly good enough to pass
muster, especially the one by which he produces
four nice girls out of nothing ; and Miss Went-
worth's monologue is really amusing, which
doesn’t often happen to the lady monologist.
That old-time favorite, Miss Fanny Liddiard, is
one of the new importations, and she looks as
pretty as she used to do when she and Nellie
Stewart reached for each other’s hair in “ Madame
Angot ” ; also, she sings, if possible, more sweetly
than ever. Nevertheless, on the opening night
she got about the coldest reception of the
evening. The audience didn’t rise up honestly
and state what grievance in had against the
charming Fanny, but it failed to give
her half the encouragement she deserved. Possi-
bly her songs, which were musical and compli-
cated things with much elaborate execution in
them, are not the kind that a Palace audience
craves after. Something with a breezy howl in it
might go better.
** * *
The “Gay Parisienne” does one more
week at Her Majesty’s, and on September 4 the
“ French Maid ’’follows. The “ Maid ”is another
musical comedy in two acts, and arrives with a
good British reputation. George Lauri has a
matinee benefit at Her Majesty’s on Wednesday
next.
** * *
Maggie Moore filled in a night or two with
that bright Irish play, “Mrs. Quinn’s Twins.”
This was followed by a spell of “Johanna,” which
isn’t bright, but is lamentably confused, and is
disfigured by a dead pawnbroker, and a general
tendency on the part of everybody to turn up un-
accountably as everybody else’s long-lost wife or
daughter, who left home many years previously
for reasons that are as undiscoverable as the lost
grave of Moses, On Saturday the “ Trilby ” bur-
lesque, which proved such a decided success in
Miss Moore’s last season, will be revived, and
Svengali will again make music for ze pig-dog and
ze Scotch.
* * * *
The educated horses and mules finish
their season at S.ydney Criterion this week, and in
the absence of any information to the contrary,
the Cri. will presumably give way to gloom as
aforetime. The Lyceum also remains in its cus-
tomary emptiness. A rumor that Rignold was
going to take possession and put up a huge drama
in which he would be downtrodden and unjustly
suspected, as usual, seems to be unfounded.
* * * *
The three Hayters leave Sydney Tivoli
this week, but Athas and Lizzie Collins and other
people too numerous to mention will keep this
lucrative show going till further orders.
* * & *
James MacMahon, the Mighty Atom, goes
in strongly now for war-pictures at his Salon Cine-
matographe, the “Charge of Turkish Cavalry ”
being about the most soul-stirring item of the lot.
Anybody who feels like enlisting in Majah
Neild’s regiment of amateur warriors should have
a look at this picture as a preliminary. Then
when he has considered the mad onslaught of
the hairy furies of Bagdad and Byzantium,
and asks himself how he would like to leave
the day-book and the ledger, and go out
hurriedly to argue the point with a similar
human cataract, he can go and enlist in a
more serious spirit. The Bulletin doesn’t mean
that he should give up the idea of enlisting, but
it is always advisable for him to know in advance
what kind of people are waiting about in the dark
corners of the earth to jump on the fresh and
giddy book-keeping militaire as soon as oppor-
tunity presents itself.
* * * *
Melbourne theatres just now are being
generously supported by people who, for the most
part, have seen the same show several times
already and are taking another dose through force
of circumstances. The programmes remind one of
Chirgwin’s introduction to his song—“ I don’t
know whether you'll like it, but you’ve got to 'ave
it.” They’ve got to have “ Lights o’ London ” at
the Royal, for a fortnight, and because there was
nothing unusual happening elsewhere George Rig-
nold shook his tale of woe at a crowded audience
on Saturday. Familiarity doesn’t breed scorn for
G. R. S ims’s doleful melodrama, although the
higher etilehaw of this journal revolts against the
financial principles which impel an admirable
Shakespearian actor to jump into a tank. “ Lights
o' London” seems less wildly improbable than
a lot of other, and livelier, dramas as regards plot,
also it introduces many small items of human
interest, in a natural sort of way. Moreover, it is
commendably free from bloated capitalism, and
riotous living. George Rignold wanders listlessly
through a world where nobody has any money
to speak of, except a casual philosopher, who
stumbles across a £ 10-note, and starts a baked-
potato and ha’penny-ice business, with every pros-
pect of having to file his schedule, owing to gene-
ral depression. A world where policemen show a
tender feeling for the poor and homeless by
running them into a nice warm gaol, if they behave
themselves, and where wifely affection thrives on
ill-treatment, and professional philanthropy is an
animated finger-post directing weary pilgrims to
fo and die in the workhouse. The real world of a
iondon that plays no part in the Jubilee illustra-
tions of polite weekly papers. George Rignold
and his plunge into the tank are about the most
important-looking features of a long and mode-
rately strong performance. Stirling White, Diver,
J• W. Sweeney, Frank Hawthorn, and Miss
Georgie Smithson come to the fore at various
times. Miss Emily Hughes, whose elocution is
now almost as good as her voice, creates a pro-
found impression by urging G.R. to knock Diver
out in one round, and a handsome young novice
(Miss Lilian Wheeler) cuts a promising figure as
the—well, call her the girl who doesn’t get for-
mally married to the man she loves.
* * * *
Thirteen years have glided over Rev.
Robert Spalding’s cold in the head since his
goloshes first trod Melbourne boatds, and mean-
while he has struggled through many revivals of
the stale bath-bun, and has been hurled bodily
into a wooden box at four different theatres.
Nevertheless, his latest outbreak at the Bijou pro-
mises to earn another large profit. “ The Private
Secretary ” is very little more, or less, than the
subjection of a gentle shepherd to personal vio-
lence and all-round contumely. The main secret
of its success is suffering, patiently-endured by a
red-nosed curate who comes under the description
of “absolutely pure,” like the recent Sunday-
school teacher. Australia very properly revels in
the maltreatment of Rev. Spalding, on account of
his exceeding goodness, and although the new
Uncle Cattertnole can’t hope to obliterate the
public’s fond recollections of old friend Harwood,
he will be generally admired for his savage
attacks upon the cloth. Which reminds us that
Rev. Spalding would be a good subject for another
religious controversy. Is he a great moral lesson,
and are we indebted to Early Christianity for his
bottle, of milk ? Outside of Frank Thornton and
the new Uncle Cattertnole, there are one or two
members of the Bijou company (notably Miss
Carew) who make the best of their parts, and
several other members who don’t. But the short-
comings are scarcely worth talking about, as long
as Thornton is there to play the name-part.
* * * *
“The Sign of the Cross” is to last one
more week at Melb. Princess’s— nine weeks in all.
Sassiety, seemingly, has grown tired of the lowly
Nazarenes, who take so much credit for having
immortal souls. The stalls and amphitheatre,
however, are still crowded, and the hairy bush-
man continues to arrive from the interior on a
special excursion ticket.
*# * #
The Selbinis are leaving Melb. Opera
House this week, but the spectacle of Mrs. Turner
and Premier George expressing their jubilee feel-
ings from a Royal kerridge will remain a feature
of the bill for some time to come. Business was
immense at the Opera House last week. On the
Tuesday night people fought for standing-room to
hear Harry Rickards read a list of joys in store.
And when that remarkable man, adopting his
most fatherly manner, told the multitude that he
had made arrangements to build for them, one and
all, the very best theatre that money could buy,
and was about to take another fifty years’ lease of
their kind indulgence, he got such a greeting as
probably did make the youthful veteran glad to be
back among them once more, ladies and gentlemen.
At Poverty Point .
Melb. : “ Yes ! the Alexandra could be driven by one
rattling, ranting actor. I can imagine something like
this being written next year : ‘Just when the fortunes of
the house were guttering in the candlestick. Mulligan
came to the rescue with his Hamlet! An amazing thing,
not to be tolerated by the stage-management of Messrs.
Williamson and Hawtrey for a moment, but full of go!
A man who even did not know, or remember, on which
side to exit, and forgot at times to turn his face to the
audience But is it a wonder that Truth and Nature,
though mingled with extravagance, galvanised threepenny
galleries or sixpenny stalls ? Then his overpowering, oc-
casionally funny Richard the Third ! His roystering Rob
liov ! The crowds came, the fashion came, to this great
Chunk of Vitality.’ ”
“ The fortunate but deserving Hermans are rehearsing
to go on tour in ‘The Circus Girl’ with one of George
Edwards’provincial companies," writes Tub Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “The three play minor parts, in
addition to providing a variety turn in the circus-scene,
and are financially well-treated. Behind the ‘make-up’
an Australian reputation goes for as little as it does in any
other line of life, yet the 1 underneathers,’ if they do not
put on too much side and open their mouths too wide,
will always get on here if they are honest, earnest mum-
mers. Billy Elton is biking, Poulton matineeing, and
Florrie Ford opening at London Pavilion—the favorite
‘ hall’of her countrymen—on August Bank Holiday, and
she will have a slashing show to knock the gallery.”
Somebody dropped Burke a turnip. He came slowly to
the footlights and called in a sympathetic voice, whilst
dangling the vegetable : “The individual who threw his
head can have it back by applying at the stage-door.”
Facts. —AI a certain Melb. show, the other night, the
inclusion of a certain new (faked) item, caused an amusing
episode in the circle. Paterfamilias, visiting the theatre
with two daughters aged about 15 and 16 respectively,
when the item in question came on, gravely pulled out
two handkerchiefs, which he placed on the heads of the
young ladies, at the same time remarking, “You know
quite enough, ray dears.’’
X. : “ I went to a metrop. music-hall the other night
and was much impressed by the delicate wit of the average
variety ditty of the day. No fewer than four ‘comic’
songs (two by ‘ imported ’ artists) depended for their chief
‘ point ’ upon the proper appreciation of the fact that ‘ I
sat down upon my—tra-la-la,’ ‘He caught me with his
bayonet in the —diagram.” I was informed by a by-
stander that the ‘funnyman’ at ’Ome who relies upon
this anatomical witticism to raise a laugh is considered
to be quite ‘ at the bottom of the profession.”’
The replacement at a minute’s notice of a certain actor
by his under-study has given rise to litigation. Said
change was made betwt en first and second acts of a
comedy, and it was by the merest accident that the cur-
tain did not rise on a “ mill ” instead of a drawing-room.
In the days when veteran Edmund Holloway (“ Rob-
bery Under Arms” Moran, and numerous other Dam-
pierian *’ villians”) used to run his own show he, though
no musician himself, had a great idea of the effect of a
little “ shivery grass” properly administered. His coach-
ing of a rather green accompanist on one occasion will,
perhaps, be remembered by a few-. “ Now, young man,”
said Edmund in his slow, ponderously-dramatic style,
addressing the embryo Paderewski, “ when the prima-
donna receives her cue, you will play pi-an-issimo. On
her appearing at the wings you will play pi-ano. As she
slow ly advances two steps upon the stage you will play
crescendo. With her continued progress towards the
front you will play forrr-te ; and when finally she reaches
the footlights 3 - ou will belt the blanky inside out of the
instrument and bring down the house.”
London Sketch has just published three beauty-photos.,
each entitled “ A Daughter of Victoria.” One is the
piuch-boomed Mrs. Maesmore Morris, and the other two
are respectively Ida Hamilton and Maxine Elliott. The
beauteous Mrs. Scot Inglis passed only three months of
her life in Vic., while the ponderous Maxine counted by
days her stay in the country which the Sketch terms her
motherland.
Up to the other week Terry was merely suing Frank
Thornton on a charge of alleged slander, and although he
had a writ out against the boss, claiming five millions
damages, more or less, he used to roll up cheerfullv every
week to collect his salaiy. Now that he has left the co.,
through refusing to play his part (allegedly on a question
of personal dignit3’ re the collection of aforesaid salary),
the young man puts all his grievances in one basket and
asks £l5OO damages for alleged slander, wrongful dis-
missal, breach of contract, and salary due. Terry had
some youthful experience of the law at an attorney’s
office.
Maddening for Howard Vernon to read that a Ballarat
amateur-performance of “The Grand Duchess” realised a
profit of £l4O for three nights. When the same opera
was briuhtly produced at Melb. Alexandra, a few weeks
ago, the gross receipts couldn’t have averaged much over
£3O a time.
The Firm will follow “The Sign of the Cross,” at Melb.
Princess’s, with a Paultonic farcical-comedy, entitled,
“Too Much Johnson.” From the ridiculous to the
sublime.
London managers hanker after real men of letters as
private secretaries and managers. Henry Irving’s right-
hand man is Brain Stoker, the novelist and story-writer.
Augustus Harris was assisted at first bv Broadley, of the
World, now alleged to be the power behind figurehead
E. T. Hooley, and later by Augustus Moore, of the Hawk.
One of Wilson Barrett’s private secretaries was the bevv-
chus Richard Le Gallienne, no less.
In reply to a Westralian correspondent: Miss Alma
Stanley had never visited Australia till she came with Mr.
Paulton.
A correspondent remarks having seen the bicycle merry-
go-round in Eng. 17 years ago, as if it was something new
for Australia. I remember riding on one at Geo. Coppin’s
Theatrical Fair, at Melb. Exhibition Building, in ’B2.
M‘G.
George Darrell has just concluded a season at the
Theatre Ro3'al, Perth (W.A.), during which he produced
“ Black-Eyed Susan,” “ the celebrated drama, written up-
to-date,” and a version of “La Tosca.” George, when
playing William, used to take an hour, as it were, to
choose a spot on which to die, till one night a god yelled,
“ Hurry up, George—we want to catch the last ’bus.”
As the hour was then 9.30, and the last ’bus left at 11.30,
the gag raised a laugh. The “ version of ‘La Tosca ’ ” was
as funny as a funeral.
The estate of the late David Lee, Melb. City Organist
Shows a deficiency of £258 13s. 7d. Almost anything
pays better in Melb. than pounding the keys—unless the
pounder happens to be a foreigner with a dishevelled
mane and a wild glare in his eye.
Pinero’s latest play, “The Princess and the Butterfly,”
was far from being a great popular success. All the
same, it yielded £16,000 to the St. James’s Theatre
treasury, from 96 performances-an average of nearly
£l6B per night. A partial failure is good enough when
the stalls are half-a-guinea apiece and the management
has a “ following.”
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
That eminently dull and ox-like person, H.S.W.
Acting-Premier Brunker, has rushed through the Assem-
bly an amending Income-tax Bill which looks a good deal
more confused than the original muddle. The way it is
now proposed to fix things is as follows : The citizen pays
tax in 1897 according to the amount of his income for
1896, and so on, it being assumed that his income for
1897 will be the same as that for 1896. If it is less, then
he has paid too much tax and is. entitled to a refund.
But instead of paying back the exact amount overpaid, it
is proposed, for no visible reason, to take an average of
the income for 1895-96-97, and if the income for 1897 proves
to be less than the average of these three .years, then he
gets his refund calculated on the difference —at least it
seems to be optional with the Government to refund
either on the basis of the previous year, or on that of the
three years’average, whichever way it can best swindle
the taxpayer. The tax is to be collected on one basis,
and the refunds are to be made on the other—or, at least,
the Government apparently reserves the right to make
them on the other. The clause reads as follows :
“ If any taxpayer proves to the satisfaction of the Commis-
sioners that his income chargeable, arising, or accruing
during the year of assessment fell short of the income
chargeable in respect of which the income-tax for that
3 T ear was paid, the Commissioners shall cause the assess-
ment to be amended, and shall give the certificate in
virtue of which a refund may be obtained as hereinbefore
mentioned : Provided that no such amendment of the
assessment shall be made or certificate given or refund
made unless the income chargeable, arising, or accruing
during the year of assessment is proved to be less than
the amount to be found by taking an average of the
income chargeable, arising, or accruing during the year
of the assessment and the two years immediately preced-
ing that year, nor shall any refund exceed the difference
between the tax on the income chargeable, arising, or
accruing during the year of assessment and the tax on
the amount found by taking the average as aforesaid.”
This arrangement — if it really means what it
says—pans out in a lot of wildly insane ways. For
instance, supposing a taxpayer’s income, apart from
exemptions, is as follows :
1395 £4OO I 1897 £lOOO
1896 1600 |
He would pay, for 1897, £4O because his 1896 income was
£l6OO. Then later on it is discovered that his 1897 income
is only £lOOO and that he should have paid only £25, and
is consequently entitled to £l5 refund. But apparently
he doesn’t get anything, and the Government keeps the
whole £4O, and swindles him out of his £l5, because,
though his income for 1897 is less than that for 1896, it
isn’t less than the average for 1895-6-7. On the other
hand, the three years’ income may be something like
this
1895 £lBOO I 1897 £7OO
1896 800 |
In that case the taxpayer will have paid for 1897 £2O (on
£BOO income), whereas he should only have paid t!7 10s.
(on £7uo income), and he should get a refund of £2 10s.
on the difference between £7OO and £BOO. But if the
average principle is applied he will get a refund of £lO,
calculated on the difference between his real income of
£7OO and his average income of £llOO for the three years.
Therefore the tangled and complicated swindle would be
against the Government. But apparently it won't apply
in that case ; the clause says the refund is not to be more
than the amount due on the difference between the 1897
income and the average income for 1895-6-7, but appa-
rently it may be a great deal less. So presumably the
average system will apply when it enables the Govern-
ment to swindle the taxpayer, and when it would enable
the taxpayer to swindle the Government the -refund will
be calculated on the other system.
Any Ministry with sufficient financial ability
and honesty to fill the billet of an office-boy in a pawn-
shop would solve the difficulty by abolishing refunds a’to-
gether. All that is wanted is to enact that the tax on the
1896 income shall be payable in ’97, and that on the ’97
income in ’9B, and so on ai infinitum. Then there would
be no refunds, no “arrears,” no averages, and•»»■» Insane
fool-complications whatever.
* * * *
N.S.W. Post and Telegraph deficit for the year
ended 30th June, ’97, is reported as £133,406. This is
about the usual deficit. N.S. W. Postal Department has
been a woefully insolvent affair ever since the beginning.
• * • *
The Bulletin is getting very tired of the con-
stant reappearance of that unreliable item about the
N.S.W. railways having this year paid all expenses and
interest, and returned £33,479 profit. It all resolves itself
into an easy sum in subtraction. The deficit last year,
according to the Auditor-General, was £321,690. This
year the net earnings are £144,995 more than last, there-
fore, the probable deficit is £177,000 or thereabouts. In
the face of these melancholy figures Tiie Bulletin’s re-
marks about the above alleged profit are mostly “ dash.”
* * * *
Victorian Railway Department announces that
the receipts for the year ended 30th June, ’97, were
£386,000 short of expenditure. The 1896 deficit was
£583,000, so things are £197,000 better.
* * » *
This week’s issue of 3 per cent, bonds by the
Vic. State Land Bank was the daddy failure up to date.
Amount asked for, £21,825; public subscribed £1150;
Savings Bank took the balance, £20,675.
* * * *
The saddest bank on earth, the Standard Bank
of Australia (Melbourne), announces that the loss for the


CYANIDE
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
or POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
Sydney—es pitt st. Melbourne—rialto.
The KOEIISTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sols Agent,
9.39 SUSSF.X-ST., SYDNEY
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 'Villlftin st. , Mtti.BniißN’H: 14 Ourri<»-»t , Apkt.atdh.
SIRJOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney :
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Auttralasian t>tjtt TT>C! iL T>TTTP
Representatives: X XxJ.xjxx IO (jo X IJVJIij
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N Z.
PH
Assay Office Ss Chemical Laboratory,
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
The Simpson jjuckboard.
Not a Yankee rattletrap !
But built here in Australia —for Aus
tralia —by Australians.
SIMPSON, COACH BUI LDER
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe & Co.
Gerahdton— A. Meadowcroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A.
TIIE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &o.
Tariff - From 4», to Ss. per Ttay.
half-year ended 30th June is £9107. The doings of the
Standard for the last three years are as follows :
December, ’94 Loss £6837 I June, *96 Loss £7063
June, ’95 » 4908 December, ’96 ~ 7992
December, *95 ~ 1513 | June, ’97 ~ 9107
In the latter part of ’95 the Standard, by one of its
numerous recons ructions, reduced depositors' interest to
ou per cent., and secured other concessions, whereby the
bwik saved about 1 32,000 a year ; nevertheless it is a lot
worse after the saving than before. This half-year the
gross earnings are £1571, and working expenses absorb
£1256, so the net receipts are £315. Out of this £315 the
Standard Bank has to pay 1 9422 interest to depositors, so
its outgoings are just about 30 times the net income. It
has £551,707 paid-up capital, and there is nothing left to
call up ; but of this £414,602 is admittedly lost, and there
is an item of £529,232 “ doubtful accounts at book value.”
Out of £1,300,398 total nominal assets, therefore, £414,602
consists of losses and bad debts, £529,232 consists
of doubtful debts, and only £356,564 purports to
be good. As the Standard owes £748,691 to depositors
and the public generally this looks like about 9s. in the £.
But the gloom which hangs about even those assets which
profess to be good is conspicuously evidenced by the fact
that they only yield at present rather less than eighteen
shillings per cent, per annum. Judging by the internal
evidence of the awful balance-sheet, and assuming that
the gross profit represents only 4 per cent, on the good
assets, the shareholders’ capital is certainly gone, and,
after preference creditors are paid, the Standard Bank
looks good for about 2s. in the £ to its deferred depositors.
The present market-value of these deposits is from 2s. 3d. to
2s. 6d. in the £, and Thb Bulletin reckons that price
decidedly stiff.
Within the last six months the Standard’s bad
debts have increased by £33,696, the accumulated loss
has grown by £9107, and the gross income has gone down
one-half (from £3268 to £1571). The following is this
wonderful institution’s gross income for six half-years :
December, ’94 ... £26,744 I June, ’96 ... £10,962
June, ’95 ... 23,238 December, ’96 ... 3,268
December, ’95 ... 17,241 | June, ’97 ... 1,571
At this rate, the Standard, next half-year, will have no
income at all. If there is anywhere on earth a more hope-
less-looking institution than this The Bulletin would like
to have its name and address forthwith. Yet, so long as
deposit interest is paid regularly (out of the depositors’
own assets) there is, apparently, no law' to knock the
melancholy remains on the head and put them out of
their misery. A statute by which utterly insolvent
financial institutions could be peremptorily shut up and
liquidated and put out of sight would fill a very urgent
want.
• * * *
Melbourne Tramway Co., for the 12 months
ended June 30th, realised £38,510 net profit, as compared
with £26,581 in 1896, £28,090 in ’95, £19,682 in ’94, and
£22,619 in ’93. The present is therefore by far the best
return since ’92—the last year before the famous Deluge,
when the windows of Heaven were opened, and it rained
reconstructed deposits for 40 days and 40 nights. The
usual 5 per cent, dividend (£24,000) is paid, and £15,000
is written off freehold properties.
* * * *
Last week silver got down successfully to 2s.
Ser oz., a fall of 6d. per oz. since last December!
ow an agitated world is waiting to see if the 2s. limit
will stop the fall, or if the miserable white substance will
drop into the wilderness of odd halfpennies and farthings
that lie between Is. and 2s. Anyhow, one certain fact is
that the margin of profit at even Broken Hill is getting
pretty narrow.
* * * m
Waverley (Sydney) Council has discovered, by
a special audit, that a deceased official has left behind
him defalcations of considerably over £lOOO. The defal-
cations go back as far as the special audit extended ; if it
had been carried further back the same chronic shortage
might have turned up every year since the borough
began. The local auditors never dropped on any of these
things; in N.S.W. the municipal auditor is elected by the
ratepayers, and as they, in the main, know nothing
about accounts, they generally elect a man who knows
nothing either —with the above results. The Waverley
Council now decides that the popularly-elected butcher-
auditor is a failure, and want some kind of Government
audit established by law. The other Councils would do
well to support this idea. Considering that any decently
smart man can embezzle money wholesale right under the
eyes of the average amateur auditor, and considering how
very few men there are who wouldn’t embezzle when so
beautiful an opportunity presented itself, the need for
State inspection is probably about six times as great as
anybody is aware of.
• * • •
At a meeting of Melbourne’s “slop” manufac-
turers, last week, a Mr. J. Barnett put in an artless pro-
test against the schedule of prices proposed by the cloth-
ing trade board, under the new Factories Act. Said dis-
tressful Barnett: “It was the earnest desire of em-
ployers to see their hands benefited as far as practicable,
and they had gone the length of offering an advance of
100 per cent, in the rates, but they were proposed now to
be raised 150 per cent.” The earnest desire to benefit
workers was evidently born of the employers’ sad convic-
tion that they couldn’t help themselves. Previous to the
Government appointment of an enquiry board these
same philanthropic slop-makers paid their hands half the
rates they are now offering.
* * * *
A sewing-machine importer, who was being sued
for commission, admitted in evidence, the other day, that
a machine which he would sell on the time-payment
system—a small deposit down, and half-a-crown a week—
at £l3, was invoiced to him at £2 18s. 6d. ! Also, that
many time-payment purchasers, after paying a few
pounds, could not keep up the payments, whereupon the
sewing-machine was taken back, renovated, and resold as
new. When middlemen fall out, honest folk get at facts.
It seems as if a sewing-machine, with a run of luck among
“ bad marks,” might pay for itself a dozen times over, and
then get sold for £l3 at the dead finish.
• • * ♦
Latest English advices announce the collapse of
the bike-boom. Quite a number of the very best manu-
facturers are reducing prices 50 per cent., whilst lower-
grade Yanks and German brands are on sale at ’Ome at
“any price.” It is notorious that three, at least, biq im-
porters in Melbourne are in a state of collapse, and the
grog-dealers, drapers, boot-dealers, &e., who, 12 months
ago, took bike importation on as a soft-snap are “ closing
out ” to a man. “ A bike ” (of some sort) “given away
with every pound of tea ” is not yet within measurable
distance, however.
The Melbourne banks alone hold certs, of un-
redeemed cycles enough to mount a fair-sized army,
whilst the money-lenders who made a speciality of ad-
vances on bike-hire agreements, are (even with a margin
of 50 per cent, to work upon) very badly left. It dawneth
on Israel that under-aged youth, “ living with mother,”
owning a knickerbocker suit and a life-interest in a
second-hand bike only, is bad “ security ” for the £l5 or
£2O owing on his machine.
Little wonder that the N.Z. Accident Insurance
Co. is full-up of insuring bikes against burglary, or that
the hire-merchants are grieved that the opportunity the
Insurance Co. thus offered them of making a recovery on
hire agreement machines is gone for ever.
Ed. Bulletin, —Noonewith any knowledge of the
subject could have written such an absurd letter as that of
“ Bovis,” in your issue of 14th. An ordinary fat bullock,
if boiled down, does not give 3cwt., or anything like
3cwt. of tallow. He does not give 20s. worth of manure
and etceteras, besides the tallow and hide, or anything
like it. The figures are ludicrously inaccurate. There is
no mystery about the treatment of a condemned beast at
Ramornie; he is simply boiled down for tallow and
manure, and except tallow, manure, and hide, there is no
other product. Any owner could at any time satisfy him-
self on these points'by watching. The working cost of
boiling down is, of course, far above ss. per head, when
fuel, interest on plant, &c., are considered. The cask
alone, or the share of it to hold 3cwt. of tallow, would
nearly swamp the ss. We do not charge 20 per cent, dis-
count for cash. (We charge 2 per cent, discount for cash.)
I should have thought this error the printer’s, not
“Bovis's”; but it is not greater than others he makes.
—C. F. Tindert. Manager, Ramornie.
* * * *
Yarn told to Q. Assembly by Labor-member
M’Donald : “Q.N. Bank refused to deal with certain
business placed before it, because only two directors had
been appointed. But the bank nevertheless dealt with
another matter of five or six times the magnitude of the
business shelved.” At which stage, Speaker Cowley
peremptorily ruled M‘Dcnald “ out of order.”
* * * *
At Melb. Supreme Court, last week, Judge
A’Beckett ruled that the executors of One Fredk. Hutch-
ings had lost about £9OOO of the estate in more or less
inexcusably unsafe investments, and were entitled to
repair the damage out of their own pockets. The decision
will, probably, lead to sundry other refunds from other
executors possessed of means to make atonement, for
their boomtime dealings with legacy money, but it can’t
benefit the army of widows and fatherless whose im-
pecunious trustees lived for awhile by pouring the estate
funds into “ snide ” mortgages.
* * * *
“A.F.” to The Bulletin from Invercargill,
Maoriland “ Can you get me through your paper any
information re two men named Crowe who left Cooktown
with about 20 others for New Guinea in Aug. last ? Their
relations, who live a little way out of Invercargill, have
not heard from them since some time before they sailed
from Cooktown, and fear that they, along with many
oiher unfortunates, have fallen victims to fever in New
Guinea.” Can anv Bulletin reader help in this matter?
* ’ » * *
Descriptions accompanied by gold-yields—names
of winners and the quantities won—from the alluvial
camp on the Klondyke goldfield, British Columbia, now
published, will keep up the rush. Nothing will stop men
going there in tens of thousands. The Canadian Govt,
has sensibly abandoned the proposed royalty, and has
reduced claims to 100 ft. Everything foreshadows a rush
such as the world has not seen for over 40 years.
* * * *
If any reliance is to be placed on newspaper
reports, the track of bones along the road to Klondyke,
when the snow melts next summer, should be something
like the great streak of skeletons which the French left
behind on the famous retreat from Moscow. Spring,
summer, and autumn at Klondyke last, three months ; the
other nine months are desolation and howling winter.
Even the fast-flowing' Yukon River is blocked with ice
from September to May. It is 1900 miles up the Yukon
to Klondyke. Some recent advices set forth that there
has already been a burst of premature winter ; that many
of the mountain passes are blocked by snow, and that
5000 miners are stranded on the overland track with no
chance worth mentioning of getting forward and no very
brilliant show' of getting back. Also the usual warning
comes along that the richness of Klondyke has been
greatly exaggerated in the interests of traders and store-
keepers and of the agile Yankee who peddles the wooden
ham of commerce. The one thing which seems reason-
ably certain amid much uncertainty is that the wolf and
the local bear and the remarkable blue fox will have a
square meal of lost prospector this coming winter.
* * * •
More trouble for Sunday Brunker ! The Cobar
police “ lately endeavored to slop the cyanide works from
w’orking on Sunday, although the work was proved to be
necessary. The case was dismissed on a technicality of
faulty information; but it is supposed that it will
be brought on again. It is stated that the police are
awaiting instructions from Sydney. If work is stopped
on the Cobar Gold Mines, it is argued that the police will
also have to stop the water-jackets of the local copper-
mine, which would mean an immense loss both to the
syndicate and the town.” Here, indeed, is a pretty kettle
of fish. The N.S.W. Minister for Justice is one of the
four lucky Great Cobar tributors who so profitably run
the water-jackets aforesaid : so the police, if they finally
decide to stop Sunday-work by the Cobar Gold-Mines’
100 stampers, and the cyanide-plant, attached thereto,
will, as a matter of logic, also have to shut-down on the
God-fearing Minister Gould’s Sabbath-smelting operations.
Developments in this ticklish matter will be awaited with
interest. The Cobar police probably “didn’t know it was
loaded.”
* * * *
The leases of the Pinnacles are now the oldest
held continususly in the Broken Hill and Silverton dis-
trict ; they were issued on Aug. 6, ’B5. The Broken Hill
leases, which followed a week or two afterwards, are next
in order of seniority. Which means that the whole of the
Thaekaringa, Day Dream, and Purnamoota “shows” —
the claims which brought the Barrier into notice just as
the Coolgardie claims attracted attention to Westralia—
have in the interim been thrown up, though some have
since been repegged.
* * * *
The B.H. Prop., which, a few years ago, held
only half-a-dozen mineral leases, has 36 now in its name,
and thus establishes the province’s record, though the
Tarrawingee Flux Co., with 28, runs it pretty close. One
by one, as leases around Broken Hill have been forfeited,
the Prop, has taken them up, some merely for the water
that could be pumped out of the shafts, but others for
possible sulphide bodies in them. Thus the co. holds the
Victoria Cross, next the B.H. North, and likely to prove
quite as good a claim. Which certainly is not saying
much, though North’s prospects have improved lately.
* * * *
Parkes (N.S.W.) : “ A suspension of labor-con-
ditions granted to the Dayspring mine, to permit of more
capital being raised.” Good—but we never are told of
any mine being opened to permit more capital being sunk.
Mining news is mostly served on the half-shell.
• * * •
More wonderful ore from the great and much-
advertised Jingera mine, somewhere near Pambula,
N.S.W. “The ore is fully 75 per cent, pure metal.”
Where on earth does all the metal of this mine go?
* * * *
Joseph Palmer and Sons, in their monthly
share-list, modestly remark re the election of the A.J.S.
depositors’ directors : “ Owing probably to a cable sent
by us to London the English depositors were led to see
that the key of the situation was in their hands, and the}'
took measures,” &c. Writer lets that pass on account of
a good thing in the list sent by a prospector concerning
the Birthday mine at Parkes: “The shaft is only a fos-
sicker’s hole. The dam would do splendidly for a few
ducks. The stone is hauled by a cow-hide bucket, and as
they are adding five head of stamps they will have to get
some work out of that bucket to keep the 15 heads going.'
* • * *
During the past year there were employed in Q.
collieries 269 men above ground and 1002 men below.
The output per man was 370 k tons; total, 371,390 tons.
Value, ±1154,987, or Bs. 4d. a ton.
♦ * * ♦
Ravenswood (Q.) gold-returns for July, 13480 z
The refractor.v-ore centre is not yet dead, but the town-
ship is almost defunct. Writer recently visited the one-
time rival to Charters Towers, and heard the sound of Jive
head of stampers only, monotonously pounding away
amid the desolation of crumbling, decaying, practically-
abandoned reduction works all around the town. Busi-
ness also virtually abandoned. And yet Ravenswood
boasts of the finest and best-appointed hotel in N.Q.
* * * *
Charters Towers menu. The disappointing re-
turn of 105 oz. from 122 tons of Queen Central stone
caused a look of blankness and bewilderment to pervade
the countenances of shareholders and speckers. Craven’s
Caledonian cleaned up, 11th Aug., 204 tons for 30Soz.
15dwt. Same date Clark’s Worcester had nearly 200 tons
accumulated in the ore-paddock towards next crushing
Day Dawn P.C. cleaned up 5210 z. lOdwt. from 325 tons of
No. 3 shaft stone. Victory’s fortnight’s result was 4090 z.
from 110 tons. Brilliant Extended, 1326 tons for 776.10 z.
Big faces of stone showing in mine. Papuan Brilliant
and Victoria cleaned up on 12th. 14230 z. from 626 tons,
and divided ±2400 in a 6d. div. Victoria and Queen, 140
tons, 2860 z. Brilliant and St. George, 792 tons, 1246£0z. ;
result, division of ±5400 in 9d. div., besides adding to
ver}’ respectable reserve accumulated towards the rainy
day which, as yet, looks far off. Millett’s Wellington,
beyond the Gap, where some rich patches were unearthed
from the brown stone in bygone days, recently crushed
354 tons for 8550 z.
* * • •
According to the recent Mining Commission,
Queensland has 40 million acres of gold and mineral fields,
while geologist Jack estimates that the province contains
minerals of commercial value throughout half its area
Since 1860, gold has been raised to the value of
±39,196,465, while all minerals raised amount to
±48,444,074.
* » * *
Gympie, with a population of 12,140 persons,
employs 1100 quartz-miners and five alluvial miners.
Other trades number 575 devotees; merchants and
traders include 1060 individuals, while women and child-
ren number 9500. Consequently, one out of every twelve
of the population is a miner. . . . Contrast the Etheridge
with its 10,000 sq. miles, and 805 miners, of whom 104 are
Chinese.
• * * *
Croydon produced over 4f>,ooooz. gold during
the last half-year. The cyanide returns are falling
rapidly, most of the heaps being through. But the local
paper—the Mijndic Miner—is not anxious that Croydon
should be regarded outside as a prosperous community.
“We are nothing of the sort. We are a debt-ridden,
poverty-stricken crowd without a golden dollar we can
legitimately call our own. Like beasts in the back creeks
in drought-time, we are poor, and on our poverty-stricken
carcases live the bailiff, and the gentlemanly assignee,
and the other carrion crows of our civilisation, who wax
fat while we die for the want of a little of that golden
dust that we, by our labor, produce.” Poor and honest.
* * * *
Q. Royal Commission on Mining, &c., has
brought forward the Hodgkinson with a prophetic paean.
Its ieport quotes Govt. Geologist Jack, who is certainly a
cautious man, and yet who says, evidently in amazement:
“ The agents of capitalists are running all over the world
looking for mines such as have been abandoned on the
Hodgkinson by the score.”
And what Jack says of Hodgkinson, I. B. J.
Skertchley, lately Q. Assistant Govt. Geologist, sa.\s of
the Ilerherton region —only more so : “A more highly
mineralised area it would be difficult to find anywhere on
the globe.”
* * * *
Mr. Jack says the Hodgkinson was discovered
inopportunely. If found in ’96, it would have been won-
derfully active in ’97. Though 30 to 40 percent, of the
gold is lost, vet the yield on the Hodgkinson is higher
than the yield on the Towers. On Gympie a 2ft. lode
with half an oz. will carry dividends. On the Hodgkin-
son, shafts with a 2ft. lode carrying an oz. have been
abandoned.
* * * •
Q. Mines Under-Secretary Sellheim told the
Mining Commission that in ’96 there were 9606 white
gold-miners (7182 quartz, 2424 alluvial), and 758 Chinese—
a total of 10,364. But only 7927 miners’ rights were
taken out, leaving 2437 men who were gold-mining with-
out rights. “We never compel them to take them out
now,” said Mr. Sellheim. Whereupon the following j
“ Have you never compelled miners to take out miners’
rights?” “Yes, a great many thousand Chinamen.” “Have
you ever compelled a white man to take out a miner’s
right?” “Only on one occasion.” “What were the circum-
stances?” “ It was on the Palmer. The man simply defied
me ; he wanted to make a complaint, and he was taking
up great deal of my time, and I asked him if he had a
miner’s right. He said, ‘Miner’s right be !’ I
ordered him under arrest. In the evening he wanted to
take out a right, but I first fined him ±2 ; it cost him ±2
10s. altogether. When he got about 25 yards away he
said, ‘ I suppose you think you are God Almighty.’ 1
said, ‘ No, I am not that, but I am his first mate in these
parts.’ He cleared out then, and I was not able to get
him. That was the only occasion in 23 years in which I
forced a white man to take out a miner’s right.”
* * » *
One of the warmest mining meetings yet held
in Adelaide happened the other day. It was held in a Sun-
day school. When thelanguage became sulphurous, excited
shareholders would grab prayer-books and assume atti-
tudes of defiance, and ever and anon a shareholder, who
had perhaps called another gentleman a liar, would duck
behind a copy of the Revised Version, and then read out
the Lord’s Prayer and ask his enemy if he had ever heard
that before. The chairman of directors, at the conclusion
of the meeting, expressed his belief in a personal devil,
mentioning a shareholder.
* * * *
Yet another attempt to float a Bendoc sluicing
concern. This time by reference to what Rev. W. B.
Clarke prophesied long years ago. The money lost and
sluicing projects that failed on the Bendoc and Delegate
rivers are either cheerfully forgotten or discreetly omitted.
* * * »
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of ±109,000 at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* • * *
New Golden Gate mine, Tas. : principal share-
holder, Brock. Six months’ run, 9690 tons, 99640 z. gold >
divs., £21,600. Total crushing, 94 738 tons gold from.
103,911 tons: divs., £156,200. And the future still bright.
• * * *
Pilbarra goldfields return for first quarter of
this year was 1407 0 z., and since then the new Labor
regulations have deprived half the miners of employment.
General Gordon South (W.A.) applying for
exemption. “ The co. is not short of funds, having
several thousands still in hand.” Well, is that any excuse
for sinking it in the ground of what seems a proved
duffer? Why not put it back in the shareholders
pockets . This can also apply to several other local pups.
* * * *
The wonderful developments in the half-dozen
marvellous mines of Kalgoorlie seem to go on uninter-
ruptedly. The world has never seen such a transforma-
tion as this field has revealed by development. The
Boulder regularly keeps a 3oz. average producing over
SOOOoz. a fortnight, and has not yet tackled its tailings.
The Lake View is nearly ready to double its output,
which will mean 12,0000 z. a month, and to date has pro-
duced nearly all its gold from levels, the stopes being
almost intact. The Ivanhoe is lying low pending the
payment of the half-million, which it will probably get.
The Australia blocks have started production in earnest,
and the Kalgurli mine is about to open the “jewel cham-
ber” of tellurides. Brown Hill is putting up more plant,
and the next big producer will probably be the Golden
Horseshoe. Don’t call it Westralia —call it Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
The slander-action against the editoi of a vigor-
ous W. A. paper— Kanowna Democrat— has directed public
gaze on the position of the White Feather Reward. The
editor has been fined “a bob,” but the mine will suffer
by the simple truth being told about it. Three years ago
it was one of the very few good-looking things found in
the country. A long surface chute of 2oz. ore in a big
solid, permanent-looking reef. It held out for about
100 ft.—much deeper than the average W.A. white quartz
mines. Shares have been up to £3, and the battery is
now available for public crushing. Out of Hannan’s
“ too much white quartz.”
* * * *
Coolgardie goes on shrivelling; the business
drifts steadily towards the Boulder. MacDonald, several
times Coolgardie s Mayor, has at length given the older '
town best- has resigned the office and taken his business
with him. The history of Silverton and Broken Hill re-
peated.
* * • •
Meeting to wind up the Fortune of War mine,
W.A., lapsed in Melb. for want of the statutory number
of shareholders. Nearly £30,000 spent without any
return whatever—and the very newspapers that now pub-
lish this little fact blissfully forget the columns used up
by them during the last three years in allowing lies to be
told about this mine.
* * * *
A mine now described as “ the old London
derry,” believed to be somewhere in Coolgardie district,
is “ looking up.” The whole of the white quartz taken
from a winze at the 200 ft. level has crushed 15dwt. to the
ton. Also remarked that recently the management ex-
posed the reef along the surface in the forlorn hope of
picking up some masses of rich stuff like that of the
“ golden hole.” Some 30ft. south of that spot they came
across another hole sunk 20ft. and then carefully filled in.
Sunk right in the centre of the reef and barren of gold !
Which sets the writer ruminating. Was that duffer sunk
by some earlier prospectors who missed that mass of gold
“on which you could hang your hat” glittering in the
noon day’s sun 30ft. away? Not much! Then was it
sunk by the finders of the “ golden hole ” just to see how
she looked ahead, so as not to sell her too cheap? Of
course the hole was carefully filled in. Why leave a dan-
gerous hole lying around for people to fall into ? Perhaps
this consideration actuated them in not sinking any
more along the line. They' stuck to the old hole and it
stuck just long enough to them. “My face is my for-
tune, sir,” she said. No monkeying allowed, no working
option. Probably Fingall, Myring and others did not
want one. No going down. It was a case of the public
going down, and they went and no mistake. Mostly on
their gold the finders are keeping the wolf from the door.
Myring, ex-rabhit inspector, is keeping a yacht in Eng-
land ; Fingall’s Irish estate has largely received the
benefit of his profits; the co. has declined to take another
mine in consideration ; Col. North is dead ; and the mine
is said to be in a state of resurrection !
* » * *
For July last year the Westralian gold-yield
was valued at £61,782 - for July this year £185,500, an in-
crease of over £120,000.
* * » *
From Westralia : You may be interested to hear
that the Great Fingall Co.’s battery of 30 head, which was
completely erected, bar about one steam-pipe, some six
months ago, has been sold to go to Niagara (for the Cos-
mopolitan Leases, I believe). I do not know the price,
but it is probably pretty cheap. Most of this machinery
was carted from Southern Cross at a cost of £9O per ton.
About 1000 tons of stone on the dumps.
* * • *
Rev Joseph Campbell gave in Melb., recently, a
full exposition of his Thermo-Hype'phoric Ore Treatment
—a further development of the Lockwood-Chappie pro-
cess—a sort of water-gas system. He has gone to Maori-
land to practically demonstrate it. Other men are leav-
ing the church for the mining expert business with gold-
saving processes, in which the ever-incredulous cognos-
centi have about as much faith as they would have in a
new patent soul-saver
* * * •
The claws of the true democrat will appear, try
to conceal them however he may, even through judicial
gloves. Witness this fine piece of democracy in a judg-
ment of Higinhotham’s (the accuracy of the law can’t be
guaranteed): “ The labor-covenants in a gold-mining
lease are the real consideration for the lease, and should
he strictly construed.” What do the cheerful British
boomsters say to this—particularly Charters Towers
Mills and Co., who approached Q. Attorney-General
Byrnes in London with a petition that leases should be
non-forfeitnble for breach of labor conditions?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re the decision of the Eng.
Roval Commission on Agriculture, that imported (Aus-
tralian) mutton 'must be legibly labelled when offered for
sale The bread-eater who lacks the brain-power neces-
sary to distinguish the home-grown and foreign article is
to he protected against the colonials —this, too, after all
our grovel and silken-bond blather. In plainer words
England, a so-called Freetrade stronghold, admits an
article free at port of entry, but levies a Protective tax on
it before it can be offered to the British public—the Aus-
tralian exporter being the loser in all cases. As pauper-
food, the merino is beastly good, doncherknow; as an
article of diet for the cultured—well! Why not brand it
before shipping—“ Made in Australia? ” England’s Aliens
Restriction Bill! — Veldt.
» » * *
Bill : “So you have been away digging, Jack?’
Jack (just hack from N. Guinea) : “ Yes, digging graves
for my mates all the while.”


cl
T
CLOTE-JSMfi
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR. SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVIB
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/Opposite\
\ G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
“ COftTO ” ROTHSCHILD
cji:c3-a.i=s.s,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO —6cL Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands, and beivare of imitations,
E. CXJSEKTIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
3SANS7.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price No Ilif/her than Other Leading Brands.
society
The Australian public is getting very tired
of the cable syndicate responsible for the simul-
taneous publication in all the “great” dailies of
trivial items interesting to one province only.
Readers of Sydney papers, for instance, were
lately stoked with a lot of dreary slush about
M.L. and S. A. nobodies who had temporarily
distinguished themselves by winning two-guinea
prizes at Bislev. Also, it was noted that the Vic-
torian, Turner, was given cablegraphic preference
overall the other Premiers. Reason—the cable-
men are both Victorian pressmen, and they are
directly controlled from Melbourne —two things
that will bring about a burst-up of the amalga-
mation sooner or later.
* * * ♦
First impressions of the returned Premier
Turner were not very satisfactory. He came back
to Melbourne in the same old togs, it is true, but
nobody who saw him ride along Collins-street,
gravely acknowledging the inaudible plaudits of a
multitude which wasn’t there, will be disposed to
believe that Turner’s tweeds enclosed the same old
man who went ’Ome some months ago. Unkind
critics will probably say that Turner bore himself
in the barouche like one gone somewhat mad on
the subject of his self-importance. If a.casual
small boy contemplated him with a stony stare
from the kerbstone, Turner doffed his boxer to the
urchin in an imperial style. He was palpably
imagining a non-existent demonstration all along
the line of route, which was about the last mistake
in the world that the original George Turner
would have been likely to make. His friends, no
doubt, will blame the Ministry in general for this
farcical spectacle. Isaacs, Best and co. travelled
down to Bacchus Marsh railway-station to meet
their chief, and prepare him for a “ magnificent
greeting.” Judging from the scowling faces of
Isaacs, Best and co., they saw the absurdity of
their slow procession up the unexcited street, and
were sorry they hadn’t smuggled Turner to the
Town Hall in a hansom cab.
Be missions. The State (remarks a well-
informed Bulletin correspondent) ought to pro-
hibit the senseless sacrifice of hysterical females
on the altar of Baal, or the L.M.S., or any other
such institution. In Papua, in addition to the
fearful ravages of the climate on the female con-
stitution—especially on that of the unmarried
girl—the barbarous costumes and customs of the
natives, often indescribably disgusting even io the
unholy trader, supply another good reason for the
abolition of this traffic. But especially stupid
and luridly insane appears the .attempt to convert
Papuans to some brand of Christianity or other
by means of unmarried female teachers, as the
native simply, from the pinnacle of his particular
moral prejudices, utterly despises an unattached
girl. The value of their services may, therefore,
easily be gauged.
* * * *
The unexpected again. Vic. W.C.T.U.
has “determined to recommend the spread of
carefully-prepared purity literature to scl col-
teachers, through the medium of W.C.T.U.
branches, and to recommend the teaching of prac-
tical physiology in a way suitable to boys and
girls.” If the members of the W.C.T.U. could be
suspected of conscious humor, The Bulletin
would look upon the foregoing as a successful
specimen of their waggery. Meanwhile, it waits
to see how they will Bowdlerise “ practical physi-
ology ” so as to make it “ suitable to boys and
girls.”
* * * *
“Why should miserable brutes get the
best of things in this world?” indignantly asked
Madden, C.J., in Melb. Divorce Court, the other
day. It need hardly be said that the Best Thing
to which he was referring was—a Woman.
♦ * * *
Vic. Chief-Justice Madden is rapidly gain-
ing a reputation for epigram in divorce cases.
One, in which several co-respondents figured,
elicted the remark from him that the lady was
“ evidently unsuited to the exclusiveness of mar-
ried life.” On another occasion he observed that
“ The respondent had, no doubt, felt the ennui
which assailed all married people from time to
time.” Which last self-evident statement would
seem to indicate that his bewaxed Honor is pre-
pared to apply the principle of divorce on a very
wide scale indeed.
It is a beautiful and touching commentary
on allegedlv-Christian practice that many of the
biggest churches, mortgaged to the very‘apex of
their steeples, are sacking paid bell-ringers, organ-
iBts, &c. ; the übiquitous bun-struggle and bazaar
have to be run for all they are worth to rake in
money enough to keep the show going, and some
ministers, rather than submit to the ‘ special
effort ” humiliation, forego a slice of their stipends
every year. Verily the Raws is sick, and the
pietist waxes too mean to pay for his own sal-
vation.
Miss ETHEL B. BENJAMTN, LL.B., the first Maoriland
Lady Barrister.
Photo., P. L. Jones, Dunedin.
Sydney Telegraph advt.: —
n/ ANTED, a single Bedroom, with widow, no other
'' lodgers or children. Address, Comfort, P. 0.,
Park-st.
* * * *
The world will not be humorless while
nature provides boarders. Before a Melbourne
suburban court: —
Witness : Yes, I am married to the woman who was
my housekeeper, another man is supporting my children.
Mr. Kelly: Will you swear that?—Well, complainant
is living in a house with one boarder. It stands to reason.
The bench made an order for ss. per week for each
child, with £2 7s. costs ; defendant to find one surety in
£2O.
* * * »
Recent Sydney advertisement :—“ Piano :
Young lady will receive or visit pupils 2 hours
weekly; 15s. per quarter.” Sixpence-halfpenny
an hour ! “ The Rush for the Spoil ! ”
A Sydney bookshop, which often
shows rare volumes in its window, lately
displayed a very old and massive Bible,
opened at random and, as it happened,
at a chapter in Revelations wherein some
very gaudy obscenity appears. A clergy-
man, in passing, saw and read the awful
passage, which was in large enough print
to stop a whole presbytery on its way to
meeting. Horrified, the good man rushed
inside and drew the proprietor’s atten-
tion to the fact. “ Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! ”
exclaimed the bookseller, “now I shall
have to re-dress the whole window ! ”
* * * »
H. : “I suppose the Protestant
mission field is somewhat equivalent to
the nunnery, and even the monastery, for
broken hearts. Here is a case given to
me on undoubted oral authority, but I am
not aware if it has appeared in print.
A Miss went from England to India,
some years ago, and devoted herself to
the lepers. Last year she had a furlough,
and visited her mother in England. There
she developed leprosy, beginning only
with a whiteness under one finger -naii.
Immediately she returned to'lndia, and
has segregated herself with the lepers for
ever. Miss Bruce, of Melbourne, was in
grave danger in the heart of India, by
last advices. She is alone, as a white,
in a compound where the famine-stricken
are attacked by the plague. Conse-
quently, no other persons are allowed to
go there. Miss Brulb has managed to
send a brave letter to her Meec. friends.”
The “ social news ” published in some
Maoriland newspapers from their “own corres-
pondents” in “the bush” is often deliciously
naive and breathes an arcadian simplicity not
wotted of in the other provinces. Examples :
. . . Mrs. Long, being an expert musician, is an
acquisition to this district, and her valuable services will
be availed of. . . . Mr. Long is a butcher, and will
run a cart up the coast, when no doubt he will do a good
business.
. . . There were present about 14 couples who gaily
tripped the light fantastic to the musical strains of the
Komata Orchestra, consisting of two accordeons and a
mouth-organ.
It is estimated that the average cost of
getting divorced in any part of Australia is just
ten times the average cost of getting married. 'The
lawyers ahead again.
Miss Ethel R. Benjamin,
LL.B., who enjoys the distinc-
tion of being the first Maoriland
lady barrister, was born and ;
educated in Dunedin, aiid is now
22 years old. Miss Benjamin
took first place in tin provincial
E location Board Scholarship in
’B7, matriculated from the Girls’
High School in ’93, and gradua-
ted in law this year from Otago
University, where she was placed
first in the first-class div sion in
jurisprudence and in constitu-
tional history and law respec-
tively. She also headed the
Maoriland list in Roman Law,
Evidence, and Equity respec-
tively, and was bracketed first
with another in Criminal Law
and real and personal property
respectively. Miss Benjamin
was admitted as a barrister and
solicitor of the Supreme Court of
Maoriland last April, and has
commenced practice in her native
city.
** * .
A certain Tasmanian par-
son announced one Sunday that
“the usual meeting of the
Mothers’ Guild would be held.”
He went on to say that he was
grieved to find that so few joined
the association, but “if any
ladie- desired to become mothers,
would they kindly meet him in
the vestry at 7 o’clock on the
evening of the meeting.” Now
he is seeking to explain that, of
course, he meant mothers with a
capital M.
* » *
K. : Chatting with a medi-
co the other day, he expressed
the ophnion that many girls are
ruined while stupefied by hy-
podermic injections of cocaine at dentists’ offices.
• * * •
“ The white slaves of Australia.” From
Sydney D.T. :
TX/ - ANTED, a Tutor, must be high-principled, tem-
’ ’ perate, and thoroughly capable of imparting
sound commercial education to boy of 15 ; salary
small, very comfortable station home, musical pre-
ferred.
* * * *
Simultaneous advts. from Sydney Daily
Telegraph :
REGISTERED M.D. wishes an Engagement as As- .
' sistant, or something similar, willing to travel.
Address Nampos, this office.
REGISTERED M.D. wishes acquaintance with
' elderly lady of means, view to matrimony.
Write plain. Address Nampos, this office.
Desperate remedies !
SUSPTCIOUS.
J ONES: “ What's that noise in the next room, Maria?"
M ARIA: “Why, that’s tittle Willie singing 'I want to
be an angel l ’ ”
J ONES: “ Humph ! you better see what he's up to .”
An unusual instance of a matron’s fall
from grace lately came before an Australian
Divorce Court. About 20 years after her marriage
in Scotland the wife took to drink and complained
that her new life in Australia was too slow for
her. She “ wanted admiration,” and couldn’t get
enough of it at her quiet suburban residence. So
she left the old man, and went back to Scotland,
where he subsequently met the middle-aged truant
“got up in such very gaudy colors that he would
not have known her if she had not been pointed
out to him.”
* * * *
Six months ago an influential deputation,
whilst waiting upon the Westralian Railways
Minister, called his attention, amongst other
weighty matters, to the need for sheets on the
railway sleeping-berths. The Minister promised
Daffodil and Violet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From flowers faded long ago
The printed page has caught a stain ;
And, dreaming in the fire-light’s glow,
Old scenes come hack to me again.
The land-breeze blew across the broom,
Just as the white moon-crescent set;
You wore—the fairest in the room —
This daffodil and violet!
Il’e left the whirling, joyous dance ;
Unheeded might the music play
When wanton Cupid sent the chance
For you and me to steal away.
Ah, Youth is seldom over-wise !
And principles are wondrous weak
When glad lights shine in great grey eyes
And warmer gloivs a rose-dusk cheek !
The sky was pale with starry light ;
With beads of dew the lawn was wet;
On your white breast you wore that night
'1 his daffodil and violet!
0, new buds bloom as old ones die —
Those tender griefs are gone, and yet
Your sweet, faint odours breathe a sigh,
Dear daffodil and violet !
THE BREAKER.


Caledo ni an Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly reoommendetl.
33/- per Half-dozen, free lay post throughout
A u.stralia.
Patterns and Measurement forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
CELEBRATED
LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
ations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. 11. A. KO» E, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Rost, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
to give this his careful attention ; and it has at
length been officially notified that the required
boon has been granted, at a cost of half-a-crown
extra. It is gratifying to notice that members of
the W.A. Govt., when pressed upon a question
fairly within their grasp, rise gallantly to meet the
urgency of the occasion.
» • * *
The “striking” Adelaide Hospital staff
incurred .£6OO law-expenses in the attempt to
crush Drs. Leith Napier and Ramsay Smith before
the Leg. Council Select Committee, and in other
ways. The hat is now going round to sympathetic
members of the medical profession for funds to
pay the bill.
* * . * *
A young woman lately ran amok with a
revolver —wounding one person and missing
several others—in the Wellington (M.L.) district.
She had doubtless gone mad through brooding
over her family name of Looney.
* * * m
Dear Bulletin, —.Re the recent “bles-
sing ”of the Sydney Catholic Press plant. Any
R.C. who bids for clerical patronage in this way
must be very optimistic as to the permanency of
his business. It is a church rule never to sell any-
thing which has been accorded a formal priestly
benediction, so that the Press proprietors will be
within easy distance of Excommunication should
their machinery at any time be made the basis of
a cash transaction. —T.D.
At a Melb. suburban Mayor’s ball the
other evening, one of the guests was shaking hands
and bidding good night to the secretary, when a
full bottle of whisky unfortunately slipped out of
his waistcoat to the floor. He is not feeling very
well at present; in fact, he is much too ill to
attend the return ball.
* * * *
An association of honorarium magistrates,
with a club-room in the city, is mooted in Melb.
What a glorious institution this would have been
in the palmy days of Rapiport and Baxter ! Clients
could interview beaks, beaks could make terms
with clients, and all would go merry as a marriage
bell. Name of club—“ Verdict Exchange.”
» * * *
A Christchurch, M.L., pub.-keeper, the
other day, told the Court that he had in stock 102
prohibition orders, and he only knew two of the
prohibited boozers. The Court was actually sane
'enough to dismiss the case against Boniface' on the
ground that ignorance of personality manifestly
carrie d with
it absence of
intention to
offend.
IN FRISQO.-AN OTHER GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
GONE.
M R. IVANOVSKY (of San Francisco): “ Isaac , v’y do you
look so sad dis evenin’ ?”
MR. I VANOVKY: “ Ach / I vos shoost dinkin’ vat a tam fool
I haf been ofer dot Putler peezness. I haf sharped
only von hundredt tollars for abbraisin’ Putter’s hoo f' s.
I should haf sharped anoder hundredt for ‘ der tirade
inderest I took mit der sagred pause of shustice!’”
'Characteristic epistle from “Scotty the
'■W'rinlder”:—
Dear Jimmie Pannikin, per favor of Bulletin. —-It is not
anconnnon.'in fact it is usual, for civilians to think that
■•aoldiers must he bad-behaved and rude. Hogarth thought
so -vile his execution scene. Comic prints sa.v so. Even
1900 yeas ago there is record of eccentricity. Sea women
oertainly think so and like their little extravagances. At
a ball in Annesley Bay, during the Abyssinian expedition,
'1 was having a tfite-il-tete with a skipper’s lady. There
was a fine, breezy, quarter-gallery running round the
■stern of that frigate-built old liner, approached through
the captain’s cabin and the port-ditto. After looking at
"the phosphorescent flashes over the rail, my partner said :
■“ I am so agreeably surprised. We thought soldier-officers
would be so rude to us.” “ And would you like us to be
rude?” By this time my arm was half-way round her
staves. I was only hine-stone-seven then, and could only
’be half-rude—by rude —a half rudderly
* * * *
The policeman, as a social purifier, is a
very questionable blessing, anyway. At a Melb.
•court, the other week, a constable stated that in
■consequence of information received, he watched
■the prisoner meet the girl (who was under the
■a.o.c.) in one of the public gardens, “and, from a
place of concealment, saw the offence committed.”
Then the official Peeping Tom charged the prisoner
with a criminal offence to which he, the Peeper,
■had been accessory before the fact.
■ » ■* • *
A resident medico at Prospect (N.S.W.)
-attributes three cases of diphtheria which occurred
•there lately to kissing.
In the course of a discus-
sion, in Sydney Presbytery, as_ to
calling a minister to Pitt-street
Church, “ Rev. John Walker ar-
gued that the Pitt-street endow-
ment had been its weakness. It
was a disgraceful thing to invite
a minister to a city charge on a
stipend of .£2OO a year and a
manse, for he could not live as a
gentleman on that sum.” It is
talk like this that accounts for
so many people refusing to take
parsons seriously.
* * *
BLUFFING IT OUT.
HE(they have just been introduced) : “ No, I
don’t dance. I prefer looking on. See,
who is that puffy old porpoise with
the half-boiled-crayfish tint ? ”
S HE (freezingly) : “ That, sir, is Mr husband.”
HE(calmly)-. “Indeed! How strange! Now, do tell me—is he, ah, like that ALL OVER?”
The noisy announcements of the open-
handed generosity of the badged and aproned
confraternity received a homely illustration up
North, the other day. The local brotherhood
announced a ball in aid of the local hospital, and
in due course 350 persons participated in the.
benevolent enterprise. But the money handed
over, when all accounts were settled, came to <£B
19s. Gd., or just about 3d. a piece. “ The noble
charity of our Order ! ”
* * * »
A Bananaland constable must, in future,
serve four instead of three years before he can
even ask for official permission to marry Even
then he may not get the desired leave. The
department’s plea is that married and familied
policemen constitute a heavy drag on the “ mobi-
lity ” of the “ foorce.”
Chorus:
I wish I could a pleeceman be,
Each gel I met I'd face ;
For she could never bring on me
A breach-of-promise case.
And, tho’ our case seems werry ’ard,
It has, you see, that safety-guard.
* * * *
A Wellington (M.L.) church of popular
resort has noted the make-up of its collections dur-
ing the past year :
£5 note, 1 ; sovereigns, 25; half-sovs., 31; half-crowns,
372; florins, 462; shillings, 4603; sixpences, 9512; 3ds.,
15,003 ; pennies. 22! (i.
* * *
Damages for taking too much
skin is the basis of an action just
now pending in an Australian city.
T 1 ic trouble took place in an hospi-
tal. A patient was brought in
suffering from a frightful burning
accident, and, while the doctor
was attending him, a group of
pious visitors came in and wanted
to give the writhing, blackened
human cinder a tract. The doctor
said, indignantly, that it was skin,
not tracts, that was wanted, and
the pious deputation was so far
moved out of its usual groove that
its members agreed to contribute
a bit of cuticle apiece to graft on
the, sufferer. The medical gentle-
man accepted the offer and took a
sample from each tract-distributor,
and, at latest advices, one young
lady, who claims that she was
flayed recklessly and on too large
a scale, proposed to claim heavy
damages for assault, also battery
with variations. As a side issue,
it is claimed that she is a minor,
and was more or less skinned with-
out the consent of her parents,
and, altogether, the situation is
complicated.
Broken Hill has a Labor-party of two in
its municipal council. The meetings are held at
2.30 in the afternoons. One of the party is a
miner ; and when he is on day-shift his colleague
at prodigious length discusses the minutes and
stonewalls on the correspondence until at 4 o’clock
the other member knocks off work, leaves his crib-
can at the council chamber door, and takes his
seat. Then the real business is suffered to begin.
The defendant in a Small Debts
Court case at LiChgow, N.S.W., the
other day swore that he didn't know
his own wife’s handwriting (not many
husbands do). The P.M. looked
puzzled. “Did she ever write you
any love-letters?” he inquired, in
the blandest tones. The wit-
ness was equal to the occasion,
and calmly replied: “No,
yer Honor ; we done it
all by talkin’!” —Jix.
“Which his name was Ah Sin,” and he
was accused before Brisbane (Q.) Supreme Court
of chopping a constable with an axe. The China-
man defended himself, and proved himself to be an
expert cross-examiner and no mean handler of
English in his speech to the jury. One salient
point out of many : “It is said that two blows
were struck at the policeman’s head with an axe.
Now, if there were two strokes of the ay.e on the
policeman’s head, as alleged against me, the
policeman’s cap must have been cut or injured.
LEITH NAPIER, M.D., F.R.S., Ed., &c.
Senior Resident Surjeon Adelaide Hospital.
Photo ,, Scott Barry, Adelaide.
W. RAMSAY SMITH, B.A., M. B., Oh. M-
Senior Resident Physician Adelaide Hospital.
Photo., Ernest Jones, Rhyl,
Now, why did not the prosecution produce that
Cap, gentlemen ? ” The Judge dwelt strongly on
that point, and the jury acquitted the English-
speaking Chinaman. ' The Caucasian bobby is
getting played out.
*' * * *
A Mother Melb. Age in memoriam poem :
T , li - v t u.
. In sad and loving remembrance of — , the
dearly beloved daughter of and .who died at
_ j on .
Ia the midst of life we are in death.
A daughter rare ; yes, there are but few,
Who to her parents was ever kind and true ;
A s:sier whose love for us will never be forgot;
It we were to be punished .she would always take the lot.
Inserted by her loving father, mother and sister Eliza-
betii.
* * * *
“ The Guildhall Ball, the jubilee event of
a jubilee Mayor, was a scene of magnificent patchi-
ness and chaotic brilliancy,” writes an Australian
abroad to The Bulletin. “His Grace and His
Grease were there in both sexes; the former
clumpy in the legs and rickety in the eye, the
latter exudingly unctuous in his obeisance to him.
Westocracy, city-ocracy and suburbooracy were
there in all their pleasure-paint and shoddy
stencilling, but snobocracy claimed in loud, tin-
kettling tones a large majority of the 4400 said to
be present. Six or seven rooms were used for the
toe-skipping performance, at which there wei*e
more shirkers than workers; three or four-rooms
supplied refreshments, and three single.-hour con-
cert programmes were inflicted on crowded audi-
ences in the central chamber one after another.
The catering, in Sydney or Melbourne, would
have sent the responsible Mayor back to his bqrreL
bung or sheep-slicing at the very next election.
Just a rough and ready stand-up struggle whero
he who tipped wisely and well tippled freely and
often, and the uncanny man got a sore throat
from the dry, nutmeg-grater sides rubbing together
in chafing irritation. Dishes of dismembered
poultry and shabby chips of ham were hurled
broadcast on the table, and all speared at them
with their forks in unison ; if you were 10 seconds
behind, you impaled the dish pattern and cursed
the successful. The champagne ?—well, I trust
I’m too much of a gentleman to refer to the mis-
fortunes of others. The poverty of that wine was
something to be obliterated by a ‘ two of gin.’”
• * »
Dear Bulletin, — Re the Lascar’s reli-
ability in emergency, I think most of his reputa-
tion for the lack thereof is due simply to cold.
A low-air temperature he appears to stand fairly 1
well, but the wash of a cold sea—rapidly Cxtrac- '
tive enough of a white man’s vitality— seems’ ’
simply to shrivel the Lascar up, as if from the ’
effect of intense heat. Instance ; Voyaging Once”
in a “country ” (locally-built) ship from Rangoon ”
to Gilolo, we fell in with one of the comparati vely
cold S.E. blows you sometimes get thereabouts
before the change of monsoon —carried away our •
foremast, and had a lively time, with seas break- 1
ing clean over us at intervals for about 36 hours,
at the end of which period two Lascars of the '
crew were dead, and other three all but,- though
the rest (Javanese and Chinkies) were little the
worse. An instance of what I have known the >
Lascar do when the soul wasn’t chilled out of him
I have embodied in a yarn which has been in your
possession for over two years, and which cannot
therefore have been vamped-up to meet the ease.— :
Alex. M. . >
»** . t ,
An old man of 80 was brought before, •
Werribee (Vic.) court the other day pn a charge of
“insulting behaviour.” He had been found
starving, The magistrates ordered him to .be
taken to hospital, but he added to his previous ip-'
suiting behaviour by dying in court. They oveu
looked this second offence, setting jt down to
thoughtlessness and not to deliberate contepipt of
the bench. Two constables carried out the corpse,
* * * * '
Upon this page are shown portraits of
Drs. Ramsay Smith and Leith Napier, Resident
Surgeon and Resident Physician at Adelaide
Hospital, who have been recently outlawed by the
British Medical Association for their connection
with the hospital trouble. This famous quarrel
began three years ago in the simplest fashion
possible. Dr* Perks, then Medical Superinten-
dent, chose Miss Gordon, a sister of the then Chief
Secretary, as Superintendent of Night Nurses,
and when a charge of favoritism was preferred,
because a number of senior nurses had been passed
over, he asserted that, she was “ the only charge ■
nurse ” fit to take the position. This led to an
indignant protest by a number of the nurses senior
to Miss Gordon, and, their conduct being con-
sidered contumelious, they were called upon to
apologise. All did so except Miss Hawkins, a
charge nurse, and Miss Graham, a probationer,
and these two were dismissed by the Board.
Thereupon Parliament intervened, the result
being the appointment of a Royal Commis-
sion to enquire into the matter. The
Commission reported that Miss Gordon should
not have been appointed, but that, as she
was not in any way to blame, she should be con-
tinued in office. It ordered, however, the re-
instatement both of Miss Hawkins and Miss
Graham—provided, however, that both the ladies
should first apologise to the Board ; and this they
did in the form prescribed. Notwithstanding
this, the Board refused to reinstate them, so when
its term of office expired the Govt, did not re-
appoint any of the members —who, it may be said,
just before they vacated their seats had put back
Miss Hawkins under protest. The new Board,
taking office in March, 1895, at once reinstated
Miss Graham. Then began the troubles with the.
hon. medical and surgical staff. They demanded
(1) that l")r. Hynes, a non-member of the South
Australian branch of the British Medical
Association, who had been given a seat on
the Board, should be called on to resign ;
(2) that they should have representation on the
Board; and (.3) that Miss Graham should
be removed. l)r. Hynes, for the sake of peace,
resigned, and the desiderated representation
on the Board was offered; but the Govern-
ment definitely refused to send Miss Graham
avvay. So the members of the hon. staff for-
warded their resignations and gave the Govern-
ment to understand that on a certain date named
they would vacate their positions. Applications
for resident medical men were at once invited;
and Govt, medical officers, with volunteers from
among the city doctors who placed humanity
before “ professional etiquette,” went into the
Hospital to look after the patients when the
original staff left. Drs. Leith Napier and Ramsay
Smith, who were chosen in England, arrived
about 15 months ago. The jealous Adelaide
brethren moved the B.M.A. to erase their names
from its membership-list—which was recently
done. And Drs. Smith and Napier, incredible as
it may seem, still survive ; and the Adelaide Hos-
pital receives and heals patients precisely as for
merly—or possibly a little better than formerly.
0, mother says another boarder’s coming in to-night,
And we must put clean blouses on, and make ourselves
look bright;
For he’s something in the Survey, or he’s something in
the Lands,
And mother hopes so much he’ll take a daughter off her
hands.
You see, it wouldn’t matter were there only two or three,
But live of us are waiting by the orange-blossom tree ;
We get ourselves up nicely, and try every way we can —
But don’t you think it’s really very hard to catch a mm ?
Yet mother says when she was young, and looking round
herself,
You hardly ever saw a decent girl upon the shelf;
But now ! I’m twenty-two, and Clara’s thirty in the
spring,
And not a single girl of us has ever had a ring.
I don’t mind telling you that once —it’s private, this, you
know—
There was—O-such-a-nice boy ! worked forHaberdash and
Co. ;
He used to kiss me on the stairs, when mother wasn’t by,
And then, somehow, he faded off—l often wonder why !
So mother says another boarder’s coming in to-night,
And we must do our hair up well, and make ourselves
look bright ;
And study what his tastes are, and catch him if we can ;
Yet somehow I’m not hopeful—O, I wish I was a man !


Will you accept our
Invitation
Ladies’ Glace Kid Shoes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6J.
Ladies’ Glace Kid Boots, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s.
Gent’s Calf Lace Boots, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 28s fid.
Gent’s Calf Lace Shoes, 19s 6d, 26s 6d.
Callaghalj & Sop,
89C George-st, Sydney
In this paper every week we give an
urgent invitation to every reader of The
Bulletin to try a pair of Callaghan
Boots. The leather in a Callaghan
Boot is as it should he
boot—every stitch taken with care ; the
shape exactly right; nothing skimped ;
nothing slighted.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture tfc Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 aeorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, In the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assist ed by a competent staff.
JiS r ’ Sales Held, at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltkh Bradt-by * Co., 324 George st
© ©
M
dRRoWRpor
SNVsS
|RI|ILPRBI)y
~ Food 4
eh
9 ® ®
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ „ Sydney, August 24, 1897.
Mr Dear Mtee—
Miss Flora Shaw, who has been so much slated
over the famous S. African telegrams, was a
much-fussed-over celebrity when she visited Aus-
tralia, two or three years ago. It wasn’t solely
the great paper that she represented that in safety
lighted her round this green isle; she reduced
several public men to dust and ashes, and press-
men were as wax in her hand. A story is told
u°xr* Shavv conversing with a member of
the Victorian Cabinet during a train-journey; at
first, the great man answered her queries on his
own particular topic with smiling condescension,
but by the journey’s end he was limp and flabby,
and mopping his fevered brow. The lady had
tackled him on his own ground, and fairly beaten
him off the field. She has a large following still.
One correspondent wails in print about the rude-
ness of the picture-paper artists who drew her in
court as a “plain, ill-dressed woman,” and
described her as “elegance itself.” As a matter
of fact, you wouldn’t remark her clothes; she’s
neither a doll nor a dowd, but a plainly-dressed,
slender, dark-eyed woman, with much charm of
manner and illimitable “go”—in some respects
strongly recalling the universally-admired Mrs.
Harry M‘Quade, of Sydney. At Bendigo are
still tenderly preserved a lengthy pair of over-
shoes, pointed out as the shoes worn by Miss Shaw
when making her descent into a celebrated mine ;
the shelf on which the goloshes stand is wide, but
there isn’t much room for any other bric-k-brae
on it.
A novel scheme for mammoth self-advertising
has been hit upon by a wealthy and clever London
woman, by name Mrs. Phillips. Her idea is to
form a sort of “ combine ” of women’s clubs of
every variety of usefulness or uselessness, and
call it the “Women’s Institute.” The plan of
operations is bewilderingly vague and comprehen-
sive. It contemplates keeping in stock lady-lec-
turers on all sorts of topics ready to be turned on
at a moment's notice, and a special feature is a
question-answering bureau,” where anxious en-
quirers may get recipes for raspberry-jam or re-.
moving freckles ; also, a lobbyist is to be employed
to look after the great “ woman question ” should
it crop up in bills before the Commons. A ramb-
ling yarn in the S.M. Herald a few days ago gave
these facts embodied in much language. How
very flowery the new woman is ! In the verbiage
of the first pars., there are traces of the “ noble
aims crystallised to glorious fulfilment ” which
flittered among the gems of speech in the Austral
alon prospectus, written by Miss Hirst Brown
(Mrs. Alexander). She is now Hyde Parking it
among the London social-reformers, and was the
first to boom Mrs, Phillips’ plar the Australian
press.
What does a woman's club amount to, anyhow?
The enthusiasts gird at men’s clubs for being the
“grave of ideals, sepulchral monuments of selfish
seeking of comfort where any notions of serving
the progress of mankind would be withered in the
atmosphere.” Sounds like Mrs. Caudle, and the
very thing that nagged-at man wants to get away
from. But all the ideals promulgated by the
women’s clubs as yet are the drawing-room fetishes
of social agonies and light refreshment. The Vic-
toria Salon is crowded every Friday afternoon
with a well-behaved and befrilled crowd showing
the chastened joy of an all-women gathering;
after a burst of chatter over tea-and-scones, they
depart as from an afternoon call. It is a success
socially, but doesn’t take much stock in ideals.
The evening debating struggles to which men are
attracted are much more lively musterings.
One scheme that means business is worth dozens
of organisations with their heads in the clouds and
no practical foothold. The proposed registry-office
for qualified teachers and governesses reads like
something with sense in it. The means of bring-
ing employer and employed together in the
governessing business are vague and muddled.
There is still clinging to the occupation the “ gen-
teel” notion that a “young lady ” would only go
out and teach among friends. If the barnacles of
“kind recommendation and patronage” by “the
Nicest only ” are to be cleared away, a well-
organised employment bureau managed by edu-
cated and disinterested women is the thing to do
it. It would save many ill-spared, fruitless regis-
tration fees on the part of girls seeking employ-
ment ; might, in time, raise salaries and become a
Governesses’ Union. Such a body, properly run on
trade-union lines, would benefit both teacher and
taught and is only rendered impossible by false
t professional ” pride which refuses to sink to
“ trade ” devices for protection.
A smart Melb. presswoman seized on Mrs.
Turner, on her return, and wormed cut facts
about her English tour from the newly-arrived
Premieress. She declared that her five weeks
among the jubilators were one continuous hustle—
only one day for shopping in the month, but pro-
bably hubby Turner is thanking his stars for that.
And she marvels at the price of “ things ” at the
head centre. They have a sliding scale of prices
m the Big Smoke. To sail into a palatial store
(per Royal carriage) and give Hotel Cecil as an
address is to invite pillage. As an unlabelled per-
son she could have ravaged the July sales for half
the money. Also, she wipes the vaunted lilies
and roses off the cheeks of J. Bull’s wife and
daughters by saying that those imaginary poetic
vegetable hues do wipe off. The London com-
plexion she pronounces a “fake.” The lady’s
maid must be a rouge-and-powder artist or she
isn’t worth her salt.
Local complexion-menders call their art face-
massage. Nearly every Nice woman now under-
goes a course of treatment by having her face par-
boiled over a steam-bath, some vigorous pound-
ings by the artist’s fingers, and a succession of
washes squirted on her features from a vaporiser.
Some trained nurses add this profitable branch to
their biz. with joyful results. The final touch-up
with color to cheek and eyebrow is optional, but
even without it, the patient looks years younger
and cleaner after the operation.
The Mayoress had a tea-and-tattle struggle on
Friday afternoon. Guests arrived in large num-
bers and shook hands with Mrs. Ives in one of the
side-rooms of the Town Hall. In another, music
and singing went on undisturbed By this wise
arrangement the performers were heard, as the
cackle was minimised by being distributed through
three rooms. No eye-arresting gowns were pre-
sent. August is the lowest of ebb-tides in frock-
ing. Winter dresses have been trotted out at this
month's shivoo preparatory to their taking their
departure before the coining spring glories.
The slow poison which lurks in the deadly
buttered muffin was pointed out by Dr. Dagmar
Berne on Monday afternoon at her lecture on In-
digestion—one of the series “for ladies only,”
arranged by the Sanitary Association. The room
was crowded, and some interested listeners had
to mount back seats to get a glimpse of the lectur-
ess, who discoursed on victuals and their often fatal
results. Among other things she had a slap at
vegetarianism, and reprobated the idea of confin-
ing one’s diet to grass. The audience frequently
applauded the sentiments, and then the great
majority went home to preside over the same old
meal of hot buttered toast and cold corned beef,
washed down by scalding tea, and to wonder why
the old man seems to be getting more and more
grey and haggard with despepsia as the years
roll on.
On Tuesday Dr. Muskett delivered an appeal to
his fellow-countrymen not to eat so much meat,
but to fill up on salads. But somehow Austra-
lians despise all sorts of grass, just as they despise
wine when beer and whisky are available. The
vegetable John’s “welly ni’lettucee,” makes cus-
tomers sniff suspiciously ; they doubt the cleanli-
ness and abjure all salad stuff in consequence.
A dreamy cradle-song, labelled simply “ Ber-
ceuse,” has been sent me. The words, both
French and English, are prettily poetic, and are
set to music by Liza Lehmann, whose name stands
for charming melody always. Another new song,
“ Trust me for ever ” (words by Algernon Linds,
music by John D. Davis), is an unconvincing little
wail which seems to pursue a small tune and fail
signally to overtake it. W. J. Ellis, of New-
castle, has “ dedicated by kind permission ” to
Her Ex. a really tuneful waltz which possesses big
chances of becoming popular. It certainly de-
serves a more attractive and imaginative title
than the “Brand Waltz,” which it bears, and,
although there is nothing strikingly original about
the composition, every bar of it is distinctly dance-
able.
At the Hambourg concerts, which it is the cor-
rect thing to attend and afterwards prattle about,
it is amusing to note the reserved-seat fillers
drowse dreamily during the long fantasias and
thunderous polonaises crashed forth by Mark, and
then shake themselves together and clap vocifer-
ously. The smart way to clap is to beat the, hands
together, holding them well up at about nose-level
so that barbarians sitting around may see the
impulsive joy which the clapper feels when the
performer leaves off. Most of the real musical
enthusiasm comes from the back-seats, where the
audience are mostly students and ardent amateurs
who go for love of their hobby or to study their
art. Admirers of the two brothers Hambourg
have now placed Jakoff on a pedestal beside
Mark : they say he is as soulful. The fiddle is a
torturesome implement if not wisely treated, and
little “Jasher” is putting more and more soul
into his playing at every concert. Mark is all
head, and his brother all heart. On Saturday
evening, at the end of the show, Manager Lem-
mone brought forward the two Hambourgs and
presented them to the filing-out Govt. House
party. Gov. Hampden seized each by his hand,
dropped it hastily, and walked on ; then the pro-
cession, which had come to a momentary stand-
still, re-formed, and the youthful geniuses right-
about-faced for the ante-room. The curtailed
little ceremony fell very flat.
A Maoriland paper publishes, at the tail of much
flourishing description, a wilted little interview
with its new Gov. Ranfurley, obtained, ostensibly,
at Sydney by a special reporter sent in the Govt,
steamer Tutenaki. Following the example of the
Argus, which scored by despatching the highest-
toned young man on its staff to meet the arriving
Sunbeam at Albany, the N. 2. Times envoy
journeyed hither. But his plans of worming state
secrets out of the vice-regal breast evidently didn’t
work. The printed interview contains a column
and a half of original foaming billows and seasick-
ness and one stick of alleged personal talk which
had all been remarked in other papers davs before.
The Maoriland hireling can’t have possessed the
savoir faire of the Melb. pressman, who was done
by his subject on velvet, had a special man told
off to wait on him, dined with the family and was
asked to Lady B. ’s own den for afternoon tea.
. The spring exhibition of the Society of Artists
is to include, beside the exhibits in the legitimate,
various side-shows; one will be a display of
posters, the very latest fashionable artistic craze.
Many examples of the street pictures—chiefly
from Paris—which beautify city hoardings will be
on view. Also, there will be exhibits of wood,
leather and china, hand-painted and otherwise
adorned by art. The two rival annual shows will
this year be almost next door to each other. No. 70
Pitt-street is the home of the old original Art
Society, and its front door will be officially
opened to the public by His Ex., on 11th Sept.
The Society of Artists has hung up its “God-
bless-our-home ” at 7fi Pitt-street, and sports its oak
until 2nd Oct. Among other attractions there was
to have been played an original operetta intro-
ducing local artistic celebrities ; but complications
have arisen which make intending performers’
plans without form and void..
Mrs. Eddy, widow of the late Commissioner of
Railways, is having more than her share of trouble.
Last week she received news that her 16-year-old
son, Edward, visiting a station near Nevertire,
had met with a serious accident. Young Eddy
was thrown from his horse and rendered uncon-
scious. but he is fortunately now recovering.
A Sydney girl has just distinguished herself at
the Royal Academy Art School in London, by
being the first Australian student'to gain a scholar-
ship there, thus winning free tuition for three
years from the best painters and sculptors. Miss
Allison Vivian was prepared in Sydney for her
exam, at the Moore-Jones studio.
Sydney girls were badly beaten at golf at the
Bondi links by a Victorian team of lady putters
and drivers. Down South the ambulatory sport
has been the vogue for years. Enthusiastic
women have lugged out to Caulfield heavy checks
ever since the ilopetouns made it fashionable to
be Scotch, but it’s quite a new start for the local
Nicest girls. They have not had as much prac-
tice as the Southerners, and, besides, they seem to
become tired sooner, and want to sit down and
admire the view between their drives at the
minute ball, which has an exasperating way of
never answering its helm. The new club-house is
to be opened on Saturday afternoon by Gov.
Hampden, who is ex-officio devoted to the game.
The necessary weapons are so numerous and so
expensive that it is the hall-mark of swelldom to
play “goff.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ ’Tis rumored that the crisp, go-ahead daughter
of a southern Governor keeps # a tight hand on the
domestic reins of the Big House during the tem-
porary retirement of its lawful mistress. The
same pretty young woman, with totally different
coloring, facially reproduces her canny father’s
small, firm mouth and decided nose, and looks a
long time at every shilling (considering her youth).
Had the lady not been bom with a golden spoon
in her mouth, she would, probably, have proved
herself possessed of the family money-making, as
she certainly is of its money-saving, knack.
“ The musicians who perform from time to time
at Lady Brassey’s private ‘At Homes’ are not
paid a fee. Things are worked on much more
economical lines. Lord Neville writes a suave
letter to an artist intimating that her ladyship is
giving an At Home on such a date, and would she
(or he) kindly help in the entertainment by con-
tributing a few items ? When the artist signifies a
willing hand, she (or he) receives a formal invita-
tion to her musical At Home. The artist gives up
the afternoon to trill or jingle in the vice-regal
drawing-room. Lord Shaftesbury offers up a
ballad, the Freeman-Thomases take small parts in
the harmonious struggle and —everybody is de-
lighted.
“ By the way, I am told that many of the pro-
fessional musicians who charge three and five
guineas for a performance either in public or
private earn be persuaded to charge half that sum
on condition that they are put down or announced
as giving their services gratuitously. Verily,
* Work is Disgraceful.’
“At present, Austral Salonites are suffering a
reaction after the hopes and fears, jealousies and
baffled ambitions inseparable from the annual vice-
regal visitation which happened on Thursday
night (August 19). The Governor and Mrs.
Freeman Thomas came as joint substitutes for
Lady Brassey, who is trying to hurry up her con-
valescence in Sydney sunshine. His Ex., who
was down on tire programme for a reading, but
absconded from the platform after a short speech,
was wheedled on again to render a few lines of
Stevenson’s amidst a storm of feminine applause.
“ Mdlle. Dreyfus gave her first conference at
Guvmentouse this season, under the auspices of the
Brasseys, on Tuesday nigtit, which was miserably
cold and wet. The attendance was weak, the
audience sympathetic, the lecture—just as lectures
go. Miss Buckley (the amateur, not the clever
professional) played a pianoforte jingle, to enliven
matters ; and some of the intellectual suggest that
a little singing be introduced anon. Perhaps Mr.
Rickards will be solicited by Lady Brassey to
kindly lend the Selbinis, or somebody else from
the Opera House firmament, to vary the bill.
“ On Friday (20th), at St. Kilda Town Hall,
Premier Turner and family underwent the inspec-
tion of loyal constituents, assembled at the bidding
of the local Mayor. Onlookers agreed unani-
mously that ‘ the old man himself,’ as he is called
in his own suburb, was the least altered of the
party. He still clings to tweeds and bob-tail
jackets, his eyes are as round as ever, and, when
not pump-handling supporters, his clasped hands
hang straight down in front in the old, meek way.
Nevertheless, in spite of these lovable landmarks,
the wanderer has embellished his social demeanor
by a few subtle airs and graces. At the Town
Hall that afternoon, though palpably worn, weary,
and fit for bed, he persevered with his nods and
becks and wreathed smiles until untravelled
brother politicians, looking on open-mouthed, felt
themselves wooden oafs iti comparison.
( “ Hi* womankind, of course, go one better than
Pa,’ and, at the reception, bowed from the waist
and shook hands from the shoulder, and smiled so
constantly and expansively that spectators ached
in every muscle for sympathy. Other women, en-
viously discussing their almost Parisian vivacity
of address, surmised that deportment, like every-
thing else, can be easily acquired in London, and
that some grande dame, less reposeful than any of
the dear Princesses, must have served the apt
Australiennes for a model.
With Mrs. Turner’s silver - flowered navy
blue gown, she wore a cute little zouave, slashed
with white lace and touched with turquoise blue
over a bodice of cream moire and lace. Her pale-
grey straw toque was smothered in white trim-
mings like a young widow’s wedding bonnet. Her
daughter had pink poplin and pink tartan silk
Both gowns stood out in stiff, well-built folds at
the back, and had the trigr French waists and
assertive curves elsewhere, too seldom seen out-
side fashion-books. Meantime, while the guests
of the day sparkled and gushed, their hosts
languished on their dais hard by, and by contrast
looked as immobile as the figures in successful
tableaux vivants.
“The festive hats and gowns brought back to
our shores by the wives and daughters of jubilating
Australian politicians look over gay and floral
in our present wintry weather. No doubt they
showed to better advantage in London on that
roasting 22nd June, when the ambulances were
full of “ sunstroke ” cases, Last Saturday, two of
the returned wanderers were on view, flitting in
and out of the bargain-shops at the unfashionable
end of Bourke-street. They were resplendent aa
to their heads, but their frocks, in their first youth,
could never have attained even Melbourne high-
water mark.
“ The Mayor of one of Melbourne’s many
1 cities ’ is a thoroughly practical admirer of the
New Woman. Lately a lady medico hung out her
red lamp in the neighborhood, whereupon the
civic potentate went off and purchased a ticket for
the complimentary return ball, which was about
to be tendered to him, and sent it along to the
fair practitioner as a means of introducing her to
a large circle of desirable future patients. She
came, saw, and conquered. Dozens of men in that
district are prepared to catch the first mild com-
plaint that offers, and call in the dear kind doctor,
whose bright smile haunts them still.
“ The ‘ splendid match ’ which a popular Aus-
tralian stage lady was supposed to have struck
turns out, I regret to hear, to be not a bit more
splendid than the average matrimonial experience
of the average actress who is wooed with floral
tributes. Having said this much, to enter into
details would be superfluous.
“ The latest sensation in Block identities is a
damsel of the bean-pole order, approaching six
feet, with ebon locks. On special days the lofty
stranger comes forth in a shot skirt and blouse of
orange-hued silk, with lavish trimming of bright,
grass-green velvet. To add a little more variety
the blaze of color is crowned by a large hat-load of
flowers, with a huge rose-tinted bow towering
above the structure.
“All the sweet, womanly sympathy of a Southern
suburb is just now directed towards the interest-
ing, young, High Church curate, who has been
cruelly and relentlessly jilted by his lady-love, just
h,s he was dreaming of wedding-bells. The story
goes that the lady turned from her faithful curate
to look at a lord.
“Miss Mary Callanan, artist and postu-
lant, was completing a life-size portrait of the lats
Signor Cecchi when his death put an end to tha
sittings. The painter, with a pretty air *f senti-
ment and sacrifice, has left the work unfinished
(the friends of the dead Signor can’t persuade her
to apply the finishing-touches), and a funeral
drapery hangs around the canvas in token of her
feelings on the subject. The picture will per-
haps go out of mourning at the twelvemonth.
Miss Callanan, an attractive brunette, is a fair
Italian scholar, having learnt the language from
poor old Cecchi.
“Dr. J. Harbinson, the estimable bacnelor-poet
of Brighton, has embodied the public spasm of
regret at Baronet Clarke’s death in an In
Menxoriam dirge, sent and inscribed to the widow.
It does not transpire how that sorrowing lady re-
garded the ode, but, for the present, she will keep
it, like all her belongings, in the dark. The
‘ original ’ Lady Clarke, as some people call her,
has taken her weeds and family to Franks ton to
the temporary seclusion of a picturesque villa.
“Six nights of ‘Lelamine,’ at the Princess’s
brought a net profit of £217 for the charities,
thanks to the fact that principals and chorus—
about 100 in all —performed gratis. The balance-
sheet, which reveals gross takings of close upon
£lOOO, doesn’t state whether the Govt. House
crowd departed from their usual custom by cash-
ing up for their seats in this instance. Probably
they didn’t. Lord Brassey, at any rate, has
established a record as a vice-regal deadhead,
whereas Hopetoun, of yore, made his reign notable
(after a while) by paying his way at conceits and
theatrical shows even when h»*i patronage had been
earnestly implored.
“In Lady Hopetoun’s early Melbourne days,
she once ventured down Collins-street on foot, bub
was so stared at and dogged from pillar to post
by a crowd of inquisitive women that she fled
through a shop back-door, and never again in-
spected the city without bringing along a carriage
strongly fortified by flunkeys, as a basis of retreat.
“Baron Brassey’s womankind, untroubled by
shyness, bike into the heart of the town ‘on their
own ’ whenever they want a box of hairpins, and
dismount from a dog -cart for a refresher in a tea-
room, without a misgiving. Last Saturday morn-
ing, Mrs. Freeman Thomas, in a royal-purple
coat and skirt, tripped briskly through the traffic
with hubby at her heels. After all, ‘Shanks’;
pony’ is the safest mode of transit in this demo-
cratic land, where a Governor’s lady in her landau
may be staked by the shaft of an anarchistic run-
away, before the eyes of her own flunkeys.
“On Saturday evening (August 21st), Theodore
Fink, M.L.A., threw open the doors of his bran-
new Balaklava mansion to over 60 East Melb.
harriers. When the guests had brushed up after
their run, they were turned loose in the library
and picture-gallery, where they amused them-
selves with elaborate arguments as to the pro-
bable cost of the contents until the supper-bell
rang. There was speech-making of course, and the
host, divulging his own unsuspected passion for
athletics, explained that the ‘ punching-ball ’ and
other gymnastic appliances in evidence were for
his personal enjoyment in halcyon moments of
leisure.
“ Now that the exhibition of loan pictures
nears its end, people hurry up to take a last (and
in many cases a first) peep. As revealed by the
catalogue, two or three Melbourne residents, one
of them a civil servant, have indulged in portraits
of themselves, or belongings, by Millais, who is
popularly believed never to have charged less than
1000 guineas for a work of this description. But
it’s wiser to employ an expert for a portrait or go
without. Compare, for instance, Millais’ concep-
tion of Hon. Simon Fraser with the picture of his
brother-M.L.C., J, A. Wallace, by another brush.
The former has invested his not particularly beau-
tiful subject with a saving touch of life and indi-.
viduality; the latter is merely the cold-blooded
presentment of a hard-faced person dressed in his
Sunday clothes.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. . .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera , £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £lf. l/.s.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 Georoe Street, SYDNEY;
200 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
k uppers Elberfeld Lager
MABii
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHfN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Graham Berry is 75 years old to*day (Aug.
28).
A grandson of Gavan Duffy, the ex-Speaker
literarian, is the literary light of Riverview Jesuit
College, Parramatta River.
Vestibule chatter : “There is still talk of
the Duke of York coming to Australia ” “Is
Harry Rickards bringing him, too? ”
Postmaster-General Cook is the youngest
member of N.S.W. Ministry. He is 38 ; Car-
ruthers—“ young Carruthers ” he is still called—
is 40.
There is already a photo, in Adelaide of
Premier Kingston in full Court dress (cocked hat,
sword and all), sent out by Playford in a malicious
mood.
The protracted litigation over W. C.
Wentworth’s will illustrates once more that it is
as dangerous for a lawyer to be his own client as
for a client to be his own lawyer.
Gregory Joseph the First, the Patriarch
of Antioch and head of the Syrian Church in
Sydney, whose death was reported last week,
went to school with Cardinal Moran.
The widely-known Dan Mayne is not now
of Bathurst Sentinel. He some time ago re-
turned to his native Windsor, where, by the way,
his father was a nail-maker in the old days.
Whispered that barrister G. H. Reid will
be made a Q.C. It would not be dignified that a
“Right Honorable” should wear only “stuff”
whilst practising his profession, small though the
practice may be.
The hopeless smash in the Joe Clarke case
—assets =6350,000, liabilities .£1,000,000 sug-
gests that, after all, the most satisfactory way of
bursting up big estates is bequeathing them to
jovial spendthrifts.
A certain titled politician returned to Aus-
tralia, last week, with blushing honors thick upon
him, only to find his business partner insane, and
his partner’s wife being installed as hostess of a
very smart public-house.
Anagram, got by Insomnia out of Medita-
tion (on the “ paralysis of Justice ” : — Hon. Albert
John Gould, Minister for Justice, is_ resolvable by
anagramic process into — N. 8.: Jejunic heartless
ghoul ! No droit from it!
Said that a Oollins-st. medico, not long
back in possession of a fine practice, now employs
a canvasser who makes a house-to-house tour of
the suburbs, with especial regard to those the
dates of whose recent marriages have been care-
fully noted.
Gov. Buxton visits Sydney next month,
partly, it is said, to get out of the necessity of at-
tending the Adelaide Eight Hours’ Demonstration.
His public utterances have been so caustically
criticised that he now dreads making an appear-
ance on a platform, and he does not seem to have
nows enough to master a speech written for him by
anyone else.
Eighteen persons are
privileged for life to travel
“on the nod” over the
N.S.W. State railways,
viz. : Barton, Abbott,
Lackey, Darley, J. Wat-
son, M.L.C., Dibbs, Jus-
tice G. B. Simpson, John
Rae, S. Woore, F. B. Sut-
tor, W. H. Snttor, J. T.
Burns, Ministers Young,
Brnnker, Carruthers,
Smith, Could, and one
lady—Miss Cowper,
daughter of one-time
Premier Cowper.
In a W.A, Warden’s
court. Warden (to wit-
ness) : “ Well, what did
he say then?” Witness:
“ I’d" rather not say, your
worship.” Warden:
“You’re not here to »iiy
only what you like. I ask
you now once more,” &c.,
&c. Witness (cheerfully):
“If your honor would let
me tell you privately when
the court is over
Warden (furiously): “If
you don't answer at once
I ’ 11 —A ' Witness:
“ M ist 1 -ffve hi sexact
words?” Warden : “Cer-
tainly ! ” Witness :“ He
said, * I’d rather chuck up
my case than have it heard
before a damned pompous
fool of a warden.’” Cur-
tain ! Yet another epi-
sode : Warden: “You
think your.-elf very smart.
You know a lot about the
law.” Witness: “O, no,
your worship, my smat-
tering of the law is very
crude, ’ Warden (some-
what mollified) : “ You
seem to think you know
more than I, however.”
Witness (modestly) : “ O,
yes, your worship.”
At the Jubilee dinner of the Women
Writers of London, the usual address of loyalty
was prepared and headed, “To Victoria: Queen,
Empress, Author.” Author ! Who says that
women have no sense of humor?
Mr. Thomas Broughton, formerly Mayor
of Sydney (1847) whose portrait recently appeared
in The Bulletin, has lived at Bradley Hall, Glen-
more Road, Paddington, for 53 years. On Satur-
day last he celebrated the 59th anniversary of his
marriage.
One of the sights of Ade-
laide just now is Pastor
Jefferis on a bicycle.
Melb. : “ This week
there died the widow of one
of those M’sP. whose mis-
fortunes precipitated pay-
ment of members. Lender
the Old Hat regime, a mass
of gentlemen, preachers, and
what-not got into Parlia-
ment with no financial basis.
Three of them became for-
gers, under different oircum
stances, and all underwent
conviction and sentence.
One was smuggled out of
gaol, and became an Ameri-
can newspaper-editor. An-
other bolted to Callao, but
was so miserable there that
he returned, without extra-
dition, gave himself up to
justice, and paid his scot
like a man. This was the
individual now more imme-
diately under notice.”
A very neat thing in the
way of self-advt. is done by
a man named Joseph, who
writes to a South African
paper that he helped a man
named Joel to call “Man
overboard ” when Barney
Barnato disappeared off the
s.s. Scot into the Atlantic.
The papers had mentioned
that Barnato was drowned,
and that Joel raised a yell
as he disappeared, but the
fact that Joseph helped Joel
to yell hadn’t been men-
tioned, and Joseph wrote
about it. Joseph is a fine
sample of that third party
who interferes in every
worldly concern—the third
man who helps the second
man to point out that the
first man is drowning.
At one inquest, at least, the late Coroner
Youl refused to act, as the dead man was a per-
sonal friend of his own almost from boyhood in
Tasmania. The deceased, was John Price, Vic.
Inspector-General of Prisons, murdered by con-
victs at Williamstown breakwater in March, 1857.
The jubilee tidal-wave of snobbery in Eng-
land washed into Premier Turners hands the
intimation that he had the right to a “ baronetcy
in abeyance ” —the Jearnesy communicator of the
intelligence being, apparently, as unaware as the
recipient that baronetcies don’t “abey.”
Turner, of Victoria, was the first Premier
to gee back from the Jubilee, and he returned
worn-out, sick and all broken up. It is even said
that a serious operation may be necessary to vet
the Jubilee refreshments out of his system. The
other six jaundiced wrecks are arriving by instal-
ments.
“THE LAST OF SIX."
With such painful frequency are a certain
unpopular C.J.’s decisions upset on appeal to the
Full Court, that certain sporting members of the
bar are always ready to offer a layman odds on a
reversal upon appeal.
The Australian Premiers, whilst in Eng-
land, received an invitation (from a lady) to
attend a concert of Irish music in Dublin. The
invite concluded with a polite request that the
Australians would attend in “ their native cos-
tumes.” Imagination totters at the thought of
George Reid in a native costume.
CHARLES LTLLEY, late ex-Chief Justice of Queensland.
Photo., A. Lomer, Brisbane.
An exchange re the N.S.W. hangman :
Hunginan Howard is a great horse-breaker. His Bondi
residence is over a mile away along the beach front the
nearest (tub., and Howard puts sixpence in a hilly every
lunch-time and sends his horse off with the can in his
month for a supply of beer. Sometimes, larrikins try to
intercept the money, sometanc-s the beer. On these oc-
casions the noble animal keeps off his inferiors by moving
in a circle with his heels outwards and his f head as the axis.
Sixty-six years ago, John Bax first struck
Mudgee (N.S. W.). He was the driver of the first
mail conveyance that ever reached the town. He
has just celebrated his golden wedding, having
been married in Mudgee in ’47 by the late Arch-
deacon Gunther. At the jubilee dinner, the com-
bined ages of the Bax family present totalled 697
years. Mr. and Mrs. Bax are the oldest surviving
couple in Mudgee.
Warnford Lock, manager of the Went-
worth (N.S.W.) mines, and at present “the best-
hated man on Lucknow,” is aggressively English
in sentiment, and used to boast that he had
specially imported all accountants, clerks, and
persons in authority at the mines. Eventually—
well, the relative integrity of Britishers and
“colonials” is not now a staple conversational
topic: with Mr. Lock.
Another Youl story. A witness at an in-
quest had deposed as to the finding of the body—
it was hanging to a rafter. “ Did you cut "the
man down?” asked the corner. “I did not.”
“ And why not ? Do you know that had you cut
the rope this man might have been living now?”
“ Yes,” responded the witness sulkily-- * 1 living,
and suing me for the price of the rope. ”
H. “The ’Vert of Canon Grigson sets
me musing on Bishop Moorhouse’s remarkable
coup of yore. When he arrived in Melb., two
dissenting parsons, Kent and Bailliache, Congrega-
tional and Baptist, attacked his apostolic preten-
sions. He persuaded both of them to become
clergymen of the Church of England ! Mr. Kent,
formerly of Sydney, is now pastor of the Anglican
St. Silas's, South Melb. Mr. Bailliache long held
an Anglican charge at Elsternwick.”
Charles Lilley, formerly Attorney-General,
Premier, and Chief Justice of Queensland, died
Aug. 20, aged 67. He was an Englishman, from
Newcastle-on-Tyne ; came to Australia in 1856,
when 26 years old ; went almost at once to More-
ton Bay; became lawyer, journalist (for two
years he edited the Moreton Bay— now Brisbane—
Courier), and advocate of separation from the
parent province. At separation, in 1860, he be-
came the familiar “Lilley of the Valley,” repre-
senting the Brisbane suburb of Fortitude Valley
in the first Q. Parliament. His Parliamentary
career covered 14 years—three of them m Minis-
terial office. He left politics to become a Judge,
and was Chief Justice from 1879 to 1893. Then
retirement was prac f ically forced upon him
by the ruling political gang, against some
of whose members he had given an adverse
decision in the celebrated Queensland Land, In-
vestment, and Mortgage Co.’s cases. The essence
of these cases was an allegation that certain of the
local directors of this London financial co., who
were at the same time, directors or shareholders
of the notorious Q. National Bank, had taken
advantage of their dual position to transfer a lot of
the bank’s rotten securities and others to the Lon-
don co. Judge Windeyer was specially borrowed
from N.S. Wales, and reversed Lilley’s judgment.
Lilley resigned bis judgeship, smarting bitterly,
and appealed to Caesar people by contesting the
"Tory North Brisbane electorate at a parliamentary
election two months later. He made a mistake
by bracketing himself (North Brisbane is a two-
member electorate) with Glassey, leader of the
Labor-party ; and the pair were badly defeated by
MTlwraith and Kingsbury. The shock to Lilley
was great, mentally and bodily. His constitution,
strained by a lifetime of struggle—even on the
Bench he worked very hard—commenced to break
up. He travelled in pursuit of health, and almosl
to the end retained hope of re-entering politics.
But the last four years of his life were very
melancholy. His radical utterances and associa-
tions banned him from “society,” and Lilley
wished to remain in sock ty while remaining a radi-
cal. He felt himself proscribed outcast. When
he came to Sydney a little while ago the ban fol-
lowed him. Little or no courtesy was shown him
by the men of his own rank, class, pro-
fession. Lilley had a weak strain in him
-—he accepted an English knighthood, he
dearly loved popular applause, newspaper notice —
he would unbosom himself to the greasiest little
paragrapher, and read complacently the most ful-
some report of his luncheon-conversation. Yet he
lived in a Sydney hotel not as a distinguished
stranger, only 7 as a stranger. And it was a man
sick at heart and weary of everything who, the
other day, went home to Brisbane to die.
Lilley was of the Parkes type—strong rather
than subt'e, energetic rather than brainy. A
masterful fellow—he wanted his own way in
everything, and in youth he generally got it.
When, as Q. Premier, he fought the monopolistic
A.S.N. Co. over their extortionate charges for
mail-conveyance, he was going to buy a fleet of
steamers to carry his point, and he carried it;
though a vote of Parliamentary censure followed.
And Lilley was no self-seeker, like the political
hucksters who exulted over his defeat in ’93. All
through his career he made enemies bitter
enemies—by saying and doing the thing he held
right, careless of the cost to himself. No man in
the Northern province has worked more zealously
for the best popular ideals. Lilley was truly the
father of the noble Q. system of public education—
“secular, compulsory, and free”—and well the
bigots remembered it against him. And no
political corruption, no participation in banking
swindles, no malversation of the public funds in
the interest of himself or his friends or his
creditors, can be alleged against Charles Lilley.
After a life of laborious public service, he died
poor—and horn st.
Mr. R. J Fairbairn represents the English
wholesale Co-operative Society 32 years old and
the largest in the world, being the co-operation of
many retail co operative societies, comprehending
about one-seventh of Britain's population and
turning over annually <£12,000,000. Mr. Fair-
bairn will reside in Sydney to make the best pos-
sible deals in butter, cheese, tallow, leather, &c.,
with the Australian producer for the British Co-
operative consumer. The wholesale society he
represents buys from the world, but sells only to
its member societies ; while these buy only from
the wholesale body, but sell retail to the world.
Profits are made by buying direct from the pro-
ducer, thus excising middlemen’s charges; and
these profits are distributed by the wholesale and
retail co-operators among their respective mem-
Mr. 11. J. FAIRBAIRN, A ustralian representa-
tive of the English. Wholesale Co-operative Society.
Photo., Kerry, Sydney.
bers. A membership in one of the retail concerns
costs £3 by instalments; but a member having
paid Is. entrance-fee benefits immediately. So,
supposing he is a workman with a 255. per week
wage and an average wife and family, then, by
spending the average £4O yearly in clothing, food
and household requisites, he will receive a re-fund
per annum of from £8 to £lO. And the claim is
that .£4O spent at any other establishment secures
no greater quantity or better quality of goods,
with no re fund whatever. The mining and cotton
districts of Britain are the heart of co-operation :
county Fife’s co-operators reach 96 per cent. The
menacing problem of the great concern is its sur-
plus capital. Outlet is sought in productive co-
operation benefiting the workpeople. The shoe-
factory at Leicester employs 3000 men and girls,
and returns all its profits to the co-operators. Mr.
Fairbairn thinks that the Australian middleman
has a real fat time.


FRANZ JOSEF .
tk
FILSENER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
SoftCaQVaS &birts
Madk to M kasure.
Post free SO - per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RIIOTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Order of the Garter.
Lord Melbourne: used to say that there was
only one order in the world worth having, and
that was the Garter, because there was no merit
attached to it at all, and that was what made it the
first order in Europe. And therein Lord Mel-
bourne showed his usual shrewdness. The dis-
tinction men and women love best, and appreciate
most, is the distinction which, instead of making
a man distinguished, merely singles him out as
already being 1 so distinguished, that no reason
needs to be given for distinguishing him further.
This is the distinction Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure en-
joys : testimony for its curative properties appears
on every hand. Mr. Albert W. Stacey, The
Elms, 31 Park Road, St. Kilda, says : “It gives
me great pleasure to testify to the wonderful cura-
tive properties of Warner’s ‘Safe’ Cure. For a
‘Cure’ it cannot be surpassed. The symptoms
were nausea, biliousness, great weakness and
trembling of the legs. After taking two bottles of
Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure I felt relief.” And that is
the kind of testimony which men and women
covet most.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
Aboriginalities.
An incident, probably unique, occurred on
Sunday, Bth Aug., in a big Grafton (N.S.W.)
church. Just as the parson began to preach, a
laughing jackass, which had secured a position
vertically opposite the clergyman on a high rafter
of the building, and which may have been ex-
pressly sent by Heaven to chasten the gentle shep-
herd, started its demoniac giggle. The bird’s mate
on the outside could not gain access but took part
in the service. The poor parson became nervous,
and sent for the police. Next on the scene came
one of the Grafton soldiers (volunteers), and after
one or two volleys the bird fell from the house-top
like the sparrow of Scripture. Now the jackass
is a “scheduled” bird whose destruction involves
a legal penalty ; then there is a penalty attached
to the carrying or usiny of fire-arms on the Sab-
bath—to say nothing of the desecration involved
in the discharge of firearms in a sacred edifice.
The sacred text says much about laughing in the
house of God and the destruction thereof. The
bird “died the death,” but the shock and the irre-
verence caused by the unregenerate warbler made
the preacher quite ill for several days.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Be Fiji cockroaches.
Years ago, in my lonely plantation shanty away
upone of the rivers of Viti Levu, the big cock-
roaches provided no end of sport. At night they
freely promenaded the whitewashed walls, and
many a time, when things were dull, and the heat
and mosquitoes too bad for reading, I have shot
those blackjacks with a small air-gun. It was
great practice, sitting in a cane chair and potting
them as they came within range. Every one slain
left a star on the wall, and by carefully shooting
at the right time I decorated" the wall with quite
a pretty pattern. Your cockroach correspondent
hardly does justice to the appetites of the insects.
They are insatiable and omnivorous. My boots
and books went first, then my razor-strop, and
lastly, the edge off each razor. Prolific is too
moderate a word when speaking of their fecundity.
A hundred tons of sugar lay in a lighter for a
week, and weighed out 105 tons—balance cock-
roaches. — Blackjack.
* * * *
In May, 1892, for the first time in the his-
tory of the oldest inhabitant, large flocks of ibis
(the sacred bird of ancient Egypt) came from the
East and remained in Southern Westralia for
seven months, during which time Coolgardie was
found, and men came to it from the East at first
in small numbers and afterwards in thousands,
spreading over the land from Fremantle to Cool-
gardie, and from Esperance Bay to Gerald ton.
When Romo was founded the soothsayers foretold
by the flights of birds that it would last as a king-
dom, or empire, for twelve centuries. What is
the Coolgardie ibis portent ?
In the old days (say)
Tangolong’s one “ swell ”
hotel was kept by Jimmy
H. Gross, a little red-
headed Irishman, keen
on the dollar question,
and it was at Gross’s that
Judges, barristers, and
the general hangers-on of
the criminal circuit all
put up. Once, under
Judge Skinner, there was
a specially long sitting,
and, when the last case
was called on Friday
morning, there remained
but three hours in which
to catch the coach for
(say) Boolah. However,
the Crown - Prosecutor
quickly rushed through
the details, shoved his
witnesses into the box at
racing speed, and proved
a case of assault and rob-
bery against the two ac-
cused with such certainty
that the men might as
well have pleaded guilty
at once. His Honor
summed up in 2 l-smin.,
and the jury retired with
an hour wherein to de-
liberate. 35min. passed,
and the foreman, no less
a person than Jimmy
Gross himself, returned
and asked a question
that had not the slight-
est bearing on the case.
The Judge told him so
in no measured terms,
and expressed surprise at
the jury’s difficulty in
such a clear case. Ten
minutes more and Gross
came out again to know
whether the prosecutor’s
name was Thomas or
William, and the visitors,
with their hats in their
hands and their traps
ready, shot killing glan-
ces at him as he again
retired with a further
wigging from his Honor.
There was a silence until
the clock struck the hour,
and then, as the coach
rattled, empty, past the
court - house door, there
was a large and unani-
mouscurse uttered by the whole court at the fune-
real jury. Twenty minutes later, the 12 filed slowly
out, and Gross announced solemnly that the
prisoner had been found guilty. After sentence,
one of the visitors inquired, growlingly, of a jury-
man “ What made you such a devil of a time
coming to a verdict ? ” The other scratched his
head and replied, “ Well, yer see, Gross would
stick out for ‘ not guilty ’ until we all agreed, and
then he went for ‘ guilty ’ until we gave in.” And
the whole court-house filed grumblingly back to
Gross’s hotel, where they had to spend another
three days, and pay another bill, ere they could
p-pt ’uviv in llnnlnh
g. .yto 00 a .
„
When Q. Mining Commission -was on the
Etheridge (John Plumper Hoolan being first
examiner-in-chief, and Chairman W. B. O’Connell
presiding), a digger-witness, as drunk as only a
North Queenslander can get, entered “the stand.”
Hoolan : “What is your name?” “What the
(blanlty Sheol) are you giving us, Jack? You
know (blanky blank) well what my name is ! ”
(He was a constituent of Hoolan’s.) Hoolan
“passed,” and the jovial miner lit his pipe and
started a cloud. O’Connell: “ Put out that pipe !
Smoking is not allowed here.” Witness (to
Hoolan) : “ Who’s this (blanky) little joker,
Jack?” “Oh, you’d better put out your pipe,
old man.” “Well, I’ll put it out for you, Jack,
but not for that (blanky) little—blank blanky
blank ! ” Hoolan proceeded : “ Can you give the
Commission your opinion of the best way to give
the field a start ? ” “My (blanky) oath ! Put a
hundred-weight of (blanky) dynamite down the
deepest shaft, and blow the (blanky) thing to
blazes, and if that doesn’t give it a (blanky) start,
well”— <fcc., &e., in lurid blasphemy. Then they
let that witness go.
* * * *
Backblocks hospitality. Two pictures.
First: Station near Nyngan, N.S.W. Intelligent
sheep-dog sees traveller approaching the home-
stead, and forthwith starts to “work” a fowl
towards the kitchen-door. Strong evidence to the
traveller of hearty welcome. In this case, the dog
knows the squatter. Second : Station near
well, on the Bogan. Little girl, true daughter
and imitator of her father, rebuked by mother for
using rather lurid expression, caught that day
fi’om “the old man.” “ Yes, I’m very sorry, but
(hopefully) I suppose I can say blanky to the
travellers ? ” In this case, the infant knows the
squatter.
* * *
Extract from a letter from a Cueite to his
brother on t’otherside : “ I have swopped my pre-
sentation walking-stick for a 2-quart water-bag,
as it is the correct thing here to carry a water-bag
in your right hand.” —Mubchison Times.
* * * *
A N.S.W. squatter was driving the newly-
imported local clergyman out to his station when
his horses took fright and bolted. The squatter
set his teeth and hung on to the reins, and as they
tore along like greased lightning the parson leant
towards him and said, as well as the jolting would
permit, “My dear friend, is there any ocoasion to
go quite so fast ? ”
* * * *
X.Z. : “I note numerous assertions that
in the Bourke (N.S.W.) country rabbits have
taken to tree-climbing. One account says the trees
have been barked to a height of 12 feet, and credits
the barking to the rabbits. But how can a pad-
pawed, blunt-clawed rabbit climb 12 feet up a
perpendicular-stemmed tree ? He might do it on
a slanting tree, where he would simply be negoti-
ating an up-grade. Also, it is generally asserted
that up Bourke way rabbits can climb a netting
fence. Possibly, some extra strong ‘ lepper ’
might do it in an agony of fear, and his apparent
accomplishment would then be grafted on to tl ■
THE RIGHT SORT OF MAN.
J UMBUCKNA NED: “ What does the ticket say, Billy?”
LITTLE BILLY ( reading) : “It says ‘Poor People Treated Free,' dad.”
J. N ED: “By the blanky gumtrees, he’s the chap as ought to be runnin’
the Diggers' Rest at Jumbuckna !”
species as the yarn circulated. Not long
ago, Melb. Zoo. was given, with much blaring of
trumpets and banging of drums, a ‘ hybrid be-
tween a cat and a rabbit.’ Yet, when it died, and
was dissected, it was simply a common rabbit’with
the well-known disease, spina bitida. Never trust
the average observer. Firstly, he doesn’t know
enough, and, secondly, he doesn’t know how to
use what minute knowledge he has ; fand, thirdly,
he magnifies his office in the telling.” ’
« * * *
A pious and prosperous Tas. sheep-run
. n ,- J- , • f 1 , . , . 1 1,111
holder is notouously eccentric, but is considerate
towards swagmen. He always makes a point of
employing the casuals for a day or two. His usual
formula when a swaggie comes along is : “ Want
work ?. Have you looked for any ?. D’ye think I
can find employment for the whole country ? No,
I don’t want anybody. Got enough ! . . . Let
me see. Can you work ? Oh ! well, go up to the
hut. ” The man goes to work. A few days later
the boss singles him out. “ Hi, you fellow, come
over to the house and I’ll pay you. You’ll have
to move on with your traps. There’s two more
men arrived, and I must find a bit for them to do.”
* * * *
J. : Sympathy, if nothing else, exists in the
heart of a station-manager I know. One evening
during my last walking-tour I limped up to the
head-quarters of a big N.Q. property, and inter-
viewed the boss for a job. The same old reply
AFTER THE BIG MATCH.
Y anko (of the South) : “ Sling us a bit er terbacker,
Hopper. ”
NOPPER (of the Woodsies): “ Dicken I Yer don't
smoke, yer kneow.”
Y. : “ No—I chews. ”
N.: “ Garn I Beggars can't be chewsers ! ”
came out: “ Full-handed ; nothing doing till lamb-
marking starts.” Being on my last legs, I had
another try, and declared myself capable of doing
any sort of station work, from milking to making
up the estimates ; and, after some deliberation, I
was told to camp in the hut that night, and to
present myself in the morning. As soon as break-
fast was over I followed the station-men to the
horse-rail, and saw them “ shot ” to their various
occupations ; one man whispering as he passed :
“By——, old man, your cake’s dough—the boss
is in a fearful temper this morning.” When my
turn came J trembled as I heard, “Hullo ! it’s
you, is it? Well, clear to hell out of this ! D d
jf I got a wink of sleep all night thinking of a job
for you ! ” So I ’loped and disappeared over the
horizon.
* * • *
New-cluim boss to shearer, wanting shed :
“ Did you she-ah he-ah last ye-ah ? ” Shearer :
“No.” N.C.B. : “Well, then, you can’t she-ah
he-ah this ye-ah.”
* * * *
An Australian resident received a circular
from the Hamburg State Lottery, Germany, and,
believing it square, invested a few pounds. Some
ihonths later he received three tickets, with notice
that he had not been successful, that there was
12s. to his credit, and requesting him to send on
£4 4s. for the next issues. His reply :
Batchemalla Lanapur.
Ni uma condamba bunk burra dageo goulumbarbar qi
qi. '
It is as well lor me to address you in the above language
(Austral aboriginal), as for you to send me notices in
German. I wish you to distinctly understand that English
is the universal language out here, as we Australians have
not yet devoured enough Wiirst and sauerkraut to talk
so far down our neck as the German language demands.
I find I have not drawn a red cent, and that you want £4
4s. more. As you credit me with 125., please send me
that value in Lager bier, which is about the best thing I
know of “ made in Germany.” —Disgusted.
* • * *
Writes “ Jim’s Mate ” ;
Dear Bulletin, — Shortly after the discovery of gold at
W , one of the claims gave over 4oz. per ton, and
followed this up with a soz. crushing. Then it was that
one of the boys, having discarded his clay-bespattered
moles, might be seen walking his best girl along the track
between the main camp and the surveyed town. One of
his old mates, being also on gold, had visions of a brighter
future, and, becoming curious as to what language
Arthur wooed his lady-love in, took up a position some
distance in the rear, only to hear the following
He (after long silence): “ What do you think of the
stuff in them trousers ? ”
She : “ Who made them ? ”
He : “ The Boss Tailor.” Then (after more silence) :
“ I’ll have to get a new claw-hammer ooat for the ball."
She : “ I should think so.”
He : “ I had a d fine pair of cricketing trousers, but
Maggie spoilt them boiling them in the wash 1 ’’
They got married, and Arthur now works for wages again
* « * •
From a man who dislikes the cocky :
Ed. Bulletin, —One of the man-y eye-sores of the bush
is the cocky’s son. Slow’ of speech, dull of apprehension,
loutish and stupid ; to be in his company is a curse, to
live with him is an affliction. Where he shines is on
horseback, dressed in a slop-made suit of black-corded
cloth, a slouch hat, elastic-side boots, a white shirt, green
silk handkerchief and a silly grin on his vacuous face.
With these, a stockwhip and a gun, he’s equipped for life.
He’ll go three miles to destroy a young wattle-tree to
obtain a penn’orth of bark, or shoot an iguana for the
same value in oil. His parents live in a bark hut,
the worse of two on the selection, the better being
for the buggy, for which they’ve mortgaged-the crop, and
on w’hich in turn they’ll get a loan from the storekeeper
to buy a side-saddle or piano for the daughter. They
often start life with about £2OO w’orth of machinery and
implements and let them go to rust and ruin for the want
of a£2 shed to protect them from the weather. To the
cocky, elementary chemistry and botany, fruit, flower,
and vegetable growing, dairy-farming, jam-making, stock-
breeding, &c., are unknown quantities. -He will take up
a square mile of land, roughly fence it, ringbark a part,
and throw in a few handfuls of w'heat, grow' a few pump-
kins, and call it farming. When he’s done this he comes
out into the labor-market, doing fencing, shearing, road-
making, tank-sinking, &c., at sweaters’ wages. In case of
strikes, he serves the squatter as blackleg or special con-
stable, being a faithful vassal of that modern feudal
baron, who supplies the cocky with contracts for servioes
rendered. Altogether the cocky is an object to make
men weep and angels mourn.-—M.B.
Youliana.
The late Coroner Youl had a snug medical
practice among old Melbourne identities, up to
20 years ago. As his clients successively passed
away, he contented himself with the fading re-
mainder, like the heroes of the W'aterloo Banquet.
His father, chaplain John Youl, was one of Van
Diemen’s Land’s earliest parsons ; the Youl clan is
still strong in Raspberry land. Parson Youl used
to summon his Launceston congregation to wor-
ship by personally banging an empty rum-
hogs-head, suspended on an iron bar, with a
huge wooden mallet. On his first arrival in
Georgetown, too, in 1819, this unconven-
tional cleric paraded round the place in all
his robes of glory, just to let folks know
that the church had come to town. On one
occasion the old parson married 30 Tas.
couples in one day, and the same ring was
the bridal bond of the lot. He was once, so
goes the story, booked by Tahitians as the
menu for a big feast. He failed to fatten,
however, being a thin, wiry person, and his
life was spared on his shaving a lot of big
natives with his own razor without drawing
blood once. For some time before his death
the late Coroner was so feeble that he had
to be lifted from his house to a cab, and
thence into the Morgue.
The old gentleman had several pet fads
which he was wont to air at ever)’ oppor-
tunity. “ What made you call this child
Sardanapulus Aminadab Smith ? ” he would
demand of a weeping mother, “You might
have known he would die of improper feed-
ing. All babies with names like that die of
improper feeding; or, if they grow up,
they get hanged, so they come to me after
all. Next time, madam, call the baby one
name, John or -Tames or William, and he’ll
probably grow up healthy and reputable.”
Another favorite theory of the old man’s,
with possibly more than a grain of truth ill
it, was that husbands were poisoning their
wives and wives their husbands every day of
the week ; and yet another all-truth was
his trenchant denouncement of flannelette
for clothes. “You might as well dress a
child in gunpowder as flannelette,” he has
said again and again at inquests on infants
roasted from this cause. He was anything
but a teetotal advocate, and it was a standing
principle with Him that possession of
money was not necessarily precedent to
drunkenness. “I’ll guarantee to go up to
the city without a penny in my pocket
and get blazing drunk within an hour,” was
his frequent boast. The one great griev-
ance of his life concerned a pressman who, 20
years ago, borrowed from him a set of depositions
and never returned them. This rankled in the
old coroner’s mind, and no Melb. reporter lives
who has not heard the deceased relate the yarn
impressively over and over again.
The last story told by Dr. Youl was about a
young married man whose wife had strayed from
home and ended her life in the Yarra. “ I went
into the mortuary,” remarked the doctor, “and
there was the young man whistling ‘Ta-ra-ra-
boom-de-ay,’or some other mad tune of the day.
I watched him pace up and down two or three
times in front of the only corpse on the slabs, and
when I approached and inquired if he knew any
‘ body ’ there, he lightly responded ‘ No, I do
not,’ and continued his whistling. Next day I
held an inquest on the body, and the first witness
called was my whistling friend of the day before.
Now, what do you think of that for a married
man ? ”
At Dr. Youl’s very last inquest a brewer came
forward to give evidence. “What are you?”—
“A brewer.” “Ha, ha!” ejaculated the old
doctor, “ you should not say a brewer ; say a
‘poisoner.’ We have no brewers now ; all beer is
made with chemicals.” The coroner was a privi-
leged libertine of speech, but unfortunately he had
an inveterate habit of over-stating things, thu
often missing his point. The public would alwayss
discount his utterances, even when thoroughly
justified. His tongue was too smart, tart, and
ready ; but against this is to be set his love of fair
play, his determination never to let an abuse pass,
even if he stood alone (which he frequently did),
until he had secured a reform.
One saying of his which caused endless heart-
burnings was: “ Every brick in the Melbourne
Hospital is saturated with erysipelas and pyaemia.”
There never was an inquest at which Youl did not
say something angular and injudicious—one of
those truths which are in such glaring “bad
taste.”
Rations (termed free rations in the British
Army and Navy enlistment circulars) supplied to
H.M’s braves, are not nearly so good as those
given to prisoners in modern gaols. The sailor
gets for breakfast 1-pint cocoa, bread or biscuit;
for dinner, 1-pint pea-soup, pork, biscuit; for tea,
1-pint tea, bread. No milk or sugar or potatoes
included, neither is soup allowed when in harbor,
but fib. of fresh meat, inclusive of bone and
gristle, is substituted for pork. The soldier’s pro-
visions are lib. bread, and fib. meat per diem, the
remaining necessaries of life, also washing, hair-
cutting, repairs to kit, etc., being acquirable only
one of personal expenditure. Summed up, Govt,
gives its maritime and military employe six-
penn’orth of food and a shilling a day, and the
man, having to spend half his wages to keep him-
self alive, has about 6d. a day to draw at the end
of the month. Then the extravagant beast goes
and gets drunk ! He deserves to be flogged—for
joining.


Dear Bulletin, — Professor Tucker, of
Melb. University, once exhorted his young Vic-
torian audience not to go travelling around the
world with the proud parochial thought that they
“had seen no finer street than Collins-street.”
Premier Turner has returned from London and
elsewhere with the old-young cry on his lips. The
public buildings didn’t impress him, and he saw
nothing to surpass Collins-street. When he was
in Manchester he told the Mayor, or somebody,
that he preferred Melbourne, and when he visited
Brighton (if he did go there) patriotic George pro-
bably noticed that it was merely another St.
Kilda on a larger scale. This kind of criticism is
partly justifiable, and partly absurd. The most
fashionable thoroughfares of the chief European
cities are not broader and cleaner and brighter
than Collins-street, but they are a darned sight
more interesting as places for a promenade. _ And
they haven’t a noisome colony of Chinamen in the
near neighborhood. The next time Premier
Turner walks down Piccadilly, Regent-street,
Oxford-street, or even the Tottenham Court
Road, he had better remind himself that
he can’t smell a Lilly Buck-s reet within a
stone’s throw of the nose. Apart from climatic
considerations, which cut both ways, any unbiassed
person would naturally prefer Sydney to Mel-
bourne, although the principal streets of the
Harbor-city are, as everybody knows, inferior in
all respects to the leading London samples. From
a cockney point of view, the Collins-street “ blow”
seems foolish, whereas the Beautiful Harbor
“ blow ” errs only on the side of moderation.
And, from a cockney point of view, the Premier
who measures London with a Collins-street rule is
a very small-minded rooster, no matter what he
may have done in the way of democratic legisla-
tion. How The Bulletin would scoff at a
Hinglish Premier who, returning from a visit to
Paris, might say, “ I have seen nothing finer than
the Crystal Palace,” or “nothing more interesting
than our bits of old Roman wall! ” [Would it?
The Bulletin has a great deal too much on its
hands to care a straw what an English Premier
thinks of Paris, or what a Bulgarian Premier
thinks of Spitzbergen, or what other remote people
think about other remote places. —Ed. B.] By the
way, did Premier Turner turn down one of the
streets off Cheapside, and gazeat a bit of old Roman
wall? I ask again, did he? For, if he did, I
would fain force him to admit that he has “ not
seen anything so thick in Melbourne.’ —Bow
Bell.
. <£2o will obtain for an inventor, in any of the
Australian colonies, a Certificate of Provisional
Protection in Great Britain and the whole seven
colonies of Australasia. £2l will register a
Trade Mark in the whole of the Australasian
colonies. Arthur Griffith (M.L. A.), Patent Agent,
41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.
Sold by all Stationers.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The Hotel Australia, on erection, was
deemed by many wise-acres to be a white elephant
—so handsome and highly-appointed was the
colossal establishment for a small populated
country like N.S.W. This year, however, the
answer has come in more decided form than usual
—the management having declared a 6 per cent,
dividend for shareholders, after expending some
,£3OOO on exterior and interior decorations and
new-appointments. Probably the big hotel is the
securest place in Australia to sleep in. The water
available for extinguishing fire is tremendous.
When the Theatre Royal was burning, the Aus-
tralia manager got his men to discharge water
from his upper storeys across several roofs on to
the burning theatre. Superintendent Bear quickly
sent round a message: “Tell Moore to stop that
water or he’ll drown every man and fire-engine I
have. ”
Liverpool apd Lopdop
<£lobe IpSCirapec Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thonsu: > tends.
Established in the Austraii.. Vs, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Gumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq. ; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
RAL£ ich
£y CL£ S
1897
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a First-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh ” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines haye Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Paleigh Co.’s] Post Free
The Austral Cycle Agency [ld.,
Raleigh
Depot, 393 George-St., Sydoty.
Branches At :
Melbourne— 229 Elizabeth-st.
Adelaide— 33 Rundle-st.
Perth — Hay-sfc.
Brisbane — Adelaide-sb.
Charters Towers— Gill-sb.
W arrnambool— Kepler-sb.
Goulburn
Christchurch— Lichfield-sb.
Dunedin— l 23 George-sb.
Hobart, &o.
Answers to Correspondents.
.Vo notice mil be taken off communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(6/ any province) accompany.
The Galivanter: But you must be much more
terse Les. O. : Excellent H. : “Why does the
cocky who grows wheat, give little or nothing, in the
shape of tucker, to swagmen?” Probably because it
goes against his grain. D.A.C. : Fact is that “Jimmy
the hutkeeper ” soliloquising on “ his mate Bill ” in the
Leader, barefacedly steals all his four verses holus-bolus
from “Ironbark” Gibson Edina M. : Like local Govern-
ment you see, Federation is not really popular with the
rank-’and-file of N.S.W. professional politicians. The
establishment of both or either would detract from the
importance of the present Parliament and curtail places
and perquisites Not a Disgrace : His Wesleyan rever-
ence’s case looks a bit weak : of all men the average
Presbyterian parson carries his whisky like a gentleman.
There is no church synod so hard-headed as the Presby-
terian Assembly Ainbo : Everyone of your nine sub-
jects could possibly have appeared in the pirate papers,
or London Punch, one, or two, or five, or forty years ago.
.Send something obviously “made in Australia "—some-
thin" - which couldn’t as easily have been made in Pata-
gonia., ° r London, or Easter Island Sympathy : The
Tjoers'never wanted the goldfields to be worked at all.
Same as in Victoria, where the squatters knew of the gold
as far back as ’4B, when specimens were brought to Melb.
Same again as in California. Gold was first found on
Augustus Sutter’s ranch by one Mitchell. Sutter,
like all the pastoralists, did everything he could to
keep it secret. The miners were locusts upon him
J.B^Nyngan): Thanks C.A. : Yes, Albert the Goody-
Goody C.J.H. : You over-condense, and become so
va «-ue that portions of what you send have to be omitted.
.^.J.M.N.: Unavailable, as everything is left to the
artist’s imagination T. Cue: Thanks. A.C. : An
overstrained idea. Try something probable J.T.S. :
Hurst and Cecil’s “Principles of Commercial Law,” 205.,
or Smith’s “Compendium of Mercantile Law,” 425., will
give you the English mercantile law generally; but for
N S W. they must be supplemented by the local statutes.
There is an Aust. edition of the English Bills of Exchange
Act, giving the various modifications of it in N.S.W., Q.,
S A., and W.A., 3s. 6d. For Bills of Sale Acts : N.S.W.,
Gillespie, lOs.; Vic., Mac Hugh, 15s. In Q. there is no
local work, but the profession use an English book, Reed’s
B. of S. Acts, 7s. 6d The Derelict: Mach obliged
Medi-cuss : Thanks ; but that aspect of the case was sug-
gested in a footnote to the letter itself Crom-a-B. :
You haven’t got the right point of view. Queen Vic.
isn’t objectionable because she’s fat, but because she’s
Queen — i.e., a figure of Folly in a logical country, and a
figure of Greed to a starving people Ethel M. : Will
print J.H.M.: Good J.W.M.: Good. Memo, posted.
F. Ruthra : Rather old—and pretty close to the well-
known and giddy original., H.W. (The Pivot) : Thanks.
....Bookworm : Thanks ; but, judging from your letter,
would not advise you to “go in for that sort of thing.”
...Satan, jun. : Nicely written, but over-frisky for cold
print. Try something publishable .... Howlong : Yes
Rev. J.F.H.: Too funny for print K.J.H. : Starts on
the assumption that the Australian goes to church some-
times, which is too improbable Sub (Moruya) :Go to
the insurance-office at once and get the matter put right.
A wrong age-statement may technically invalidate the
policy, but no society will object to put the matter
straight for you. There will be some arrears of premium
to pay Platypus O. Possum : “ Fagan ”is a failure as
a ghost story, and only a modified success as a whisky
narrative Angsha-Muda: Not worth space Medda :
The man who rhymes “log” with “job” is a lost bard,
and in the next would he will compose blank verse for
ever and ever, and have it p-rpetually rejected by losf
editors, and he will be a blighted contributor on th,
plains of Acheron through all eternity J. Williams •
No demand for that kind of verse anywhere Tory :
Declined M.F.C. : The rich man who died and was
damned is declined Robert Hap : Combustible lunatic
under consideration Zadig : Rich bushie —confidenct
man—painted houri at the corner—busted bushie. Old
yarn Porte-Crayon ■ -Not up Bey • w ill print
Z. : Joke about “ dry cow’s refuse ” declined. Not pub-
lishing any cow-refuse this year Gum-sucker Some
of them may do . .Successor in Office: “Jimmie
Mathie ’’ doesn’t rhyme with “ Tam-o-Shanter,” and
your poem has been used to wrap a cxt-fish in
M. (Broken Hill): Many thanks Bedded : Not much
interest in the fact that melodramatic Shriek I. has
practically the same cast as Shriek 11., and both are
nearly identical with Shriek 111 Pro Bono Publico :
You ask us to personally cuss a doctor because he wouldn t
treat you, a complete stranger, on credit, and to call him
a brute and a monster, &c. The average country doctor
works immensely long hours and gets very little for it,
and makes more bad debts than any other man in the
community. Why should he give you credit? Thomas
M. : Tasmania wreck-poem has sunk in deep water .....
E. : This paper agrees with j’our friend, the editor of
the Job’s Comforter Enob : Why not write to P.M.G.
Cook? Singer : Can’t say why James Lee Steere didn t
get a Jubilee honor. The Bulletin had to crowd through
without one also Leta : “A deth-like paller over-
shaddowed my fase.” And the rest of your poem is just
like that J.M.L. : Broad Scotch obscenity J.G. :
“Abe’s Luck” hardly good enough Gocup: Nothing
in it except that old “Dad” struck a reef. And the
world is full of old Dads who struck reefs Harold J.L. :
A thin lady went into a ham-shop and asked for lib.
corned beef cut thin ! How quite too dreadfully humorous.
Gemini: Verse valueless. ...J.F.D. : Received Ben
Bolt: Way below standard D.8.C.: Wants interest. ..
A.P. : Considering “End of.” F.F.K. : Worthless
verse C.P. : No use to this kind of religious paper, as
you probably understand. And as art it’s feeble ...
Erlpa : Reads too like a morbid tract Fitzhoo: Please
call Blanch : Bright pars, often make dull yarns
M.D. (W.A.): Thanks Sprat: Thanks. Will bear M.
in mind Chop-chop: Sentiments admirable ; verse
excruciating W.H.P.: Ditto, with a blanky Alice :
No value Jean C. : Not up F.B. : Possibly one
Wiora : “ The wattle is in bloom ” —and you add nothing
to that T.J.P. : Stale W.P. : Takes a long time
to teach even pressmen that this paper wants
always five smart lines —never 500 dull ones
Uloo. : Both dull. M.S. (Vic.): Suggestion that “Queen
Vic., as alleged champion Wife and Mother, should spare
a few hundred thousands from the millions she has
amassed in order to start an old-age pension fund for poor
and distressed wives and mothers,” is unfavorably re-
ceived in right-thinking circles Alfred W. : “ Humer-
ous ” sketch apparently written by a young ghoul with
confirmed dyspepsia. Nothing so objectionable as a
young ghoul with dyspepsia—except an old ghoul with
sore eyes Kobar : None usable Redwater : Joke
must have escaped in transit Zef. : “Angle” pretty
strained Ajax : Thanks ; possibly Alex. L. : Con-
sidering Spencer I. : Tell the safety-pin story to the
Mothers’ Mission Guy N. : Dismal parody Pansy :
Too tame and domesticated for B Hangman :
No demand for gallows-poetry Bush Giri : No
Bulletin value ; though you have ideas
Melb. : Childish. A few registered “books” may occa-
sionally ask for time from big backers, but they don’t sus-
pend payment every time a hot favorite wins F. : The
Vic. clothing warehouses will run their factories, no
doubt, just as long as they can run them at a profit.
G.R. : “Head” may d 0,... E.K. : Any sober, decent-
behaved woman can get into the reserve at Flemington.
Lots of liireable women may be found there, as at any
other place of amusement. They present a respectable
appearance, and their “virtue” is “nobody’s busi-
ness but their own.” .... A.: Ravings, not remarks
St. Elmo : From cold-tea and a Scotch-Sunday, O Lord,
deliver us ! Medda : Haven’t seen it yet P. Abbott:
Please call, or send address J.S.D. : Thanks; but a
pinch for stale news about that dummying Walter 0.
M. (Eng.): Many thanks Cungevoy: Name and ad-
dress, please ? ..' R. J. (Maoriland) : Item about “ the
local Presby-blanky-tery ” received, with thanks R.P.:
You are angry because your Jew usurer charged 63 per
cent. Great land of Goshen 1 There is hardly a Christian
usurer who doesn’t charge 120, at least. Send along the
address of that Jew A.A.M. : Received with grief
F. W.M. (Arltunga): Joke or plain horror? Regulus :
*ou say Reid panned out better than Seddon in England,
and set it down to the saving power of fat. But then,
Seddon weighs more than Reid Ad.: Lengthy screed
on the perfectly novel subject of “Love” to hand
N. Grey : Nicely written, but shows no capacity for
Constructing a story. No resemblance of a plot or
original idea Cedric : Tale, with the story left out
F. de L. : None quite up Mount Morgan : Handed to
author Starlight: Not force enough. Gilhooley :
Too vigorous for print— e.g. : “ One growing Australian
industry supplies Europe with frozen mutton; another
supplies Asia with warm young female beef. . . , The
aboriginal leads his wife and daughter to the white man ;
the white Australian leads the yellow, brown, and black
man to his wife and daughter.” Arid these are your
mildest remarks ! Louis M. : Pith in last verse —
So if you want horses in heaven,
I trust it is firmly agreed,
That you do the grooming and riding,
Clean the stable and look to the feed.
Hugh R. : Reads pretty lunatic Happy: “The
Wreck of the Tasmania. A poem.” Also wrecked ...
W.L. : Point too small for space A.P. : “Christmas-
tide ” declined.


'■ 7W/S M'W*' 7V9 THE
I ST. RNTH&Nr
coi/e..
• he not been a Christian man, and one ot
hich moral principle, she would have
{a Sen “l »m - absolutely
gEg/X pure,” he said in answer to another
/S/ question.
—. V (
J K /
sS| Apr t
W vs°
w £ *
to/// k
W/ > (I
s. »\ ’f f
. ,y»' &\a / |
-Yyv 4 $ Z M
9 i? A/. TIM
\>Vx M
\V VS "IW
A*
>
fIS /rSJ-/0/JID_HQI/E BEEN
Modern ShflriThontp(~fbt/{ ct?x
yff-oim Ifye modern c/z-amcx)
VcftA can A* Aa/ m 7nei "
heart.
A OaPfnea\
LORD ROBERTS ON THE 1
AUSTRALIAN TROOPS. fhc
I well-matured, healthy-looking fellows you
have sent over here would be just the men
for service in India. .They are neither too 1
young nor too old—l should say the average !
age was about 25 years—and they are well
set-up fellowß who could take very good care j
Jrf themselves—the sort of men one could de- /
jjepd_upon in a of work- // ///
pouonnuo iiajOAW pub *apjcAV»ji oqr aaojaq
lqdnojq Xnuanboaqnw oq* ‘uauiOAs
aqi puv ‘j[a?um{ uxaq^
001081100 i •jpjSjnO BJHlol.il
oajin o* unqj omqujiiii- |> u ® i no
•opiiui fijajpi} oqt jooypo ,jl)aonbo.ij awaoo
•93W aivuidj UAiOU3|-U*jt * °H
j ’ YVhat that tariff ahaM He,' Mr. ® II
‘ Iffarper added, the colonies would -drtdsrm ind \| | 1 j ___ _ I I
“according to their oeeda.” Ip flie mean-;
time he had no objection to jailing 'him-
self* to prevent future miatafcejy. ab a "m - p 7
' . J
*-?■***£ -hLm
HmSirdUT.
e^ e 3
/heir
Tiexi fc~
clodc^e. .
S**£-tHSt ' ‘f K“’ Jnj Jk
' \U°V *>V*‘
/ /' // // |u\ \
,<V 1 1 / WISwJ |\ _
'y\\i \B(WPM r
A? V* %>JMr v
-a\ _
» ?• x Nx*l»ak
°v
<.Vhi
J|§
fy/'v >* I* 1 w
hk
V { c^yal/i
r cAUjt yus/fe^
On /n a,h-t 77itny"
' On one dis-
appeared from her outraged husband's
gaze in company with two gay young men
his Honour pronounced the verdict that she
was "evidently unsuitable for the exclusive-
1 u ness of married life.’'
He found a benevolent ex*
cuse for a lady who had suddenly «*nigr»t*d
from her home in doubtful company in the
roflection that "the respondent had,
" doubt, felt the entiui which assailed all
* fUj» - mu
“ mamed*people to lime!’ ’ Th "**
j/f « » very. )a W e « /lad
MELBOURNIANA.


/*A Cl CG. o f- ■ -
?ARGAINSINP!HS!
I>ANK*yPTSALF
/ViOW Onl *,
ll
J/Jft J I
r S-i;
I 6 j CLr 1
5 /vi 0 K \i\/t
■A LLDWEI)
vftfM
Pa* §f
J
I 3 0!"" °f j fisson - ffo yort* l
< °tyciy (Z a s £yr ct . Itdrh ffd-JC
\ j*oc kyij t !
Of G ur J)t $V hfouldJ
i
/i? iil lli
gkc'lhjiKLl Uydrejss
cC placard Wl to be UCoy
Sf ructed jIT
/<kHk v
at^ofi^zr
r %^ e f n j' did Lint
AfctJ? e c y °P u *7 Q-ifies/ti 'fafyc .
/' hu J Jo Sorry/ A'uuyATy
' '' p
q tyo/~
e, f&r?X d ft dty/rz rfr
hXmw
fa
mi
f^e c 7 "
L- .O' I~u fftff about
till Ift yd ity e [
.
d/ (^ fi f ur 4 aas* ftefyTrd- 'M?af &
a ftfijoft/riy is! / r yBsufeff£
ft*P oc/ S/rf J’uTy/of'/j /
d-d — °jA
TOUCHING A VEXED QUESTION: SHOULD WOMEN SMOKE?


LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemises and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michakl Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
oured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
WANOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
A FARMER AT BLAYNEY CURED.
Blaynhy, N.S.W., 26th June, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir,—l suffered terribly from Indigestion and
Constipation. 1 had no appetite, and if I
A fprced myself to eat the consequences were fearful.
I lost weight rapidly until reduced to 8 stone. Doc-
tors could do nothing for me, and patent-medicines
failed to relieve. I tried 'Loasby’s “ WAiioo,”and the
effect was magical. It acted on the bowels imme-
diately, and then my other troubles gradually dis-
appeared. Since taking the first dose of “ VVaiioo"
my weight has increased to 10 stone. 1 can’t speak
too highly of Loasby’s “ Wahoo.”- Yours truly,
GEO. SEYMOUR.
iOOHVM
I’rice 2 6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
Undertakery .
[F R THE BULLETIN.]
There is nothing peculiarly meritorious about
dying. Almost any man can die if he desires
to. Also if he does not. The act involves no
lofty intelligence. First-class fools and gilt-
edged philosophers alike pervade the tombs.
And there is nothing novel, nothing unique,
about the operation, because death is a habit of
considerable antiquity. At the same time,
there is nothing blameworthy in the pro-
cess of dissolution. Proportionately few per-
sons die from merely self-indulgent motives.
On the contrary, and generally speaking,
they neglect the most pleasing engage-
ments in favor of death. No doubt some
few have died out of vulgar spite, to deprive a
foe or relative—the terms being frequently
synonymous—of an inheritance, an annuity, or
things like that. But the vast majority die
because dying is, under the circumstances,
about the only thing they can do. If, then, a
corpse commits no breach of decorum or ethics
by becoming a corpse, why should he, as now,
be made an unholy show of and held up to the
ridicule of the reflective, simply to indulge the
yearnings of an undertaker for ghoulish
pageantry and filthy lucre ?
• * • •
These remarks are the delayed outcome of a
protracted course of loathing contemplation of
funereal methods in what are called civilised
countries, and the more immediate result of a
recent encounter with a corpse wearing a mauve
coffin, dyed barndoor-rooster plumes, and a
black-and-gilt caravan with plateglass windows
—the latter probably inserted in order that the
remains might be subject to police supervision,
so, if era route they, tired of the surrounding
gewgaws, wanted to get out, they might be
promptly run-in for “ ondacent behavior and
resistin’ the polis.” This particular and typi-
cal deceased was driven by a red - nosed
person of ginulous aspect and personally
conducted by a bilious citizen armed with a
long black stick, convenient to smite defunct
on the head in case of his premature resurrec-
tion. Judging by the modified glitter, paucity
of professional attendants, and meagre follow-
ing of buggies with wall-eyed horses, the
remains was some good fellow in moderate cir-
cumstances, who had not been given to violently
despoiling the widow and the orphan, had never
been a Legislative Councillor, and had not been
in the habit of masquerading in a mauve
tourist’s suit with lacquered handles when
alive. Then why, The Bulletin rises to ask,
should these latter things be done unto him
when dead?
• * • *
This enquiry is made not so much on behalf
of those corpses that have been disposed of,
because it would be work of supererogation to
dig them up and re-inter them with decency,
but in the interests of those persons who, there
is reason to believe, in absence of sufficient evi-
dence to the contrary, are still alive. Why
crape—the most mildew ed of all materials—
which might be feathers or sweeps’
AT THE MUSICALS.
“ Wonderful execution !”
“ Yes; almost amounts to a massacre.”
brooms, black cloaks redolent of the charnel-
house, cow-hide gloves, black-leaded horses
with all their back hair let down, and dolorous
men, like blighted notes of interrogation, with
chronic cold in the head and black suits relieved
by bed fluff, and dingy white cotton gloves
(extra tens), have come to be accepted as sym-
bolical of “ the resurrection and the life” is one
of those tangled theological problems which
could only be satisfactorily elucidated by an
old-time biblical commentator in full training,
or the unchained lunatics who haunt editorial
offices with the view of explaining the last
chapter of Revelations by aid of a blunt bread-
knife.
• • • *
As a broad rule, a corpse dies to please him-
self. As a broader, he is buried to please an
undertaker. From the moment the latter runs
his two-foot rule over the remains he is master
of the situation. And he knows it. He knows
that the demised, owing to the exigencies of
urgent private affairs elsewhere, has time
neither to wither him with profanity nor welt
him with a club. He knows the survivors are
either too grief-stricken, too careless, conven-
tional, or too solicitous for self-display to
expostulate with him with a gun. So he
garishly bedizens the non-resident residuum
with gold-paint and dyes, like an illuminated
testimonial, and sticks cocks’ tails and brass
handles and nickel nails about him, as if he
were the sign of a rum-mill or an African
fetich, until the corpse, if at all “ right-think-
ing,” squirms with shame in his varnished box
and willprobably blushattlieremembrance when,
if ever, he gets up again. And the undertaker,
having persuaded the relations of the remains
that the “ dear departed ” can properly prance
to paradise only in one of “our patent, refri-
gerating, reversible, fireproof £7 10s.
caskets,” attaches bits of black to them till
they resemble scarecrows on a gin crawl, and
shuts them into the moiety of a morgue on
wheels, and drives them, slowly and solemnly,
that the aroma of death may soak into their
bones, to the appointed humid planting-place,
where deceased is dumped into a dirty hole, and
rocks and clods thrown at him to keep him
from coming back to spend his personality,
while the mournerß catch mumps and consump-
tion bacilli.
* • * •
Death has been called King, but King of King
Death is the undertaker, and great is his power.
Nor is the reason far to seek. We are
frightened of death. We may adorn the con-
dition with poetry and aphorisms and other
verbal prettinesses ; we may decorate it with
the promises of creeds in which none have any
real belief, but the facts remain that death
terrorises and the dead scare us. We may not pro-
fess to know what harm the latter can do us, but
when unplanted remains are around weentertain
a vague fear that they may get up in the night
and bite us, or chevy us round the house when
our bedroom candle is out. So we treat them
as dust and ashes, and are so eager to have them
put into the rubbish-box and carted away by
the undertaker, who is your true dustman, that
we allow that functionary to work his own
wicked will in the matter of funeral bric-a-brac.
• • • •
And, though death is absolutely the common-
est circumstance in the universe, though we
must all die, save the inconsiderable minority
who ascend in chariots of fire, civilised man-
kind contemplate the transaction from purely
barbaric standpoints. They have permitted
mysteries, superstitions and horrors unutterable
to gather round their so-called “ God’s Acres ”
and “ Happy Valleys ” and those who so
soundly sleep therein. In earliest years iqpst
of us were fascinated and cowed by the queer
mixture of heathen and biblical mythology our
elders taught, and shuddered at ghostly tales
and grim verbal pictures of the “awful pit-
hole.” And many, in their turn as adults,
revenge the creeping consternations of their
childhood by passing them on to newer
generations. Acting on the barbaric view
of death, we have draped the whole
subjeot with a preposterous pall of gloom,
false as the mask of grief we wear when the
“ sorely-lamented ” deceased has left us a
thumping legacy. How screechingly illogical
it all is ! Regarded whether from Christian,
Spiritualistic, or Materialistic standpoint, where
do the terrors come in ? where the tears, the
gloom, the grief ? If the remains was a
believing Christian, even though he wooed
Eternity vid the gallows, his title to mansions
in the skies is surer than any right under any
Land Act writ on earth ; and, even if he be
only a common hedgerow Christian, who had
never won Paradise by paying pew - rent, he
is, since publication of the revised version and
abolition of hell, comfortably enough placed,
for Sheol must be preferable to earth to 999,990
out of every million persons. If the corpse be
a spiritualist, death should open to him endless
vistas of spookeries and their delights and the
opportunity of haunting his mother-in-law and
repaying, with interest and impunity, her con-
tumely. While, to the materialist, death must
mean sleep as eternal as dreamless, everlasting
release from the school benches whereon we
living doleful sit, annihilation of the uneasy,
calami tv-freighted ego, and nevermore the re-
curring landlord nosing for his rent.
“You’ll be in heaven in five minutes ! ” said
the skipper, his ship sinking, to the bishop.
“ God forbid ! ” said the bishop. We’re all
built that way. We like to cant of future bliss,
but we’re “ not taking any ” chance of going
there. We “ grunt and sweat under a weary
life,” yet vastly prefer the devil we do to the
devil we don’t know. Until we either entirely
believe or disbelieve our ologies and isms, there
is small prospect of bruising the head of that
old serpent the undertaker, and, consequently,
little hope of wide-spread funeral and burial
reform. There could be no new fashion in
death ; there could, however, be new fashions in
funerals. Among those capable of leading a vogue
must be some who have correctly appraised
the undertaker and his mouldy and disgusting
fripperies, some who have intelligently regarded
the burial hole and its abominations. A great
mission awaits such leaders, no matter where
they live, here or at the antipodes—the mission
A BLACK BURLESQUE .
(At Wooroon [?]oonga Aboriginal Some on Jubilee day.)
CHORUS BY THE PUPILS: “Gorsay Our Craysha Kaween.”
of funeral reform and the substitution of crema-
tion for the present vile method of interment.
Funeral reform should aim at the total suppres-
sion of the present hideous hearses, mourning
coaches, unnecessary professional mourners,
crape, hat-bands, weeds, and the various other
rubbish undertakers have used over a thousand
other dead persons, and introduce to add to the
repulsiveness of death and the items in their
bills. Decency, cleanliness, and cheapness
are the great desiderata the latter more
especially, as thousands of families spend
on funerals, the gorgeousness of which the dead
cannot appreciate, money sorely needed by the
living. Black has come to be regarded as th
fitting symbol of death and dreariness. If,
however, there is no real dismalness about
death, black garments and their attendant
expense may go by the board. Again, were
cremation substituted for burial, which is an
outrage on the dead and as revolting as threat-
ening to the living, there would be no necessity
for gaudy and costly coffins—the millionaire
Hebrew is even now* satisfied with an un-
painted egg-box. With cremation, family
vaults and graves and costly mendacious
marbles would go. The adoption of cremation
would not abolish but purify undertakery,
while the more true and logical conception of
death, which would follow banishment of the
existent, obnoxious and illogical “ trappings of
woe,” would induce people not to vainly mourn,
but to rejoice when some loved one, after life’s
storms, had found peaceful haven, rest and
sleep.
J. EVISON.
Maryborough (Q.) possesses a sensible
P.M. in Mr. Morey. The other day he told a wit-
ness : “ You needn’t kiss the Book. It is a filthy
habit. The oath is better taken by holding up the
right hand.”
Timi : “In a gorgeously-decorated Sydney
undertaking establishment I to-day saw a child of
five playing with a barrow fashioned to represent
a small coffin. Poor little baby ghoul ! It made
me shiver. But then, perhaps, if one is destined
for the corpse-trade, there is nothing like starting
in it young. ”
Maxillus : “ Would-be purists are object-
ing to the introduction of the word ‘ slump ’ into
the language of the share-market. I have even
seen it stigmatised as a * degradation to the lan-
guage.’ Lowell, however, uses it; not, indeed, as
a noun, but as a verb. ‘ Your very God would
slump into Himself, like a mockery king of snow.’
(‘ Condescension in Foreigners.’) Now, Lowell
was a purist, and never used a so-called American-
ism that was not an old English form, brought in
by the Pilgrim Fathers. His use of the word
gives it brevet rank. If it originally referred to
the thawing and melting of snow into slush, this
new use, as applied to shares, is really picturesque.”
Botanist Botting Hemsley, in Knowledge,
avers that there are now more blue-gums growing
outside Australia and Tasmania than exist in
their native forests.
Warra, from, the backblocks :
My missus is one of those who clip poetry and “ yarns "
out of The Bulletin and paste them in a book. Now, it
often happens that two splendid yarns are printed pne on
each side of the paper, so that it becomes necessary to
paste one under. The missus asks me which I like, and
then carefully spreads the paste on it. This leads to
“ strained relations.” For the sake of domestic felicity
throughout the land, could you not follow your own pre-
cept (with variations) and print yarns on one side of the
paper only ? The other side could be filled up with advts.
about “ manly vigor.”
Dear Bul-
letin, Some
member casu-
ally remarks
in N.S.W. As-
sembly that
the unemploy-
ed trouble is
mainly due to
“the coun-
try’s enormous
quantity o f
unskilled
labor.” I
won’t bet
about this be-
ing so in cities,
but I’ll lay
odds that it’s
altogether the
reverse in the
bush. Every
second swag-
man one meets
on the track
is a tradesman
or professional
of some sort.
It’s quite com-
mon at shear-
ing on large
stations to
find a couple
of broken-
down doctors,
a brace of law-
yers, a parson
or two, and
several bank-
accountants
in the rouse-
abouts’ hut.
M’sA. and such, of all kinds of universi-
ties, are as common as Bathurst-burrs out
back, and every trade, from boiler-making to type-
snatching, is heavily represented. No, sir, un-
skilled ” labor is distinctly in the minority in the
country ; and if all the “skilled” gentlemen could
and would go back to their trades and professions,
and the pestering “ seen-better-days,’’broken-down
swells to their—haw —wealthy friends and —haw—
relatives, things in the bush would be O.K. for
the likes of —R.H.
A Scotch Night.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
If you chance to strike a gathering of half-a-dozen
friends
Where the drink is Highland whisky or some
chosen “ Border Blends,”
And the room is full of “ speirin,” and the
“gruppin”’ of brown “han’s,”
And the talk is all of “ tartans ” and of “ plaidies ”
and of “clans,”
You can take things “ douce” and easy, you can
judge you’re going right,
For you’ve had the luck to stumble on a “ wee
Scotch night.”
When you’re pitchforked in among them in a
sweeping sort of way
As “ anither mon an’ brither ” from the Tweed or
from the Tay,
When you’re taken by the “oxter” and you’re
“ couped ” into a chair
While someone slips a ‘ * whusky ” in your tumbler
unaware,
Then the present seems less dismal and the future
fair and “bricht,”
For you’ve struck earth’s grandest treasure in a
"guid Scots nicht.”
When you hear a short name shouted and the same
name shouted back
Till you think in the confusion that they’ve all
been christened “ Mao,”
When you see a red beard flashing in the corner
by the fire,
And a giant on the sofa who is six-foot three or
higher,
Before you’ve guessed the color and before you’ve
gauged the height
You’ll have jumped at the conclusion it’s a “ braw
Scotch night.”
When the red man in the corner puts his strong
voice to the proof
As he gives the “ Hundred Pipers,” and the chorus
lifts the roof,
When a “ chiel ” sings “ Annie Laurie ” with its
tender, sweet refrain,
Till the tears are on their eyelids and—the drinks
come round again,
When they chant the stirring war-songs that would
make the coward fight,
Then you’re fairly in the middle of a “ wee Scotch
night.”
When the plot begins to thicken and the band
begins to play,
When every tin-pot chieftain has a word or two to
say,
When they’d sell a Queensland station for a sprig
of native heath,
When there’s one “Mac” on the table and a
couple underneath,
When half of them are sleeping and the whole of
them are tight.
You will know that you’re assisting at a (hie)
Scotch night.
When the last big bottle’s empty and the dawn
creeps gray and cold,
And the last clan-tartan’s folded and the last
d d lie is told,
When they totter down the footpath in a brave,
unbroken line,
To the peril of the passers and the tune of “ Auld
Lang Syne,”
You can tell the folk at breakfast as they watch
the fearsome “sieht,”
“ They have only been assisting at a braw Scots
nicht! ”
WILL. H. OGILVIE.


A. SAUNDERS.
Watchmaker, Jeweller
Silverplate direct from the
Makers to the Public.
Purchasers can Save ss. to 7s. 6d. in the We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Watoh Repairs Guaranteed.
Send for
Illustrated
Price List.
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped, jewelled English Lever, £3 10s. Extr.
quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, .£6, £7, £B, strongest, cheapest and best time
keeper ever made—3, 4,5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open
face Keyless, 30s. Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless,
7s 6d ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior quality, 20s ; guaranteed 12 months.
We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us, you
will not regret it.
18c. Gold, Idire
Diamond, 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, <£2.
3 pure Diamonds,
£3.
Similar, 15c. Gold,
20s, 30s.
Any name.
10c. Solid Gold,
17s 6d.
15c., 25s and 30s.
18c. Solid Gold,
30s, 355, £2.
Pure Diamond,
18c. Geld Band, .£3.
150. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Sefc with pure White Pearls, £2.
Sugar—Pure Silver on White
Britannia Metal, 16s 6d ; other
styles, similar, 20s, 255.
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold Bar, 15s. 180. Gold Bar,
20s. Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
WHBf«IS
32%i3i!51
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst,
21s. 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Dinner Cruets —6 Cut Bottles,
hard White Metal, 32s 6d;
37s 6d, <£2, £2 10s. 4-bott!
styles, 255, 30s.
Pure Silver on
other styles,
le, 21s ; other
€3
Gold Bell Brooch, 15s 6d,
Gives every Satisfaction.
Kent’s Gold Waltham Keyless Lever, patent
filled cases, 15 years’ guarantee, <£4 4s.
14K. Gold, 20 years’ guarantee, £5 ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years.
5 pure Diamonds,
double-cut,
18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Bread Forks, pure
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Silver-plated Bui
Out Glass, 15s 6d.
Large size, 20s.
Gold Brooch, Amethyst Heart,
15s 6d.
S3DO
Gold Brooch 3-b ir Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst,
21s ; 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Teapots—Pure Silver on Britannia Metal, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3;
extra, £3 ss.
150., £3, £4, £5, £6;
with key padlock.
10s extra.
AU secured with
Safety Chains, and
in cases.
Pure Silver Plate on Hard White Metal,
32s (d; Chased, 355. Splendid Value.
Highly Recommended.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and
Keepers, 9c. Solid Gold, 10s.
each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Send for size card.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6d.
PA
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d.
O-O-O-Q.
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 15c., 30s.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond & Redstone, 355.
Gold Brooch, Pearls & Redstone, 20«.
m
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
6 different Patterns,
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, IBs.
Large, 21s.
35c. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
Pore Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
Solid Gold Chain,
Single or Double,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, M 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold,
£slos, £6, .£6los,
£7, £B, <£lo.
Pure Silver, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed.
(St
5X5
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s
£3. Key, 255, 30s, 355.
' Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
' Superior Quality, .£G, £7, *B, .£lO
All Guaranteed.
Tea & Coffee Set, £3 10a.
English make.
Pure Silver Plate on
Britannia Metal.
Teapot, 20s; Coffee, 22s 6d;
Sugar, 12s 6d; Milk, 10s.
The full Set, £3 10s.
Splendid Value.
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
150. Gold „ 32s 6d.
I
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
15a Gold, Diamond and Ruby Centra
jJ3 ss. All Diamonds, i 34.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Amethyst,
22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
9c. Gold Bangle, 10s.
> aii i gfltn
- >
Gives every Satisfaction.
Ladies’ Gold Waltham Keyless Lever, Patent
Filled Cases, 15 years’ guarantee, £4 4s.
14K. Gold, 20 years’ guarantee, J 65 ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years.
Post Your Orders to J^ n SAUNDERS, Guaranteed the Utmost Satisfaction.
815 George Street, SYDNEY, nearly opposite Railway Station.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record sti l he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
you get it.
Oranuma beats cdl other meals for Porridge.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
A lexander Cameron,
10 liliyh Street ,
Sydney.
OUR CHIEF,
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Every N.S.W. Premier has, at some period
of his Premiership, threatened to smash the Leg.
Council.
Max Hirsch announces himself for Yic.
general elections (third week in October) against
Government whip O’Neil.
Dr. Maclaurin, M.L.C., shows signs of
yielding to the same gentle pressure which urges
R. E. O’Connor from the N.S.W. Upper to the
Lower Chamber.
Two Indian “princes,” graduates of an
English University, are said to manage a con-
tingent of many hundreds of their countrymen on
N.S.W. Northern rivers.
Yic. ex-Speaker Bent intends trying to re-
enter Parliament via Toorak. “I am wasted out
of Parliament ” he declares. New precept fear
Toorak electors : “ Waste, and want not.”
J. G. Drake, M.L.A: (Q.), the other day,
challenged the right of Labor-leader (and, virtu-
ally, Opposition-leader) Glassey to speak for all
the members on the Opposition benches of which
Drake is a cross-bench man.
AT THE RELIEF OF LUCKNOW, N.S.W.
UNDERGROUND BOSS: “And did they search you,
Johnny, before you came down ? ”
JOHNNY (blackleggina) : “ Yaas—how widiculous !
As if. I had any money why, my pa is an
English duke!"
Three years ago Deakin declared, in answer
to a question at an election-meeting : “ I will not
be a member of a stop-gap Government.” That
Government lias had a run of three years, with
another likely three years on top of that.
Tasmanian Parliament actually discussing,
in all seriousness, State supervision of the apple-
export. Of course, nothing more than the ap-
pointment of an English expert is intended ; but
now terribly socialistic Tasmania is becoming !
The Melbourne Tories trod on one another
in their efforts to welcome back Premier Turner,
erstwhile called “ brigand ”by the Argus. They
were all, Argus included, anxious to complete the
ennobblement so skilfully commenced by Chamber-
lain.
Solomon, M.P. for the Northern Territory,
refused to attend the Federation Convention on
Saturdays, because that is the ancient Hebrew
Day of Rust. But his enemies allege that Solomon
collects his two-guinea fee for Saturdays and
Sundays, and all other days, just the same.
Verb. sap. : —S.M. Herald approvingly
quotes Bourinot to the effect that the Canadians,
in adopting the “Dominion” designation, “de-
sired to give to the confederation a monarchical
likeness in contradistinction to the Republican
character of the American Federal Union.”
Dr. MacLaurin, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), wanted
to label the Federal Lower House the “Com-
mons ” ; but, as there can only be commons in
contradistinction to tmeommons, the Upper
House would naturally, in that case, have come in
time to be styled the “Lords.” Which was pro-
bably the business-end of MacLaurin’s proposal.
Queensland Labor-party is unanimous in
opposing the Govt, beer-tax. Considering the
number of teetotallers in that party this is very
remarkable. Years ago leader Glassey was loud
in his advocacy of heavy taxation for every variety
of d-r-r-rink, and his opponents quote the Ancient
Thomas against the Modern Tom with great
effect.
It is commonly reported
that the late N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner Eddy left be-
hind him a report in which
he gave it as his fixed
opinion that the railways of
Australia should be put under
Federal control. The report,
if there was one, has been
suppressed, and Acting-Pre-
mier Brunker is understood
to say, in a vague sort of
fashion, that he doesn’t really
know of any report at all.
The Vice-President of the
Council, on the other hand,
admits that there was a re-
port, but keeps strictly dark
about the contents. The docu-
ment might not do much
good, but still it should throw
some light on the railway
question, and it might as
well be brought to light.
Robert Harper, coffee-
miller, bank-ambassador, pil-
lar-of-the-church, etc., etc.,
by declaring for Protection,
put the Argus into hysterics.
The first day after the de-
claration, the poor old paper
had not a word of comment
to utter, but every issue since
has been a scream. One
symptom of her hysterics was
vi attack on Benjamin Hoare.
Jen is a leader-writer on the
Age, and, years ago, he was
connected with a Geelong
paper. Something in that
Geelong paper is unearthed
to contradict something in
the Age ! What this is sup-
posed to prove nobody knows.
Fancy the dignified Argus of ten years ago stoop-
ing to enquire what—ah—persons were employed
by the—ah—paper down the street ? Max Hirsch
gets the credit in journalistic circles for a recent
series of articles directed at the Age, hence the
Age’s vague references to “ paid emissaries of
.German importers,” etc.
Turner's jaundiced remarks about Britain
and the House of Commons and John Bull
generally are the remarks of a man with much
undigested food on his stomach. In the case of a
man like Turner it doesn’t do for the “silken
bond ” to consist too exclusively of turtle fat and
cake with a rich perspiration of grease on the
surface.
The Australian ‘ ‘ Commonwealth ” locu-
tion was born of Parkes when in his finest “Take-
away-that-bauble ! ” vein. But Parkes —though
emulous in the abstract of the Cromwellian
legend—filled far too extensively his own mental
foreground ever to have successfully played primus
inter pares. Be his theory what it might, his
practice would still have panned-out Parkes Im-
perator!
The drafting department of the Melbourne
Metropolitan Board of Works is quietly being
inundated with Germans, some of whom speak no
better English than the average vegetable John.
The reason of this swampage is not apparent at
first sight,, seeing that the new-comers receive the
standard salary, but observation shows that they
start work about an hour earlier and relinquish it
about an hour later than their Australian col-
leagues.
Excess of arrivals in Queensland over de-
partures during ’96 —3257 ; half of which number
were Japanese. Apropos, in Piebald Land, Dick-
son, a very saintly Minister of the Crown, was
lately fined for unlawfully employing a Kanaka
about his house and grounds. His lawyer had the
brazen cheek to plead “ privilege of Parliament,”
but it didn’t “go”—10s. and professional and
court costs.
GRIME.
TRAVELLER: “ I want a hath !’’
PROPRIETOR: “ You do ! Walk in !'
Glassey’s sudden asssumption of the posi-
tion of Q. Opposition leader, the other evening,
raised quite a storm. Firstly, Groom indignantly
repudiated him ; then Jackson (metaphorically)
spurned him while the Ministerialists grinned de-
lightedly. How well Tozer probed Glassey’s
weakness when he tickled him almost into Tory-
ism by promptly recognising him as leader of the
Labor-party !
MISFIT PRIDE.
THE NEW PARSON (explanatorily ): “ I was having a hath in a
quiet nook when some evil-minded hoys stole my clothing.
They are too familiar in this locality, and do not pay
sufficient respect to a gentleman of my position. I shall
have to put on my English reserve . ”
FARMER: “I hope it jits you better than my oats ! ”
Stephen Barker, the new Melb. Trades
Hall President, who has no doubt a constituency
m view, has been on the job in the Evening
Herald for some weeks past with stodgy column
letters on “ Land and Poverty.” One of Stephen’s
latest letters speaks of an imperfect land policy as
an “ incubus that is eating the heart out of ” the
“ people ” ! He means well, but he belongs to that
serious class of men who were sent into the world
to bore it awfully.
Trenwith, M.P., in answer to the assertion
that if the State were made one electorate for the
selection of Federal Senators no poor man would
be able to stand because of the costliness of
electioneering, told Vic. Assembly, the other
night, that his electioneering expenses as a Federal
candidate amounted to Jl3 6s. It is Fat Man
who has to pay his way into the House and who is
horrified at the prospect of having to shout beer
for a whole nation.
S.A. Oppositionists have always asserted
that the Kingston Govt, is a one-man Ministry,
and it looks as if it were true. Holder has been a
failure as a leader in his chief’s absence, and the
Opposition, although in a minority, has had
matters all its own way. The Ass policy has al-
ways been to block business, and lately it has
triumphantly succeeded. One more session like
the present one and the democratic majority would
vanish to the winds.
Chief Secretary Moore, of the Tasmanian
Federal ten, offers to resign in order that Attorney-
General Clark may attend Sydney Convention—
an enabling Bill to be run through Parliament
for the purpose. Of course, it is unconstitutional,
and all that sort of thing*, but, barring ex-Speaker
Bird, the eleventh man on the Federal poll and
the present Ishmael of the Assembly, nobody will
very violently object. Clark certainly knows more
about Federation than any of Tasmania’s ten.
The Australian “Commonwealth” has
been shuttlecocked back to Australian “Dominion”
by N.S.W. Upper House, and now there are
demands to omit both terms and in lieu employ
the simple designation “ Australia.” But “ Aus-
tralia ’ won’t work—just at present, anyway, as
territorially at least one-half of Australia will
probably stand from under the current Federal
scheme. When all Australia comes into the
Federation, “ Commonwealth ” and “Dominion”
may both go.
H. : ‘ ‘ One of Premier Turner’s interviews
in England cuts deep. He indignantly asks the
newspaper-man what is the meaning of such a
vast extent of England having relapsed from agri-
cultural occupation into sheep-walk. It was
almost more like Australia than Australia itself.
Was this their Freetrade ? destroying the yeo-
manry, and cramming a degenerate population
into cities ! Don’t let them talk about Protection
having bloated Melbourne at the expense of the
territory at large.”
Vic. general election is due about two
months hence, and already 183 candidates are
out for the 95 seats. The biggest disagreement,
so far, seems to be at South Yarra, where six men
are after one seat. At Grenville, Dandenong, and
Maloney’s constituency of West Melbourne, five
candidates are after one seat; eight are after two
billets at East Bourke ; and Labor-member ’An-
cock, in his smellful stronghold of Footscray,
where the bone-mills are, has to save his political
scalp from four hungry competitors.
The Federation Bill got into the Tasmanian
Leg. Council last week, and old Adye Douglas,
who has lately become a bitter Provincialist,
opened proceedings with about the most compre-
hensive damn-blast that has been thrown upon
the subject up to date. N.S.W., according to
Douglas, is a barren waste, and Victoria a fly-
blown land, where a man’s chop rises and walks
away while he is eating it, and Federation is a
composite beast, mentioned in Revelations, with a
mane on its head and a sting in its tail. The idea
of Tasmania federating on any terms with a
desert peopled by mental wrecks Douglas regards
as an absurdity. Then the old man broke a few
things, and sat down among a blaze of adjectives.
The row in S.A. Labor-party, which has
been simmering for months, has now reached boil-
ing-point. Charleston, M.L.C., ever since he
openly sided with the medical party in the hospi-
tal troubles, has not been on speaking terms with
his colleagues. The ill-feeling was increased by
the action of thp party in openly opposing his
candidature at the Federal Convention election.
The whole trouble, which has caused a serious
split in the Labor ranks at a time of weakness fol-
lowing upon election defeat, can be placed at
the door of the Hospital curse, which has severed
more friendships than any other dispute in S.A.
political history.
The opponents of the N.S.W. Legal Prac-
titioners’ Bill, which allows admission to anyone
of good character and having the necessary know-
ledge of law, strongly insist on the necessity of
general culture, evinced, among other things, by a
knowledge of Latin. Premier Turner (a pretty
successful and brainy Melbourne solicitor) to an
interviewer : “At Cambridge they kindly made
us all doctors of law, and I heard all my virtues
and good qualities in Latin. I have to confess,
however, that 1 did not understand a word of it,
but, as the undergraduates cheered everything, I
have no doubt it was highly complimentary.”
And this is about what the average solicitor’s
general culture amounts to. Any Latin beyond
ultra vires, locus standi, or primd facie, is Greek
to him.
With the blind partisanship of party-
Government no outrage upon humanity or justice
is allowed to weigh for an instant against the
chance of getting a little cheap mud on to the
other side. The “man named Suffh-ld,” of whose
case Sydney Daily Telegraph affects to be dimly
reminiscent, might apparently rot in gaol ten
times over, as far as that paper is concerned,
sooner than that there should be a chance of his
getting justice upon what it is pledged to con-
sider the wrong initiative. Suffield, in the judg-
ment of a vast majority of the community, is a
cruelly-wronged man ; yet, though the Telegraph
is probably,, in private, of the same opinion, it
doesn’t hesitate to help destroy his chance of
vindication by insinuating that “ the Opposition’s
sudden interest in the case ” is no more than a
paltry political dodge.
M‘Farlane, M.L.A., alleges that the
N.S.W. Land . Tax authorities deliberately and
habitually alter and falsify the land-tax valuations
—presumably for the purpose of getting more
revenue as the alterations seem to be all in the
same direction. By way of corroboration, he
planks down particulars of twenty cases in the
Illawarra district with the Government assessors’
valuations and the amounts to which, it is alleged,
these valuations were altered in the Tax Office at
Sydney. As a rule, the valuations are just
doubled, though in one case the amount was
apparently increased in an off-hand fashion from
=£7631 to <£30,525. If these statements are true—
and M'Farlane says he is prepared to verify them,
while Acting-Premier Brunker, instead of denying
them, says he has made inquiries, and is “ not in
a position ” to state the result —there should be
another robust shindy ahead.
“IT NATURALLY FOLLOWS."
The Harper-Smith row in Yic. Assembly
gave a week of joy to the Ministerialists. The
Opposition Corner was indeed a corner of opposi-
tion, when the only two men of individuality in
it were wrangling. Harper is the Pharisee of the
House (as opposed to Stiggins Gray, of Prahran),
and R. M. Smith is its dilletante. Harper has
long been vaunted as the coming Treasurer of the
Tories, and it is significant that no explicit nomi-
nation was made for any other portfolio. Harper
was indeed a Tory ideal—toney, churchy, narrow-
minded, right-thinking, and a capitalist. And
now, where are the loves of long ago ? Gone for
ever. Harper is anathema, or words to that effect.
“Just for a handful of silver he left us,” quotes
R. M. Smith, moaningly ; “we that had loved
him so, followed him, honored him, lived in his
mild and magnificent eye, learned his great lan-
guage, caught his clear (Doric) accents, made him
our pattern to live and to die ! ”
That Tasmanian political antique, Adye
Douglas, has been foaming lately in denunciation
of Federation. Tasmanians, he says, can live
happily and enjoy their liberty without being
federated, and he is particularly bitter against New
South Wales and Victoria.—
Politician, old and weird,
With the patriarchal beard,
What in Sheol maketh thee
Wag that beard so wrathfully ?
Would thou see thy little Spot
(Charming Land of Sleep a Lot)
Slowly perish of dry rot ?
Or, while other States advance,
Lie in cataleptic trance ?
Federation is the fate
All things meet with, soon or late.
Waits there not for us the dread
Federation of the Dead ?
Be at peace, then ! Cease thy roar !
Wag thy beard in wrath no more.


Ai) Object of
Adtpiratioi)
is a Pretty Foot encased in a Pretty Shoe. No other cover
is worthy of such Association. Here is a Shoe that fulfils all
a woman’s heart or her husband’s pocket-book can desire.
Glace Kid Shoe, Pat. Cap and
Facing, American Forms,
5s- 6d.
My Shoes are made to fit, I do not make the Foot
Shoe. Try one pair, and it will be followed by
the same kind. You will he satisfied, I know it.
to fit the
many of
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
84 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
mm%x
T
=»3! I
VICTOR
VioIiQS-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
Harn)oi)icaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each,
Accordcops & CoiKcrtipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
jfiitarS & J^ai)doliQ€S-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStopS & PolypboQS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
BaQd lQStr(in}€i>t& of all kiO^S
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TERMS.
ym
g S T/\BLtSHED /Q^j
338 George-street, Sydney.
A DISTINCTION.
This
signifies
|)othing.
This
signifies
Everything
when found upon your Cover and Air-
Tube, proving that they are genuine
Dunlops. Every Dunlop Welch
Cover and every Dunlop Air-Tube
bears the above registered Trade Mark.
Dunlop Tyres guaranteed for 12 Months
FIRST IN 1888. . . . FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
Branches
Tatteraall’a Lane, Melbourne.
Franklin-st., Adelaide.
Kin<r-st., Perth.
•Litchfield-at., Christchurch, N.Z.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
480 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
John Kelly, who went out back via Hill-
ston, five years ago, is anxiously sought by his
friends. Address P. M’Donagh, Howlong station.
Reported that a certain not over-literate
ex-Eirst Gentleman in the land has not only
made a big “ rise ” by the sale of real estate, but
that he has cleared off all his old liabilities, and
has a good show of getting into Parliament again
next September.
The licensee of a “swagger” Yic. pub.
imagines that he is doing a clever thing in getting
the well-advertised “girl” of a certain murderer
to pull the beer pump in his bar. Such engage-
ments are a sorry mistake in a first-class house.
Big biz. £or a fortnight, and then the pub. loses the
rnaua it has taken years to attain.
Dear Bulletin, — It is not true, as stated,
that a S.A. capitalist paid off the =£looo mortgage
on the house left by George Ash, M.P. The
money devoted to that purpose was the proceeds
of the late legislator’s life-assurance policy, and
the total amount of the sum raised for the educa-
tion of his five children was less than =£2so.
Though he was the strongest fighter on the Con-
servative side of S.A. Assembly, the capitalists
soon forgot him and his services after his death. —
Yours', &c., C. K. Wilton, Adelaide, Aug. 15.
Yet another story of Melbourne’s late
gleeful Coroner, Dr. Youl. One day the doctor’s
sanctum was invaded by a lady with a hard, work-
a-day phiz, and a brogue as thick as Pentridge
hominy. “Ye’re inqueshtin’ Malone the day?”
said the visitor. “ I have one Denis Malone on
my list,” replied the Coroner. “ I’m his broken-
hearted widdy, so I am. Malone shwalleyed a
ha’f-sovereign wanst. If ye come across it fwhin
yez’re inqueshtin’ himself, sure I don’t moind
lettiri’ ye have ha’f-a-crown fer yer throuble.”
Yet another of the “ old hands ” who con-
nect the convict - days with the present, has
gone. Solomon Blay, ex-convict and ex-public
executioner, died last week at Hobart. Solomon
was transported in 1837, appointed Govt, man-
butcher in ’47, pardoned in ’57, hanged his last
man in ’B7, and now dies in ’97. Also, he had
seven letters in his Jewish-Christian name, and in
his day he made hundreds of men “ throw seven.”
He was the original of the “Absalom Day” in
Price Warung’s Bulletin tale, “ Absalom Day’s
Promotion. ”
Ex-Treasurer Ward, of M.L., who resigned
his seat and filed a very lamentable schedule
simultaneously, has been re-elected by his South-
land constituents by a large majority. Nobody
really knows for certain whether M.L. law allows
an uncertificated insolvent to sit in the Legislature
or not; anyhow, the Opposition intends to raise
Tophet over the matter when Parliament meets.
On the other hand, the Government, it is
rumored, is thinking of taking Ward back into
the Ministry, and, if it does, the row will be some-
thing memorable. The Ward row promises to be
as enduring as the Adelaide hospital scuffle.
A wail from the Far North
Editor Bulletin, —During the Diamond Jubilee festival
(such as it was) held here (Normanton, N.Q.) 1 out of
sympathy and good fellowship (perhaps bad fellow-
ship) gave a nigger one bottle of “ colonial ” beer. The
aboriginal had no sooner received it than a constable
established behind a water-tank came out and seized it,
the consequence being that I, a music-teacher, was sum-
moned and fined £3 and 6s. 6d. costs. Take two other
cases of the same in this town. One hotel-keeper was
fined £1 for serving an aboriginal (two bottles), another
fined £1 ss. for supplying a darkey with one bottle of
beer. The poor music teacher through good-naturedly
entering into the festivity of the season had to pay a fine
three times the amount imposed upon a licensed vic-
tualler ! —Mjjsicus. [Now wanted—the other side of this
yarn ?—Ed. B.]
Minister Carruthers presented a fine ex-
ample of dog-meanness when he alleged, in N.S.
Wales Assembly last week, that ex-Premier Dibbs
had “ practically told ” the unemployed to go and
eat grass. The story used to be that Dibbs actually
told the unemployed to eat grass—a yarn of the
first French Revolution which some dull perjurer
fastened on to the long and stormy K.C.M.G.
Crick promptly gave Carruthers the lie, but
had to back down because the latter didn’t
say that Dibbs said the thing in question—only
that he “practically” said it. “Practically”
made all the difference. Yet if someone had said
that a member was “practically” a thief or a
drunkard or the father of many illegitimate
children !! !
N.S.W. Leg. Council—that House of Fat
Men which Premier Reid was going to reform but
didn’t—wants to call the Commonwealth a
“ Dominion,” and to run the Federal Parliament
with unpaid politicians. Also, it proposes that the
power of levying customs and excise duties —the
only thing of any importance left to the Federal
Legislature—should be taken away from it. This
presumably means that all the diverse tariffs would
rage separately just as they do now, and under
these circumstances it wouldn’t matter much
whether the thing it is proposed to create is called
a “Commonwealth” or a “Dominion” or any-
thing else. But if it were called a Kilkenny cat
—just a plain, ordinary Kilkenny eat —it would
fill the bill as well as anything.
The Yarrabah (Q.) Mission Station blacks
have actually turned to horticulture, the station
having undertaken to grow a constant supply of
the papaw for the Cairns preserving-works for
sauce-making. Papaw-sauce is becoming a big
thing.
Refreshing to see that even the S.M.
Herald bears tribute to the sterling qualities of
the late Charles Lilley. “He was a man of the
masses rather than the classes, and, contrary to
the general rule, the Supreme Court Judgeship
did not alienate him from the liberal instincts and
sympathies of his earlier period.” Which, how-
ever true, is rather rough upon Supreme Court
Judges, and must surely have been unintentional
on the Herald’s part. Lilley and Higinbotham
are honorable exceptions to the rule that Judges
are of the classes not the masses.
“ One of the most impressive things at the
London Guildhall Jubilee ball,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, “was the herald’s
announcement of the arrival of a gentleman whose
name and rank had been given to the flunkey as
1 Alderman Llewellyn Jones, of Sydney, member
for Petersham in the House of Parliament of New
South Wales.’ Stricken to his bulbous calves by
the majesty of the situation, the human phono-
Sraph ejaculated, ‘ Alderman Sydney, of New
outh Jones,’ and, held up by the Mayor’s hand
the strangely-labelled article passed on to ob
livion.”
Premier Turner appears to be quite un
aware of the painful fact that he lost his head on
Jubilee Day. Speeching at Melb. Town Hall, on
the morning of his return to graft, he said : “We
were cheered from one end of the procession to the
other,” which implies a fond belief that the mob
recognised George Turner, and was expressing a
fervent admiration for his Australian character
But Rickards explains the matter with a cine*
matographe picture. If Turner cares to drop into
the Opera House at about 10.15 p.m., any night of
the week, he may see himself and Mrs. T. inciting
the populace to bursts of enthusiasm by promis-
cuous waving of a hat and handkerchief, whilst
George Reid glares at their artless conduct through
his solitary eye-glass.
Henry Lawson’s book of prose stories
gets an excellent notice from London Academy—
a journal of very fair critical repute. “ A real
book, a book in a hundred,” the writer calls it in
quoting long extracts from those well-known Bul-
letin sketches “Steelman’s Pupil” and “The
Drover’s Wife.” Lawson’s “ feeling for style in
his own person is poor, but when he makes another
speak his language is terse, supple, and richly
idiomatic’ He can tell a yarn with the best.” As
compared with Bret Harte, “ the Californian
writer thinks of the story before anything else,
the Australian of the human document.” And so
on, winding up with the statement that the book
“can be recommended to every one who likes
full-blooded, man-to-man writing.” Lawson, by
the way, gets no direct return from the English
reputation of his books. He sold both his verse
and his prose when he was hard up for about .£l7O,
and instead of drawing a legitimate income from
the sales of the cream of his work for ten years,
he has now to turn to and sweat his brain afresh.
“ Launceston ” to The Bulletin
Go-as-you-please justice in a southern town : A man
shot his mate during a drunken brawl. Coroner’s ver-
dict, after hearing evidence clearly setting forth that
accused was drunk at the time of the affray, was one of
manslaughter. At. the Supreme Court accused was
charsred with murder, but offered to plead guilty to
manslaughter. His request was granted—three years.
The Judge evidently agreed with the coroner’s jury that
prisoner was intoxicated when he shot hismate. Nextday
the police proceeded against the licensee of an hotel for
supplying prisoner, an intoxicated person, with liquor.
The police Super, swore that, in his opinion, prisoner was
not drunk ; he also said the coroner’s jury verdict was a
farce—thereby inferring that the Supreme Court sentence
was also a farce. The licensee was acquitted. To sum
up : A Supreme Court was so satisfied that drink was
responsible that it allowed prisoner to label his own
crime. The police Super, afterwards says accused was
sober, and practically tells the Supreme Court it is an
ass of the most aggravated sort. The Super.’s declaration
certainly saved a publican a £5 fine, but that doesn’t look
much of a reason for telling a Supreme Court it doesn’t
know its business. Truly, the ways of the law are various.
Melb. “ Recent demise Attorney Clever-
don. When in partnership with Eccleston, they
pretty well mopped up all the Wesleyanio busi-
ness—no clique sticks together like the Methodist.
Since parting they have divided the spoil;
Eggleston nipped his full half. He has the pres-
tige of being the son of one of the pioneer clergy,
which did not prevent him from being a crack
cricketer of the East Melb. Club, while the present
eminent lawyer Riggall was another, along with
Dan Wilkie, a third clever ‘ limb.’ Eggleston has
since developed musical enthusiasm. Cleverdon
never was beard of in anything outside that
jealous mistress, the Law, and her profitable
acquaintance, the Church. Like demised Wes-
leyan Cutts amid the medicos, Cleverdon had the
full and worthy confidence of that Goshen cenacle,
which is supposed to be very lugubrious, but, in
reality, enjoys the fat things. Nathless, there are
no Melb. lawyer-fortunes nowadays like those of
the good old times of the Duerdins, Clarks, Klin-
genders, Moules, Seddons, Vaughan3— et hoc.”


Banking. Publics Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
pawnbroking department.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Oni.y Address:
74 CASTL.EREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE— ~ ~~ T
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4..500,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,950,911 ss.
Directors :
Hop. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esc., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gvles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
. H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within ■
(corner of Leadenhal! Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Universal Land & Deposit Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T)EBENTURES issued, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest—3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable quar-
terly or half-yearly.
The holder of Debenture Bonds has a security in the
assets of the Company, past, present, and future. De-
posits to limited amounts received at 5 p.c. per annum.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank Limited has
never reconstructed or suspended payment in any wav
since its formation. The whole of its Funds are carefully
invested in Real Estate.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
~~DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
X
Regiijald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
y
A
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Music, &c.
H
O WARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash, &o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &e., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD'S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
_ for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
II
H
OWARD'S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
H
H
II
OWAHD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. QueCn-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (| tone), from 6d.
tol guinea,great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OW ARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
• OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from Gd. to 2ogs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
OWARD'S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver* cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £15(f,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770' S) 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6*056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Es C. M.Gi, M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr, L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
A LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the ‘'Companies’ Act 1890,”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,781'
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: JohnGrjce, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H,Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: FranciaGrey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). _New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken jHill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. j.i G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
* (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP «. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. _. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 ol
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcoek, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ; G. C.
Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY
Assayers, Metallurgists,
Office— Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
Melbourne Ore Testing & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slaps, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
Tl)i& Conjpaijy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed ... ... 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st. , Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Al cubing & Neae, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. IIUTI'ER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. b<>6 FfyQ.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Molloourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MEIiBOUHNB
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, August 28, 2 p.m
Pcieyiirie, fuLmday, Sept. 4, 2 p.m
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
EsPERANCE Bay
D3.t-3
viia.ii Saturday, August 28, 2 p.m.
miinyong, Tuesday, Sept. 7, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Biininyoiijf, Tuesday, Sept. 7, 5 p.m.
N:i transhipment.
BRISBANE i
MARYBOROUGH -
ROCKHAMPTON )
Leura, Saturday, August 28, 2 p.m.
Rarrabool, Tuesday, Aug. 81, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
L'Miin, Saturday, Auarust 28, 2 p.m.
Ty i ia.ii, Saturday, Sept. 4, 2 p.iu.
Oarg<> for all Ports received Daily
LOWEST M ICICIM TAKES TO ALL POItTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
VCM. HOWAED SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
fpNGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES*
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
5
o» « «#
SPECIAL;
u!h
«n r
N B'li
sm
zr
FREE-ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress : Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set ;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
645, 755, 90s, 1355, and
160 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
18s, 265, and 30s ; Cornets, 80s, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s, and 90s ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 76s and 90s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 265; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s musk) reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
♦Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHfE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), EIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Nornianton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
l?a‘'““.tiger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
♦Via Suez Canal.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly tor the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare I London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown.
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON’& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS oo CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, August 28.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Saturday, September 4.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Innamincka (from Melb.)
Saturday, August 28.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Saturday, September 4.
ESPEKANCE BAY
}
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) about
August 26.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Aik) Ports North to Cairns
S.S. South Australian, Tues-
day, August 31.
Best <€• Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., r.TD., Agents,
0 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. Gd. everywhere.*
The Scotch “ Sabbath Alliance’—sorely
exercised over the .dreadful circumstance that
cows have hitherto had to be profanely m Iked on
the Lord’s day—has just made joyful discovery
that, by starving his ungodly beasts on Saturday,
the devout dairyman .can dispense with Sunday’s
milking—without hurting himself in his bawbees !
Thus does Sandy < get there with God and
Mammon !
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AUVI> RESTORI VG VIGOR.
“ OH, WHAT A DIFFERENCE IN THE MORNING 1 '*
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS “KOLA NUT” TONIC,
mi A rrT»n « BTOTT A/TETTP ” ANT Ft
The GREATEST “PICK-ME-UP” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, fid. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co. s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite Genera) Post Office), SYDNEY.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
mycerme
AND
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BEETHAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1 /-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMYVADE & 00., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
An Old Queenslander 9 s
Recovery.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS FOR PALE
PEOPLE SCORE ANOTHER VICTORY.
INTERMITTENT FEVER IN ITS WORST
STAGE CURED.
TRANSFORMATION FROM A LIVING
SKELETON TO A HEALTHY,
ROBUST MAN.
Mr. Cornelius O’Neil, of 193 Cumberland-street,
Sydney, is a well-preserved man of about p 5 years
of age. He has led a chequered career since his
arrival in the colonies some 32 years ago, and he
attributes an illness he recently had entirely to the
trying climate of Northern Queensland, where he
pursued a variety of callings all more or less of a
health-impairing nature. _
To a reporter who recently interviewed him he
stated :
“ I have been suffering off and on for the last
seven years with what in Queensland is called
intermittent fever. It is caused by damp and
exposure, and the fever is always prevalent.
The symptoms are cold chills, severe pains across
the loins and intolerable pains in the. head.
I have had doctors without end, and every
conceivable patent and other medicine, but
neither doctors nor physic afforded me
the slightest relief. A lady friend of my wife’s
who called one day to see us, seeing me lying so
prostrate, said, ‘ Why don’t you try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills? You know how badly I suffer from
rheumatism ; well, since I have been taking Pink
Pills I feel as if I had taken a new lease of life, and
this winter is the best I have passed for many a
year. I am sure it is entirely due to the Pink
Pills of Dr. Williams’.’ Well, this lady spoke so
emphatically of their good qualities that I deter-
mined to try them, bought some boxes and com-
menced taking them in the manner recommended
an the wrapper.”
“ How did you feel after taking the first box,
Mr. O’Neil?”
“ My appetite improved, but otherwise I did
not feel much better, but after the second box I
felt A lot better, so I went steadily on with them.
I was taking at this time three pills a day, one
after each meal. It was only when I suffered
from a terrible tightness across the c hest that I
took two at a time, and then this feding would
disappear as if by magic. Added to this the
agonising cold chills across the loins have entirely
left me. It is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that have
done it, and nothing else, as, with the exception
of opening medicine, I have taken no other. Had
you seen me a few months ago you would not have
known me. I was reduced to a shadow, and felt
a burden to myself and to others. I now feel_ a
different man, and cannot speak too highly in
praise of this wonderful medicine, which has.
brought me from death’s door to health and
strength. I was for years a master-butcher in
Queensland and in this colony ; I have also been a
gold-digger. lam sure this account of my sick-
ness and recovery will be read with interest by
many of my old friends in Queensland and New
South Wales.”
In men, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People effect a radical cure in all cases arising
from worry, overwork, or excess of any nature.
They are not a purgative, but they restore pale
and yellow complexions to the glow of health, and
are a specific for troubles peculiar to the female.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a sure cure for
rheumatism, neuralgia, paralysis, locomotor
ataxy, St. Vitus's dance, nervous headache,
scrofula, chronic erysipelas, influenza’s after-
effects, &e. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtain-
able from all leading chemists, or from the Dr.
Williams Medicine Co pany, Queen’s Place,
Sydney, who will forward, post paid, on receipt of
sta 1 or post-office order, one box for 2s. 9d., or
hai. . dozen for 15s. 3d.
Pubishers’ Notices.
Browning & Shakespeare. Love Lyrics. Music by
Arthur Chanter, Mus. Bae. Pal inn’s, all Music-sellers.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
Xl. stories), Is. 3d.
EMPIRE ~3r HOTEL,
Jfitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Centrally Situated.
Terms
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
HOTEL . .
VICTORIA $
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES ■ - Proprietor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
(g hoice sree Luncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Pishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
i/\rse
/S.JSO O
Botti^.s
'TTAi-
P6r*esT
xSpi^
WOLFE’S
.SCHNAPPS
A
l^c°wto£p
by tfye,
TA^DICAb
Hr frow w
r Horkus i
and
Spirit
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THK MOST DEI4CIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORI.H.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i -, and eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Ajfents for Xew South Wales:
TIUUOCK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI, STREETS, SVDNEV.
X
K
HEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUM
, BACO, &c., CAN be COM-
PLETEY CURED
By Mr. C. F. PARKER,
145 VICTORIA-PARADE, FITZROY, MEL-
BOURNE.
EXTRACTS from SWORN AFFIDAVITS DE-
CLARED before a Justice ot Peace.
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel,
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced incur-
able, failing to obtain any relief from others, was
completely cured by me 15 months ago, and has
kept in better health since.
Miss M. Carney, 78 Palmer-street, Fitzroy, wi}S
cured by me over two years ago of rheumatlo
gout, and has been in better health since.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria Streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies’,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.;
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
Dear Sir,—l- wish to testify to the cure you
have effected of my son, Hugh, in June last, after
he had been suffering from a severe attack of;
Rheumatic Gout. Your remedy gave him proiftpU
relief from pain, and completely cured him in a
couple of months. lam thankful to sav that he
has enjoyed splendid health since.—William Shed-
den, grocer. Corner of Nicholson and Macplmr-
son streets, North Carlton, 3rd September, 1896.
Dear Sir,—l wish to testify to the cure you
have done. I was a sufferer from lumbago and
sciatica, having experienced the most excruciating
pain for some considerable time. lam thankful
to say that from the first week I went under your
remedy I obtained relief, and am now completly
cured. —Yours very gratefully, Walter S. Smith,
High-street, Ararat, sth January, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have made. Having had a severe attack of rheu-
matic gout last April, with swellings of the joints,
and suffering great pain, I was cured by you after
two weeks’ treatment, and am pleased to say that
I have been keeping well since.— Samuel F.
Wiber, 72 Hotham-street, Collingwood. 15th
April, 1897-
Dear Sir,— Having suffered from severe attacks
of biliousness (two or three times a week), also
sciatica, and tried several remedies, without
relief, I consulted you, and got relief with the first
supply, and was cured in eight weeks’ treatment.
I consider your remedy a real genuine one, and
will recommend it to all I know. —Yours, grate-
fully, A. Campbell, miner. Mount Clear, Bal-
larat, 26th June, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of lumbago and double sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors, elec-
tric baths, patent medicines, &c., without deriving
any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896, I was
very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I con-
sulted you, and obtained relief from the first sup-
ply of your antidote, and am thankful to say,
after five supplies, I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstiiom, M'Cracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne. 26th Julv, 1897.
Dear Sir,—ln grateful testimony to you for
curing me of a very severe attack of Sciatica. In
June, 1896, I was very bad, suffering great pain,
which prevented me from doing any work. I con-
sulted you, and after 10 weeks’ treatment I was
cured. Being 52 years of age, I think that the
cure was wonderful, especially after I had tried
other remedies previously, without any effect. It
is now 12 months ago since I was cured, and I feel
very grateful to you. —William Wintle, 111
Hoi den-street, North Fitzroy, 28th July, 1897.
John Moreland, 1 Lithgow-street, Collingwood,
aged ' 9 years, rheumatic fever, rheumatic gout,
and rheumatism, 14 months in hospital, ;> years on
crutches, helpless, pronounced incurable, appli-
cant for Austin Hospital for Incurable, After 3
months use of antidote all joints completely cured ;
can work now, and is in. perfect health. Miss
Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-street, West
l Brunswick : R eumatism 10 years ; years on
crutches, and for two years had not walked at all;
all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly use-
less ; life made miserable; case pronounced hope-
less by leading Melbourne doctors; tried every-,
body and everything without relief. Under my
Remedy, Contractions come out, can walk without
aid of crutch or stick ; can visit her friends, and
is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless,"and is the true antidote of lactic and,
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, &c.). It cured the above cases,
and many hundred others in this colony, and will
relieve in a short period, and completely cure the
most obstinate case with a fair trial. I have used'
it with the most successful results over 13 years in
the East, and in Victoria. This secret remedy is,
not known to anyone else in the colonies. Con-
sultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to any
colony, £l.*
Tb€ Leading Pipe.
GBD
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Rea' German Hollow Ground
'J
✓
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE. GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. JT
The Biljim Craze.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
Just a word, Toy tiinef.nl brethren, who evolve the
peuple’6 Song, ?*««' -
For your irtonbnful. Tueubrations do your readers
grievous JVrohg :
Where’s the usg of chanting dirges to the “ men
we might have been
Better draw the curtain gently o’er the disappoint-
ing scenes
It but tells of fair beginnings, and of prospects
fair and bright,
And of how the reign of Folly brought us to that
piteous plight ;
Where’s-the pathos in the waster who with For-
tune broke his lance,
To the great unmurmuring millions who have
never had a chance ?
If you note the Misanthrope, and boom disciple
of the Sad,
You will have the sorry prospect of a nation mor-
bid mad,
Crooning ghastly, maudlin dirges of the “ people
they should be ”
Had they but the moral courage e’en to wish fair
destiny,
For the wish in things politic stands paternal to
the act,
But desire must have conception, and precede
accomplished fact.
Therefore give the cue of what may be a Nation
great and free,
And the whispered wish will soon be voiced in
shouts of Liberty.
Let us put the matter calmly; let us tear away
disguise ; -
Let us show how subtle tyrants pose as Saints in
people’s eyes.
It is not the stern oppressor who grinds victims
under heel,*
But the godly,, sleek-faced humbugs, tongue of oil
and heart of steel.
Let us show the hidden dangers: let us show the
dreadful fate,
Arm to arm in swift encounter is a custom out of
date.
In our warfare specious cunning must be met by
sharper brains,
And the one who’s best enarmoured is the one who
victory gains.
When you sing,' my tuneful brethren, give your
clearer vision scope,
Pitch your songk>f ardent pleading in the ecstacy
of I lope.
Weave your words with rythmic measure so to
please the people’s ears,
Let them stir the soul and strengthen, and dispel
their idle fears.
Better sing the hopes of millions, sing in burning
words of fire,
Though the breath.of Nation’s passion light your
own funereal pyre,
Happy in the certain augury that, Phoenix-like,
will rise,
The suffusing- flame of Consciousness to light our
just emprise.
D. HEALEY.


Packets
1
Cigars
CXTRa
j panuldcTure dby M
' Jjjjk
TsWerke sw „,„,, m MM
Is.
o*°
RED BIRD.
Tft(J r H
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
Agents and |
Depots |
Everywhere
STBANGE, BUT TBUE.
“ Matches are a nuisance any way you fix them.’’
“ How do you make that out?”
“ Well, if you take only one to light your lamp it
invariably goes out, and if you take two you always
have to put one back in your pocket.”
A CASE OF CONSCIENCE.
Junior Partner : “The salesman in our cycle de-
Eartment says he won’t perjure his soul another week
y lying about our goods, and stating they are as
good as Red Birds. It will be difficult for us to fill
his place.”
Senior Partner : “ How much is he getting ?”
Junior Partner : “Three pounds a week.”
Senior Partner : “ Offer him JES and a commission."
Some cyclists, although they may not have passed
their first season awheel, know more about cycles
and their construction (so they claim) than those who
have spent y’ears in the business. Cycle-riding and
the judging of cycles, from a conversational stand-
point, seem to be dead easy.
Tourist : “ Say, guide, what can I see in Rome?”
Guide : “ Old and historic ruins.”
Tourist: “ Ruins be darned ! What do I want to
see ruins for? I sold cheap cycles before I struck it
rich, and saw enough ruin to last me my natural life.
We all couldn’t sell Red Birds, so I tried other makes.”
Any cycle is good enough until something happens
to it. Then you will wish you had paid the small
difference for a Red Bird.
A fancy list price is no more the sign of a high-grade
wheel than a paper collar is the evidence of a shirt.
Many cheap machines are sold in Australia as high-
gfade. Intending purchasers should be careful atid
not invest in repair-shop products when they can
secure a cycle with a past.
The “ RED BIRD.” They never require repairs.
A CHEAP KIND.
He : “ Aw, don’t you know, Miss Brightely, the
fellahs down at the club say I’ve wheels in my head.
Now, isn’t that a sign of genius?”
She: “Usually, but yours are not high-grade
wheels.”
Rf.ports from Canada: —“ All Canadian champion-'
ships won by Davidson and M‘Leod. RED BIRDS.”,
“Nuff sed.”
Tiik Red Bird stands pre-eminently the favorite
mount of experienced wheelmen.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
45 York Street. SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
M.L. A. Adrian Knox, supporting the Tote Bill
in N.S.W. Assembly, stated that “In Maoriland, last
Sear, close on t 900,000 went through the totalisator. In
.S. YV. certainly not less than £1,500,000 would go
through in the course of a year. The Government share,
or the charity share, would be £50,000, and the clubs
would divide £lOO,OOO among them.”
* * • *
Two winners at Caulfield G.N. meeting, Brito-
marte and Blue Metal, were quoted in the sporting re-
turns at 4 to 1 and 15 to 1. The same winners on a private
Is. tote in Collingwood (Wren’s) paid divs. of £l7s. and £5
—equal to 26 to 1 and 99 to 1.
* * • »
The A.J.C., having taken legal advice, has set
aside a fund of £2OO to resist the payment of £3OO per
annum in rates, on the ground that Randwick Race-
course, as a place of amusement, is exempt. But the
A.J.C. had better let a long-sleeping public lie. For the
privileges obtained from the community the amount of
rates is a verj' small offset.
* » » *
A rather interested party, an owner ot “ tap-
pers,” complained at the A.J.C. annual meeting that too
little money was spent on steeplechasers. But this is a
complaint that the A.J.C. can treat lightly,for the money
already spent on jumping events has given little return
to the club or public. When not cruel and downright
brutal they are verj r drearv affairs.
* * * *
Old Devon, the runner-up for both Cups in ’94,
is still on the racing job, with his iron legs as clean as ever.
Now, if Devon was to recover his best form, Melb. Cup
would be all over, bar the shouting.
* • * •
The perennial Dreamland, who retains, with his
good looks, an aroma of early celebrity, was backed for a
I‘2-furlong race at Flemington on Saturday, and ran
second. But, seeing that- Trent, the winner, will meet
him on better terms in the two Cups, there is not, thus
far, any more reason than usual for expecting the beauti-
ful son of Nightmare to do the great thing he has always
been going to do since he recovered from the strangles.
A heart-hreaking horse to follow, but they do say he is
expected to “spiel” in Melb. Cup, and is the best out-
sider to back at a long shot.
• * * •
Mr. S. R. Kennedy’s argument against jockeys
receiving their fees at scale —“ that they spend it on
’bacca, beer and billiards when they do get it ” —comes
with particularly bad grace from him. Mr. K.’s stud
usually consists of a couple of jumpers, the riders of which
risk a smashing-up every time they mount. If jockeys
were paid according to the risk they ran, jumping-fees
would be so prohibitive that even such an enthusiast as
Mr. Kennedy would be run off the game.
* * * *
Surcingle : “ Byron Moore, like his predecessor,
Indefatigable Bagot, understands neither racing nor
betting. He is a teetotal barman, or brewer’s manager,
like Martin Hood. When Bagot died, all the speculators
went coursing over turf men only for his successor.
Moore was not thought of for a moment in the tips. But
the committee resolved to have just another Bagot—a
virgin, as it were, for y«n%er ci the temple of Joe Thomp-
son Solomon.”
* * ♦ »
An up-to-date racing yarn, casually quoted by
the Argus, contains a solemn warning for Melbourne
punters. It is not more unpleasant, as a statement of
turf trickery, than the spirit in which it is published by
the “ great ” newspaper:—“ A story is going round racing
circles that but for the ‘ instructions to the jockey ’ being
given too late, one of the races at Caulfield on Saturday
might have had a different result. The rider of one horse,
about which there is always a good deal of mystery, was,
the story goes, to be given a signal after he reached the
post whether his horse was to be ‘ a trier.’ The boy was
looking for the signal for the first furlong or two in the
race, and in his anxiety to get it nearlj' fell off. At last
he received the signal, and finding that he was to win if
he could, he set sail after the leaders, but he had lost too
much ground in the early part of the race, and failed to
score. These ‘ clever ’ people very often overreach them-
selves.” The soul of the horse-reporter is not, appa-
rently, disgusted at the fact that backers of the mysterious
animal in question were in danger of not getting a fair
run for their monej' previous to the hoisting of the
signal. He doesn’t howl for an enquiry into this scandal.
Such scandals are of every-day and all-day-long occur-
rence. The representative of “ respectable ” journalism
merely observes with a snigger that racing rogues often
overreach themselves. One of these days the sickened
public will overreach themselves. •
* • * *
“Australian Oaks Acmena has won her first
race after six consecutive bad defeats,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, “ and perhaps it were
better for herself and co. that she had not so conclusively
vindicated her honor. Starting in the Newmarket High-
weight Handicap, lm. 3f., with Bst. 71b., at 100 to 30, she
hopelessly lost the field, including the 9-to-4 hot favorite
—Prince Albert Edward’s Oakdene, 3yrs.. Bst. and mak-
ing all the running, won anj’how by six lengths. His
Reverence, carrying 9st. 71b., was second. In one of the
6-year-old’s defeats a fortnight hack she finished last, re-
ceiving 2st. from a horse that His Reverence can give 2st.
to, so the extent of this surprising form-reversal can be
best figured out by the Randwick stewards. What the
onlooking P. of \V. said to the Duke of York was lost in
the dust of the winner’s heels, but it was noticed that the
stable-money was on—for the first time—and the talent
had sniffed a good thing and followed it.”
* • * •
The fact that there is need of a regulation of some
kind with respect to jockeys’paj’ment for losing mounts
is a sad reflection on our noble sportsmen and honorable
owners.
• • a •
The Northern Jockey Club, N.S.W., held a very
successful meeting last Friday, when that sterling mare,
Semiramis (who ran second to Amberite in the Hampden
Stakes), easily secured the N.J.C. Handicap (1 mile),
carrying 9st. 51b., and having behind her several lightly-
weighted country performers. She would probably now
be able co hold her own over a mile with the very best of
them.
• • • *
Before departing for Westralia, the good, but
unlucky, Fadladeen is to be raced at the approaching
A.J.C. spring meeting, when, with but 7sc. 121 b. to carry,
he should have a big say in the Metrop.
• • • •
That splendid high-jumper, Spondulix, has been
resuscitated, and showed some of his old brilliancy by
clearing the bar at 6ft. 6in. recently in Queensland. The
old champion now, however, needs much humoring.
• * • •
The “ stand-in ” owners of racing ponies are
becoming a public nuisance down South. Let any man of
decent appearance attend a pony meeting and ostenta-
tiously risk, say, a fiver, he will be approached by the
5.1.0. to put, say, £lO on a cert, of the 5.1.0.’s for the
next meeting. Should the mug turn up at next meeting
as desired, he is urged not to “spoil the market” by
putting the coin on himself, as the bookies “ won’t lay a
stranger a fair price,” or they “smell rats when a stranger
stuffs it on ” ; so the 5.1.0. works the commission, on con-
dition that he (the 5.1.0.) stands in for half the winnings.
If it comes off, the backer is lucky to get evens about a
6 to 1 winner, but in nine cases out of ten the 5.1.0.
doesn’t own a hair in the pony’s tail and runs the
backer’s money “on hi? own,” or he is a bookmaker’s
lumberer, who whacks the price of the dead meat with
the layer of odds to the mug.
One of these bogus owners, once a bookie’s
clerk, has a rich crop of city mugs to draw upon, lives in
first-rate style, and during his five j'ears’ career on the
illegitimate turf has never been known to risk sixpence of
his own. Verb. sap. , especially to those who think them-
selves very wise on ponies.
Woodford’s win at Randwick has jumped him
into the position of first favorite for the Metropolitan,
but as he is one of the very “uncertain ” type he is far
more likelv to profit layer than backer.
* 3(1 * *
When Mr. “ Admiral ” Cook is dissatisfied with
any of his horses’ weights, that horse generally romps
home a winner. Now, he is satisfied with The Merry
Boj'S weight in Melb. Cup.
* * * *
At Rosehill, N.S.W., to-day (Saturday) some
good racing should be witnessed. Bathilda may be given
a run in Granville Stakes ; if so, should be returned a
winner. The inaugural Jumpers Flat Race looks a gift
for The Enchanter or Cradle, whilst Admonition or Met-
ford should land the Flying Handicap. In the August
Handicap, Albicore, Newman and Hindoo seem to have
good winning chances, whilst Parth»nopoeus or Coomb-
wood should account for the Flying Welter.
* * *
Bilmartin has one leg shorter than the other ; so
he is able to fool wagerers who bet that they can guess
his height. It all depends which foot he chooses to stand
upon. Reminds one of the Indian officer who bet he
could guess, at sight, the height of a table, and gauged it
at 2ft. 3in., his opponent crying 2ft. 2£in. “ But I mea-
sured it this morning, and j’ou’ve lost. ” “Yes? I saw
j’ou measuring it, and I guessed j'our game ; so I sawed
half-an-inch off each leg as soon as you had gone.”
• * * •
Dr. Gresswell, of Melb. Board of Health, has
denounced chewing-gum as a deleterious dissipation, but,
from the tenor of his remarks, it would appear that the
learned bacteriologist’s opinion arise? from a belief that
the substance is swallowed, whereas every experienced
chewist knows perfectly well that the proper procedure
is to chew the gum for about four hours and then dab the
result on to the hair of your nearest enemy. The man
who would swallow chewing-gum would call his pedal a
treadle, and work it with his instep. There are such un-
wise creatures to be found here and there, of course, and
The Bulletin has heard of one adult gum-swallower, who
now complains that he suffers from dyspepsia.
* * • *
A partyof cyclists made a run, the other Sunday,
to Redcliffe (Q.). Among them was a bikist who was also a
footballer, and he amused himself bj- selecting one man
as his companion and running rings round him back and
forth, as a dog shoots away from his master and comes
racing back again. Arrived at the Redcliffe pub., dinner
was tackled, and the amateur biking footballer began to
run rings round his mate in the m6nu. Soup and fish
having been swallowed, he called for roast pork, and, just
as he was finishing this third assortment, his friend
ordered roast chicken. “ I’ll have roast chicken, too,”
said the A.8.F., in a loud tone of voice. He got and
gobbled it. Someone called for “boiled chicken and
ham.” “I’ll have boiled chicken and ham.” Going,
going, gone. A voice was heard asking for some turkey.
“Fetch me some turkey.” Then he tackled all the
“sweets” seriatim, and was well into the “fruit” by the
time his mate had finished munching his roast 'chicken.
His mate called for butter and cheese. “ Bring me
butter and cheese as well,” roared the A.B.F. This was
rather more than the waiter could stand. The latter’s
jaw dropped for a second or two, and then he managed to
stammer out: “What, after the fruit, sir?” “My
(blanky) troubles whether it’s after the fruit, or before it 1
If j’ou don’t like it, I’ll wade in at the fruit again after-
wards just to oblige you ! ” The A.B. F., being the holder
of a certain club medal, or token, was further entitled to
have his dinner for Is. 6d., instead of the regulation 2s.
And yet the N.S.W. footballers beat the Banana boys
hollow !
Which recalls that a certain game and great
professional cyclist is a terror with a knife and fork. At
a lunch at which a Brisbane cyclist (the same who was
run rings round in the last paragraph) was present, the
pro., after soup, had four “goes” of roast chicken right
off the reel, two more “ goes ” at some other kind of flesh,
two large bottles of beer, sweets, cheese and celery, and
fruit. Then he went out and won a race from scratch.
* * * *
At Gympie (Q.), many years ago, old Bill Hall,
who used to be known as “ Bristol Bill ” until he “ struck
it hot,” after which he was addressed as “Mr. Hall,” and
“ the doctor,” now a well-known Northern M.L.A., went
into a restaurant. Part of the bill-of-fare was roley-poley
currant-duff, and both men ordered some. “This’ere’s
rather a skimpy quantity for a digger with a healthy appe-
tite,” says Bristol Bill. “Oh, well, eat it up, and we ll send
forsome more,’ suggested the doctor. They did so. “Duff
repeat,” sang out the attendant, and a maiden’s slice was
presently laid before each. The doctor’s dander riz—he
was not known on that part of the field, it being away
“off his beat,” as it were—at the words “duff repeat.”
He swallowed his portion in a couple of mouthfuls, and
sent for more. “Duff repeat,” sang out the waiter. “I’ll
keep on sending for more so long as he calls out ‘ duff
repeat,’ ” vowed the doctor. This duel went on for two
or three times more, until, at last, the waiter, thinking to
shame his voracious customer, brought a large dish con-
taining a whole roley-poley pudding about 2ft. 'Bin. long
and placed it with a snort before the doctor. “ Now,
boys,” said the latter, nonchalantly, “ this is the first and
last time you’ll ever get a square meal in this restaurant;
who says‘duff’?” And he cut up the roley-poley into
good 4-inch sections and passed a portion round to those
of his mates who “ signified ” by sending up their plates.
The waiter retired behind the scenes, discomfited.
« * * *
At the Towers cycling carnival recently, spills
were the order of the day. Porta marred the beauty 'of
his legs hv falling over Inch, and a Townsville wheelman
sustained’the intertown antipathy by collaring a Towers
opponent during a race and pulling him off his bike ; a
free-fight nearly resulted. Track wretched, and racing
consequently more hazardous than interesting, but
Walne’s exhibition compensated spectators.
• • • «
Peculiar that, despite the great boom in cycling
during the past three years, there has been no attempt to
promote a 24-hours’ contest in Australia. So far, only
one race of this sort has been held here—that on the Melb.
Exhibition track, in ’93, which was won by Gus. Chrisp,
with 401% miles. This looks very poor beside the 564%
miles put up by Huret last week, but it must be remem-
bered that Chrisp’s was an unpaced race, and run for 18
hours through drizzling lain.
* * * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen makes a mistake
in holding winter race-meetings They not only don’t
pay, but sicken the public of the sport and put them off
it in the spring and summer. Cycling, like every other
sport, needs a close season. Vic. League has been the
first to recognise this fact, and has showed its good sense
by prohibiting track-meetings during the winter. Oon-
sequently, when the season opens in October, the publio
will take it up again with renewed enthusiasm, not hav-
ing had their ardor damped by wet winter experiences of
slush processions round a frost-bitten track.
* • * *
The conditions of the coming Warrnambool
(Vic.) big road-race include one which looks unfair on the
face, namely, that each protest must be accompanied by
a fee of £l—to be returned should the protest be upheld.
Under which circumstances, a man with a good case
would naturally refrain from risking his E, knowing that,
unless he could prove it right up to the hilt, he would be
simply throwing good money after bad.
• * » •
A cycling road-race, held at Perth, W.A., re-
cently, was restricted to “ members of the profession of
banking.” Which suggests Vic. M.L.A. Hancock’s re-
marks about the “profession’' of type-setting on one
historic occasion. The profession of banking 1 The pro-
fession of navvying !
• • • •
After the allegations of “towing” so freely
made against about three-quarters of the competitors in
last year’s Scott-Morton road-race, the present Warrnam-
bool-to-Melb. contest will be unpaced. This, however,
does not get over the difficulty of competitors on the same
mark fixing up the pacing between themselves, to the
detriment of the man who is alone. Neither does it pre-
vent the entry of men solely to act as pace-makers for
others.
* • * *
Greenwood, who, while talking of the transcon-
tinental cycling trip for the Dunlop people, said that
Murif, the’pioneer bike overlander, had been “ conveyed”
most of the distance and had done only 200 miles of bush
travelling alone, lately wrote to Murif an ample apology
accompanied by the declaration that he (Greenwood) was
suffering from fever-delirium when he made the state-
ment.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —If it’s trust in the speed of
his machine that makes the cyclunatic so persistently
ignore the lamp-carrying regulation, it’s high time for the
invention of some method of identifying the reckless
animal for future prosecution. The football ruffian has
his twin-brother on about every third bike you meet now
after nightfall in Sydney.— Pyropiiorus. P.S.—On Mon-
day nigiit, last, between 8 and 8.30, I met, on South Head-
road five lady cyclists all without lights.—P.
* * * •
“ All these cycling accidents,” said a scientific
orator talking at the Vic. road-race last Saturday, “ arise
from the pernicious practice of building bicycles from
hollow metal. If these bars were solid, as they should be,
and as the public are deluded into believing them to be,
by these unscrupulous dealers, there would be no
accidents."
* * » *
Of the 25 candidates elected to the Vic. League
of Wheelmen Council last Saturday, barrister Forlonge
headed the list with 627 votes of 749 polled. Dr. Adams
was close up, and all the prominent names in matters
cycling tailed after. Yet neither of the two has been
closely associated with the sport. But possibly that ac-
counted for it, as neither would have had the chance to
make enemies thereby. The old moral : If you wish to
be elected to a club, go up before you are known except
to j our proposers. In fact, go up even before they know
you.
The new premises of the league, formerly those
of the Y.M.C.A., form, after the Melb. Australian and
Athenaeum Clubs, the best club-rooms in Melb., and how
thej’ are to be run on subscriptions of 2s. 6d. a year is in-
comprehensible. Perhaps the committee means to add
glove-fights to the attractions of the place.
* * * *
The Vic. 50-miles Road Championship ended in
a ludicrous finish between Aif. and Charley Middleton,
who had paced each other splendidly throughout, and
who were six minutes ahead of the field. The brothers
slowed down and seemingly tried to put up a dead-heat,
but the judges were keen-eyed, and placed the younger,
Charley, an inch ahead. The lengthy Wedd took third
monej’. The Middletons smashed up the field early, and
were leading before the turn. They turned off the dis-
tance in 2hrs. 43min. 4sec., the previous best being Alf.
Middleton’s last year’s win in 2hrs. 54min. 58sec. How-
ever, it was lucky for the Dunolly men that Green was
in Sydney, for the Englishman would probably have
beaten them all-out as he did at the half-distance.
* * * *
During the few months he was here, Lesna
lowered nearly every previous record from one mile to a
hundred—or, rather, his pace-makers lowered the records
whilst the little Frenchman hung on. As a handicap and
scratch-race rider he wasn’t nearlj’ up to Walne's best
form, not to mention that of Bilmartin and Megson.
• * * *
Capt. Wynyard, who comes out with Stoddart’s
team, is still remembered in England as the hero of a
great batting performance. In '94, Sussex closed its
innings on the last day of a match with Hampshire, leav-
ing the latter to make 240 in two hours. They astonished
all England by making the runs within five minutes of
time, Wynyard batting brilliantly for 117 not out.
* * * *
Just as well to observe, before we lose our heads
altogether, that the best English batting averages against
the last Australian Eleven were made by Abel, Ranjit-
sinjhi, Gunn, and Jackson, in that order. Of the four
only one comes with Stoddart. In last season’s matches,
taking the first half-dozen counties, Brown headed the
batting-list for Yorkshire, Abel for Surrey, MacLaren for
Lancashire, O’Brien for Middlesex, Owen for Essex, Gunn
for Notts—of whom only MacLaren conies. The first half-
dozen season’s first-class averages were owned by Ranji,
Wynyard, Gunn, Grace, Abel, Jackson —two only coming.
Peel and Hirst alone scored over 1000 runs and took over
100 wickets—neither coming. Thirteen batsmen made
200 and over—three only (Wynyard, MacLaren, and Hay-
ward) are coming.
The defeat of Geelong and Melb. on Saturday
leaves the Vie. premiership practically to the winners of
the Colli ngwood-Essendon contest this week, for there is
little hope for a defeated club. On past observations,
Collingwood should prevail again.
By the death of Dinnie M'Kay disappears one
of the oldest and best of playing Melb. footballers.
M'Kay’s association with senior football dates from ’B7,
when, at the age of 19, he came from Ballarat to take the
position of one of the five “followers” of the S. Melb:
team. With the exception of one season, when he cap-
tained Richmond, M'Kay’s black, cropped head, round
shoulders, and long arms have been always the most pro-
minent features of the South’s ruck, and in the palmy
days of Vic. football M'Kay was one of the heroes of the
hour. The daily papers paragraphed him, the weeklies
pictured him, and the small boys of South Melb. grew up
to speak of Dinnie M'Kay with bated breath. Never a
meteoric player, he was always good, occasionally brilliant,
and the surest kick and mark in the province. At the age
of 29 he dies in the Melb. Hospital, leaving nothing but a
wife and family, dependent on the probleiiiatical goodwill
of the forgetful barraekers who howled his praises in the
past. The fate of Dinnie M'Kay is a thing for every -
popular athlete to ponder over. •»
* * • •
As a horrible example of Yankee duplicity, the
Argus’s special with the ill-fated Australian baseball-
team quotes one of the ’Murkan bystanders at a match :
“ M'Fetridge is the finest amateur pitcher in America.
He gets lOdol. for playing to-day. He never plays for
less than that amount.” To unprejudiced eyes, the
difference between M'Fetridge, the Yankee “amateur”
baseballer, and Grace, the English “ amateur ” cricketer,
is hard to discern.
• * * *
Mr. Dan Sheehy dropped upon the idea for the
models of his crack yachts, Xarifa and Australian, in a
small book on yacht-building picked up in a Sydney book-
stall. The models were tested in a long tank, by means
of a string passing over a sheave, with weight attached,
the resistance of the various models being sized-up by the
time it took the weight to drag them the length of the
tank. It was found that a circle-segment-shaped model
traversed the tank in the fastest time, therefore showing
the least resistance ; and on these lines Sheehy designed
his cracks : keel, topsides, and every way you took
them being the segment of a circle. Mr. “Tom”
Brown gave Sheehy a big figure for the model of a yacnt,
on which lines Mr. Brown had the old Alick constructed
at his Pyrmont ironworks. She proved a flyer until Mr.
Browm had her lengthened, after which she never did any
good. The lengthening made a flat-sided tub of her.
* * * *
The latest half-yearly number of J. J. Miller’s
Australian Racing Chronicle (Jan. 31st to July 31st) was
issued about ten days later than the Australian Turf
Register, whereby hangs a tale. The Argus-Australa-
sian proprietary, in bringing out the Register with suvb
amazing promptitude, stated that it had not taken the
trouble to include “public-house and backblocks meet-
ings.” To this the industrious Miller replies with
a circular, calling further attention to the value
of the 10s. Racing Chronicle compared with the
20s. Turf Register (it used to be 30s. before the
opposition show started) by giving a list of 943
meetings not mentioned in the older arid more expensive
volume. Among them is one held at Charters Towers on
Dec. 10th, when the stakes amounted to £220. The total
number of days’ racing recorded in the Chronicle is 1453,
as against 500 given in the Register, therefore Miller
thumps a big-drum, figuratively speaking, and implores
the public not to confuse the ignorant twenty “bob”
Turf Register with the well-informed Australian
Racing Chronicle, published at half the price. Compe-
tition is the soul of horsey history. Previous to the
advent of the Chronicle the horsey history of Australia
walked in darkness, and never had a soul worth men-
tioning.
* • * *
The management of the forthcoming Axemen’s
Carnival, whose advt. appears in this issue, draws the
attention of intending competitors to the necessity for
early application for entry-forms. So far the Victorian
and YVestralian axemen and sawyers are entering very
freely, but the tree-hewers of Queensland and N.S.W.
seem backward.
• * * *
The heads of the telegraph department of an
Australian province were, some time ago, much concerned
over the destruction of a certain telegraph-pole and con-
sequent interruption of line. The pole had evidently
been chawed in two. Immediately the Tantanoola tiger
was suggested, and the most searching investigations re-
vealed nothing more probable. So the tiger got it. But
the facts were these: The owners of two dogs in the
viciniby arranged to meet and have “ago ” for a £2
wager. Only one man turned up to keep the appoint-
ment, and he waited three hours. Much incensed and
with a wilful waste of obscenity—considering the limited
number of auditors—he sooled his dog on to the nearest
telegraph-post, venting his and his dog’s disgust upon it.
This is to ease the worried mind of over-worked official-
dom and exonerate the much-libelled dead tiger.
* * * •
“A Cricket Pitch ” : George Giffen’s new book.
Suggested title : “ Cricketers I have offended.”
* * * *
Ranjitsinjhi says W. G. Grace is the finest
player there is, or was, or ever will be.
• * * •
Half the popular footballers in Victoria are
called “ Sonny.” Vic. is the “Sonny” South.
* • * *
W. R. Wilson seems to have a useful’colt in
Eleusive, who picks up races when his more-fancied
stable-companions are getting beaten.
• * • *
The pugilistic career of Jack Burke, the “ Irish
lad,” who died the other day, was chiefly remarkable for


C. Huret, on Dunlop Tyres, has ridden 564
miles 1510yds. in 24hrs. ; an average of almost 24 miles
per hour. Dunlop Cycles and Dunlop Tyres will carry
Coleman and Mather across Australia. J. Baker, on
Dunlop Tyres, won the 50 miles South Aus. Road Cham-
pionship on Aug. 21. J. Platt-Betts, holder of all world’s
flying records from one to five miles on Dunlop Tyres, is
coming to Australia. Dunlops, on Saturday, Aug. 7, got
the Vic. amateur 25-mile road-record— lhr. 18inin.—the
rider being Taylor, of the Malvern O.C.*
* * * *
At N.S.W. Wheelmen’s winter meeting the
Cleveland wheel, with A. C. Forbes up, won the Winter
Stakes ; with F. Hunt up it won the Five Miles Scratch-
race ; and, with J. Brown up, came second in the Maiden
Handicap. At Narrabri Cleveland got one first and three
seconds out of four starts ; at Penrith with Parkins in the
saddle, won the Road-race ; at Junee and Bathurst Cleve-
land’s, ridden by Hunt and Forbes, won three firsts and
two seconds.*
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“ Most
decidedly (
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myseff. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
“ OT STICKY or GREASY.”
I
KOKO
i
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. i>-, a/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,. LTD,
16, Bey is Marks, London, England.
JL
nr I **irx-ii r.iinir"* iW~m\
iw Jt Jit ill lii m w ill I 1
in n.i iPinr-i
wrn 11 it irrnri
FOB the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
** Ellis’ Kin "’Street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor • - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
o
,VER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
185)6 by the manufactures of
6RCVILL6
BKYCL€S.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4§in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New JSIS Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(arcville TGrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
THe ACME
: 5; v -'.'-.u .
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
Established 1883. Telephone 1920.
Those about to SELECT a BICYCLE should
Call and See the
‘Pbiz’Noj Cycles*
No matter how much you pay, it is impossible
to obtain a more perfect Wheel than the
“Phiz” at £22 10 s.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO ORDER.
The “Phiz” No. 2, at £l2 10s. The most
wonderful value ever offered to the world of wheels.
EVERY BICYCLE GUARANTEED.
I. PHIZA.CKBPILBY,
“ Phiz ” Cycle Works,
Next Town Hall, Druitt St., Sydney.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
'P'MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
- Li fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE.make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price,^£2o.
Tl,c iQtercbaQgcabk
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, PerryVllumber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, /SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin,]
“Built like aWatch.”
All Improvements that Skill and Experi-
ence can suggest are found in the
STERLING.
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
the number of “draws” fought by him with the best
tradesmen, in limited-round bouts. Burke was the
picture of a man for build, but his height, sft. Bpn., pre-
cluded him from coming out on top with the latter-day
six-footers. Burke’s fight with Larry Foley at the old
Carrington Grounds, Sydney, resulted in the usual draw,
but Foley, hog-fat, had retired from the ring, and looked
in better trim for an aldermanic dinner than a prize-
fight. With Foley in such fettle as at the time of his
encounter with Abe Hicken, Burke would have been a
very .simple matter, judging from Mr. George Seale’s go
with the Irish lad. The phenomenal amateur simply
made a plaything of the Irishman.
• * • •
By the way, why do Naice people pronounce
“golf” “golf?”
• * • •
Enquirer: “Old-man Cavill was the best all-
rounder of the Cavill tribe. Of the sons, Ernest is the
best sprinter and Percy the best long-distance swimmer.”
•■■■■-• * * •
Most of the heats and finals at the N.S.W. win-
ter meeting were won on Dunlop tyres.
• • • *
George Giffen’s cricket reminiscences will be
published by Ward, Lock and Co. at Christmas.
* * • *
W. G. Grace must be declining at last. He did
not make his first century this season until July 16, when
he totalled 113 against the Philadelphians—a weak bowl-
ing team.
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
All the S.A. Convention delegates but
Glynn, who is a bachelor, and John Downer, who
is a widower, will bring their wives to Sydney
next month.
Reckoned that in Maranoa (Q.) district
dingoes are causing an annual loss of £141,430,
made up of 428,600 sheep and a wool-loss, at 13
bales per 1000, of 5571 bales.
Melb. Journalist: “ ‘ Always keep your
notes of the parson.’ Just so. And of the poli-
tician, when you have come to know him. Mr.
Harper is known to the reporters. He has just
been disputing them—again. The demised Harry
Rhys-Jones had a bout with him, on the Herald,
and refused to throw up the sponge.”
Dear Bulletin, —Enquiring for someone’s
office in the City Council’s new fish-market
(Melb,), I was thus directed ! —“Go along to the
right till you come to the third crack in the wall,
then turn to your left till you come to where the
coping-stone has fallen away, then straight on
under the archway till you come to the first over-
head crack, and there you are.” I chanced it. —
F.C.
Our Gracious Queen testifies to the consti-
tutional ''grovel” of the fair sex by her taste in
light li' ;rature. Her favorite novelists, says the
Quarterly Review, are Jane Austen, Charlotte
Bronte, Mrs. Oliphant, Mrs. Craik, George Eliot,
Edna Lyall—not a man amongst them. Also
Adelaide Proctor is bracketted with Shakespeare,
Scott, and Tennyson, -as one of the Monarch’s
“ favorite ” poets.
Vic. Education Department has, under the
whip of the Age, begun to make things hot for
the parents of children who have not been attend-
ing school regularly. A suburban truant officer,
filled with sudden zeal, asked a local bench to im-
pose on a number of summoned parents the full
legal penalties. The bench truculently complied
and fined the parents —some of whom could not
afford to buy boots or clothes, or even enough
food, for their offspring—amounts ranging to 10s.,
in default imprisonment. In many cases the
parents were punished for the non-attendance, for
the required number of days, of their children
during the quarter ended March last.
Tasmanian Parliament adjourned on Friday
last. The last subject debated was the aged un-
employed of Hobart, and it transpired that there
are in that progressive hamlet some 30 or 40
sturdy old fellows who absolutely refuse to go
into the Invalid Depot while they can gee any-
thing to do in the shape of work outside. They
agitated so successfully in the winter that the
Govt, subsidised a private relief-job on which
the wages paid were 3s. a day. The work
is finished, and the old chaps are again
knocking at Ministerial doors and carry-
ing placards round the streets bearing the
legend—“ We don’t ask charity, we want
work! ” On the adjournment debate in the
House Acting-Premier Fysh alleged that the aged
unemployed were not worth the 3s. a day, and the
Govt, couldn’t be bothered with them any more—
they would have to accept the hospitality of the
workhouse. Which means that sturdy, active old
fellows, willing and able to work, are to be sepa-
rated from their wives and whatever families they
may have and wear a pauper uniform. All this
because the Vandemoniah Govt, cannot find
work for 30 old men at 3s. a day ! Fyshy pro-
sperity, surely.
Rev. Isitt, the M.L. Cold Tea Missionary,
told a Melb. audience, the other evening, a har-
rowing tale of a father and mother who took from
the throat of their just-expired child a silver
tracheotomy pipe and pawned it to buy whisky.
Frightful, no doubt, but the writer knows a man
who takes the pipe out of his own throat and
pawns it every time his wife—who holds the purse
—refuses to give him money to buy beer. When
he is on the point of choking she rushes off and
redeems the tube. Rev. Isitt evidently doesn’t
know half the things that alcohol-fiends will do in
order to obtain what to them is literally the vital
fluid. The writer (who has had some curious ex-
periences in this way) remembers being told by the
son of a doctor, who practised ih an inland Vio-
torian town, that one day wheft he (the son) was
desperately in want of liquor, and was without
either money or credit, he unscrewed the skull
from a skeleton left his father by an old friend
and patient, and pawned it —the skull. There
was, he said, a silver-plate in the top of it which
increased its intrinsic value. The irreverent
ruffian actually seemed to think he had done a
clever and humorous thing, and laughed prodigi-
ously as he told the story. He is getting to be an
old man now, but is still —the Rev. Isitt may be
pleased to hear —in the enjoyment of excellent
health and an unabated thirst.
The Old Familiar Juice.
Curiously enough, as a consequence of much
association with teetotallers and Good Templars,
G. D. Clark, the Sydney cold-tea boss, has come
to the conclusion that the world becomes yearly
more drunken. On the other hand, New
South Wales Secretary Bevill, after much ex-
perience of many publicans, is equally convinced
that it grows steadily more sober. Each dis-
putant, in order to support his case, bolsters up
his position and bores the public with figures and
statistics which nobody ever believes in, although
it is true that if any credit is to be given to those
of Mr. Clark they seem materially to support his
opponent’s case. Says Mr. Clark: “ Any satis-
faction arising from a perusal of these figures is
largely discounted by the reflection that the de-
crease in the number of public-houses is almost
balanced by the increase in the number of wine-
licenses.” The figures spoken of are given by Mr.
Clark himself. Elsewhere this Jeremiah tells us
that “while the number of public-houses per head
of the population is steadily decreasing, there is a
continual growth in the wine-licenses, with the
result that the consumption of alcohol and the
arrests for drunkenness show no perceptible fall-
ing-off. In support of this statement he tells us
that the arrests for drunkenness in 1891 were
2026 per 100,000 of population, whilst in 1895 they
were only 1672. It is said that figures cannot lie.
The same statement is not universally true of
those who use them, or of some of their converts.
* * • *
It is always drink that is at fault. Suppose
that we were to examine some other agents or
institutions in the same way, and were to work
out statistics and figures. Imagine that a curious
person should take it into his head to investigate
the effects of evening church services upon
the morals of the people. What would he
find, do you think ? How many a repentant
or, perhaps, unrepentant Magdalen would be
ready to aver (perhaps with truth) that her
first departure from the paths of virtue dated from
evening church, or Sunday-school, or Salvation
Army meeting, or Chinese-mission Sunday class ?
Put her down as one more in the 100,000 of popu-
lation and presently you will have figures hope-
lessly condemnatory of evening church. In the
same way it may be that we shall be able to prove
the danger which lurks for the young in our pub-
lic parks, and can show that they ought all to be
turned into railway-stations—if, indeed, danger to
morals does not lurk in these also, and in
everything except a cemetery. Nay, for only
the other day a cemetery was given by a female
witness as the place of her seduction —she had
yielded to the tempter at her own mother’s grave.
Also, we are tired of hearing of the “ statements
of Judges and prison officials.” From the dawn
of history down to the days of the late sainted
Butler every man who ever made an ass or a rogue
of himself has always been anxious to say (if he
could): “ It was not I (I being by necessary impli-
cation a noble creature, and once upon a time a
dear, little, curly-headed Sunday-school scholar,
perhaps); it was the drink ! Oh, my dear and
reverend sir, drink it was that brought me to
this,” &c., &c. For this kind of confession is not
only good for the soul, but sometimes for the
body also, if all tales be true ; and, after all, when
all is said and done, the world, which has more
common-sense than the law and more charity than
the church, does accept drunkenness as an excuse
for much which it would find very difficult to for-
give upon any other consideration. This fact is so
thoroughly recognised that very sober persons have
been found to allege inebriety in themselves upon
occasions when it has been imperceptible to all
witnesses less expert than the average policeman.
But, as a matter of fact, there is no need whatever
to dispute or refute Mr. Clark’s figures. They
ought to be welcome. They show, upon Mr.
Clark’s own statement, that Australia is upon the
right track. This is a wine-growing country, and
it ought to be a wine-drinking country; and the
more that wines and the less that spirits are
drunk, the more will the so-called drink-question
tend to disappear, because the only question that
there is is not of quantity of alcohol, but of the
dilution of it.
* • * *
The world is wiser than any individual in it,
even than Mr. Clark. The world knows what is
good for it better than he. And because the world
knows that alcohol (a substance which has a
strange way of making itself out of almost any-
thing, and almost without provocation) is good for
it, the world has gone on drinking alcohol from
the dawn of history, and very likely right through
the night which lay behind that dawn. And, if
Mr. Clark wants statistics to amuse himself with,
let him get hold of the histories of the alcohol-
drinking races and compare them with those of
the nations which have abstained. In Europe,
the Turks are the abstinent race. This is given
as a hint towards this interesting enquiry ; and if
Mr. Clark will pursue it honestly he will learn
some surprising facts, and perhaps furnish us with
a fresh table to show that the dominant and pro-
gressive races have always been drinkers of alcohol,
whilst the degraded and decadent have been ab-
stainers.
* * * *
The truth of the matter is that men, like other
animals, eventually settle down to the diet that is
best for them, whether in meat or drink. And if
alcohol were not a good thing it would not be used
so universally by the dominant races of the world.
The world at large does not go on using what is
bad for it merely because it is pleasant. Opium is
pleasant, and so are cocaine, and ehlorodyne, and
arsenic, and a number of other things. But the
mass of mankind does not take to them on this
account; and nature takes care not to let those
who indulge in them increase and multiply beyond
a certain point. If he were really disobeying her
laws she would do the same’to the'alcohoi drinker
instead of keeping him always in the van of the
nations. The fact that she does so proves a good
deal more than all the statistics that ever were
got together ; and the fact that in the last resort
almost every doctor who is not a crank flies to
alcohol to tide over a deadly crisis, is a strange
commentary upon its alleged action as a deadly
poison to the healthy human frame.
* * * »
If the prohibitionists don’t care about the con-
clusions of common-sense, there is another reason
to be urged in favor of the moderate use of their
pet antipathy. The lives of the majority of
people in this world are not too happy ; and it is
to be feared, if leading temperance apostles speak
truly, that they cannot expect to have muoh op-
portunity of satisfying their thirst in the next.
Fermented liquors bring a great deal of pleasure
and very little harm to all but an inconsiderable
minority of the human race : and, even if they
produce a certain amount of injury, what is pleasant
is worth paying for, if the price be not too high.
Those who have looked upon the merry face of
the average temperance advocate may well doubt
whether it is not possible to pay too dearly for the
joys of teetotalism.
The Prince of Wales shaved off his beard,
to moustache and imperial, to figure as a Knight
of the Order of Malta, at the Devonshire House
fancy-ball. He greatly resembled Napoleon 111.
Melb. Age advt. :
Obituary Verses, Speeches for all occasions, &0., Is.
Address, 8.A., &c.
Local poets and oration-manufacturers will have
to form a union, and publish a log of prices for
their wares, or the market rate for Federal odes
and election speeches will be 3d. each (or a pint of
beer) before long.
Dear Bulletin, —Can you or any of your
readers set me right with regard to the real origin,
or authorship, of the following fantasy ?
The Earth was lifeless. The Race of Man was dead.
The Resurrection and the Day of Judgment were yet to
come. The Lord Almighty and the Angel Gabriel, who
had his trumpet tucked under his wing, were taking a
final stroll over the played-out planet. They came across
a stately monument bearing the inscription
IN MEMORY
OF
MANKIND
Erected by the Last Survivors of the Race.
Hequiescat in Pace !
“ Poor devils ! ” said the Lord, “ I’ll take them at their
word. You may put up your trumpet, Gabriel 1 There
will be no Resurrection.”
I always had an idea that I had read this (or
something like it) in Dean Swift’s writings, some-
where or other. But, after an exhaustive search,
I have not been able to find it in any of his works.
Surely I could not have dreamt it?—Y.J.D.
Queensland Minister for Agriculture was
showing M‘Cord, M.L. A., a well-known squatter,
a photo, of a certain dairy-herd bull the other day.
“A regular mickey!” said M'Cord, contemptu-
ously. “If I found such a scrubber among my
herd he’d be shot immediately.” The Minister
then calmly assured the irate squatter that the
animal in question was a well-known Victorian
prize-winner. “Ah, well,” remarked M'Cord,
frankly, “it wouldn’t have done for me to have
been one of the judges ! ”
Sheehan, the recent Maoriland murderer,
was hanged as privately as possible, no press
representatives being admitted. It is now acknow-
ledged that the authorities looked for something
particularly gruesome and wanted it kept dark.
Sheehan was such a physical wreck that it was
half-expected he would fall to pieces before the
ceremony. He had heart-disease, and one possi-
bility was that he might drop down dead just as
the show was beginning. Also, he had huge
goitrous swellings on the neck which kept the rope
off his windpipe, and also made it difficult to break
his neck by a fall —the goitre acted as a sort of
spring or cushion to ease the shock. A patent
india-rubber device was contrived to press on the
wind pipe and effectually scrag the proposed corpse,
but it being impossible to actually experiment
with it in advance its success was problematical.
If it failed, then the law would be confronted by
the fact that Sheehan was practically an unhang-
able individual, and it would be necessary, as one
local paper expressed the matter, to “ finish him
some other way.” As this might possibly mean
attacking him personally with an axe the advisa-
bility of having no newspaper men on hand to
write up the sensation was sufficiently obvious.
Apparently, however, the thing got through,
despite all these difficulties, without any serious
hitch. Still, if there must be executions, the
advisability of obliterating the condemned by
closing the ventilator of his cell at night, and
turning on carbonic acid gas, seems to stick out
conspicuously. Then there would be no gallows, no
thud, no hangman, no greased rope, and nobody
present except the one man chiefly concerned —
unless some of the ghouls that haunt executions
cared to go in and smother along with him for the
sake of seeing the performance. Also, gas is
equally adapted to men of all shapes. It fits the
most knobby and gnarled and triangular indivi-
dual just as well as any other.
The Bulletin begins to have an idea that
•hanging is hereditary, or infectious, or something.
Not very long ago an ex-hangman was hanged in
New South Wales. Sheehan wasn’t an ex-hang-
man ; but a very near relative of his, it is alleged,
was once an applicant for the billet and was within
an ace of being appointed, only another strangler
cut in and took the job at non-union rates. In
that indirect fashion hanging got into the Sheehan
family, and, after suffering from suppressed execu-
tion for a number of years, it broke out openly,
and the disease came to the surface, so to speak.
Thirteen more solicitors admitted to
practise by N.S.W. Supreme Court. The Devil’s
Brigade ! Always 13 1
Cowya station, N.S.W., has just finished
shearing 4200 mixed hoggets which have cut 100
bales of wool, bales averaging 3cwt. 2gr. 10lb. —
roughly, about Bflb. per sheep of really first-class
wool. These sheep are bred on Cowya, and art
the progeny of Yarrawin and Springfield rams.
A Wellington (M.L.) Post item recalling
the old days :
A gany of prisoners is engaged in preparing the floor of
the Drillshed for the military ball which is to be given to
the Earl and Countess of Ranfurly.


Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved 'and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. O. Ayer Sc Co,,
LOWELL, MASS., XT. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Kg* Beware of cheap imitations. The
name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral —is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
, A NOVELTY!
P ATX KINDS OF **
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of /I
natural perfumes. If
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
FOR SAW-GGLLEfiiNG, PLAN ER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
Tile Tanite Co.’a
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
EKTGIKTEERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
I Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
A ticklish question wrts opened up by the
fining of a Westralian milkman, the other day.
The offence was the selling of milk not up to
standard quality. Analysis did not say the milk
was watered, but that after leaving the cow it was
“ not up to standard quality,” that is—deficient in
nutriment. At this rate, dairymen will have to
beware of poor cows.
Centralia labors under a serious grievance
in having the 24th parallel fixed as the tick quar-
antine line. As a matter of fact, the tick is con-
fined principally to the coast, and the running of
a quarantine line due west out to plains and downs
where the tick cannot live is simply an absurdity.
Southern stock-owners, however, are hugely
pleased at the idea ot shutting out Centralian
competition, and insist on the maintenance of the
line. They do not see that they are simply offer-
ing a premium to induce Centralians to help the
tick a little further Southwards !
A hint for Northern stockowners. Texas
graziers, finding their cattle deteriorating, sent
North for bulls, but the bulls, when entering
tick-infested country, suffered severely from fever,
and often 105t.60 or 70 per cent, of their number.
Whereupon the smart Texans took a few handfuls
of ticks North, placed them on the bulls in the
home pastures, waited till the animals became
fairly immune, and then travelled them South-
wards with scarcely any loss at all.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurenn nts. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Letter received by a “ great ” Australian
daily:—
Janury 15, 1897.
To the editor of the
Dear Sir Having Read a Paragh in the the Lash
Being a Cure for the Push I think it is one of the Best
Leters that I ever se in the for the Last 40 years if it
was cared out it would Be a good thing for the kuntery—
and I would Also perpose the Lash for these two laged
foxes that, make it a Practis to go out By night and catch
and kell and care.v our IVmltery they have visetd me more
then once in one case thav cared away all the Living that
a Poor Woman had and leving the famely Destude of that
the had to get Bread for her famely now I think if thay
was caught the Lash on thair back would be beter then
giving them three months bold and lodgings for nothing
I give them the Lash and if thay are caught again give
them a Duble Dose—you know these night two laged
foxes is very cuning as thay prol about By Day
to mark thar Pray for thar night catch and it
is very hard that we cant keep a few fouls with-
out Being robed by these two laged Foxes give them
the Lash and send them horn (not give them Bord and
Lodging free of charge) For three months at the expence
of the state for which we have to pay a tax I think if
these gentelmen in the Hous had to Work for thair Bread
as I have thay would try to keep these two laged Foxes
~ thair yard and nothing will Do it but the Lash. —
Yours, .
Tins is always the type of person that clamors for
more blood, and is strong in his advocacy of a vote
for Thrift. For the next 10 years everybody living
within two miles radius of the writer will be bored
to death with his endless yarn of how he wrote to
the papers on one occasion.
Nervous sufferers will find' it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce. «
THB BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
RF
ar
Lime-Frdit
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes
so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:- “I
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jutes Renard
dCo., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D.-Mitchell d Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., d The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen d Co.
m
■
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
b[ b inch and 3 j A inch Blades,
Round and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
Razor is True to Name— RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st,, Sydney
ALL
CLASSES
OP
ACCOMMODATION
—FOR —
TOU&ISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE.
cdcral
Palace
Hotel.
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
Csood N?w& for CorpGlept People. . . .
Wonderful Hesults obtained from the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Fat,
REGISTERED.
PHYTOLINE
REGISTERED
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the only safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
according- to directions. Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a month, and kept in splendid health.
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up inclines, or attempt to run t get rapid relief.
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
phytoline
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35.,55.,and 125.,
in tablet or liquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
Is Universally Accorded the Preference on account of its
High Quality. Economy and Delicious Taste.
TiOOK OF NATURE
A * —and —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Storibs, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koetr, post free, Is 3d.
Komance of A Fair Girl’s Batiiroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Hf.ptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for tiie Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, la 6d ; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Short Stories ok Love and Frol c, posted Is 3d.
Para, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post, free 2s.
Haris Sketches, by Nnrdau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in French: I/Assassinat ; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chenier ; Is 6 1 each post free, or 3 for 4s.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tri.ks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


1
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tb« ALFALINC HCRBAL R€M€DI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Aifaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Heir Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Aifaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Aifaline Remedies.
Dear Bir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
/ have derived great benefit from your celebrated Aifaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all Iravellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. * UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. t-EKER, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
> Mr. Buit >n writes later:- “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
W angaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
Dim up and pegging-out his skins and looking weiL This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony' to
the efficacy of your Aifaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My-
was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal bind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cyole Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
fierr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, - I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
trom General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
dootors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Aifaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Aifaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
feagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
W m
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALI A.ND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning- Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
|OP“ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
ADVICE
FREE.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear sir, 1 shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SM>TH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussbn, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office. Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, yours truly’,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmcssen. 9,3/97.
Dear -ir. It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affeciion of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could lie felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to iny friends. —Yours
gratefully, JAMKS NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
HtRR Rarsmussrn. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,- In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
0/0 Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that th«
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Livei
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who double this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES
AWARDED.
||WO GOLD
Medals!
SVWSS
m
m
pm
gpH
ALFA LINE PILLST
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD s* NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BL< OD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes Gs. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. Gd. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 28s. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l'owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful'appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Be/it— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago,-Rheumatism,‘Sciatietf, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
~ 3 „j 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
H RR will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Infoi motion for
all Complaints.
WARMING.
HERR RAS S MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direot from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HElliv RA SMUSSENS
hEM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned. ■
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be c;iven FREE at. HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offlois, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
->• v V-' • • vVv
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to LASSMUSSEV,
whither you send to his Had Office or ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAL* OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
VV.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel,. Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers. Hannan-st.


“ I never bolt my bath-door. For fear of
an accident you may meet with a worse.” — Auto-
biography of an actress.
Dear Bulletin, —Met a navvy just leav-
ing work in the sewers at South Melb. to-day.
He is in a tunnel below Hanna-st., a sort of flat
gully between Emerald Hill and St. Kilda-road.
He showed me some silver coins he had in his
pocket —they were quite black. Said the candles
they used continually burn dim and occasionally
go out. He suffers from bad eyesight since work-
ing there. Also, the face of the drive, though
shored up as fast as possible, has, two or three
times, oozed in, and they had to run for it. This
fo'r»6s. fid. per day.— Melb.
The Tongans have puzzling ways of ex-
pressing degress of relationship'. For instance, a'
woman whose married sister had a family of boys
and girls, instead of these being called nephews
and nieces they would all be called sisters, boys
and girls alike ; and, if any of them married, their
children would be her sisters too. All a man’s
mother’s relations are called mother, and his
father’s are called father. A Tongan will
frequently introduce to you a girl younger than
himself as grandfather, because she is descended
from his grandfather. It is more difficult to un-
derstand as one can be several relations at
once to another. No white has ever been able to
understand this curious custom, but it appears to
be perfectly clear to the native intellect.
The Appreciation of Cattle. — An aver-
age of .£9 13s lOd. for 83 bullocks at Homebush
on Monday was the biggest price obtained there
for this number for years. Pitt, Son, and Bad-
fery, Ltd., sold them on account of W. and T. C.
)ickson, of Yarrawin, Brewarrina.
The Law sometimes transcends itself in
asiiiinity. Chief Justice Madden felt called upon
to make the following remarks in the Melb.
Divorce Court the other day:—
Under the Amended Crimes Act, a man who has rela-
tions with a girl under 16 is liable to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 10 years. ... I have already
seen eases in this court in which a man, who was liable to
punishment under this Act, married the girl in order to
escape the criminal proceedings, and, having married her,
started to ill-treat her from the very beginning, so that
she hiis been compelled to obtain a divorce.
In other words, the man, having incurred the
vengeance of the Law, took refuge from that venge-
ance under the wing of the Law, and then goaded
the girl into setting the Law in motion, with the
result that the Law relieved him of the responsi-
bilities he had taken upon himself in order to
escape from the Law. So, in a somewhat cir-
cuitous fashion, he. became as he was before he
committed the offence for which he would have
been imprisoned several years, if he had not known
how to cause the Law to make a double and triple
ass of itself.
The Royal Geographical Society has offered
to contribute <£sooo towards the cost of an Ant-
arctic expedition if each of the Australias will
plank down a like amount. Lord Lothian, a
magnate of the Society, said he trusted that none
but British names Would be given to lands and
islands which are really the Hinterland of Aus-
tralia and South Africa. Great Orion ! Nothing
less than the whole Antarctic circle for a British
backyard will satisfy this Scotchman! As
Britain already owns a considerable portion of the
earth, and is “ Mistress of the Seas,” there is no
reason why she shouldn’t also possess both Poles,
and control the weather, and the winds, and cur-
rents, and the Gulf Stream, and the Law of
Gravity, and little things of that sort, and charge
'other nations for the use of them. Hodge Land
would, perhaps, suit Lord Lothian as a name for
the Antarctic Continent. But while giving names
in this way, why not at once call the earth the
Planet Bull? "
A Boon to Sufferers.— A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “ I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
Dear B. —Some great man said that a
mathematician does not make a good lawyer.
Napoleon said he could not be a great soldier.
Now, I am mathematical but was never thought a
legal authority (except as regards mining law)
until a half-system cockie asked my advice
as to a summons for cutting a rabbit-proof
fence. The land on the shandygaffer’s side
belonged to the squatter, the Hon. Harold
Coeur-de-lion, on the other leasehold of ditto.
“Plead mateship,” said I. Then before the
beak Mr. Cockeye pled: “As John Cock-
eye, gentleman, not guilty; as John Cock-
eye, manager for Cockeye and Coeur-de-lion,
farmers, guilty. If your worships will impose a
light fine, payable out of our crops, we shall be
grateful.” Case dismissed, because the plaintiff
was also the defendant, through his mate and
agent. And it’s law !— Scotty the Wrinkler.
USE
qoQNEftk
iJHIkLUIIIIESItt
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC lIONS FOR USE.
i..iu.imiimmmiiumnfl
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
Uorii/alled
Erpbrocatioi),
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold Dy all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
y.O. Bor ISIS. MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
NITED AUSTRALASIAN AXEMEN'S
ASSOCIATION.
Seventh Grand Exhibition of Bushmen's Shill,
To be held in
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
About
NOVEMBER 1 AND 3, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
1. CHAMPION CHOP (2ft.) of £75 ; entry, 30s.
2. CHAMPION CHOP (18in.) of £3O ; entry, 15s.
3. CHAMPION CHOP, underhand (2ft. logs), of £5O;
entry, £l.
4. CHAMPION IRONBARK CHOP, underhand, of £4O;
entry, 15s.
5. CHAMPION SAWING MATCH(2ft.) of £3O; entry, 15s.
6. HANDICAP CHOP of. £2OO, in heats (18in.): noin.,
£1; accept., £l.
7. HANDICAP UNDERHAND CHOP of £lOO (18in.);
nom., 15s ; accept., 15s.
8. MAIDEN CHOP of £10; entry, Bs.
9. MAIDEN HANDICAP CHOP (4ft. girth) of £10;
entry, 6s.
10. AMATEUR CHOP ; entry, 6s.
11. HANDICAP SAWING MATCH of £6O; nom., 155.;
accept., 10s.
12. MAIDEN SAWING MATCH of £l5 ; entry, 7s.
13. DOUBLE-HANDED HANDICAP SAWING MATCH
of £35 ; entry, £l.
14. BICYCLE HANDICAP of £25; nom., 3s. ; accept., 2s
Registered with V.A.L.
15. MILE HANDICAP FOOT RACE of £l5 ; entry, ss.
16. 440yds. RACE of £lO ; entry, ss.
17. SHEFFIELD Handicap of £lO ; nom. 3s ; accept. 2s,
18. HIGHLAND FLING (in full Highland costume) of
£TO ; entry ss.
19. BEST PIPER (in Highland costume) ; entry ss.
ENTRIES ALL EVENTS, with fees, close SEPTEMBER
25. Acceptances, October 16.
Entries for the Chopping and Sawing Matches must be
made on printed forms of entry obtainable from the
Secretary.
All competitors from outside Victoria allowed to enter
at half-price.
For full particulars and conditions apply to the Manager.
H. A NICHOLS, Ulverstone, TASMANIA.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgroye.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS !
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
THE GAY PARISIENNE.
Saturday, Sept. 4, will be staged, for the first time in
Australia, the Musical Comedy, THE FRENCH MAID.
Plan, Nicholson’s. E3F” PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHS,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATEB PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A SENSATION.
The Charge of the Turkish Cavalry.
The French Artillery.
The War in Cuba,
The Floral Carnival at Nice, &c., &c.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Reappearance of Mr.
GEORGE RIGNOLD
And his Specially - selected Dramatic Company for a
Season of TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
Grand production on a scale of absolute completeness,
the best and most popular of all modera dramas,
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Early doors to stalls, family
circle and gallery, 6d. extra. Box plan at Allan’s. Day
sales at Bentwitch's. M. MARCUS, Acting. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tbc Sigi) of tbe Cross.”
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
JJTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, 21st, AND EVERY EVENING
FRANK THORNTON
—AS—
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
OH, FANCY ! D’ YOU KNOW !
I’m back again with all my goods and chattels.
Manager ... L. J. LOHR.
“DOWRIDGE’S 5
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
IJHE LAST OF SIX
PRICE-ls.; Per POST, Is, 3d.
Ammementg.
SEPTEMBER 13th to 25th—DAY & NIGHT.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
DIAMOND JUBILEE
CHARITY CARNIVAL
Patrons : His Excellency the Governor and Viscountess
Hampden. President : His Worship the Mayor.
President, Ladies’ Committee : The Lady Mayoress.
Messrs. R. B. Cropley, J.P.; J. Roseby, J.P.; J.
Sidney.
Doll Show:
A Long List of Valuable Prizes.
Juvenile Exhibition:
Medals and Certificates (for Mechanical,
Educational, and Fancy Work).
Photographic Exhibition:
Numerous Prizes. (Prize Schedules for
the above are now ready).
Continental Market & Jumble Fair:
Managed by the Ladies of Sydney.
Industrial Exhibition.
The Up-to-Date Museum. The Egyptian Hall.
The Varieties. The Blind at Work.
The Aboriginals at Work.
Gentlemen’s Smoke Room. Ladies’ Tea Room.
The most stupendous undertaking every attempted
in New South Wales. Every available part of the
building has been engaged.
A Plethora of Amusements!
. . Change of Programme Nightly! . .
Only One Charye -1 « Children, fir!
for Admission — -* ** - ________ ”f t/*
No extra charge for Concerts, Novel Side Shows, etc.
Prize Schedules and other particulars sent on application.
Committee Rooms—Temperance Hall (ground floor), SO5
Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. STAINES MANDERS, Manager.
rnHE LIVELIEST AND BIGGEST SHOW
A- ever given in the Southern Hemisphere.
This Saturday, 28th August-
Agricultural Grounds, Sydney-
An Unparalleled Show. The Chinese Procession. A
Magnificent Pageant. Costumes valued at ±3OOO. The
Emperor’s Carriage. Dragon 150 Feet Long. Chinese
Bicycle and Foot Race. Football Match. Chinese Bands.
MONSTER MILITARY SPOIITS—I2 Events.
Three Big Bicycle Races.
BLACKFELLOWS RACE. BOOMERANG THROWING.
Seven Bands. Exhibition by the Cadets.
ADMISSION IS. CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
A. STAINES MANDERS, Manager Diamond Jubilee
Charity Carnival, Temperance Hall, Pitt Street, Sydney.
CU ITE it lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, and SATURDAY, at 3.
TO-NIGHT at 8.
“LAST FIVE NIGHTS—LAST FOUR MATINEES.”
PROFESSOR D. M. BRISTOL’S
MARVELLOUS
EDUCATED HORSES, PONIES AND MULES.
“ One Grand Equestrian Symphony.”
PRICES—3s , 25., and ONE SHILLING.
At the Matinees all small children are given a Free Pony
Ride, and admitted to any seat for 6d.
Book Seats at Nicholson’s.
YJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY— JOHAN NA.
SATURDAY NEXT, 28th AUGUST,
TRILBY : BURLESQUE.
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
IVOLI T H E A T R E, SYDNE Y.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Bint.t.tant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards's New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rnHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
LATCST NOV€LTy BROOCH,
G
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CQgliSi) Hall-Marked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
TJixapproacliatole Value - £1 Foßt Free.
New Sold Scroll Bar Brooch,
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and Links.
URAL IVORY. QUITE NEW, NOVEL, AND UNIQUE.
BroocbcS.
Silver Mounted 4/6 each.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Lioks.
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Post Free.
©
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE Opr Only Australian Addrbbb— 90 KING STREET., SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HALL, BALLARAT.
FOB SEOBT SEASON.
ANOTHER GRAND SUCCESS !
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH,
THE EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
And Australia’s favorite Horse-trainer, will demonstrate
his Scientific Humane System of Horse Education for
a SHORT SEASON.
For full particulars, see Daily Paper.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS, and MUSIC, complete, the
greatest collection of songs ever bound together between
the covers of one book. National Songs of Every Coun-
try, including War, Patriotic, Comic, Sentimental, and
Other Songs. Many old-time .favorites long since out of
print, and cannot be had elsewheree. Complete list of
the songs for a stamp. This wonderful book will be sent
(post paid) throughout Australasia for Postal Note 2s. 6d.,
from ANGLO AM. PUB. CO., Box 1118 G.P.0., Sydney.
Stamps, 2d. extra. Agents Wanted.
Influenza and Rheumatism,
FORMIDABLE FOES MASTERED.
Among those who speak in grateful terms of the
wonderful curative powers of Dr. Williams’Pink
Pills is Mr. William Carroll, of Sydney, Manitoba,
Canada. Mr. Carroll says-:—“Following an at-
tack of influenza, my whole system was so
weakened that it was with difficulty I could do
any work. In this condition I was an easy prey
to my old enemy, rheumatism, and I suffered the
agony of its pains in almost every bone in my
body. I doctored a great deal, but without any
beneficial results, and I spent seventeen dollars for
one medicine largely advertised as a cure for rheu-
matism, without the least benefit. I naturally felt
despondent, and thought the trouble had fastened
itself upon me in permanent form. I had read
so much about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that I
at last determined to give them atrial. I can’t
say that I felt anything in the way of beneficial
results until I had used the third box, but at that
juncture the encouragement was so great that I
determined to continue the treatment, and I used
the Pink,Pills throughout the winter, constantly
gaining in strength. When spring arrived, I
found myself better than I had been for years.
Every vestige of rheumatism had disappeared, and
although 10 months have passed since I took the
last pill, I have not had the slightest return of the
trouble. I therefore think it is but right that I
should make known the good that I have received
from the famous Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I
hope my experience maybe the means of putting
some other sufferer on the road to renewed health.
W. JNO.
BAKER, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney,
THE
STAR
Safety
Razor.
7s. 6d.
Post Free
throughout
Australasia
Says Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes in “ Our One
Hundred Days in Europe”: “This little affair,
the Star Safety Razor, has a blade only an inch
and a-half long by three-quarters of an inch wide.
It has a long slender handle, which takes apart
for packing, and is put together with the greatest
ease. The mowing operation requires no glass,
can be performed jvith almost reckless boldness,
as one cannot cut himself, and, in fact, becomes a
pleasant amusement instead of an irksome task.
I have never used any other means of shaving
from that day to this ; and at sea, shaving with it
is simplicity itself.”
The Razor packs in a box 2jin. long by l|in.
diam. , .
David iraham ( Co.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
(StOtlcnjeo’S
SUITABLE
FOB
Winter SOitiogS
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
3ERGS-ES.
Ladies’ Costumes a Speciality,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BRAII AM & CO,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes I
o
[>; O
<* o
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted AccordcoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown
8 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
11. F. COX Off & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 6 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO
• . FIRST SHIPMENTS . .
comprising
303 OASES & BALES 303
. . OF , ,
MeW Spripg Goods,
Bought direct from the Leading Manufacturers
of the World, now Ready for Inspection in all
Departments.
Finney, Islea &: Go.
We offer not only EXCEPTIONAL VALUES,
but the LATEST and MOST FASHIONABLE
GOODS that are produced.
Compare Styles and Prices.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
MELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
sud plies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Ag in f. Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John & Co., Ltd.
HAIKUUESsIIUS AMil WIGMAKKItS
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White. Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG «3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
(WjbW /
KM
cp
Q
V
er
r
o
\
~JE
o
tpa
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
Gbrman Tourist : “ Zen vy f You say schmoke siqnkt
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
GO TO HELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
«pposwe g.*o.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
ST M.TS.k. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
Afsties
w
-FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
PA^RoT
Brand*
• V5 l/aiati j /a v
Woundc
COU6MS (OLPS «?■'
[Beware of
/MITATI°AiS
“SAMITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Mon-Poisonous.
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Oi all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,’*
free on application*
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BBTHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
MELBOURNE.
«.«![?
POST FREE-y^
\wvtc^es-Clocks-J em/ellery- Birthday*
Weddkslg £ CHRi&TEpJirlc Presents
H-NeWMAISI- 1755177-ELIZARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE C-.P.Q. ■■ ■ -
MELBOURNE.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
■Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Pr(if)k€QQess
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy 00., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
IfydiaQ Art JV\ao<ifactCir*s-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6£ydn.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas ~
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Rates; Retail Prices are 5 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, ■ Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutch Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G. G WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
.ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC,
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
CHLOROPyHE
10 YEARS!
With an increasing: demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing 1 we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no "sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. Ail other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & 00., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ii)brocatioi).
A Rise in the River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the ’Bidgee has been low all the summer, I
when the lagoons are either brick or stinking
mud, when the men from outback are camping for
grass or water, when the squatters are swearing j
and the cookies are whining, we wait for a rise in
the river. We fishers of the rivers love the low i
waters, and we prefer a falling river; but we !
don’t care that our lines should be drawn up a j
cable of grass-green silk, the baits a mermaid’s
wig—which, according to Byron, is also green—
Where the mermaid is decking
Her green hair with shells. '
My rise, however, though actually in the river
was quicker than the snow-waters of September,
and more acceptable than the red rush caused,by
“six inches at Gundagai, still raining heavily ”
as posted outside Howlong P.O.
Those were good times, fifteen years er so ago.
We had cheques, and “did them up” carefully on
colonial wine at a shilling a bottle —or even per
billy; and we invited all swagmen to share, and
co-operated with the welcome, self-invited ladies
of the flat—the Rat, Molly Mills, Mothers Burn-
away and Warren. And on Sundays the upper
circles would look in—Mesdames Bumbleton and
W estaway, the Misses Bubble, Squeak, and
Hornet. _ i
It was better to break my tibia and fibula, to
get patched up in Wangaratta hospital, than to
die of new wine and rats on the brain on the river-
bank, as Vast Heaving did. No one knew the
name of Vast Heaving—even I did not; and oyer
his grave to this day you will see V.H. —nothing
more.
There was a nice girl called the Rat; she is nice
now, but not a girl. Her name is Idina Kap- J
lopski, although she is still called the Rat. She
alone saw Vasty die ; and until last year I never
met her since he pegged out.
I camped for a week on the old spot, and had
rolled up to go, when there was Martha in front of
me, older, but neater and jollier than ever, and
with the inevitable bottle of Howlong (O Lord !)
wine in her hand.
“ You’re not much changed, Peter.” “You’re
at the old game, Ratty.” That’s all we said
before the wine. Then Martha told me how my
mate had shifted his camp when I left, and had
lived alone until she found him dying. He left a
message : “ Tell Peter that there’s money for him
in the Red Bank, and that he’ll know the initials
and draw it.”
Now, there are two banks in Howlong ; they are
both drab-colored now, but one used to be painted
an abominable maroon color, executed cheaply by
a German wine-bibber. No money had been left
there by Mr. V. Heaving, Mr. Vasty, or any
other swagman. I gave the conundrum up.
Then Martha said : “ Let’s go and see where he
died. He carved his name in front of the tent on
a big gum tree.” There it was and is : V.H. 22
NlB W. But what were the additional letters
| and figures for ? We had another billy of strong
1 old military ditto, and Martha was musing.
“ Blessed if I know what possessed him to camp
under the red bank ! ” “ What red bank ? ” said I.
Then I learned that the precipice from the road
to the river was always called the red bank. They
say—at least, Valverde, of Albury, says—there’s
truth in wine. There’s more: there’s imagina-
tion, invention, and intellect. The visions I have
j seen in wine would fill a milky way of Royal
! Academies. And Vast Heaving had been a sailor
and a surveyor.
| Next: Were they yards or feet? It did not
take long to decide. Twenty-two feet did not
1 come opposite the bank. Twenty-two yards
brought me to where, eighteen steps off, the cliff
was red and solid, except where the strata were
separated by a layer of grey sand. The river had
never in the memory of man risen to that level,
but the debris raised a ramp to within a foot of it.
(Read Poe’s “ Gold Beetle,” and various others,
and finish my story of treasure trove.) Vasty’s
dilly-bag was there.
The rise was only six quid : but that’s a lot for
a man who has nothing but a swag and some lines,
aided by the Rat and half a pint of “genuine
Chateau Howlong Burgundy.”
That, mates and co-mates, was my last rise, and,
let me tell you, one hundred and twenty bottles
of Murray Valley red wine cause elevation.
They make a man King of Anywhere, and half of
them would make Mademoiselle Rattonski Queen
of the South, chucking in the other three Cardinal
Points.
Thus I, thankful for memory and forgetfulness,
wait for a Rise in the River and drink to
“Vast Heaving ! ” Belay !
SCOTTY THE WBINKLER.
“ Prison doctors have no knowledge of
mental disease of any kind. They are as a class
ignorant of men. The pathology of the mind is
unknown to them. When a man grows insane
they treat him as shamming. They have him
punished again and again. Naturally the man
becomes worse. When ordinary punishments are
exhausted the doctor reports the case to the
j ustices. The result is flogging. ” — (Oscar W ilde,
writing from, personal observation in gaol.)


Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
an— i
I I
i PURCHASERS OF ALU CLASSES OF
Cold, Silver, [ead m Copper Ores »| products.
WOEKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
tp A fpm HING - ROASTING, BLAST F URN ACE SMELTING,
A °— M fNUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
Swi™of aper Y lsl o n . of O. H. Blakemoee, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
obtain in o- or ks, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
dpsm’JntWio Ooal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
" ' Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
JOHN HOWELL,
(IIncROBEKTSOn’S CIiEIIIIIIG GIIID
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Hreath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
©
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Pull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Works :
- Pitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
SIX 6RAND AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs. [jicholson and (Jo.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
FIA.KTOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MUSIC.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS
RONISCPI PIANOS
SCHIEDM AY Ell PIANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and France.
KTICHOLSOKT & COMFA.KTY,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HUD’S marvellous MIR RESTORER
I
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
Mm
&
8
%
52
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir, —I want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price.
If you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers,
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
it is used up.—l remain, Yours faithfully, Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle —35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A grandmother at 26. Philadelphia
Polyclinic reports the case of a girl who had an
illegitimate daughter a month before her 13th
birthday. This casual offspring got married at
12 years old, and in 11 months had a son. She is
in excellent health, does not look in any way pre-
maturely aged, and grew 4in. after the birth of
that son.
Dear Bulletin, —There should be splendid
openings on N.S.W. country papers for unlucky
shearers who can’t get work at the sheds. Shears
are much quicker than scissors, and a “gun”
shearer would much facilitate the weary, sore-
wristed country-editor’s work. In the hands of a
ringer,’’ a pair of shears could clip a whole
column in two snips. I know a country print
where the comps, (three or four “rats,” i,e., wage-
apprentices) set MS. only about once a year,
and that s when some wandering mulga poet visits
that particular town, and occasionally hands in a
little thimr of his own.” The rest is all reprint,
ri X i f*'®* I n my mind’s eye, I see a couple
ot burly shearer-men ride up to the office of some
Ltldya Skiteb, and scare the wits out of editor
and staff by asking, in a voice of thunder, whether
there s a chance of ‘ a cut.’ ”
Melbourne Benevolent. A. v bun contains
among its garrison one Agnes Smith, who claims
to be the first white woman who set foot in Vic-
toria, and who also claims to be 116 years old.
A Bulletin correspondent whites from a
Maoriland town :
The local kirk has been without a “ meenister” for the
last .year. From time to time, in accordance with ancient
custom, the powers that be have sent along various
samples of divinity to show their paces and battle for the
bawbees. The other week, a new aspirant ruined his
chance in one act. .lie was a toll, rawboned Iliuhlander,
and started his discourse with : “Mv freens, a great
mony.things have been runnin’ thro’ tiiy heid a’day”—
at the same time passing a leg-of-mutton fist through his
stubby hair. After that, they refused to take him
seriously, and, although he pounded the cushion and
yelled in the orthodox manner, he finished amidst sup-
pressed, merriment.
“The above,” continues The Bulletin’s corres-
pondent, “actually happened.” This paper
.always suspects yarns that “ actually happened,”
and believes that the present story is a chestnut
originally made up by some malignant Irishman
or humorous Jew. Anyhow, no ordinary congre-
gation would have seen anything humorous in a
freckled shepherd, with ginger hair, earnestly
talking aboot the things that were runnin’through
his heid. • "
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
EASV RUNNING
“NEW HOME'
SEWING MACHINES.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
MEW NATIONAL &7DEAL
hand machines
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMRI'LATORS
Having been appointed Agents
lor MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply ber well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
Fittings,
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent- Mechanics c»n
AND
Repairs.
guarautee to tliuroughly Eepair
Sewing MnoMr»« of «nv mol-...
STYLE No. 14.
£9 98, GASH. £lO 10s TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depot, 484 George-Btreefc, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as with'buying them from dealers.
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremast firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and aro rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins aro extra,
ong and plated. All
bass wires copper
oovered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires aro two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Framo of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. Tho photos
show the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos can
bo had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. Tho touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in tho bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear. belMiko sweetness in the treble. Singers find tho timbre
sustaining and developing to tho voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The prico includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wido celebrity, Governors of
oolonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
Forbes’s PHOSFERRINE.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance
HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 0d., Post Free.


A great part of Victoria is divided up into
tuppenny-ha’penny, milk-walk-size shires, each
with its own secretary and engineer and coun-
cillors and loan and overdraft —especially over-
draft. The law forbids the expenditure by muni-
cipalities of loan-money on maintenance and
repairs, and one shire which has lately floated a
new loan has hit on an original way of circum-
venting the Act. The usual way to repair a road
is to plant blue-metal by the roadside, break it up
and spread where required. But this Council has
carefully dumped huge boulders on the main road
in casual patches, blocked the scene of operations
by felling trees across the road, then started men
to break the metal and spread it over the area
blocked. This is not maintenance or repairs—it
is the new formation of a road that has been in
use for years.
The struggle for a crust. Sydney Morn-
ing Herald advts. :
mO Tailoresses and Tailors.—Respect, young person,
- 1 - having knowledge trousers (can machine and sew)
wants Work ; will give two weeks’ work for nothing.
A., Park-street Post-office.
a DVERTISER will give £5 for a permanent Situa-
tion. Dixie, Newtown P.O.
a LADY offers Services (gratis), bookkeeper and
•*- shorthand typist, for business exp. F. 0.8.,
Herald.
YOUNG Man (23), knowledge single entry, would
enter good office to learn double ditto ; services
in return. Ledger, Paddington P. 0..
YOUNG Lady wishes Situation, Waitress, two weeks
free, or other employment, good writer. Miss
Ray, P. 0., SuOmer Hill.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has Been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post freec or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD
f
Whose Business is
FIXED HARP a«d FAST Ig
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
.
“Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER FAIR,” which is now
. . m FULL SWIN6! . .
ON TO
mark fovs,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THfl CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY CORED B? . •
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
' | HOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing' Couirh, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a coim
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
find a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. -Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
■ “Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. .WYATT, Geelong.”
“ Mr. Hearnel—Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. T never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good. Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a liottle of it. the first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as 1 consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known .
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. .JAMivy,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. VV. Q. Hearne.—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M'BEAN, Carlton.”
“ Dear Sir,—l had oooasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“ Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doing
a lot. of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Ilearne.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attaok of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Aois of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. Aftertaking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and R-fnil by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally.
Small size, 2s. Cd. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and
Ladies’
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBI NGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 William-*!. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office : King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washingtoh-st.,
near Dmitt-street.
Company
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &e., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australia.l
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
‘‘Triumpli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon ns
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protects!) by Registration
by the
Aroericao I report Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Lending Wnrchons
The “ Tuyfelshoot. ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was at Tan Boon’s, in Sourabaya, and
Che lemon - tinted countenance of Tan himself
was as the rising sun for satisfaction that his
nimble satellites were none too nimble for the
occasion. The air was thick with tobacco-smoke,
liquor-fumes, and talk ; which talk—being ehiefly
nautical —couldn’t fail, sooner or later, to turn
upon the “ Tuyfeisboot.” Everybody there had
heard of her ; nobody had seen her.
“ Ver’ good reason vy ! ” said the barrelly little
padrone of the Stella di Genova. “ Noboddoe
leeve ver’ long aftair see ’er.”
Old Sandy Macallan snorted cigar - smoke
through his long nose, and cocked his single eye
upon the Italian skipper. “The Laitin nations,”
he said, “ are laimentably supersteetious. ” He
took a solemn drink, and looked round with the
importance proper to the commander of four
masts and 3000 tons. “Though I must admeet
that this rideeclous notion came first from a Teu-
tonic peopled This Deevil’s-Boat, in fac’, is neither
tnair nor less than the auld Eleein’ Dutchman —
sairved up wi’ a wee bit oriaintal imaigination ! ”
“ Divilish little imagination about a Scotch-
man, anyhow,” said the Irish mate of a Bristol
“ tramp.”
“Ye’re very right, mon!” Macallan faced
round upon the red-headed blasphemer. “ We
haven’t imaigination enough, at all events, to
keep skirlin’ to a’ the world aboot the noble
speerit o’ a country that’s been no better, for sax
centuries, than a football for the mutton-headed
Englishman ! ”
Ireland instantly hove its tumbler at Scotland—
whereupon the Thistle landed the Shamrock in the
eye—then more Hibernia joined in, and more
Caledonia —and for ten minutes there was Arma-
geddon !
“ And I maintain,’' resumed the pertina-
cious Macallan, while the prompt Tan Boon was
collecting from the combatants the price of his
broken glasses —“I assairt, with regaird to this
Java Sea appareetion, that no indiveedual here
has ever as much as spoken to onybody that would
say he had seen onything o’ the sort ! ”
“Haul your wind a bit, there, Sandy!” A
short, man came across the room—square and
grizzled, and teak-faced, but most unnautically
frock-coated and tall-hatted. “ I’m a man of my
word, I suppose ? ”
“ Ye are, Tom ! ” graciously assented the Mac-
allan—“ Ye are that! Caiptain Thomas Waig-
staff, gentlemen ! —to those who don’t know him
already. The maister o’ the Bamborough Castle,
an’ as good a sailor as ever looked through a taile-
seope!”
The short skipper lighted a short pipe, drained
a long drink, and observed that his sailoring was
neither here nor there.
“ But, about this Tuyfeisboot, now !—what’s the
usual yarn about her ? ”
“ Only some few of a ship’s crew are able to see
her ! ” said one.
“And they don’t live .till the end of the voyage! ”
added another.
“ Just so,” said Wagstaff. “ And the ship her-
self will have the worst of luck ! —isn’t that it ?
Well, now—here’s a plain story from a plain man
- —a yarn I couldn’t invent, as Malcolm there will
tell you, to save my life ! You remember
Cassandra salvage case, Sandy ? ”
“ Ay, mon ! You were first-mate o’ her, I recol-
lec’! ”
“ I was. We brought salt and railway-iron out
to Calcutta, that trip. Splendid voyage ! —never
started a rope-yarn all the way ! Ship always had
been a rare lucky one, in spite of her name, which
I’m told wasn’t the best in the world to sail under.
Well, the Calcutta agents ordered us on here for
sugar, and again we had a first-class run and speedy
despatch.
* * * *
“ First day out, on the run back, we had a smart
easterly breeze up to the first dog-watch, when it
fell away, and a bank got up over the land that
made the skipper think we were going to have a
stiff blow from the wrong quarter Glass kept
steady, though, and the old man had gone below
for tea, without ordering anything to be taken off
her, when the bo’s’n comes up to me, and says he,
‘What d’ye make of them chaps, sir?’ ‘What
chaps ? ’ says I. ‘ There—in that prahu—wavin’
their spears at us,’and the man pointed away over
the port bow. ‘How far away?’ I asked, for I
could see nothing ; in fact, there wasn’t a sail in
sight all round. Hoskins stared at me, and pointed
again. ‘ Why , there, sir !—not two cables’-lengths
away!’ ‘What’s she like; in Heaven’s name?’
I said, beginning to think he was off his head, and
I suppose he thought ditto of me, for he kept
giving me a side-glance every now and then as he
told me that she was a big black prahu, with sheer-
leg masts, and a kind of hurricane-deck, and
things like feathers streaming from her stem and
stern-posts. ‘ And the men ? ’ I asked, for this
was a description of the fighting prahu of the old
pirate days. ‘Full of ’em, sir—below ; but there’s
only one of them on the platform affair, and he—
but what’s the use of talkin’, sir ! ’ he broke off,
‘ when you must see her as plain as I do ! ’ I said
nothing for a minute, for all this agreed exactly
with the account I had many a time heard of the
‘ Tuyfeisboot.’ ‘ Ever make the Sourabaya voyage
before, Hoskins ? ’ I said then. The man glowered
at me—sure, now, that I had gone a bit cranky.
‘No, sir ! it’s my first trip any where’s out of Cal-
cutta.’ ‘Well, look here, my man; I can see
nothing of all this you talk about, so it’s plain
something has carried away aloft with one or other
of us ! I don’t think it’s with me, Hoskins ; so I
think you’d best get away forrard again, and say
nothing about it.’
♦ * * *
He turned away without another word, but as
I looked after him I saw a lot of the hands
gathered about the fore-riggin’, staring away over
the water, and one or two shading their eyes, as if
to see better. One fellow —half-a-dozen rattlins
up—nearly fell overboard when I shouted at him
to come out of that! ‘ What were they gaping at,
like a parcel of old women ? ’ They looked foolish
for a bit, and then a big old Irishman came aft to
me. ‘ It’s the Tuyfeisboot, sir ! ’ says he in a half-
whisper. ‘The Dago says he can see her as plain
as the fingers on his hand, but divil a one else of
us can make out a plank of anythin’ that floats !
Ye don’t see her yourself, do ye, sir ? ’ ‘ See her ?
—of course not! There’s nothing of the sort to
see. I’m surprised at you, Muldoon—a man of
your age taking any notice of such tommy-rot!
Here—Spirito ! —I want you!’ Muldoon slunk
away forrard as the Dago—a Greek he was —came
aft. A skinny little rascal —yellower than that
scoundrel, Tan Boon there, and fairly stinking of
the Eastern seas. If he’d spoken first of this
cursed thing and Hoskins had followed in his
wake, I’d hardly have given the matter a second
thought ; but, you see, the bo’s’n had described it
first, and he’d never heard of the Tuyfeisboot.
“ Well, to cut it short, the Greek was just as
positive as t’other chap, with the difference that
he was badly frightened over the business. Ho
wouldn’t see the end of the voyage, he said—and
neither would the bo’s’n ! And the ship would
never have any more luck!. ‘Look here, my
friend!’ I-told him, ‘if you want to spend the
rest of the trip in the lazarette, with a pair of
clinkers on your shanks, just you go and put that
notion about among the men ! It’s all cursed
rubbish !—so get away forrard and keep your
mouth shut! ’ I suppose I ought to have laughed
at the whole business, but there’s things you can’t
get over, and the old man didn’t like it a bit
more’n I did, because, he said, it was the sort of
thing that sometimes worked its own fulfilment.
‘ The sailor-man,’ he says, ‘ is a curious mixture
of courage and cowardice. If this thing gets to be
talked-over in the fo’c’s’le the men’ll lose heart, and
to lose heart means the doubling of every danger ! ’
“In which, gentlemen,” commented Captain
Wagstaff, between gulps of another whistle-
wetter, “ every sailor here will agree with one of
the wisest men that ever handled a sextant! ”
* * * *
“Of course, the thing did get turned over and
over among the crew, and from that out there was
a cloud over the old Cassandra. Splendid weather
we had after we got through the Straits —wind
mostly on the quarter, and t’gallant-stu’nsails
right up into the Bay of Bengal. But the men
went about their work like fellows waiting for
something. And one day—when we had made
our latitude about 13 —they got it! About the
middle of the forenoon watch it freshened up so
that we had to take the kites off her, and she
dipped the chap that was stowin’ theflyin’-jib into
an extra big sea—and left him there. Happened
many a time, you’ll say. It has ; but ” —Wagstaff
put down his pipe and circled the company with
his eyes—“ that man was Spirito the Dago ! And
he never came up; or, if he did, we didn’t see
him.”
“ Didna ye heave her to ? ” Macallan asked.
“We did. Risky job for our foremast, with
what we were carrying. And we got a boat out.
But, as I say, we never saw a hair of the poor
devil.”
Gloom fell upon the hearers. Nearly every
man there had witnessed, in his time, that hope-
less search amongst the hills and valleys of the
water-wilderness. Tan Boon’s mellifluous English
broke the spell. It was “ welly neal time shuttee
up ! ”
“Shut-up, yourself, you yellow rascal!” said
Wagstaff—“ and let’s have drinks all round. That
was the beginning,” he went on. “ One little
mishap after another, till we got to the Sandheads
with a falling glass and every sign of heavy
weather. Brought-up off the Eastern Channel
lightship, and lay at two anchors for three days—
blowing till we rolled the inizzen-topmast out of
us and broke the upper maintopsail-yard in the
slings. Then one cable parted, but, while we were
waiting for the other to go, a big ocean-steamer
came fighting in through the smother, and we
signalled her for help. Turned out to be a P.
and O. —the Thibet—and she got a hawser to us
just as the other cable parted. But before she’d
towed us ten minutes the hawser went, too, and
she signalled that she’d take us off, if we liked.
And —what with cargo shifted, pumps and boats
smashed,’ and wreckage pounding our sides—we
had to come to it.
“ And I’ll never run down Lascars again, for it
was a Lascar crew that took us off—three trips in
such a sea as I never expect to see again. Couldn’t,
come alongside, of course, so we had to jump for
it, and be picked up.”
* • * *
, “ Ay, ay, mon ! ” said Macallan, lumbering to
his legs and buttoning his pea-jacket. “ But
you’re wanderin’ a wee. What’s all this to do wi'
the Tuyfeisboot ? ”
“ This ! ” and Wagstaff got his anchor up in
turn. “ How many men did we lose in getting
away from the ship ? ” . ,
“ Let’s see ! Only one, as weel’s I remember.”
“Right, one man only. Now’’—Wagstaff
looked slowly round him at the listeners—“ why,
when the steamer’s boat could be kept clear of the
side while everybody else vvas picked up—why, I
say, should a sudden drive of the sea send her in
to crush that particular man like an egg-shell ? ”
He walked to the door, then turned to answer his
own question.
“ Because, gentlemen, that man was Hoskins,
the bo’s’n. He had seen the Tuyfeisboot ! ”
ALEX, MONTGOMERY.


GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS
CURE
A Musician’s Cure in Netvcastle.
AFTER DOCTOR FAILED.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH FOR GOULD’S.
A remarkable case (says a Newcastle paper) was
brought under our notice a few days ago of a lead-
ing musician in Newcastle, who, through constant
strain of teaching and conducting the Victoria
Theatre orchestra, was allowing his system to get
so low that he would eventually have had to give
up his profession. The gentleman in question —
Mr. W. D. Barry—is conductor of Victoria Theatre
orchestra, and general leader and conductor of
most of the first musical organisations of New-
castle, and resides at 4 Noster-place, off Wolfe-
street. Mr. Barry is 33 years of age, and a highly-
respected resident; born in Newcastle. Inter-
viewed by a reporter a few days ago, he said he
had been a great sufferer from indigestion,
stomach and liver troubles for a long time, and
had been under some of the best doctors without
receiving any benefit,
“How long since did you first commence to
suffer badly, Mr. Barry? ” inquired the reporter..
“ Oh, it was about 12 months ago, and at that
time I moved from late residence on the hill —
which was healthily situated—to where lam now,
and, being so closely confined to teaching, &c., I
got very little exercise, and hence the results. My
digestion got very bad, and my liver and stomach
got out of order. I would have an aching pain in
my back and right side—a kind of stinging sensa-
tion—and at night my legs would get numb. The
circulation in my fingers got very bad, and
I suffered with a dry cough. I would have it that
it was lung trouble, until the doctor told me it
was my liver. I could not sleep. I would go to
bed, and after a few hours I would get restless,
and would have to get up and walk about; so you
can judge that I did not feel very refreshed in the
morning. Again, a cold, clammy chill would
come over me. My digestion continued to get
worse and worse, and after my meals I would feel
as if my clothes were too tight across my chest,
and I felt as if a board was pressing down on it.
At times I would get a shooting pain in the left
shoulder, and a pain up my left side, which would
extend to my ear, and a beating sensation would
take place. Well, I continued this \yay for
nearly twelve months, and was under doctors,
but got no permanent relief until I took Gould’s
Tiny Tonic Liver Pills, which I saw advertised,
and readingof the benefits other people had derived
from their use I decided to give them a trial; so I
bought a box from Hart and Firkin, the chemists
in Hunter-street, and taking the pills I found they
did me a great deal of good. Continuing with
them, the pains in my back and side left me, I
slept well, my appetite returned, and I am not
subject to those distressing pains after my meals.
In fact, I feel better in every way. ’
“ Has it been long since you first commenced
taking the pills, Mr. Barry?”
“ I commenced about three months ago, and I
followed out the directions very closely, and took
as much exercise as possible, which facilitated the
working of the pills. ”
“ You know, Mr. Barry, it is our intention to
publish this interview.”
“ Well, sir, you are at liberty to publish my
statement. Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills have
done me good, and I can thorougly recommend
them to anyone suffering as I did.”
4.
Constipation More Terrible than the
Black Blague.
Centuries ago people used to fear what they
called the pestilence. “ Black Death ” was the
most terrible thing in the world to them. They
feared it as people now fear the Cholera and
Yellow Fever. And yet there is a more terrible
thing than any of these. There is a thing that
causes more misery and more deaths than any of
these. It is the commonest trouble that human
beings suffer from. It is so common that nine-
tenths of all the sickness in the world is traceable
to it. It is merely that simple, common thing—
constipation. There is no telling what it may
lead to, but it is sure to lead to something bad.
Its immediate effects are unpleasant in the ex-
treme. It makes people listless, gives them head-
aches, makes the digestion poor, causes dizziness,
loss of appetite, loss of sleep, foul breath, and dis-
tress after eating. All this merely because Nature
has been imposed upon, and has been refused the
little help she needed.
This little help is furnished by Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills. You take them until you get
yourself into perfect working order, and then you
stop. You don’t have to take any more Pills
unless after a while you do something that de-
ranges your digestive system again. We are not
guessing about these facts, and we don’t ask you
to take our unsupported word for it. Doctors
have found that they are true, and have testified
to them. Let the druggist who says that some-
thing else is “ just as good ” sell that something
else to somebody else. Don’t let him trifle with
your health for the sake of a little more profit to
himself.
.—4.
Influenza Cured.
ANOTHER NEWCASTLE CASE.
From present indications, we are about to have
another siege of the influenza epidemic that has
annually visited Sydney for some years past.
Now, to escape this dread visitor, Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills will be found of great service, as
Mr. Thos. Rowe, of 130 Darby-street, Newcastle,
can testify. Mr. Rowe was suffering from a severe
liver trouble, for which he was taking Gould’s
Pills. A Newcastle Times reporter, hearing that
he had been cured of his liver trouble, after
doctors had failed, interviewed him, and, in
the course of conversation, Mr. Rowe said
that he was taken badly with influenza about
the time he commenced taking the pills, but
that they cured the influenza as well as his
liver trouble. Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are
the great modern cure for all digestion troubles,
debility, influenza, female weakness, pale and
sallow complexions, and all the results of excesses,
such as fast living, over-eating, over-working, and
living an unnatural life of any kind.
♦
White-Faced Girls.
Girls who have a white, pasty skin, and who are
troubled with dizziness, buzzing in the head, loss
of appetite, &c., and who are troubled (as so many
girls are in this country, from 15 to 21 years of
age), will find a cure in this great specific.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS, taken
regularly for a few weeks, will carry off all the
waste matter from the system, and, instead of a
oouple of days every month being spent in misery,
happiness and health will be restored, and the
cheeks will regain their healthy color.
Female Weakness .
Women who suffer pain each month can find re-
lief and emancipation from their trouble if they
wish. No woman has the right to be a helpless,
sick, nervous, fretful burden to her husband. If
she is, it is due to her own ignorance or neglect.
If she will take proper care of herself, and look
after the health of the delicate organs that are the
most important parts of her physical make-up, she
will soon be a healthy, amiable helpmate, instead
of a burden to the partner of her joys and sor-
rows. To all women who suffer as mentioned
above we would highly recommend GOULD’S
TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS ; they are small
and easy to take, and will be found suitable for
the most delicate constitutions.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills have been successfully
used by the first physicians
of the United States for
Constipation, Piles, Fulness
after Eating, Dyspepsia, all
Liver and Kidney Troubles,
Debility, General Weak-
ness, &c., and they are also
a specific for pale and sallow
complexions, female irregu-
larities, heart palpitation,
shortness of breath after
slight exertion, pain in back
and side, and, when used
after a heavy meal has been
eaten, they take away that
full and disagreeable feeling.
Obtainable from Chemists
and Storekeepers generally,
or from the Australian
Branch of the E. A. Gould,
Sons, and Co., Box 1204,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will
forward (post paid), on re-
ceipt of stamps or post-office
order, one box for 2s. 6d., or
half-a-dozen for 13s. 6d.
GOULD’S PILLS re-
QUID
IN
ONI
VE
PIL
commend themselves to weak women, and people
in delicate health, on account of their small size
and gentle action. Doctors prescribe them for
their patients in America after more violent and
purgative medicines have utterly failed.
INFLUENZA, COLDS, LIVER TROUBLE,
INDIGESTION, DEBILITY, etc.
A Tale of Twenty Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sailor from the salty South —and such as sailors
be —
A sailor from the briny North, they met upon the
quay.
“Ho! messmate there, what cheer? What ho !
here be two comrades met,
From ramping wind and roaring sea, both God-
delivered yet.”
“ But where’s the news, and how’s the news, and
what’s the last from hell ?
W ith beer between and pipe between, what tales
be there to tell ?
From here and there ; from everywhere that ships
and sailors go,
What things of Love, and Drink, and Death, and
fellowship dost know ?
“ How look the girls of Liverpool, the belles of New
Orleans ?
How tastes the taste of British junk or Boston
pork-and-beans ?
Is fever rife at Rio yet ? What boats be outward-
bound ?
Has any beggar got a berth? Is any beggar
drowned ? ”
A lassie waits by Plymouth Pier ; another at Kin-
sale,
And I must leave my missus here, God’s glory !
when I sail;
But pork and beans is beans and pork, and junk
is junk alway,
And our old tub she turned keel up, last year off
Table Bay !
She’d tumbled round the north and south, she’d
wallowed east and west;
She’d been a clipper in her day and paced it with
the best;
Her staunch oak ribs have stood the brunt of
North Atlantic seas,
When oft and oft the Devil sat aloft on her cross-
trees.
We fetched her out across the world and brought
her home to berth;
We took her in, we took her out, to ev’ry port on
earth ;
We dragged her round the frozen Horn, we slung
her through the Strait;
We slewed her at the Hobs of Hell and never
scratched a plate.
We drove her down to Beelzebub, as drunk as
devil’s swine ;
Then brought her up below the Pit and hitched
her with a twine,
A tow-line’s length from Kingdom Come, amidst
the hiss and roar,
We turned about, all sober men, and coaxed her
off the shore.
We’ve seen her flaunt her figure-head at zenith in
her climb,
Then drop her bowsprit in the trough and point it
at the slime
One hundred fathoms underneath, where should
have been her keel,
With two tied sailor-men, by God ! half-fainting
at her wheel.
She’s wallowed through the inky night, with never
star to guide,
She’s seen the sea-fires glow and burn and heard
the surges glide;
She’s seen the black and lonely waste; she’s seen
the waste sun lit;
And dipped to greet the ruddy Day—and rose to
welcome it.
We’ve watched the day-god drop athwart the
distant sea-line dim,
And witli the moonlight in our wake, due West
we’ve followed him.
We’ve heard and seen, and seen and heard! Strange
tales have we to tell,
Who’ve looked five oceans in the face and learned
to know them well.
But as she lay by Plymouth town the rats went
down her side
And when he saw, with what he knew, her skipper
cursed and cried,
But when her owners heard his tale they laid in-
surance by
And filled her up from hold to hatch and sent her
out to die.
With twenty men steeped to their lips in all the
sins of men;
With twenty men cooped up like cats not know-
ing where nor when ;
With twenty men to leave their bones, their loves,
their hopes, and fears,
Their rights and wrongs and all the rest, betwixt
two hemispheres!
They kissed their sins ashore good-bye, and drank
their sins farewell,
Then towed her down from Plymouth town and
turned her out towards hell,
And when she kicked her heels again on hell’s own
broad highway
They lurched aloft to watch the world and give
their sins “Good-day.”
They dragged her down along the track, a God-
forsaken crew,
And ev’ry knot she made they laughed, but longed
to count it two !
With sweeping seas from stem to stern, with rotten
ropes and gear,
With mouldy tack for sustenance and brine
instead of beer;
With twenty sinners keeping watch ; at graft by
night and day,
With ten to man the pumps and curse, with ten
maybe to pray;
With two of twenty swept astern and sent to fight
■ their death,
To meet the Horror in the dark that choked them
breath by breath !
They fell about her slimy deck; they clung to what
they could ;
Amidst the crash of falling spars, the wrack of
riven wood.
They drowned like rats —that would not drown
for one-and-six a day ;
They died to swell a bank-account that night off
Table Bay.
Aye, twenty things of bloated shape that sought a
resting place,
And three ship-owners shaking hands by God s
own holy grace;
Aye, twenty things of clammy kind that, very
shortly, stank,
And three well-scented Englishmen with money
in the bank.
A sailor from the salty South —and such as sailors
be—
A seaman from the briny North come out across
the sea,
With beer between and pipe between they met,
the tale to tell
Of twenty men, all sailor-men, twice damned and
sent to hell.
E. J. BRADY.
The Courting of Te Rahui.
(AS TOLD BY PIRIMONA.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Te Rahui lived at Orakei Korako, on the
Waikato River —if the place had a shorter name I
would tell you pakehas of it—there she lived.”
Pirimona paused, and looked into the missionary-
tohunga's face, as if asking whether he should
go on.
The pakeha wished to hear.
“ Rehu came from Matata, Tarata from Whan-
ganui. Both had heard of the great beauty of Te
Rahui. This thing happened before there were
any pakehas in this country of Aotea.
“ One day Rahui went to bathe in the Mirror
Cave, where the hot-spring bubbles up under the
dome of colored clays. The roof is reflected in
the water below —you may see this as you stand at
the mouth of the cave. There Te Rahui bathed,
and when she wished to rest she climbed on to the
ledge of rock on the further side, and lay down
clothed only by the rising steam.
“ Rehu had watched the rangatira girl cross the
river in her canoe. He followed her, swimming,
though the rapids were a hundred yards below the
landing-place on the further side. We all think
Rehu was a brave man to swim the Waikato at
that point.
“ He followed Rahui through the manuka scrub
which fringes the puias by the river-side. These
he passed by, keeping the girl in sight, and came
to another belt of manuka. Here Rehu hides, and
watches Rahui cross the boiling, hissing mud-holes
beyond. Rehu sees her reach firm ground and
enter the side of the hill. Rahui enters the Cave
of Reflecting Waters.
“Then Rehu crosses by the path that Rahui
has chosen. A false step and he will be boiled
alive ; but he walks in the footsteps of Rahui, and
is safe.
“From the opening of the cave Rehu looks
down on the girl as she bathes. He sees the
colors of the roof reflected in the clear water —
blue, green, red, and purple ; he watches the
rangatira maiden till she has finished bathing and
swims two strokes and grasps the ledge of rock,
and clambers up, and there lies resting.
“ Then Rehu walks quietly down the slope to
the water’s edge. He sits and speaks to Rahui.
But Rahui turns her face away ; she vvill not look
at him ; she will not answer his questions.
“ Then Rehu steps in the water, and with two
strokes he swims across the bath. His hand is on
the ledge where Rahui lies—but she looses his
hold. Rehu falls back into the water: he sinks.
When he rises again, he grasps the ledge once
more, to clamber up beside Rahui. Again he is
pushed back into the water. This happens fully
twelve times. Each time that Rehu rises he tries
to grasp the ledge of rock, or else Rahui herself.
But his breath comes in short gasps j he goes
under for the last time; he does not rise to the
“ Then Rahui remembers —the waters of the
Mirror Bath overcome those who are not used to
them. She cries out, frightened, and plunges
after Rehu ; she drags him out. Upon the white,
encrusted ground she lays him down, and rests his
head in her lap. His eyes are half-closed ;he does
not move. Rahui weeps over him—she thinks his
life will not come back—she believes his soul has
gone to the spirit-world.
“ Tenderly she places him on her korowai cloak,
and drags him over the rough ground to the outer
air. There she renews her efforts to restore Rehu
to life. He opens his eyes. Rahui gives a cry of
joy. Rehu takes both her hands in his ; then
presently he clasps his arms around her. Rahui
is won.
• * * *
“They hear a shout above them. There
stands Tarata. He has come to the cave by
scaling the hill from behind. In his hand he
flourishes his taiaha.
“ Rahui runs and hides herself in the cave. As
Tarata clambers down the hill-side, he shouts
defiance at Rehu. Rehu stands silent. He has
no hatred of Tarata in his heart; he thinks only
of Rahui ; the smile with which he had last looked
at her is still on his face. Tarata is mad
with love for Rahui. He rushes upon Rehu.
Rehu is unarmed —he turns and runs. Across
the boiling mud-holes, between the hissing
puias Rehu rushes. Tarata follows. Rehu is a
slim-built man, a swift runner ; Tarata is heavy,
slow. Rehu outruns Tarata. He reaches the
manuka on the further side whilst Tarata is but
half-way across the mud-holes. Rehu turns and
taunts Tarata. Tarata stops to answer Rehu ; his
foot pauses upon the treacherous earth ; he loses
his balance; he falls; he sinks down; he. is en-
gulphed by the smoking under-world. He is seen
no more.
“ Then Rehu returns by the way that Rahui
had shown him ; he leads her out of the cave ; he
shows her the spot where Tarata fell. Where
Tarata fell bubbles rise up long after Rehu and
Rahui have passed by, on their way back to
Orakei Korako. ”
The pakeha said he wished he had not heard.
Nelson, M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.
“Poets are born, not paid.”—Amer.
“It is impossible to keep a wife respect
ably, except you have a share in the frauds of the
world.”— Socialist.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


AN INVALID FOR FIVE YEARS.
Pale, Emaciated, No Appetite,
COULD NOT WORK.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cured Him.
Edward Graham, Collingwood, Melbourne, Victoria, write®
Gratefully of His Cure.
m
2#
&
“In 1890 I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, and for nearly five
years after the fever left me was a confirmed invalid. I had no appetite;
became pale and emaciated, and was unable to work. I tried various
remedies but found no relief until I began taking AYER’S SARSAPA-
RILLA. This medicine greatly improved my appetite, restored my liver
and stomach to a healthy condition, and now my food digests perfectly
and lam better than ever I was in my life. For this I am deeply grate-
ful, and take pleasure in making known to others the value of your Sar-
saparilla.”
The wonderful success of the great blood purifier
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
has led to numerous imitations. The name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— is
prominent on the wrapper and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Re-
fuse all substitutes.
Highest Awards at the World’s Ore at Expositions.
The
Mighty Hekler.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
patent P r ° f ? BBion * J testimony to the value of your Lung Tonic. As a
asthma non K.1 e 'f ! s , un L lvall * d - 1 have Riven it to Mrs. Forshaw for sever*
immprii./li. t>r ? nchla, ii afTeotions, combined with much coughing, and it ha*
at*iy given relief when all other remedies have failed."
CHAS. F. FORSHAW, D.D.S., Bradford.
111
junglonic.
family have used It for years, and have found it matohleas. My littl*
gin has been taking it unremittingly for a fortnight for whooning-oough,
wnioh ha* nearly disappeared."
J.D.H., 7 Btevar'a Torraoe, Beeston Hill, Leeds.
Try it for Consumption.
L Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it foP Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. lfd., Bs. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and Us., by aH Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial House*.
■old by THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING 00.. SI KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Worth a Guinea a Box.”
—FOR ALL—
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, and Female Ailments.
OVER. 6,000,000 BOXES SOLD YEARLY,
Beeeham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Ac., Ac.
In Boxes, ls. and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
The Is. l|d. box contains 56 pills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and
is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentrifice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists, for ONE SHILLING.
Prepared Only by the Proprietor—
Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Dmggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
TALES OF THE -
- CONVICT SYSTEM.
Bt “PRICE WAIUNG.”
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
Mick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAT MARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy floods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS ; also every deseription of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
—AXD —
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROL A, EL MITNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
*ar Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAKhET, SYDNEY.


m
‘Dubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
tt
99
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
r-THE J
Ballet (airl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-,
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoo P6ri)pii}g EfygiQc Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SllXlpSOZl BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARIU
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , , ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHIN' G-TOET Pumps for all Services
Kept ixx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
t 3& ~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxforc-st., London, jo#?" p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who woidd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies): the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sell* only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Oream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)- 9tl Ki> ; g street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
A-b 1 Jl< ttiN OON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may bema' - at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
' vi
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION
wA.gen.ts Everywhere. "
H. PATESON
ORLD.
PARKC & LACY CO
manufacturers & Importers
PANYUMIT€D,SypN€y.
mining & general machinery.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates’ Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking Pump.
Knowles’ Pumps
Westihghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
ITyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
P also meters
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - - ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR nffT™ STrT( .
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES. U 1 IXI Lll O± 11 Aj_Q
Batho’s DoLinn
Baking Powder
Scale o f Advertising:
—IN-
U
THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year ~ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTRA DISCOUNT of 6
cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
BoOQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
TTTILL CUKE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and dll similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
