

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
** The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
% rt
<Rac£aJocK>
CT 1 30
L V ° C
o
TO
R. A- HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S CnjbrocatioQ
for Outs, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>b; ocatioo.
ROBERTS’ Wii)£ & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART'S CHAMPAGNE (“ recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “ FOUR CROWN ” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKERS SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid Lunch for- is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence. 10/-per day.
Before vijiting the Gty wrirero the Manager for
Card of Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BEUSBj£LSirS.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor,
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
WHEN YOU BUY
j Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST :
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
BIRD
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
TIECIE
Best
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch t
64 King Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Pair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUOOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to ——
= Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. Eirst-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
MELBOURNE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
THE
PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. |J5f" Write for Terms.
ECOBA RT.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
i GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Ix. Prose and Yerse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Travellers
TO
Europe and America.
CHEQUE BANK
CHEQUES
ISSUED FROM £1 UPWARDS.
CASHED BY OVER 25,000 BANKS ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
- SENn FOR HANDBOOK. -
JAS. MALCOLM,
General Agent.
136 Pifcfc-at. (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol 18.— No. 897. j
[Saturday, April 24, 1897.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


Publishers’ Notices.
£j_OOD
BULLETIN” STORIES.
JUST PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS.
Price, 1/6 ; post free, 1/9.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO., SYDNEY.
OYER FIVE MILLION
CAMEO CIGARETTES
WERE SOLD IN N. S. W.
DURING LAST MONTH.
Did you do your share ?
THE RED PAGE .
HER GIFTS.
High grace, the dower of queens; and therewithal
Some wood-born wonder’s sweet simplicity ;
A glance like water brimming with the sky
Or byacintb-light where forest shadows fall;
Such thrilling pallor of cheek as doth enthral
The heart; a mouth whose passionate forms imply
All music and all silence held thereby ;
Deep golden locks, her sovereign coronal ;
A round reared neck, meet column of Love’s shrine
To cling to when the heart takes sanctuary :
Hands which for ever at Love’s bidding be,
And soft-stirred feet still answering to his sign:
These are her gifts, as tongue may tell them o’er.
Breathe low her name, my soul ; for that means more,
Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
4
When the steamship Austral left our shores for
England at the end of last month, she carried as
passengers a tired old man of 68 and a bright
young woman not long out of girlhood, yet
already fading in a feverish struggle with disease.
They were William Michael Rossetti and his
daughter Helen, vainly travelling to nullify the
results of developing the brain at the cost of the
body.
Some day, no doubt, intellectual humanity will
not need to bother about its sluggish liver or the
imperfect oxygenation of its blood. The race-
organism will gradually adapt itself to civilised
environment at a considerable expense of pangs
to weaker vessels. Meantime, it should never be
forgotten that the natural man is still little re-
moved from the savage man, who hunts his food
before he eats it, sleeps in the woods, drinks from
the streams, and stimulates his cortex to no ex-
tent worth mentioning. To live in cities, to wear
modern elothes, to lessen body-exercise, to in-
crease brain-work, to drink muxed liquors and
attend Masonic banquets—this is to ensure physi-
cal ruin, if not for one’s-self then for one’s
descendants. The inside of our platters remains
mostly barbarian, however admirably the outside
be barbered. So culture costs.
The family history of strenuous brain-workers
follows usually a regular course. In the first
notable generation some hand-laborer of excep-
tional physical energy lifts himself a little above
his fellows. His children—the second generation
—are educated to be “ something better ” than
their father. They inherit much of his energy,
yet are physically less vigorous, mentally more
complex, than he was—often men and women of
decided talent. A genius in the third generation,
with still less bodily strength, is occasionally to
be expected. There may be a fourth generation
of hootio weeds. There is never any fifth genera-
tion.
• * • *
The paternal grandfather of the Rossettis —
Maria, Dante Gabriel, William Michael, Chris-
tina—was a lusty Abruzzese Italian. Their
father, Gabriele, after fighting the Austrians with
pen and sword, became a professor of Italian
literature in England. He was clever, eccentrio,
and died at 71.
The maternal grandfather of the Rossettis was
an Italian man of letters who settled in England.
Their mother had literary tastes, and died at 85.
Maria Rossetti, born to a father 43 and. mother
25, was a brilliant, ‘ peculiar ’ woman who wrote
an introduction to Dante, and died at 49, un-
married.
Dante Gabriel, one year younger, remarkable
both as poet and painter, married at 32 a delicate,
imaginative milliner’s assistant, daughter of a
Sheffield cutler, was father next year of a still-
born child (his wife dying shortly after), and died
at 54.
William Michael, one year younger, in his
prime a very sound (not brilliant) critic, deficient
in the imaginative power of the others, reproduc-
ing the traits rather of his mother than of his
father, married in 1874, when 45, Lucy Madox
Brown, daughter of painter Ford Madox Brown
and author of a dull life of Mrs. Shelley.
Christina, one year younger, remarkable as a
poet, died at 64, unmarried.
In several aspects the third Rossetti generation
thus shows unmistakeable physical decadence,
accompanied by superior mental achievement.
• * . * •
Judged by their completed work, Dante Gabriel
is most notable of the Rossettis. His poems
would suffice to make him famous in the mental
history of the century, and as painter he almost
or quite equalled his results as poe*. Yet the
poet was greater than his poems, the painter than
his pictures. Nothing of his work, splendid as it
is in both his spheres of Art, so impressed his
friends as he himself impressed them. His most
brilliant performance seemed inadequate to his
more brilliant promise. And his brother, in edit-
ing his poems after his death, significantly placed
as conclusion and climax this couplet—
Who shall say what is said in me,
With all that I might have been dead in me f
» * * »
Dante Gabriel Rossetti had the temperament of
genius, but not its intensity : he was a furnace
lacking fire. In his youth, eye and voice and
contagious enthusiasm made his words alive : his
writings are mainly dead matter. There flashed
continually before him ‘ the light that never was
on sea or land,’and hardly could he succeed in
imaging one pale reflection upon paper. For want
of a few score red corpuscles, a volt or two of
nerve-force, a dozen quick throbs of vitality, this
first-rate man has left only a second-rate repu-
tation.
From two brain-fagged parents, as from two
fresh-brained parents, genius cannot spring. Had
Frances Polidori, the mother of the Rossettis,
been a buxom, uncultured country lass, or even
had their father been fifteen years younger, Dante
Gabriel might have rivalled Shakespeare. As it
is, he has fallen below Swinburne. But Swin-
burne’s father was a sailor. (Pity his mother was
bo healthy.)
[lf you would be a genius, choose a sailor for
your father, or a clergyman. Genius in the last
resort is simply vis vitas, animal heat, applied to
the right sort of brain : and sailors and clergy-
men, with comparatively torpid brains, have
bodies strong in vitality. It is static vitality,
which you can transmute into dynamic with
Nature’s approval, for Nature sleeps through the
night of one generation to wake up fresh and
lively in the morning of the next. That is why
(.ergymen’s sons—from Horatio Nelson to Stephen
Crane—are so full of energy : their brains have
just woke up.]
Besides the indirect evidence of his poems,
there is direot evidence of this lack of vitality in
Dante Rossetti. He himself said that at school
he was deficient in youth and physical courage,
and disinclined to take part in boyish games or
quarrels— ‘ not without generous impulse, but in
the main selfish of nature and reclusive in habit of
life.’ So Joan of Are, in her pathetic defence,
said that as a young girl, when her companions
were amusing themselves, ‘ I have neither sung
nor danced, but have made nosegays for the Holy
Virgin of Domremy.’ Later, Rossetti knew him-
self for a brooding, lonely, phantasy-swayed soul.
He is, he says in a sonnet addressed to his father,
of those that haunt
The vale of magical dark mysteries.
• * * »
Though they were separated by four centuries,
Joan of Arc was hardly more of a fleshly mystic
than Dante Rossetti. He was a curious throw-
back to medisevalism— ‘ by religious bias of
nature a Middle-Ages monk,’ says Hall Caine,
who knew him well; ‘superstitious in grain,’
says bis brother, ‘and anti-scientific to the
marrow.’ To steep one’s-self in Rossetti gives
precisely the feeling of going to church—not
the crude, ugly, Protestant church with the
serried pews and the bare walls, and the
business expectancy of the collection ; but a sen-
suous Catholic church, with twilight and tapers,
and old women kneeling in alcoves, and continual
faint music, and a slow mass intoning. Or at
Holyrood there are rooms in which an imaginative
person can linger behind the ruck of tourists, and
smell the musty-sweet odors of the tapestry, and
people the tarnished armor, and start at the
shadowed blood-stain from the orimson win-
dow, and shiver as Rizzio’s awful shriek
seems echoed along the corridors, and be called
to order by a crusty cicerone impatient of strag-
glers ; yet get far less value for his time and money
than if he had invested them in a copy of Ros-
setti’s poems—which, by the way, were not pur-
chaseable from any Sydney bookseller when his
brother was here—so little demand is there for
them, or so much, or so unmediseval are the book-
sellers.
* * * *
* Fleshly mystic ’ is, of course, a pleonastic
phrase, since all mystics are fleshly—as witness
the pains it costs them to subdue the flesh. St.
Antony may triumph over a score of naked
temptations, but only St. Antony and his
kindred are ever bothered with a score of naked
temptations. If religious ecstasy be the flower,
suppressed sex is the root.
Yet both ‘fleshly ’ and ‘ mystic’ are needed to
describe Rossetti; for in his youth he was more
mystio, in elder life more fleshly. Mother and
father blended almost equally in bin ; but, as he
lived, the more sober and English character of his
mother seemed to supplant, to some extent, the
strange Italian moods of his father. His earliest
work is his most mystical work : in many of the
‘ House of Life’ sonnets /which, on the whole,
represented his maturity, as ‘ The Blessed
Damozel ’ represented his youth) there is no trace
of the medisevalism attributed to him.
The fleshly side of Rossetti is little spoken of,
but it dominated all his days and ways. That
is why Robert Buchanan’s attack hit him so
hard : he felt it true in essence, though not in ex-
pression or inference. In‘Jenny’ he hints that
he sowed sex-oats—to reap, as he did reap, sore
eyes and melancholy.
• • • •
It seems decided nowadays that ‘The Quar-
terly ’ did not kill Keats, so D. G. Rossetti
remains the single authentic example of an
author slain by a review in four acts —insomnia,
chloral, paralysis, coffin. When Rossetti was on
his deathbed it apparently repented Buchanan of
what he had done, and he apologised and recanted
in the preface to ‘ God and the Man.’ Too late :
Rossetti died with half his music in him.
Robert Buchanan has labored much and credit-
ably in literature, yet all that he has done doubt-
fully suffices to blot out his crime of poet-murder.
For he killed Rossetti’s spirit as well as his body.
Rossetti was pre-eminently fitted to proclaim the
gospel of sensuous beauty refined to the pitch of
sublimity, and after his motives and character had
been so grossly and ignorantly vilified in ‘The
Fleshly School of Poetry ’ he never dared to give
his inspiration play. He smothered his sexuality
instead of putting it into his work—which was bad
both for toe man and the work.
Robert Buchanan passes for enlightened—but
can a Scotchman ever eradicate the hereditary
germ of Calvinism ? In literature and art he is
himself the strongest supporter of the theory that
he always makes his bride wait while he asks a
blessing : he has eternally the air of gazing at the
nude through his fingers, with half-averted eyes.
Anyhow, Buchanan used to be a jealous, ill-
conditioned fellow. When he quarrelled with
Labouchere, and was crushed by the might
of that terrible alliteration —‘He came to me a
hungry and scrofulous Scotchman. I gave him
food for his 6elly, and sulphur for his 6aek ’ —he
was an Ishmael in the community of authors.
Not purity, but envy, seemed the motive of his
attack on Rossetti. Whatever the motive, the
effeot was cruel.
* • * •
Rossetti should have been true to himself. He
should have accepted exile as Byron and Shelley
accepted exile, because they would not tether art
and life to hypocritical conventions. He chose to
remain and let the canker eat into his soul, to
brood over thwarted aims, and to conform his
passionate artistic impulses to the moral standard
of the middle-classes of England—of England,
where you find Bibles in hotel bedrooms and fifty
thousand women nightly tramping London pave-
ments. 5
It was partly, of course, lack of energy and lack
of commissions which made Rossetti a painter of
women’s beads, and left ‘ Dante’s Dream ’ his only
large completed picture. But if he had dared he
would have painted women in ‘ the altogether.’
Having sacrificed the undraped full-length in
deference to Galvinistic cant and Puritan preju-
dice, he laboured continually at faces hardly sur-
passed for character and colouring. He was par-
ticularly amorous of a long, slender throat —the
‘bird’s strained throat,’ or ‘neck’s inclining
flower-stem,’ as he phrases it. Considering his
temperament and his spoilt career, Rossetti has
left a wonderful quantity of good work in both
painting and poetry. And yet, as compared with
himself, all his and pictures were like im-
pressions in a copying-book—some strong, some
faint, but none so vivid as the original.
• • * •
NordfU says Rossetti was a degenerate, and
Nordau is right. To degeneracy we owe all that
is best in every field of artistic accomplishment.
From degeneracy—that is, from a departure
from the plane of sound physical health most
advantageous to the perpetuity of the race
—springs everything that most beautifully em-
broiders the coarse stuff of human existence.
Just as women carry children with nervous ten-
sion and trouble (so that ‘ every child means a
lost tooth,’ in the popular phrase), men and
women carry within them books and paintings
and statues and music at the cost of neurosis
corresponding to the difficulty of birth. ‘ When
I was working on the telegraph-line in Maori-
land,’ says Henry Lawson, ‘ I ate well, and slept
well, and felt well—but I could write nothing.
When my health goes, I get ideas.’ Leslie
Stephen was quioe wrong when he said the
highest poetry is the product of a thoroughly
healthy mind. The highest poetry is only
produced at a high cost of nervous energy—
that is to say, at the cost of degeneracy, tempo-
rary or permanent. Rossetti himself, to whom
(at all events in later years) a fine poem meant
utter physical prostration, has finely phrased the
truth—
By thine own tears thy song must tears beget,
O Singer ! Magic mirror thou hast none
Except thy manifest heart; and save thine own
Anguish or ardour, else no amulet.
Cisterned in Pride, verse is the feathery jet
Of soulless air-flung fountains ; nay, more dry
Than the Dead Sea for throats that thirst and sigh,
That song o’er which no singer’s lids grew wet.
The Song-god—He the Sun-god—is no slave
Of thine: thy Hunter he, who for thy soul
Fledges his shaft: to no august control
Of thy skilled hand his quivered store he gave :
But if thy lips’ loud cry leap to his smart,
The inspir’d recoil shall pierce thy brother’s heart.
And when Sydney Smith satirised Rogers’ slow
composition—‘ When Rogers produces a couplet
he goes to bed, and straw is laid down, and the
answer to enquiries is that Mr. Rogers is doing as
well as can be expected ’—he might really have
been paying Rogers a very high compliment.
• * * »
Rossetti’s medisevalism, in putting him out of
the modern sphere, puts him also below it. From
the complexity of modern aims and ideas we look
down to his fantastic but simple weavings and
embodiments as to some child’s play with dolls
and colored wools. It is interesting, even fascin-
ating : we dimly comprehend how real it is to the
child ; but it can never be real for us. It is
always a little quaint and childish and non-
existent.
Thus Rossetti’s was essentially a narrow field.
He took interest in few things keenly, and lacked,
as a rule, the power of inspired expression—not
brilliant expression, that is, but forcible-with-
thought expression. However clearly he imaged
—and conceivably his world of marvels was to
him very vivid —he rarely attained to express
anything like the picture he saw. That is, he
pictured externals admirably, but he failed to
communicate the spirit, the message of the scene
as he felt it.
There is consequently a certain aloofness, even
deadness, in nearly all Rossetti’s work. To re-
vert to a previous metaphor, a stranger in
Paris goes O-how-gratefully from the glare and
clamor of the Halles into the obscurity and quiet
of the church of St. Eustache. So soothing is it,
so refreshing, to sit while the strained nerves re-
lax and the thoughts recline on the sensuous
adjuncts of the place as on a mental couch.
But after a while the gloom oppresses, the
heavy atmosphere is breathed with difficulty.
With as great relief as you entered you pass out
again into the light and bustle. How sweet it is
to breathe fresh air ! how good to see the sun !
And, gazing at the turmoil of the street, you
reflect that after all, however crude, however
sordid, this is Life : the peace within the church
is the peace of mental death.
• » * *
Rossetti needed the woman-stimulus to wake
him to his best. He adored Danta largely because
Dante adored Beatrice. Like many others, he
gloated on Beatrice at second - hand. In his
brother’s edition o." his poems ‘Dante at Verona’
—without Beatrice—is followed by ‘ A Last Con-
fession ’ —a tale of murder for love cf a woman.
The first is one of Rossetti’s poorest poems: the
second one of his finest.
Take it cerebrally : so many nerve-cells, so
much electricity. Talk of Dante (without
Beatrice) and you put so many Rossetti cells in
connection, and release so much thought-lightning.
Bring in the woman, and your flash grows the
more vivid as fresh cells, highly-charged, add
their strength to the battery.
Rossetti’s most alive poetry is in his sonnets,
and the most alive of his sonnets had for sub-
ject or inspiration a woman—his wife. What
he wrote of her—or, to a leaser extent, of
women generally—he felt, and it shows the
feeling: much of the rest of his work reads
literary-exercisisb, as if the writer only half be-
lieved it. Generally speaking, Rossetti is grace-
ful without being tender, interesting without being
forcible, clever without being impressive. All
requisites for a poet he has in greater or less
degree—except the Breath of Life.
So throughout his work Rossetti reflected more
than he originated—was mirror rather than
source. Genius creates ideas as well as form :
talent generally stops at the form. There is sur-
prisingly little illumination in Rossetti’s work,
considering its volume : nearly always he is con-
tent to shuffle the old cards with a new and mar-
vellous dexterity.
• • • •
Rossetti’s phrasing counts for a great deal,
but the phrase is not the highest fruit of poetry.
He labored his words so much that he often
missed a possible message—polished caskets when
he should have been cutting gems. He used to go
and read romances of chivalry at the British
Museum, in order to find ‘stunning words for
poetry.’ The greatest poems could hardly be
written by a man so self-conscious, so deliberate.
Every writer strives to find a suitable phrase-
mate for his thought; but the French system does
not bring the best results, nor should the lady
take the initiative. ‘ Will you marry me ? ’ should
be said, not by phrase to thought, but by thought
to phrase.
Rossetti knew this well enough. ' Funda-
mental brain-work,’ he said, was the main
quality in a sonnet. Yet fundamental brain-
work was the very quality Rossetti laoked.
For pomp of sound and luxury of language his
sonnets are unrivalled ; but many are weak in
thought, and some weak in style and tawdry
with artifice. W. M. Rossetti has always shirked
criticising his brother’s work on the ground
that kin-comments are bound to be unsatisfactory.
As be had better taste, if less rhetoric, than Dante
Gabriel, one suspects another reason was that he
would have needed to show his love in Lordly
fashion, by chastening his brother vigorously.
• • • *
For, after all, measured by the highest standard,
Dante Rossetti’s conquests, glories, triumphs,
spoils of color and verbiage—positively mag-
nificent—shrink to comparatively little poetio
measure. Many of his poems are but corpses,
decked with flowers and swathed in odorous
cerements, yet white and chill upon their carven
bier. And with even the best of them comes
always a smell of the lamp—a censer-smell, if
you will—but not the smell of morning aiid
sweet earth. Rossetti was a literary Titan,
who piled phrase-Ossa upon Pelion, yet never
quite attained to scale Olympus. His poems
are a vast mausoleum glittering with gold
and gorgeous with fantastic decoration; and at
the centre . . . past all the silken corridors and
ivoried chambers ... a little ashes.
SONNET FOR A VENETIAN PASTORAL.
BY GIORGIONE. (IN THE ICUVRE.)
Water, for anguish of the solstice :—nay,
But dip the vessel slowly,—nay, but lean
And hark how at its verge the wave sighs in
Reluctant. Hush ! beyond all depth away
The heat lies silent at the brink of day:
Now the hand trails upon the viol-string
That sobs, and the brown faces cease to sing,
Sad with the whole of pleasure. Whither stray
Her eyes now, from whose mouth the slim pipes creep
And leave it pouting, while the shadowed grass
Is cool against her naked side ? Let be
Say nothing now unto her lest she weep,
Nor name this ever. Be it as it was,—
Life touching lips with Immortality.
Dante Gabriel Rosutli


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. VV. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W."
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne'B Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly' and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, M.yers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
mm
&
\ .\
*
PERFECT MANHOOD
Health strengths Vigor
TO A RIPE OLD ACE.
Weakness & Disease of Man
(Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel
a benefit every day ; soon know yourself a
king among men in body, mind and heart.
Every’ obstacle to a happy life removed.
Nerve force, will, energy, brain power, when
failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strength-
ened and developed.
'offerers from overwork, ill-health, re-
gain your vigor! Don’t despair, even if in
the last stages. Don’t be disheartened if
quacks have robbed you. Let us show you
medical science and business honor still
exist.
The President of the Institute is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New
York Scientific Investigation Society with
their gold medals and orders of merit, and
holds letters of congratulation for the suc-
cess of his scientific discoveries from the lead-
ing practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring medical treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published —Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescrip-
tions, &c., sent free on receipt of address.
A dress the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON Sc CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11a FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters ot thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful patients, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
TIQUOR
I HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness audits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
John Durant’s SURE CURE
CAPSULES
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4 8 Box 854 GiP 0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Medic?!.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The hlood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, be will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those who Wish to Marry.
Mumford's Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
VV ii positively restore you to health amt vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm" en-
ricliiner the blood, and giving- strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of tlie greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, 1 wish 1. had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case : with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
COHO'S
j.SSfc wCE °f Ul f 6.‘,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In eases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rmoRQpyNE
fife#.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR.
Fee, 21/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
LEONARD,
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
'ONiNNioaa
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS,
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
specifics, <stc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Hommopathic Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing
Vigor in young and old men. All letters sent seared.
Address--Pr. IRVING CO., cgmerMj^riter_and_Bhgh_Streets : _Sydney_____ |
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Eiizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOM9,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or,- if you
reside at a distance, you can.sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Haying a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure of Nervousness.
Are yon nervously anxious about
your condition 1 This can he eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stu' ted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 20 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr,
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
29 York Street, Sydney.
BOX 920.
i-jStjp
Francisco, U.S.A., or W.
Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
“Dr. PIERCES
Galvanic Chain Belt.”
A perfect Electric Body-Battery
for curing all Diseases. It im-
parts vigor and strength where
medicines fail. “Pamphlet
No. 2” contains full information.
Write for it, enclosing 2d. in
stamps. Address: MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San
H. SOUL & CO., 158 and 268
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■***of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address —
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MORMON ELDERS.
SPECIFIC for the recovery of HEALTH,
STRENGTH and VIGOR. Price and par-
ticulars sent free (sealed).
HARVARD AGENCY,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
Dr. FREEMAN.
%
• '
. ■
r S=r=
Yodog Wet),
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Hail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living- away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add. golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1369.


J
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
Vi
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Tattersall’s Great Dlstritoution
—Or THi —
31 illbaiik Estate. Junee,
~. -a;:. Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date.
KS.W.
116.900 Shires a: £1 Zaci
Ist Prise—Millbatnk Homestead. 2013 sores. Junee ...
2nd „ Empire Hotel. Tetnora
3rd „ A.hwn Hotel, Cootaunundra
•4th ~ Lorge Premises adjoining Albion Hold, including
Assembly Hall. etc.
s:h ~ 25*6 Acres L&nd at Junee (Racecourse)
6th ~ Union Club Hotel. Junee
valued at £10.065
valued at
valued at
8.100
8.000
valued at 4.000
valued at 4,000
valued at 3.550
sui 100 other Prizes, rangtr-g from £3150 down to £oo.
Lei M rer'Sii c<
£3OO p..v
480 p.a.
150 p-s.
20? p.a.
Shouki the Distribution fill. the Draper of tte F:rs: Prse will have the option of taking the Homestead. -
Cash equivalent, of £1 *v> F r fall partteulsrs. see Pre:wvt«s.
ADELAIDE C. Mav 5.
W
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Tattersall s Second Distribution
City ai)d SGbCirbai)
Freehold - Prop€rti€S.
Prize. - Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Hoad. and Large I welliug-iL use. Tata *
Woollahra... ... ... £5.500
Cnd Pnze. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses.
Cleveland-street ... ... . £5,000
11- Cktex Prises naciii trom £1,501 dc»wii b» £9C».
Ft* J «m mpwit w Frvfjftmx*.
MAITLAND C.
June 21.
3.0.000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTEESJLLL.
P»cAS£ ilio? ~*e
jJktvs in :*>e sir*
Xazae
X
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts Stiitcd
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
]nthony Hordern&s ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
; in curing affections of the Throat
) and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
S Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
/ ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
flo [)ot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
"SW BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, inBolb Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
T
Madame Rodney,
HE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consult ed either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
The Pickering Steam Engine Governor.
iHUTTES “KORTING’S” Boiler Feed INJECTORS.
dASON’S REDUCING VALVES, for Steam and
jUDLOW GATE VALVES, for Steam and Water.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P- GREGORY AND CO.,
Eneineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
LOU BOURKTC STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
fy Send for prices and particulars
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books ;2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11 a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery ; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
celebrated throughout Australia as a marvel of quality,
symmetry, and cheapness. A pair can be obtained
for 10/6 (and 1/- postage), in any size or shape, black
or tan, with broad or narrow toe.
THEY WEAR WELL and are comfortable,
suitable alike for town or country wear.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Comer GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
A Skin of Beauty is said to be a Joy for Ever-
THEN WE RECOMMEND :
CLAYTON’S ALABASTER CREAM for the Complexion, to render the already
beautiful more so ; 2s. 6d. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, at 6d. per tin, will, if used in pastry, &c.,
aid digestion and so tend to retain beauty.
BERTRAND CO.’S CHOICE ESSENCES for the Ballroom, at 2s. 6d. per
bottle, emit a pleasing, lasting, and beautiful aroma.
Dr. THOMPSON’S COUGH LINCTUS, Is., and Dr. PETTIFER’S RE-
CARBONATED FLUID MAGNESIA, Bd. and Is. 6d., are both elegant
preparations.
Dr. JONES’ CORN CURE, Is. per bottle, removes excrescences, and causes
one to have beautiful feet.
SEND TO US FOR ALL YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
Prescriptions faithfully Compounded at Moderate Prices.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., M’sP-S.,
ISO & 260 Pitt-atreet, Sydney, and
CHURCH STREET, PARRAMATTA.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird's Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcSSoo’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
sat Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms. ■»
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A. F*. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Every ""V7 - ariety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
car SPECIAL VALUE FOR GASH. -S3
Vafgsdrious Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN ACADEME.
My life is housed within grey walls of gloom
That I built high around it in past days ;
A spider-web is woven in a maze
About my heart, as round a rose in bloom.
Yet through the curtained windows of this room
Falls a soft flood of twilight-tinted rays ;
Through the closed door a dream of music strays
And night is languid with a bland perfume.
’Tis in my heart to mingle with the throng
Of dancers, swaying to their trodden rhyme ;
To drink of wine ; to join in jest or song
And the delicious riot of all time—
The flush of kisses, and delirious sighs
Of women, and the passion of their eyes.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
SUNT LACHRYMAE RERUM.
Her hair wa's golden, curling wilfully ;
Her form was modelled most deliciously,
Well-poised and delicately garmented ;
Dainty from russet toe to saucy head —
Subtly alluring. Thus it seemed to me.
The smiling autumn sun sank brilliantly
In gleaming grandeur, exquisite to see.
I did not watch the cloud-flecks overhead —
Her hair was golden.
And after sunset came the moon, and she
(The moon) shone duly on our Arcady ;
And Pan had chuckled—only Pan is dead.
Ah, Love ! the cups we quaffed, the things we
said !
But now —I sit in ashes, wearily :
Her hair was golden !
E. MORTON.
BIRTH AND DEATH
Sadly wailing and crying,
Each soul of man is born ;
Shall we also, at our dying,
Go out with a cry forlorn ?
Nay ! weeping ’mid others’ mirth, we shall laugh
when others mourn.
Weep, O child, foreseeing
The struggle and stress of life ;
Sing, O man, when fleeing
From all the clamor and strife ;
Welcome Death as a friend, truer than brother
or wife.
Why should we yearn for Heaven
When weary of this sad Earth ?
Go we, with souls unshriven,
Where neither is grief nor mirth,
Excess of gloom or glory, nor second death or
birth.
Seek we no realm of darkness,
Nor land surpassing bright,
To stretch in staring starkness
Or soar in wild delight:
But a place of easeful silence, that knows nor day
nor night.
Sleeping and never waking
To toil of hand or brain ;
Never a new dawn breaking
To usher trouble or pain :
Never a priest to tell us —“ Ye must be born
again ! ”
Boon of loving and living,
Joy of action and thought,
Earning, spending and giving—
What are they? Less than nought.
What is the bliss of being to the bliss of being not?
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
TO-DAY.
Hear me now ! For Time is flying,
And the beating of his wings
Drowns the vows of love undying,
Dims the light where Memory clings ;
All the saddest songs of sorrow
Are the dirges of delay,
And our hearts may lose to-morrow
What our hands may hold to-day !
When a green grave by the river
Claims the last of love and you,
And Death’s hand has dried for ever
All our wreaths of rose and rue ;
When above your silent sleeping
Pitying pine-boughs moan and toss.
And the moonbeams, pale with weeping,
Fling their snow-white arms across ;
When the one star that was nearest
Dims and dies a world away,
How am I to tell you, dearest,
What you will not hear to-day ?
GLENROWAN.
HORSE-BELLS.
I love to lie and listen to the horse-bells’ merry
sound,
When the cattle are in camp, and we out-stretched
upon the ground ;
There is music in the horse-bells, and I love to
hear their song,
As they join in happy chorus—
Tinkle 1 Tonkle ! Tankle ! Tong !
They tonkle through the brigalow ; they tankle
near the swamp;
They tinkle on the ridges, and they wrangle round
the camp;
There’s little Fairy’s thimble-bell, and Billy s bull-
frog strong,
And big and little blend in
Tinkle 1 Tonkle! Tankle! Tong!
The great moon glares above ; in camp the cattle
rest content;
It is a pleasure just to live, as with the wattle
scent • ,
The soft breeze brings the music of the horse-bells
merry song,
Soothing ever and repeating
Tinkle ! Tonkle I Tankle ! Tong !
W.A.
B.D.G.


Australia!) f^(it(ial
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which
Established 1849.
Prov/idcot Society.
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY' YEAR !
Directors :-The Hon.'SirJ. 1\ ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A.. Chairman : JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
: * TOSEPH ABBOTT. Esq.; THUS. LITTLEJOHN. Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
r>r..N,lAAllN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Exceed Thirteen MiUions Sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Y'ear 1595 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : B*7 HITT STREE T, SYDN E Y.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL
IF YOU ARE COMING TO SYDNEY FOR EASTER
HOLIDAYS OR AGRICULTURAL SHOW YOU WILL
DO BEST BY RESIDING AT THE AUSTRALIA.
FIRST
OF AUSTRALASIA’S HOTELS.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office: is most conveniently situated as regards
Theatres, Banks, Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room at every hour
of the day and night—advantages which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12/6 PER day upwards, inclusive of
ALL MEALS AND ATTENDANCE.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Maxa&er, CastJereagh-st., Sydnev.
AUSTRALIA.
RRYANT « MAY’S WAX V€STAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
STEALIAN BRANDY
(Joshua Bros. “Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, axd STIMULATING,
is?' Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. “EH
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUITa & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
EOA3D
Locomotives
FOR
Hea” Haalate.
STEAM
WWll «»4 t AUii «
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AXD
Electric- Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Eallw&v
Loco hi o t i res,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, £e. Jtc.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SY&XEY.
WALTER M. XOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE" OIL ENGINE.
fhe [ondon * Melbourne Tailoring Jo.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR STOCK
is selected fnxn the
Leading London Houses.
CALL : r PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Pfrwt Fit GtumtHterd.
We Buy for Cash
and <f t h r er C iiou£S* ap * r
•• tut W
50$.
50s.
iss.
For Exaxupie :
s::ex TTcrsced Sac Sr.ts
2 Sac Scics --- --- ... ...
:h or Test :: Z-g'.ard ...
S. M. BAI'MASCHE. Manager.
UN EQUALLED
PO*
QUALITY
ASP
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO.
IFIIRE -A. IST ID MAEIUE.
and MARI N K IN SI RANCTS_ Etfected on Every Description of Projvrt y at l.ow.
r
Current Ratos. WOOL INSURED from Sheep's Rack to London.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVE
ELOOO.MU
* LTV o*o
Agencies in all tie Principal Towns of New South Wales
NEW c OUTH WALES BRANCH 81 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
S. HAGUE SMITH. Manager. J. A. MIN NETT, fnrdllft Manager.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE set one guinea.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
teeth
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
lienlislry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the’ best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
9S Zing Street, Sydney, 2 doors from P:tt-s + -.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
United loSOrarxe Co.
(LIMITED).
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£.500,000.
Fire Insurances on ~a U, c las^
Buildings, Stocks, Jr umi-
ture, etc. Rents also insu red .
Marine Risks °? J^ 001 ’ Merchandise Hulls
- of \ essels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Hates eery Hotr.
THOMAS M.
TIXLEY, Manager.
Federal Palace
HOTEL.
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
fzrm i
<
Even Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible v arietv of rooms to
choose from. Beds. 2-to 10 - per' nigbt. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders. 30 -to £3 3s. per week
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE with ax
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Lift St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hox. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Jlnililiiiy*. 4/C Collinx Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert. A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
KATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
*3" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under tbe MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making =£97.763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Sates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
-THE
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895
Policies Issued, 71.-373, assuring £-22.310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, IS94
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A.. General Manager.
s\ Accident
Ocean
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, lyphoid. Diphtheria. etc
Austrai .» Branch: W. M'Millax, M.P.. A. W.
J.P., D.r«aora. A<l la»le E. H. Peach kt. L. A-Je-sSmp!
Ihr-ctor. Meibo i •>« IX Clvnk Bri-bine T. Wilmt!
J J- Au.es, Manager for Aa-srOia,
Write f .r I’iosp.ctuv
131 Pitt Sx. SYDNEY.
"W". C- ELDEIDGE & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET. S YDNEY
(Oj«f. Ceulenaia Hal %
Cixulry Ordeut by }v*i from mil Ike cUouiex promptly
mutinied Us.
DIXSON & SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yankee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a tune. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that erf the preceding year.
CooqGeror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
PixSofy’s New CooqGeror.
To man} smokers an improvement on the old bv reason of its aroma
and flavor.
Cbanjpioi) Aronjatic.
Long and Lough Cut. Navy Cut. Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
PARK TWISTS TTnele Bam. Sir Roger. Centennial. EaHv Bird, etc
DARK PLUG Dollar. Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS Golden Plum. Twin Star Curls. Cloth erf Gold.
V Vl VUN.I K Of PRIORS AND SHOW CARLS SENT POST FREE.
Imports ol Pip#s and Tolxiocouists Wins in Ghrest and Novest Varieties.
VOKWS WK
CIGARETTES.
Mooopolt RotbStbilds. La Rosioa. Flor d e Visto Cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 897.
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1897.
Price, 6d.
r cA/MrUs
.
( i w '"‘ r ' VTlo
Mr. GORDON argued at some length that there
ought to be a fair adjustment of the waters for
irrigation purposes.
Sir EDW ARD BRADDON: Kow are you going
to divide them?
} % fullfrtui surest s Ihuf %}i llnznjplofd _ ..
of hotff Victoria ancLN s W- bp %d to uforh, b ominfyup tljp- Ijdf bzlmcf fa-dacl) Colony ,
aC'lMterivojes " Hus id cnild bM Scindskiftriny and Scrub -Cuttittf hollovJ .
fWtwfto it awl grayer - Pjoslfy Kami l-
UP- COUNTRY ?ARSUN - Mij food, friend, Cat)
Linu. tyvC' a drink of Hfcfter .fo flus
J bwyr anei nje-1 are-
alnjosP pe-risljnji} -"
CocKy - Mtt] joUttsturt! Ju£
as sooij a 5 fljat 'ere ‘0
uou.rs Conjes off Jjt present toy
HatjH/jare borjedrcj*
(fraitjmesthp S'Lfor
' ShcUcationfo? a* 1
m^.y
jaftotj
rt llli N'cc KiUiti\ HiCL-tchi
('ornih' off W ! lei's e ,
L ohr ole occ O; f/ ;
/to yr u> lT ■
“ Take notice that, in pursuance of the provisions of the ‘ Land and
Income-tax Assessment Act of 1895/ the assessment against you in respec*
of the Income-tax for the year 1896, appearing in the Assessment books, has
been altered by increasing the same by the sum of £ : : by reason of the
income for the year 1896 being in excess of the income for the year 1895,
the basis upon which the Assessment for the year 1896 was made, ana
that you are hereby required to pay the said sum on or before the 24th day
of April, 1897."
THE EREETRADE GARROTTERS.
r f
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 £
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 b o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
whifh you may pay try Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to le addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
1 iter ary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Ap jhibald.
• Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
\he publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
zrticle, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
my other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence " column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa.—lf. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith <Ss Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d, added foi• postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
7%e .
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1897.
Humiliation and Prayer.
The drought has settled down heavily on
New South Wales in this autumn of 1897,
and, as usual, the Gon-fearing Ministry has
prescribed a day of humiliation and prayer
for rain. And the country—or, rather, a
very small part of it—has prayed in a small,
dispirited fashion, as one who has lost faith,
and never had any faith worth speaking of to
lose. Also, it has humiliated in moderation,
with its best clothes and its bell-topper on,
and its spotless silk umbrella in its hand.
In the old days, when men were profoundly
ignorant, and therefore full of faith and not
ashamed of their creed, they did such things
openly, so that they might induce others to
follow their example. If they made a special
appeal to heaven for deliverance from
drought or pestilence, or from an over-
whelming enemy, they walked in procession
in the streets, barefooted, scant of clothing,
with ashes and hair shirts, and tears and
banners and hysterics; and prostrated them-
selves in the dust, and publicly acknowledged
the God whom they believed in so profoundly
that they could wallow before Him without
feeling absolutely ridiculous. If humiliation
could bring rain, it probably came in those
days. Now, the rain, as a rule, doesn’t
come—possibly because the humiliation is
such a pathetic fraud and failure. The modern
Christian—-most of all the modern Protestant
Christian, for the Roman Catholic still dares
to kneel in public and kiss the Cardinal’s
ring is inwardly ashamed of the faith
which he alleges is in him. He professes
to have the same belief as people had
in olden times, but though he says that he
humiliates for rain he dare not do it openly,
lest the small boy in the street should tell
him to go and get his hair cut. His hope of
a heaven which is eternal is not strong
enough to run the gauntlet of the transient
hoodlum on earth. And he dare not even
humiliate to any extent indoors with his
fellow-believers, lest the matter should get
into the papers, or lest his fellow-believers
should laugh at him. or lest he should laugh
at himself. The Bulletin isn’t here argu-
ing the question whether faith, if there is
enough of it, will bring down rain or not.
The matter at issue for the moment is that
the alleged Christian, except- in a few pro-
foundly illiterate countries, hasn’t got the
faith, and is never likely to have it again.
* 9 * *
The theory of modern religion is that the
whole duration of this life—of everybody’s
life all combined—is so infinitesimal a speck
against the vastness of the life to come, that
nothing in this earth matters except faith.
The practice of modern life is that faith,
unless carefully concealed, is semi-lunacy and
hysteria. Therefore, if the shiny, bell-
toppered magnate who runs a wealthy bank
was found humiliating for rain, he would as-
suredly be sacked by the board. Also if the
boss of any well-established insurance office
in a large way of business became divinely
endowed with powers of prophecy, he would
certainly lose his appointment, unless he con-
cealed his gift very carefully indeed. Pray-
ing for rain is a survival of the old belief in
miracles. It implies that Providence runs
the world by a series of sudden jerky inter-
ferences with the customary order of things,
and the theory that an intangible influence
above sends rain by request when it isn’t
otherwise due is merely a piece of the old
belief that the said influence sends portents,
the gift of tongues, and prophetic powers,
and bestows the power of healing the sick
and raising the dead. The decently-edu-
cated Christian still professes to believe, in a
shadowy sort of fashion, that Providence
works miracles in the matter of rain ; but
when the man who heals the sick by the
laying on of hands turns up, which he does
frequently, the same believer generally de-
nounces him as an impostor. And it is worth
noting that he always proves to be an impos-
tor. As for the very occasional person who
raises the dead, he invariably proves to be
either a very bad impostor or a very shriek-
ful lunatic ; and the prophet is usually fined
55., on the information of Constable Mul-
holland, as a cheap and vulgar charlatan,
and every intelligent Christian endorses that
view of him.
* • * *
The limits of modern faith in the matter of
miracles, therefore, require a good deal of
definition. Practically they are somewhat
as follows : The Deity, who is in the habit of
governing this world by small acts of direct
interference, can bestow on anyone the
power of healing the incurable, or raising the
dead, or the gift of tongues, or of prophecy,
and used to do these things as matters of
daily occurrence. But it is so dead sure
that He does not do them now, even
in answer to the most earnest prayer,
that the subject is not worth talking
about. He can abolish sin, or put an end to
war, or bring about another deluge, or
visibly blast unbelievers with tire and brim-
stone, or make some specially chosen person
proof against death for countless centuries,
but He doesn’t. Also, He can send a
miraculous supply of rain—and does. The
sending of rain is the only miracle that
remains ; all the rest are dead and gone and
out of date and dropped into disuse. And
the trouble is that this is the one particular
miracle which cannot be proved or disproved.
Rain always comes sooner or later, with
prayer or without prayer, with much or
little faith or no faith at all. And when it
comes it is consequently impossible to prove
that it is or is not miraculous, or that this
particular rain wouldn’t have come in any
case. All the miracles which could be proved
have been abandoned as hopeless, and he
who asks for them is called either a fanatic
or a blasphemer, and he who professes to
work them is rightly designated a sham.
The raising of the dead would be a provable
miracle, for the dead don’t rise promiscu-
ously in any case, but though it is no more
difficult for Omnipotence to raise the dead
when they wouldn’t otherwise have risen
than to bring down rain when it wouldn’t
otherwise have fallen, this exhibition of
divine authority is never expected or
attempted. The striking of rocks to pro-
duce miraculous streams of water has also
gone out of fashion. So have the sacred
rivers, like Jordan on special occasions,
which cured the lame and leprous ; in fact,
every miracle that stood out clearly and
definitely and beyond mistake as such has
slumped beyond repair. Even the constant
prayer that the life of the Sovereign may be
prolonged isn’t expected to bring any answer
that can be demonstrated to be an answer ;
the most enthusiastic believer of the crowd
doesn’t profess to imagine that all the prayers
of all the churches in the British Empire
will keep Victoria alive even for another
century, brief and insignificant as a century
is. The rain miracle is absolutely the one
survival of the old faith, and why it has been
specially selected as a remnant, except by
reason of its haziness and uncertainty, no
one knows.
» « * «
Although the special interference in the
matter of rain is the one poor, weak wonder
which is alleged to have straggled down to
the present day, it is maintained, as forcibly
as ever, that all the other kinds used to
happen such a very long time ago that no
one can prove anything either for or against
their credibility. They stopped short about
the period when authentic history com-
menced, and just when there began to be
an independent record to check the state-
ments of the legendary priesthood. There
is a sharp line drawn somewhere across his-
tory ; on the far side of it everything is
believable deluges, strange fish whieb
swallowed prophets, giants who tore up lions
with their naked hands, people who walked
in furnaces and were not consumed, lepers
who were healed, corpses which came hack
to life, loaves which were constantly eaten
but were never finished, signs and wonders
and portents innumerable. On this side of
it, with one exception, lies nothing but the
ordinary grind of existence —the dull, grey
monotony of the explainable and the com-
monplace. Everything else, as soon as the
cold breath of incredulity blew upon it,
went out like the burnt candle that gutters
and vanishes into darkness. The improv-
able rain miracle has somehow straggled
across the border line and maintains its in-
congruous presence in this painfully modern
world like an old-time crusader in a recon-
structed bank, but it is the last remnant of
a faith in the supernatural which otherwise
petered out about the year 400. The church
has no belief in anything beyond it. Even
when, the other day, a cablegram announced
that an alleged Messiah had appeared in
Brazil, though the aggregate parsondom of
nearly half the earth professes to believe in
the second coming of the Messiah and His
possible arrival at any moment, not one
cleric of them all thought it worth while to
inquire if this might possibly be He. They
all believe in the second coming as a matter
of theory. They all disbelieve so utterly as
a matter of practice, that any one who calls
himself a Messiah is dismissed as an im-
postor and an impossibility simply because
he does so call himself.
* * ♦ *
The Bulletin is waiting to see parsondom
in general manifest some real faith in its own
creed. If it did manifest faith this paper
would probably disbelieve as utterly as it
does now in the clumsy theory that the In-
finite takes advice from the trivial, babel-
tongued tribes of man as to the best w-ay to
run the universe, but it would at least have
a shade more respect for the great aggregate
parson than it has at present. It is waiting
till the Church —if it really believes
that rain conies through praying-
gives up asking that one drought shall
break up, seeing that every drought breaks
up sooner or later, prayer or no prayer, and
that the effect of prayer is consequently un-
provable ; and asks instead that there be no
more drought in this arid land, and that the
desert shall become well-watered, and the
dry creeks shall run all the year round, and
the grass shall be perennially green out
where the dead men lie. It is quite as easy
for the Almighty to grant the one boon as
the other, and no boon—so the Scripture
alleges—is too large to ask, if there is only
faith enough behind it. The latter-day
materialist might not believe any the more
in the connection between rain and prayer
if the Church did this, but, if the Church
would stake its faith and its dogma on one
provable miracle, he would begin to have at
least a glimmer of belief that it had a faith
of some kind. Also, the Church professes
a belief in the virtue of humiliation, and the
world is waiting to see it humiliate. It pro-
fesses to imagine that abasement will move
the elements and alleviate a national calamity,
and the people who look on are waiting to
see a procession of pious business men do
the abasement by proceshing barefoot and in
sackcloth and ashes down the main street of
Melbourne or Sydney—or any other suitable
exhibition of the kind. The humiliation
that is expressed by wearing better clothes
and a newer and more gorgeous hat than
usual is not worth mentioning, and is wholly
bogus. As the Church doesn’t humiliate,
the only possible inference is that it has no
real faith in that nostrum. As it doesn’t
pray for any definite and convincing miracle,
the inference is that it has no belief worth
mentioning in the efficacy of prayer. And,
if it doesn’t believe in its own creed, what
does it believe in, or expect the world to
believe in 1
Map Divisions Versus Men
Mr. Ashton, M.P., Discourses on Equal State Repre-
sentation in the Federal Senate.
Dear Bulletin,— The question as to whether the small
state of Tasmania is to possess the same powers in the
Australasian Federation as the ten-times-more-populous
states of N.S. Wales and Victoria is one that will very-
soon bulk more largely in the eye of the people of Aus-
tralia than it did, for various reasons, during the recent
campaign. And as public attention becomes focussed
upon it there will probably be at least some mild surprise
occasioned by the striking affirmative unanimity which
prevails upon the point—not amongst the representatives
of the thinly-populated States, for there is no cause for
surprise in that but amongst the representatives of the
larger States, to whom the adoption of the Commonwealth
Bill’s proposals means a large sacrifice of independence. In
the U.S. Convention the delegates from the larger states
contended for proportional representation ; those from the
smaller states for equal representation. Equal represen-
tation is in the U.S. safeguarded and modified by a power
of veto being vested in the President, who stands almost
supreme as the embodiment of the popular will But
despite that safeguard, the concession asked for'by the
smaller States was made only after negotiation had'been
strained almost to breaking point. In Australia to dav
the position is so different as to suggest that w e are
much less insistent as to the rights of majorities
than the Americans were a century ago. I,?S of
having the concession forced from them as a necessary
sacrifice to expediency, nearly all the delegates of the
the States-N.S.W.-have agreed to give the
little States, even before they asked for it, all they could
possibly think of demanding. Moreover, some of the
most eminent of the delegates have elevated to the
dignity of a sacred principle a thing which history show s
clearly to have been a mere dernier restart, grudgingly
t 0 aS a l l uestlona ble expedient by people who
stood in momentary fear of hostile invas'ioi so long as
they remained disunited. And, to make matters stfll
worse, some of the delegates profess to treat the question
as a perfectly non-arguable one, and actually do treat the
people who dare to question the soundness’of the “ prin
ciple as persons whose lack of political culture prevents
their recognising that “equal representation » P Vw
tion. eßSential 0f the federal B >’ Btem as opposed to unifies*
* • »
But >r ,» „ f«W*l os.enti.l Thor* » rot „,„ „. %yt nf
consummating Australian union. One is by federating
the other by unifying the provinces. “Unification”
shortly put, means the merging of all the Australian par-
liaments into one big Central Parliament, and the conver-
sion of the various provinces into so many mere
municipalities, whose powers of self-go\ eminent would
be prescribed for them by the central parliament in the
same way as the N.S.W. municipalities to-day have their
“constitutions” made for them by the Parliament of
N.S.W. The powers and privileges of unified provinces
could be limited or destroyed by methods precisely
similar to those employed by N.S.W. Parliament when it
amends or repeals a Municipalities Act, and independent
provincial power would become in every detail a thing of
the past. “Federation' which is generally conceded to
be more suited to Australian requirements—means the
transference to the Federal Parliament of only those
matters in respect of which the people of Australia be-
lieve themselves to possess an absolute identity of in-
terest, irrespective of their place of residence, and the
retention by the “local legislatures” of absolutely
supreme and sovereign powers to deal with all questions
of legislation and administration not so transfered.
• » * * •
In this establishment of independent sovereignties—
one to deal with national matters and the other with
State or local concerns—is to be found the essential
difference between Federation and unification. An ideal
Federation, in short, may be defined as a form of union
which secures unity in national matters and perfect inde-
pendence in local matters. The more eminent of our
Federation advocates contend, however, that if a schtme
of union is to conform to true federal principles, the line
between it and unification must be much broader than
the one here drawn. Not only must the powers of the
Federal Parliament he strictiy defined and limited, but
according to them, even in the federal domain itxelf
dominant power must rent in the hands of a “ Majority
of States,” and not in those of a Majority of the People
In other words, they demand that those elements of
localism which the professed object of Federationists is
to get rid of, are to be kept alive in a form even more
dangerous to the interests of the nation than that in
which they at present exist !
• » * *
The temper of the present Convention seems to be in
favor of a substantial acceptance of the Commonwealth
Bill proposals. These are that the Lower House should
be elected on a population basis in a ratio of one member
to, say, 30,000 people (with a minimum of four represen-
tatives), while the Upper House shall consist of eight mem-
bers from each state, irrespective of its population. On
the above basis, the Lower House, on present popula-
tions, would he composed of 42 New South Welshmen,
40 Victorians, 17 South Australians, 4 Tasmanians, and 4
Westralians. The Senate will possess full powers of veto,
and, probably, full powers of amendment. Comparing
the position of the smaller Stati t in the Senate with t heir
position under a system of pro ortional representation,
as in the Lower House, it will be t?en that in the Upper
House Tasmania and West Aus: alia would have ten
times more power than their popu tion entitled them to,
and South Australia 2J times.
* * * *
The desire for “equal representation” springs, of
course, from a fear among the smaller States (according to
their prominent politicians) to trust themselves to the
tender mercies of the bigger ones. “ We comprise such
a small minority of the population,” they say, “ that we
cannot come into any scheme of union in which we might
be overwhelmed by the big majorities of the larger States.”
And the way suggested, not onlv by the small, but also by
the large, States, to get over this difficulty, is that the
majorities in the big States should allow themselves to be
“ overwhelmed ” by the minorities in the small States.
Certainly, nothing could well be simpler than this solu-
tion ; and, from the standpoint of the little States,
nothing more satisfactory. As Mr. Isaacs phrases it, the
small States “ asked for a shield, and are to be given a
sword. ”
* * * ft
The Federal Parliament, we will imagine, has been
established, and proceeds to deal with the fiscal question.
The Constitution will assuredly provide, as the Common-
wealth Bill provided, for the maintenance of pre-federa-
tion tariffs until the Federal Parliament has framed a
uniform tariff. It may be that, after Federation, the
smaller States become infected with a fear that the
uniform tariff adopted will detrimentally affect their
finances, and decide upon taking joint action against it.
The two larger States, on the other hand, remain true to
the federal spirit, and vote solid for a federal tariff. The
division in the House of Representatives show-s : For the
tariff, 82 : against, 25; majority in favor, 57. Then the
Bill goes to the Senate, and, the voting still following the
lines of State divisions, the figures are : For the tariff
Bill, lti ; against, 24 ; and the Bill which has been carried
in the Low er House by the representatives of 2£ millions
of people is thrown out in the Upper House by the repre-
sentatives of less than a quarter of the population of the
Federation ! Or, take a Colored Races Restriction Bill.
4 lctoria and N.S. Wales might vote solidly in favor of
stringent restriction, and Tasmania, W.A., and S.A.
against. In the Lower House the voting would be 82 to
25 in favor of restriction ; in the Upper House, 24 to 16
against. And the policy of Australia in relation to the
colored races of the world would be determined by the
voice of an insignificant fraction of the people, made
potent by the fact that they lived in a weak little state
and not di a hi# and powerful state —a prize political
paradox . Divorce laws, banking laws, and currency laws,
&c., all stand in the same beautiful position—liable to be
made for a whole nation by an insignificant fraction
thereof, or not made at all.
* * * *
But not only might there he combinations of small
States to effect general vetoes. The same combinations
might take place on matters of detail. Hobart, Perth,
and Adelaide might wish to be better fortified than their
resources up to date have permitted, and the representa-
tives of the provinces of which f hey are the capitals
might agree amongst themselves to secure the lion’s share
of defence expenditure. Their course is a plain one. By
24 votes to 16 in the Semite they ean veto any proposal
which has only a majority of people behind it, and keep
on vetoing and amending until the opposing majority, in
its utter helplessness, conies to its senses and concedes
w-hat the minority asks. There are those who contend
that the power r,o veto is not tantamount to a power to
legislate. The answer to that eontention may be fur-
nished by a simple illustration. Under our Constitution —
and the British no member of Parliament has a right to
propose taxation, unless his proposal be covered by a
“ message from the Crown.” The Crown is never ad-
vised by its responsible advisers to give that approval to
the proposal of a private member. The result in practice
is that all taxation proposals are made by Governments,
and the most a Legislative Assembly can do is to veto,
and keep on vetoing, until a proposal is brought forward
that meets with its approval. And yet it would hardly
be denied that the Legislative Assembly- “ legislates ” on
questions of taxation.
* » * «
Perhaps no better illustration of the dangers ahead
could he furnished than that provided by a cablegram
during the last few days, which informs us that owing to
the l .8. “ Jingo” senators being “ implacable and jealous
of the Kxecutive” they have killed the Arbitration Treaty
between the U.S. and Great Britain. The head of the
Kxecutive is the representative of the nation, and favors
peaceful arbitration taking the place of war. A majority
of the Senate, probably- representative of merely- a fraction
of the L.S. people, through “dislike” of Great Britain
and jealousy- of the Executive, prefers a continuation of
the system of arbitrament by Maxim gun. And the
minority “has it”—to use a future Federal Parliamentary
forniula. W hat would he thought of the work of the
framers of the Australian Constitution if some time in the
future a. majority of people expressed themselves in favor
of certain relations between Great Britain or some other
outside power, and they were frustrated in their object
by the representatives of a minority of people, resident
in & majority of States; If, under our Federation, there
be always perfect accord amongst the people of all the
States everything w-ill run smoothly. But if there be a
difference of opinion, then the minority of people who
live on the yellow, blue and grey portions of the map will
prevail over those w hose bad luck it is to constitute the
majority who reside on the green and white portions.
Surely-a color-blind constitution-builder would be worth
his weight in gold at the present moment.
* ♦ « »
Not only is there danger in a provision for giving a
lasmanian ten times the political power of a Cornstalk,
but unless the object lie to degrade the system of Austra-
lian union to the level of a mere League of States—with
no power, by the way, for any of them to secede —there
appears to he absolutely no necessity for it. The powers
°* « e e^era ' Parliament, it has been shown, will be
confined to questions of common interest to all Austra-
lians—questions with which it is agreed a Central Parlia-
ment may deal more effectively and satisfactorily than
could be the case if the questions were dealt with separ-
ately by distinct and independent legislatures A Federal


Supreme Court—as “ guardian of the Constitution ’’—will
prevent the Federal Parliament from infringing upon a
domain clearly defined by the Constitution Act; and
before the area of this domain can be extended the assent
of each and every state to the necessary amendment of
the Constitution will be requisite. Possessing sovereign
rights in respect of and under their own constitutions,
and parting only with powers which they themselves
affirm can be more advantageously exercised jointly than
severally, what valid reason for fear is there amongst the
people of any state who truly favor the Federation of the
Australias ?
There can be no true national unity except it be based
upon the principle of government by a majority of the
people governed, irrespective of the residence-places of
those who constitute that majority. To determine ques-
tions of national concern, after Federation, in the same
way as the question of the Convention’s meeting-place
was determined, viz., by treating the State and not the
voter as the supreme entity, is to keep alive those
elements of disunion which federalists say Federation is
to annihilate. At present a few people in any of the
Australias can do what they please, be their actions
bitterly' antagonistic to the wishes of a large majority
resident in the other provinces. Given “ equal represen-
tation of States ” in our Federal system, and a few Aus-
tralian people will still be able to act in a manner opposed
to the majority—with this important difference : They
can compel the majority to do the same thing.
* » * •
One N.S.W. delegate has said, both upon the platform
and in Convention, that the man who favors “ one man
one vote” cannot logically oppose “ one State one vote.”
A curious illustration, surely, of how even the utt.erer of
a common phrase may fail to comprehend its true mean-
ing ! In the old pre-reform days of England, there were
boroughs consisting of one elector which had the same
representation in the Parliament as large manufacturing
cities containing many thousands of voters ; and there is
a case on record where the elector of a single-vote con-
stituency, replying to an objection as to the class of
representatives he chose to select, observed that if people
didn’t hold their tongues he’d “ send a couple of sweeps
into the Commons.” This is the parallel of equal State
representation ; “ one man one vote” is its antithesis. It
is only necessary now for the States to be allowed to fix
their own franchise, and to allow senators to be chosen by
the Parliaments instead of by the people, and there will
be planted in the Constitution at its birth seeds the in-
evitable fruit of which is disruption and death. For
there will be no provision, be it remembered, for the peace-
ful secession of even a majority !
* * * •
The only true unionist is the man who approaches the
federal question from the standpoint of Australian nation-
hood, and the “ true inwardness ” of “equal representa-
tion ”isto be discovered only from that standpoint. No
one has any objection to the 100 residents of Tinpofc
Creek making their own roads and regulating their own
street traffic, nor to the thousands of city of Sydney
residents exercising the same powers. But—in the
interests of unity—there is an irresistibly obvious objec-
tion to the hundred Tinpot Creekers having an equal
power with the hundreds of thousands of Sydneyites in
the passing of a tariff for the whole province—or in the
determination of a divorce law—or in the apportionment
of defence expenditure—or in the exclusion of colored
races.
• • • •
And if, by any extraordinary process of political con-
juring, the four hundred thousand people of Sydney
could be induced to enter into such a form of “union,”
how long might it be expected to last ?
Sydney, April 2.
JAS. ASHYTON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Border-Customs Trouble.
One particularly quaint result which the Con-
vention’s financial committee arrived at, in its
desire to divide the Federal surplus among the
states in a spirit of ghastly conscientiousness,
deserves a mention all to itself. The most
notable advantage of Federation, it has always
been understood, will be the abolition of border
tariffs, and border customs-houses and customs-
officers, but the trouble about the surplus seems
in a fair way to make this illusory. For the
first five years after the Federal tariff comes
into use, and the provincial tariffs go out, and
the border-duties are done away with, it is pro-
vided that each province is to be credited with
its own customs revenue, and debited with its
own separate expenditure, and get back its own
surplus. The difficulty is to find out what is
its own customs revenue. Goods for the
Riverina district of N.S.W. will often pay duty
at Melbourne, goods for the Barrier and Wim-
mera districts at Adelaide, and so on, and if the
revenue was credited to the state in which it
was originally collected, a lot of the N.S.W.
surplus would be handed back to Victoria and
S.A., and a lot of the Victorian surplus to S.A.
also. So, for the five years during which the
surplus arrangement lasts, it is proposed
to keep the customs - houses and the cus-
toms-officers on the borders, as at present.
They will collect no duties in cash, but
they will overhaul things in the old labori-
ous way, and carefully note how much
the duty would be if they did collect it, and
credit the province which receives the goods,
and debit the province which sends them, and
go through all the old formalities and be to a
great extent the same old trouble as heretofore.
Thus if S.A. imports a ton of foreign sugar,
duty £5, it will be credited with the £5 in the
first place with a view to the ultimate distribu-
tion of the surplus ; but if it sends half-a-ton to
Broken Hill and the other half to Dimboola,
then it will be carefully debited with the £5
again, and Vic. and N.S.W. will be credited
with £2 10s. each. There will be all the ex-
pense of collecting the border customs without
any border customs revenue. This expense and
worry and foolishness are the inevitable results
of the original clumsy idea of having any
Federal surplus at all. If the Federal Govern-
ment had taken over the customs, excise, public
debts, railways, and, if necessary to balance
matters, the education system, its revenue and
expenditure would have just about equalled each
other. There would have then been no surplus
to return—consequently, there would have been
no need to keep a vast array of absolutely unpro-
fitable customs officials in the border towns.
Also, there would have been no problem of
differential railway-rates, no Inter-State Rail-
way Commission, and no unfathomable difficulty
about how to divide the cost of establishing a
uniform railway gauge. When the financial
committee decided to shirk the unification of
the debts and the railways in order to save
trouble, it brought down on itself a dozen
worse troubles as a consequence —the surplus
difficulty and the border customs difficulty
which grows out of it, and the break of gauge
problem and the differential rate worry being a
few of them. The border customs difficulty,
by the way, will be even worse under Federa-
tion than it was under provincialism. Suppos-
ing, for instance, a Melbourne man imports
some American leaf tobacco and mixes it
with some Victorian ditto to make his pecu-
liar brand of plug, and he exports some
of the plug to N.S.W. Under the old
system the duty was so much per lb. on
the whole plug. Under the new one, N.S.W.
is to be credited with the duty on that part of
the plug which was imported, but it isn’t
credited with anything on the locally-grown
portion of the plug. Therefore a complete
history of the plug has to go along with it.
And in the case of every separate article which
is made partly out of local and partly out of
dutiable foreign produce, the same wildly-im-
possible analysis must be made if the surplus
is to be conscientiously divided. Also the
border customs people must be able to decide
whether, say, a pair of pants whose original
history is lost wore made of local cloth, or of
imported cloth locally made up, or were im-
ported in a made-up state. The compromise
effected by the finance committee looked reason-
able enough till it got down to details. Now it
looks about as unpromising as the search after
the fourth dimension.
Tlie Elephant and the Pin.
Sydney Telegraph is against the cheap and
simple idea of settling deadlocks in the Federal
Parliament by the two Houses sitting and vot-
ing as one—
Because a substantial minority of the House, added to a
majority of the Senate, might be strong enough to outvote
the House majority and its Senate friends. There does
not, therefore, seem to be any more suitable means of
finality than the Referendum.
A truly remarkable reason. Of course, if dead-
locks were settled by the two Houses sitting
and voting as one, the Senate would have a
chance of winning occasionally. If it is pro-
posed to fix up some form of settlement by
which the Senate will never have a chance of
winning, and the Lower House will carry its
point every time, then there is no need for any
mode of settlement at all; the same result
will be arrived at by enacting that the Lower
House shall always carry its point over the
Senate without discussion. Also, if the Senate
is never to have its way unless when it goes
exactly the same way as the Lower House,
there is no use for any Senate. The Bulletin
is a sincere advocate of the Referendum, yet it
believes that, as the sole means of settling dis-
agreements between the two Houses, the
Referendum will never answer. A popular
vote of all Australia will mean a month or two
of hard labor and the expenditure of a good
many thousands. If it is the only means of
settling deadlocks—if the popular Chamber
must either submit to the State Chamber all
the time or else go to a national vote on every
point of difference—then it will have to submit
as a rule for the simple reason that the popular
Chamber is also the one which has to find the
money, and the staggering bill for all these
appeals to the people will be its bill. Suppos-
ing a serious feud arises between the two
Houses some beautiful results may be expected
from the system advocated by the Telegraph.
The Referendum will be the weapon of the
People’s House against the House of States.
The People’s House has to pay for it.
Therefore, the House of States could
deliberately man down the popular Chamber
by creating deadlocks on every possible
point, and forcing one appeal to the
people after another until the ruinous cost of
the process, to say nothing of the interminable
delay, would make the People’s House prefer
to knock under in all save the most extreme
cases. What is wanted is a prompt and abso-
lutely inexpensive process of settling small
differences of opinion, leaving the Referendum
as a final appeal on really important matters,
and the Norwegian system whereby the two
Houses sit and vote together to decide points of
difference is good enough in ordinary cases.
The Referendum, it is true, can settle large
matters and small ones equally well, just as the
elephant can pick up a pin if need be. But the
practical aspect of the case is that it doesn’t
pay to keep an elephant merely for the purpose
of picking up pins one at a time. All the pins
he can pick up won’t pay for the keep of the
elephant.
Two Men in a Fix.
Premier Reid’s gentle crawl-down from his un-
alterable resolve to close N. S. W. Parliament dur-
ing his absence on all-fours in front of the blessed
Throne gets him, to some extent, out of a very
tight place. Also, it should be the signal for
Opposition-leader Lyne, if he knows when to
come in out of the wet, to do the most graceful
crawl-down that he is capable of from his own
rather awkward situation. The position as
regards N.S.WVs famous back-down Premier
divides itself naturally into three parts : (1) If
Reid goes to England at all, leaving Brunker
or somebody else as Acting-Premier, and
especially if he goes at the public expense as
anticipated, he makes a ghastly fool of himself.
He laid down the law in Dibbs’s case that no
politician should go to England taking the
Premiership with him ; that no Premier should
go away whooping loosely over the face of the
globe at the public expense ; and that there
couldn’t be any such person as an Acting-Pre-
mier, and he can’t go without thereby implying
either that he is doing a grievous wrong, or
that he was lying when he said that Dibbs did
a great wrong a few years ago. (2) If Reid
goes, and lets Parliament sit in his absence
with the aspiring Carruthers, and the feeble
Brunker and Garrard and the weak,
bloodless Gould in charge of things, he may
be interrupted on the way by an intima-
tion that he is Premier no longer, and then he
will lose his salary and his position and cut a
supremely ridiculous figure into the bargain.
Reid’s own arguments against the things he
now proposes to do were so powerful that if
Lyne throws them forcibly at the Government
in his absence it is just possible that it will
crumble straight oft. (3) If Reid shuts up
Parliament in his absence, then, in addition to
his other iniquities, he will keep back the
Federal movement for probably three months,
and probably wreck it altogether by the delay,
and he will do this solely for his own selfish
ends, and he will be known thereafter as the
man who sold the welfare of Australia merely
to ensure a few more months’ continuance of his
salary. Supposing Reid came back with an
order of knighthood glowing on his stomach, to
face this obloquy in addition to all the rest, his
billet, if there is any public spirit at all in
N.S.W., wouldn’t be worth a day’s purchase.
This is the situation as regards Reid, and it is
decidedly bad all round ; yet Lyne’s position
doesn’t amount to very much either. If Reid
leaves Parliament to get on with the Federa-
tion Bill in his absence, and Lyne interposes
with a motion of censure, and says all the hard
things about Reid which that absurd person
deserves, he must stop the most important
business which Australia ever had on hand in
order to do it. Supposing he could throw out
Reid, he must block Federation while the
motion of censure is fought over, and
afterwards while he forms a new Minis-
try and makes other necessary arrange-
ments, and thereby throw everything out
of gear for the sake of his own selfish
grab after office. Then Reid would
return to point a chubby finger of derision at
Premier Lyne as the man who undermined an
opponent in his absence, and hazarded and per-
haps wrecked the making of a nation merely
that he might hoist his own lengthy person into
office, and sold his country rather than lose a
chance to satisfy his own private grudge and
his private desire for a salary. Therefore, if
Lyne is well - advised he will express, in a
few concise words, his utter loathing of Reid’s
inconsistency and time-serving, but will pro-
mise, all the same, to raise no party disturb-
ances at all in his absence, provided Parliament
sticks to the business of pushing the Federa-
tion Bill through ; and to postpone what he has
to say until the Convention has got through
with its second meeting and Federation is either
assured or gone under for the time being. After
that Lyne, as the disinterested patriot who
sacrificed a great party opportunity for the sake
of his country, can rise and say a lot of things
with great effect.
Swindling* the Income-Tax-payer.
A little while ago The Bulletin pointed out
how N.S.W. Income Tax Commissioners were
wrongfully demanding money from people in re-
ceipt of an income from trustees which was under
the taxation limit. And in many cases the Com-
missioners take no notice of small deductions
allowed by law, appearing to deliberately cal-
culate on the improbability that any person,
however justly aggrieved, will take the
bother of appealing for the matter of a few
shillings. Now the Commissioners claim, from
many persons who paid tax on their incomes for
1895, a fresh amount on the ground that their
incomes for 1896 were larger than their incomes
for 1895. At the same time they claim this fresh
amount on the incomes for 1896 also, so that a
man who had a small income in the one year,
and a large income in the next, is taxed as if he
had a large income in both years. This is un-
just, and—in spirit, at all events—illegal.
Further, it happened that many persons in the
receipt of weekly incomes received only 51
weeks’ wages in 1895, because there were only
51 pay-days, and 53 weeks’wages in 1896, because
there were 53 pay-days. These persons proposed
to pay tax on the actual incomes received, but
the Commissioners demand that they shall pay as
if they had received 53 weeks’ wages in each
year. The methods of the Commissioners are
not the methods of business men or of honor-
able men. They are the methods of Polish
pawnbrokers or racecourse welshers. The
system of direct taxation is a good system, but
bad administration will damn the best system.
Doubtless many persons attempt to cheat the
Commissioners, but that is no reason why the
Commissioners should attempt to cheat any per-
son. IftheCommissionersare allowed tocontinue
as they are doing, the policy of direct taxation
will so stink in the nostrils of the people that
it will have to be repealed. The wealthy, who
are for the first time forced to pay in direct
proportion to their incomes, wish for nothing
better. Parliament must interfere to prevent
further mal-administration.
“Nil” (who is duly licensed to kill) to The
Bulletin, on the patent-inedicine business :
Re the Bunko-Bolus man. You say : “ The code agitates
itself to protect the public against its own weakness in
trusting to confidence-men . . . and the like, but the
patent-medicine man is free of all supervision.” (1).
When a man fails to pick the little three-spot, or keeps an
appointment with a gentleman who does not return with
his watch, &c., he freely admits that he was spoofed, and
wants the law to interfere. When the same man spends
£lO on a sure and certain remedy for those “symptoms,”
he is never swindled. There is only one thing no man
will admit he was a big enough fool to do, viz., to
spend money on bogus medicine and derive no benefit.
(2). Nature cures about 9999 - 236 of the ills that beer
and various things are responsible for, if left alone : also,
a large percentage of ditto if not too viciously interfered
with. Hence lots of people get well in spite of patent
medicines. But who is going to admit that he was suffi-
cient of an idiot to spend £lO on Dr. Peter Pip's patent
pimple pills and get worse on their account, or get better
without their aid ? (3) We are all about as much imbued
with a love of and a hankering after the marvellous and
the mysterious as the buck Kaffir from the wilds of Bang-
wan-boko or thereabouts. The average man’s ideas of his
works (he calls them his “ system ”) are about as clear as
his conception of bi-metallism. Hence ignorance—mys-
tery —faith—and cure (in a big majority of cases), and, of
course, it was Dr. Peter P.’s p.p.p.’s that worked it. (4)
The overwhelming mass of people believe in at least one
patent medicine, and their belief is no less should
it fail in their particular case. One of the best-
known members (N.S.W.) of the Federal Convention told
me many years ago, when he was in the Ministry,
that any such law as you suggest would be a gross in-
justice and an infringement of the liberty of the subject,
and that, personally, he believed quack doctors were no
more frauds than I was. Tub Bulletin (referring to
testimonials) : “Most of these letters are lies . . .. the
majority—were bought and paid for.” You may be right,
but I doubt it. I know dozens of men who are as keen as
brither Scots in business, and form the matrix frohr which
juries are drawn, who have each a pet patent medicine,
of the capabilities of which they would take their dying
oath. They would sign conscientiously a score of such
testimonials as you refer to. To wind up. The public
believe in Dr. Peter Pip’s preparations, and kill or cure
they are satisfied with the result, and thus a legislator,
who introduced a law such as you sketch, would be asked
to wait until someone oivnecl, let alone complained, that
there was any patent medicine swindle.
The latest impracticable philanthropist is one
Samuel Andrews, of Dunedin, who died leav-
ing property worth £3OO a year, the income
from which, as a token of good feeling towards
a bleak and soggy town, is to be spent on guns
and cartridges and giddy uniforms and flags
and frill for the Dunedin volunteers. The
deceased philanthropist almost always goes on
like this. If the lamented Samuel had left his
little income to the State as a sinking-fund to
ultimately pay off the public debt, it would not
have been much in itself, bur still it would
probably have led other philanthropists to
follow in his footsteps, and the result might be
something really valuable. Even if no one fol-
lowed his example, the deceased, having all
eternity before him, could afford to stand by
and watch his little £3OO a year starting out in
pursuit of a £45,000,000 debt, and gradually
overtaking it. That is the kind of private
philanthropy which these overburdened pro-
vinces are most in need of, and it is also the
kind which the deceased man of affluence never
goes in for. His general ambition is to found a
Chair of Music, or to endow some church which
believes in the damnation of unbaptised infants.
♦
G. H. Reid, having ascertained what the feel-
ing of the Convention was with regard to the
railways, said he would consent to a provision
prohibiting a province charging two rates for
the one class of goods over the same line—that,
and no more. It would effectively prevent pre-
ferential treatment, he said. But it would do
nothing of the kind ; and an instance is at
hand. South Australia, naturally anxious to
have the smelting of Broken Hill ores on her
seaboard, charges more than twice as much for
carrying bullion as for carrying crude ore, not-
withstanding that bullion is the more easily
handled. So, too, although hundreds of
trucks are run up from the ports to Broken
Hill empty, an almost prohibitive rate
is put upon coke. Mr. Reid’s proposal
would not in the least overcome this develop-
’ment of provincial railway management; yet
the effects of it were so serious to Broken Hill,
that at one time then-Premier Dibbs was
appealed to to impose an export duty upon
crude ore, in order to make the fight a fair one.
Later on, when smelting fumes began to kill
people, the agitation for the export duty ceased,
and S.A. was allowed to have the smelting
industry, fostered by these rates (differential,
preferential, or whatever you like to call them),
along with the victims which it makes.
4
How history is made ! The Montreal (Canada)
Weekly Witness tells its version of the recent
utter defeat of the Maoriland Cold Tea party,
when its Parliamentary force came down from
23 to 12, and its high priest Stout, gob in a bad
second behind Hutcheson, the ship-rigger :
Thirty-seven Prohibitory Alliance candidates were
elected to the New Zealand Legislature as a result of the
prohibition battle there in December on the same day
that the no-license plebiscite was taken. As we recently
noted, the temperance vote recorded had increased in
two and a half years from 49,000 to 96,000. This, how-
ever, was not the most significant outcome, for out of a
total of 70 seats only 29 candidates of the so-called
Liberty League were elected, as against 37 Alliance candi-
dates and four v;ho are not claimed by either side. Had
it not been for the over-confidence of a section of the
prohibitionists in one constituency (Wellington), who ran
an independent candidate and thus divided the temper-
ance vote, the Liberty League would have had another
defeat. The remarkable success of the Prohibitory
Alliance in the election of prohibition candidates to the
New Zealand Legislature is further emphasized by the
triumphant return of Sir Robert Stout, president of the
Alliance. The prohibitionists set out to elect a
majority to the new legislature, and at the same
time to outlaw the liquor traffic. They based their
hopes of success upon the phenomenal enthusi-
asm of the temperance meetings throughout the
colony, and upon the supplementary fact, which they
considered made complete triumph assured, that in New
Zealand women have the right of suffrage. The election
of thirty-seven of their candidates fully justified the ex-
pectations of the Alliance leaders and safeguarded the
temperance legislation of the past, which provides for a
plebiscite on the temperance question at every general
election until the liquor traffic shall have been voted out
of existence by a three-fifths majority or the law shall
have been changed. To Canadian prohibitionists such an
object lesson abounds with interest and instruction.
Now what Maoriland Cold Tea-ite was it who
stuffed the Canadian editor with all that
gorgeous Ananias ? And what a beautiful liar
he must be !
“ F. A. Hank ” to The Bulletin :
Frequently we read of city and country bakers being
mulet in heavy damages for selling light-weight bread.
To the reader the question often suggests itself —Why are
bakers always chosen by the police, or inspectors, or who-
ever the prosecutors may be, as the delinquents ? What
about the storekeepers ? Are they all honest ? Do they
never sell a pound of tea an ounce or two light-weight, or
containing an ounce or more of adulteration ? The
publican also: does he always tender the standard
nobbier of the whisky whose brand is on his bottle ?
Other petty tradesmen—butchers, ironmongers, etc.—
are they all honest ? One never hears of a butcher selling
a pound of steak weighing 140 z., or an ironmonger whose
71b. packets of nails weigh just 6|lb. But these are what
might be termed retail thieves. What about those big
concerns which buy of the producer by weight? Are
their weights never tested and found wanting? Is there
no inspector to see the farmer’s corn weighed by agents ?
Invariably an agent returns to the grower an average of
four bushels and a fraction, eitffer over or under, to the
bag —no matter what sized bag, or what weight
corn. The meat co’s who buy by the 1001 b. dead weight
—are their weights always correct? One neyer hears
of them being challenged. Sugar, butter, and other com-
panies who buy by weight or measure - are their weights
and measures always correct ? What if an inspector hap-
pened along one fine day with correct standard weights,
and weighed 100 bullocks hanging on the balks at some
meat-works, and found, on comparing the works’ weight
with his own, a shortage of perhaps 501 b. a carcase?
Would the co. be allowed to adjust its weights, or be
compelled to suffer the penalty at the same ratio-as that
charged the baker for his little bit of dishonesty ? In the
latter event a very big reserve-fund would be required to
meet the exigency. If the officials who are appointed to
enforce this Act were to carry it out in its entirety, and
not make fish of one and flesh of another, a great deal of
the widespread dissatisfaction which now exists would be
abolished, and the dishonest baker and butcher and the
wholesale as well as the retail thief would share and share
alike.
A Hymn in Time of Jubilee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the kings of rags and tatters shall we crook
a craven knee ?
To the calves of Gold and Silver shall our
slavish homage be ?
Shall we kiss the clay-foot idol,
Meekly brook the bit and bridle,
Bow the head in House of Rimmon as the
nidd’rings bowed before
For a gaud the birthright barter won by hero-
blood of yore ?
Nay ! to Regal bands of Rapine may no free-
man honor bring,
And our knees know naught of rev’rence for the
Baubles on the Thing,
But, where Man is truly royal,
There, we bend us duly loyal.
To the Noble of God’s making, lo ! our plaudits
rise and ring,
And we greet him when we meet him with a
joyous “ Live the King ! ”
N.Q.
P. LUFTIG.


Have
Callaghan BOOTS
More goodness, more value, more style, more fine material, more
finish, more stitches, mere wear, more good qualities than any other
hoot* of any other seller.
Ladies’ Walking Boots ... 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 to 25/- (add 9d. postage.)
Gent s „ ... 17/6 19/6 22/6 20/- 28/6 (add Is. postage.)
Callaghan & Son,
- 395 George-st., Sydney.
Trv.
Peipffeeit l
THAT EXPRESSES
IDEAL PORTRAITS
JUST PERFECT
PERFECT POSING
PERFECT LIGHTING
PERFECT FINISH
PERFECT PRINTING
PERFECT PRICE
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,')
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- 1 n fa
ment in Permanent Bromide orf ( •
Opal. Any sty *e or pose. No extras )
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREEI
(ground floor. NO STAIR*.)
MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion " Charley’s Aunt.”
Her Majesty's. “The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Lyceum “Squattocracy.”
Palace Ovide Musin Concert Co.
Titoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Rotsl “ In Sisrht of St. Paul’s.”
Buoc “The Beggar Student.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) re-opened on
Saturday, after a week’s silence, with the
“Prisoner of Zenda.” When this regal drama
made its first Australian appearance, in Melbourne,
a few weeks ago, The Bulletin offered up a pro-
found remark to the effect that Anthony Hope’s
brilliant novel is not a production which drama-
tises easily, and renewed observation confirms this
opinion. Quite a lot of picturesque incidents have
had to be dropped out of the original story, as not
adapted for stage treatment. Rassendyll and his
double, the dnnky king, don’t meet, because
they are both represen the same individual,
therefore everything exdSpt the last act of that
disastrous royal drunk has to be left to the imagi-
nation. The gorgeous procession which escorts
the sham king into Strelsau—the real king being
locked up in a cellar at the time—when the royal
understudy enters his capital in state, half full of
glqry and the other half of dread lest he be bowled
out*and have bricks thrown at him by his loyal sub-
jeets,isalso omitted, processions being slow and un-
manageable and taking up too much room. The
coronation, as a ceremony which occupies much
time and affords but little thrill, is likewise
omitted. Rupert Hentzau doesn’t lay out the
bogus monarch; the play has to move rapidly and
can’t three weeks for any shattered poten-
tate to recover in. The midnight adventure in
the park is dropped as a thrilling scramble which
leads to nothing. And the storming of the Castle
of Zenda can’t be staged as Anthony Hope de-
picted it, inasmuch as it was a generous, whole-
souled shitfdy which raged simultaneously all over
the vast building, and was also carried on in the
moat outside, and on the bridge, and about the
adjacent forest, and there was a gory struggle on
the roof, and another in the hall, and a chewing-
ma|ch in the cellar all in progress at once. That
wholesale cat-fight couldn’t be adequately placed
on any stage. When all these necessary omissions
are made, there is more reposeful drama and
delineation of character and peaceful conversa-
tion, and much less whoop and blood and battle-
axe than might be expected.
» • • •
Sfcill there is a certain amount of very
commendable pageant in the play; the gilded
halls of monarchy have a lot to recommend them,
and the nobility of Ruritania, with all its best
clothes on, is really gorgeous. The feminine part
of the nobility is specially recommended as
being young and lovely and calculated to be
kissed at first sight, and the local military
imposing spectacle. The main features
of the plot are all there. That dissipated
reveller, Ihe Crown Prince of Ruritania, gets
drunk and drugged and incapable on the eve
of his coronation, and, his throne being shaky at
the best, his English cousin duly personates him
in order to keep brother Michael from rushing the
crown. And then, the monarch having disap-
peared altogether out of the cellar where he was
deposited during the coronation, the English
eousin has to keep the throne till further orders,
and to hug the king’s best girl to avert suspicion.
Finally the monarch turns up again, and the
cousin gives up the throne and the best girl and
the palace, and goes away, with a straw hat on in
place @f a crown, back to his original obscurity.
It is a pathetic*~essay on the foolishness of not
hanging on to a throne when you have got one,
and ofmaking yourself a sacrifice for any beery
monarch that you never saw before and are never
likely to see again.
• » * *
The new co. at Her Majesty’s has no very
strong points and only one or two weak ones. It
is a good, respectable, all-round combination.
Gaston Mervale, as Black Michael, leaves a good-
sized impression behind him as a villain of impos-
ing mien. Julius Knight’s king is eminently
respectable. He wears the gorgeous togs of
monarchy as one born to purple and giddy mil-
linery, and makes love to the real king’s best girl
in a fashion which ought to be kingly if it isn’t,
and when he creates Mario Majeronia K.G.M.G.,
or something of the sort, on the -first day of his
sovereignty he does it well. Also, he utters in a
convincing fashion all the noble sentiments which
the sham king gives way to while the real king is
away drunk; and withal he leaves behind
him an impression that he might be rather
more convincing than he is. The one man
who is an absolutely unqualified success is
Hawtrey as Colonel Sapt, the masterful old
veteran who runs the conspiracy and puts his
grizzled head in the lion’s mouth for an ungrate-
ful master. Carvill also makes a dashing, bri-
gandish Rupert Heotzau, and the ladies of the co.
are, on the whole, satisfactory. Miss Ada Ferrar
wears the red hair of the Elphbergs over a pretty
face and a warm heart. Miss Efljott Page fills
satisfactorily an awkward part which has suffered
a great deal in the process of dramatisation ; and
Miss Nelly Mortyne gets a show to be a sinful
wife in the prologue, and sins very pleasantly in a
eostume which can be highly recommended.
** * *
“Squattocracy,” with which the new
season opened at Sydney Lyceum, is another of
those weird' productions which William Cosgrove
seems to get hold of velocity before
any other manager can rush after them. It con-
tains internal evidence of having been perpe-
trated in an exercise-book by a small youth in an
inky collar when he was “kept in,” and purports
to deal with the troubles of a Riverina squatter
who is about to be sold up for the mortgage. The
squatter-man is a small person painted in blobs of
bright red, as if he had had tomatoes thrown at
him. He employs a station-hand who is the dis-
guised eldest son of an English earl, and the earl’s
second son comes out to look for this lost scion,
and tell him that the fatted calf is ageing rapidly
in the paternal back yard. Whether the calf is a
third son or a complete stranger doesn’t appear.
The second son’s method consists in sending his
aristocratic wife to be housemaid on the station
and entering himself there as a species of amateur
jackaroo, and then for acts they carefully avoid
explaining things to the man they are looking for.
Now and then, however, they have a hurried
interview in a corner and say that if they are dis-
covered all will be lost, and suspicion will ruin
everything, and the lady is urged to bear up and
be a housemaid a little longer because they are on
the verge of suecess. In between times the
squatter rushes in weeping and says he owes
.£BB,OOO Bs. Bfd., and he orders the flunkey in
livery to lay a man-trap for the eldest son, the
result being that the beery tutor is caught in it.
He also gives a gorgeous garden party in Act 11.,
the guests including nine ladies and three males,
one of them without a waistcoat and with no
visible collar. By way of further variety the
tutor gets drunk, and the vulgar heir dresses him
up as the cook —a lady who has fits and sometimes
insists on sitting on the stove, under the im-
pression that she is a teapot. After a while the
eldest son takes to tearing around with revolvers,
and the family arms itself, but just then the
squatter is made a K.C.M.G., and his jackaroo
gives him £200,000 to pay off the mortgage with.
What happens after that the present writer doesn’t
remember very distinctly, but he has a vague idea
that an insolvent
bank is seen in
the distance
spearing dead
cows and eels, or
that the squatter
backs himself to
race a large iron
safe downstairs
with a yard’s
start.
• •
Poor Myra
Kemble makes
her re-appearance
after a long
absence from the
stage, in this
slab of squalid
bosh and literary
infamy. A very
few years ago
Miss Kemble v as
the cleverest and
most popular ac-
tress in Aus-
tralia, but her
long illness
caused her to
drop out of the
swim, and the
hurrying world,
with its haggard
eye fixed on a
crust upon the far
horizon, passed
her by and pre-
sently forgot her.
The spectacle of
this brilliant
favorite come
back from the
verge of the grave
to decorate Cos-
grove’s howling
narrative of the
beery tutor who
was caught in a
man-trap is calcu-
lated to make the
god s snuffle in
Olympus or Val-
halla, or wherever
their present pos-
tal address may
be. Apart from
Miss Kemble the
programme con-
tains the names
of most of the
people that the
public hardly ever heard of before and never
expects to hear about again. They are largely the
sort of names that turn up about once in six
months at the tail-end of some cheap show, and
then, after remaining up for a week to breathe,
they bob down below and are submerged again for
half-a-year or so. And as they can’t live entirely
on mussels in the interval their existence is a
mystery.
** * *
A brief revival of “ Charley’s Aunt ” is in
progress at Sydney Criterion. Thornton’s yearn-
ing to play in skirts has to explode at frequent
intervals, else the quaint, crinkly little humorist
would split down the back with suppressed enthu-
siasm, and the present is as good an occasion as
any for the Brazilian female to break out. The
co. which plays the “ Aunt ” this time is stronger
in almost every point than the one which pro-
duced her a year or two ago in the days of the
Thornton-Arnold partnership, and whereas the
weak parts of the original show have been im-
proved upon a good deal, the strong ones
haven’t deteriorated in any way. The wild-look-
ing cap and streamers of the bogus widow
are as convincing as ever, and Time hasn’t
laid its effacing fingers on her respectable
black frock to any extent worth mentioning;
while the mouldy, dropsical umbrella of
Stephen Spettigue exhales the same odour of
damp and fungus and aggressive middle-class
seriousness as before. Spettigue’s umbrella always
appears to The Bulletin as the outward and
visible symbol of the Nonconformist conscience,
and the embodiment of the small Baptist chapel
up the back street, and the emblem of the heavy
meat-tea with which the serious Hinglish family
regales itself. “Charley's Aunt” revives. this
time for a short period only, though her exact
duration is not yet decided, and it w vaguely
rumoured that “Mamma” will follow. Mamma
is the only present-day comedy in which a British
gentleman frankly and undisguisedly spanks
a British lady on the ear for the good of her soul.
M? Z * * * *
Ovide Musin’s concert co. is doing well, so
far, at Sydney Palace, and that small building is
considerably bulged out at the sides by the pres-
sure of business. The Belgian melodist is a man
of might on the violin, and he is well supported ;
and though it has never yet been decided whether
Sydney is a musical city, or merely a city full of
people who want to look as if they were musical,
such an entertainment as his is practically certain
to do well. The Palace makes a good setting for
Musin’s artistic little show. It seems incongruous
to put the common or scrub species of variety
co. amid such costly and gorgeous surroundings,
and the general heavenliness of things seems
wasted on the soullessness of the earthy song-and-
dance person.
** * *
Phil Newbury, who grows more tuneful
and rotund every day, still adorns the programme
at Sydney Tivoli, and otherwise the Rickards’
show is much as usual. Rickards, by the way,
bills Philip as the “ great English tenor,” and
casual Maorilanders who knew him in his early
life down George-street, Dunedin, look askance at
this advt. and want to know if they have been
enthusing ov.er Newbury by mistake. The other
new attractions at the Tivoli are Hurley and Mar-
THE N.S.W. VICE-REGAL WEDDING —LADY MARGARET BRAND
AND CAPTAIN FERGUSON.
Photo, by Newman.
tin, two gentlemen in the horizontal-bar line of
business.
** * *
Two Sydney einematographists— Mac-
Mahon and the Yitascope firm—are now awaiting
the arrival of pictures showing the Corbett-Fitz-
simmons bashing match, and when they come to
hand the view of these two gladiators committing
outrage on each other’s nose and stomach will be
set up at both establishments simultaneously.
Then the showman whose picture makes the most
realistic display of nose-blood will come out on
top.
** * *
The Potter - Bellew reappearance in
“Romeo and Juliet,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
deserves grateful thanks from everybody who saw
those soulful exponents of the tender passion take
poison in a silent tomb seven years ago. It is a
rejuvenating spectacle. Mrs. Potters stage beauty
has not grown visibly older during the long inter-
val ; Bellew’s Romeo seems rather younger than
he used to be. Shakespeare, in constructing* his
boy - and - girl love-story, took care to set most
of the scenes in a dim religious light, for the
sake of all slim artists who might wish to
bring the experience of a lifetime to bear
upon one or other of the name-parts
Probably the Bard had Mrs. Potter and
Bellew in his prophetic eye at the time, in which
case eternal William regrets, no doubt, that the
lad}- hasn't turned her experience to better account.
Comparing her present performance with the pre-
vious effort, one finds no improvement in Juliet’s
elocution. W hat it has lost in spasmodic eccen-
tricity it has gained in unnatural monotone. The
actress administers her dose of charm and
annoyance in about the same proportions as before
Bellew now reels off his lines more easily'
without any sacrifice of poetic effect. The Bclle-
ao “P ts trallant gurgling boy as an ideal
lovemaker, and pleads guilty to a growing admira-
tion for the legs whereon he stands alone in this
character. Romeo and Juliet ” was to conclude
last night (Wednesday), consequently the good
points of Cecil Ward (as Mercutio), Cathcart and
one or two other members of the eo. must divide a
hastv blessing among them. “ School for Scan-
f®U?WS ancient tragedyffor two nights
only, and on Saturday a second change of pro-
gramme will occur if necessary.
** * *
Bracy’s comic-opera venture at the Bijou
SatSar th “TK I £ a * e *“1 aho spirit On
Saturday. The Beggar Student,” in which
Lilian Treg warbled of yore, is not, however the
kin.d of opera that a popular-priced public hankers
after, except on bank holidays. The librettolsan
indigestible lump of frivolity, and the muSe ha
m«t a w f tr l m ? to ,7 >arkle b y means of some new
method, which the composer cxmld n’t quit"
discover. Also, the hero is a mean impostor
and the heroines are controlled by a shrill
mother-in-law, and these three females have
an implacable foe in a bottle-nosed colonel who
is expected to be taken half-seriously. And there
is far too much colonel, whichever way you take
him. Still, “The Beggar Student” has several
considerations to help it along—an aroma of
ancient success, a good little ballet, a satisfactory
company, and the main fact that it it an opera.
The evergreen Bracy, John Forde, and Mrs.
Bracy were welcomed back to their former places
on Saturday. Among the new and somewhat
amateurish strangers Miss Celia Mavis, Miss
Spencer and Sydney Ralfe made a suitable im-
pression, Mias Mabelle Darley (nAe Davidson)
being reserved for special production on Wednes
day of the present week.
The other day 140 applications were sent
in for the position of city accountant and assistant
town clerk of Bendigo. 'ne was from a lady,
who said she could do the work for much less
salary than was offered. A (Chinese lady, no
doubt.
The members of the Federal Convention
having taken a Sunday drive, the following reso-
lution was passed at a meeting of the Gawler
(S.A.) Wesleyan Sunday-school teachers :
That this meeting expresses its regret at the general
desecration of the Sabbath by the members of the Federal
Convention and those associated with them, and consider
that it is a violation of a direct law of God and is against
the best interests of the community.
This is but a small example of the goodness of
Gawler.
Melbourne Leader :
The following is the programme of the ceremonial
which is to be observed on 22nd June, on the occasien
when Sir George Turner is to be the guest of the British
nation. The Queen will come to London on Monday. 21st
June, from Windsor, and about 11 a.m. on the 22nd Her
Majesty, with a brilliant cortfege, representing even'
power in the world and all her colonies, will set out from
Buckingham Palace for St. Panl’s Cathedral.
What a fuss to make “on the occasion when
George Turner is to be the guest of the British
nation ! ”
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney.
It was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fight
took place made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Vitaseope, Kinetoscope, and
Kinetophone, and the wonderful X-rays are still
on show in the Parlor, and are attracting great
public interest.*
“ In Sight of St. Paul’s ” is a show that recalls
Old memories melodramatic—
A mug goes astray in the commonplace way,
And his brother heaps curses emphatic
On the evil brown head of a courtesan, wed
To a “ lag ” who pops up unexpected.
The muggins gets shot by another bad lot,
And Baker s unjustly suspected
(He’s alwayt unjustly suspected).
The lag who returned, being callously spurned
By the wife of his bosom, poor fellar !
Gets jealous and jibs, and is stabbed in the ribs,
And left to go mad in a cellar.
Miss Watson, the wife, leads a dissolute life
At a “ Den ’’ furnished up to the knocker,
Where a simple Aileen is dragged into the seen a
And told to drink fizz (it’s a mocker —
The Bible says fizz is a mocker).
But a “ tart,” with a heart, plays a chivalrous
part ;
Of her errors we freely absolve her
Since she comes to the aid of the innocent maid,
And shoets, with a shiny revolver,
Miss Watson, whose fate (we are happy to state)
Is hot as they make ’em, or hotter ;
For she doesn't expire till the house is on fire—
She’s cooked ere the devil has got her —
Done brown, ere the devil has got her.
She lies there a-croaking, whilst flaming and
smoking.
The Den is reduced into cinders ;
A sight to amaze is the stage all ablaze,
And the roof dropping out of the winders.
There are engines at work, back to Rue Petite
Bourke,
And firemen right cheerfully hosing
A tottering wall; in the midst of it all
Stands Baker, the rescuer, posing.
This fine conflagration compels admiration
(The play altogether impresses)
Wheu the last curtain falls on “In Sight of St
Paul’s,”
'Tis the greatest of Royal successes—
Of blood-spattered scenic successes.
The plot may be doosid far-fetched and illucid
(Though others are often absurder),
Yet the characters act as thouch fiction were fact
When their game is committing a murder.
Some dramas go slow, being heavy with woe,
But this is a Megsouic sprinter
That will certainly hum for a long time to come
And warm up the house for the winter.
One needs something warm for the winter.
(A few plain prose remarks on Bland Holt's afore-
said production at Melbourne Royal are held over
for further consideration.)


I'/ie Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little Giant”
Prospectors’ CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
mHIS MACHINE ‘is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and 'cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredkr Mason,
939 SUSSEX-ST.', SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
P. M'Mahon !
Lucas Bros. I S y (lne y-
Quinlan Gray Ltd., Brisbane. ; Hogan, Mooney & Co.
Melbourne ; M‘Bean, Bowker & Co., Perth.
’ Assay dee & Chemical Laboratory
S,MOORE ST, SYDNEY.
Telephone 2444.
THOROUGH.
That’s the SIM PSON Sulky.
LONG LIVED.
That’s the SIM PSON Sulky.
HANDSOME.
That’s the SI M PSON Sulky.
CHEAPEST, because
it’s so good.
That's the SIM PSON Sulky.
SEND . Illustrated Catalogue
jor . . and Particulars to
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
75 King-St., Newtown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Federal Convention having decided that it
can’t think out an equitable plan of taking over all the
provincial public debts, Tiik Bulletin desires to suggest
a compromise which is wholly equitable and as simple as
falling off a log—or even two logs. It is that the Federal
Government should take over so much per head of each
province’s liabilities. For instance, if Westralia comes in
the debts of the five federating provinces will be, on a
rough estimate : Westralia, £39 per head ; Victoria, £4O ;
N.S.W., £4B; Tasmania, £52; S.A., £67. Therefore, if
the Federal Government took over the whole Westralian
debt, and £39 per head of all the other debts, it would be
giving exactly the same measure of relief all round, and it
could then begin the work of making them into a uniform
Federal 3 per cent, stock. If the consolidation was a
great success and a large saving of interest was effected
there would probably be some serious attempt to devise
an equitable plan for taking over the rest of the
provincial liabilities. If nothing at all is done
in this direction all the advantages to be gained by the
superior credit of the Federal Government are wasted.
Even supposing there is a discrepancy in the rates of in-
terest until the consolidation is effected, that could easily
be got over by charging the amount of the discrepancy to
the separate states. The plan would answer equally well if
Westralia did not come in. Then Victoria would repre-
sent the minimum debt; the whole of it could he taken
over and £4O per head of the debts of the other provinces.
The result, roughly speaking, would be that £123,000,000
of debt would be consolidated, and if the Federal Govern-
ment’s superior credit enabled it to reduce interest even
ss. per cent, the saving would be over £300,000 a year.
And this transaction is free from every one of the difficul-
ties which stand in the way of a consolidation of the
debts as a whole.
» * * *
The-N.S.W. Government has decided to collect
two whole years’ income-tax in the 12 months, so, if there
isn’t a surplus at the end of June, there certainly should
be. Whether it will also try to collect two years’ land-
tax inside one financial year remains to he seen. What
The Bulletin now wants to know is : What particular
swindle is left for next financial year—the one ending
June, 1898? By the appearance of things, all the possible
swindles have been used up, but still there may he other
unsuspected possibilities ahead. Premier Reid produced
his first financial statement at December, ’94, but he had
then been only a month or two in office, and hadn’t
developed a policy of his own. That year, for which
Dibbs was mainly responsible, was the only one with a
surplus that could stand inspection. The first statement
for which Reid was wholly responsible appeared in June,
1895, when he took some £411,000 out of loan money
and put it into current revenue—a proceeding which
was promptly squashed by the Auditor-General, and by
this squash the surplus was turned into a huge deficit.
His next budget was that dated June, ’96, when, under
pretence of starting the “ cash basis ” he charged
£967,000 of ordinary expenditure to the accumulated
deficit, and added it to the public debt, in consequence of
which he claimed to have a surplus of £333,000, whereas
the Government Statistician shows that he had a deficit
of £634,000. Another financial statement is due two
months hence, and the “ fake ” this time is collecting two
years’ income-tax in one year. And w T hat the public
wonders now is this: Is there any “fake ” left for 1898 ?
So far G. Reid hasn’t produced one financial statement
which wasn’t glaringly dishonest, and in open, una-
bashed cookrng of the public accounts he has had no
equal in Australasia up to date. But the capacity for
inventing “fakes” must give out, and when the last one
is used up G. Reid will probably ride for a fall, and let
someone else face the trouble.
* * * »
The N.S.W. Income-tax Commissioners have
this year invented a new and grotesque three-card trick
of their own. Every tax-payer is charged on last year’s
income, for the sufficiently obvious reason that he doesn’t
know yet what this year’s income will amount to. Thus,
if a man had £2OO of taxable income in ’95 he paid £5 tax
on it in ’96. But if in ’96 he had £l5OO of taxable income
through drawing a £l3OO prize in Tattersall’s sweep, the
official sharks demand that he shall pay £37 10s. for 1897
and £32 10s. arrears for last year—in other words, that he
shall pay on the £l5OO for both years. To put it another
way, the two years’ taxable income was £l7OO, and the
Commissioners demand that he shall pay on an income of
£3OOO. If his taxable income for ’97 is only £2OO again,
his share of taxation is only £9, whereas he has paid £37
10s., so that the Treasury really owes him a refund of £32
10s. What his chance of getting it amounts to The Bul-
letin doesn’t know, but it doesn’t seem as if it was up to
much. The department doesn’t even give any promise
that it will refund overcharges.
So far as The Bulletin can make out from
a careful reading of the Act, this proceeding is an abso-
lutely unlawful bluff. The Act says that the tax-
able income for the year preceding the assessment
shall be the basis of taxation ; that is to say, the 1896 tax
shall be payable on the-1895 income. Nothing is said, so
far as this paper can discover, about any right to after-
wards alter the 1896 tax whenever it suits the Commis-
sioners to do so, so as to make itpayableon the 1896 income.
No doubt most people will pay rather than fight the
Government in the Supreme Court and the Privy Council
ert a cost of perhaps £lOOO, but the apparent utter
illegality of the proceeding remains all the same.
Maoriland reckons that its railways have paid
£3 2s. 6d. per cent, on cost for the financial year just
ended—the best return since the boom days, fifteen years
ago. At March, ’96, the return was £2 16s. per cent.; at
March, ’95, it was £2 14s. 6d. The splendid increase for
this year is another evidence that Maoriland is prospering
under the Seddon policy of State socialism. Also, it is a
solid proof that it is rich enough to build its new roads
and railways without foreign borrowing—if the Govern-
ment had rhe moral courage to face the situation. The
invariable Australasian way of looking at the matter is :
The country is prospering, therefore it can afford to pay
interest on another million. The other view is that the
country is prospering and can therefore afford to do
without borrowing another million. But nobody takes
much account of that other view.
* * * *
The Victorian Government has not yet screwed
up its courage to forfeit the Mildura land concession of
Chaffey Bros., Limited, for non-fulfilment of conditions,
therefore 188,000 acres remain locked up against settle-
ment. The Chaffeys’ claims on them—whatever they
may be—have now fallen into the hands of the English
debenture-hplders, and these individuals neither pay
taxes, nor make any of the improvements required by the
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98-100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible pri< cs, tar cheaper than Itriig
Houses. 11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
. . . - | | j 178 William-st.,Melbourne;
liy.riarKWam, Peel-street, Adelaide.
conditions under which the concession was granted, nor
pay any of the liabilities attached to the property. The
concession is absolutely forfeited by all the terms of the
agreement, yet the debenture-holders, who have no legal
claim on it whatever, are toying to sell it or otherwise
deal with it. The want of a Government with pluck
enough to enforce its end of the agreement, and heave
the defaulting British syndicate out on its aggregate ear,
as Seddon did with the Midland Railway crowd, is much
wanted at Mildura.
* * * *
Melb. Australasian scoffs at the Turner Govt’s
company legislation because there is nothing in it which
could prevent such elaborate bogus bill transactions
as were allegedly worked by the Ward Association in
collusion with the M.L. Colonial Bank. Its theory, ap-
parently, is that because the Companies Act can’t provide
for everything, therefore it shouldn’t provide for anything.
By the same logic the Australasian should be abolished
because there is nothing in it to make coffee beans grow
in Iceland. One great business of the press is to reform
grievances, and if it can’t reform the grievance caused by
the want of coffee beans in Iceland there shouldn’t be afiy
press.
* * * *
The full text of the A. J.S. Bank reconstruction
scheme is to hand, and it differs only in one or two par-
ticulars froni the cabled summary. The deposits are to
be divided into “ A ” deposits at 3 per cent, certain, pay-
able from 1898 to 1997, or earlier, at the bank’s option ;
“ B ” deposits at 3 per cent, certain, payable by two equal
instalments in 1912 and 1917, or earlier, at the bank’s
option ; and inscribed deposit stock at 3(4 per cent, re-
payable at the bank’s option, but not otherwise. The
way these amounts are distributed makes the probable
maximum saving—the saving to be effected if the bank is
only able to pay the 3 and 34 per cent, above specified—
about £69,500 per year, and as the last balance-sheet
showed a loss Of £48,200 for the half-year this certainly
doesn’t look enough to fill the gap. After the above in-
terest has been paid 5 per cent, of the surplus (if any) is
to go to reserve fund ; then the shareholders are to get a
dividend of £1 6s. Bd. per cent, per annum ; next, if the
surplus still holds out, the inscribed stock-holders are to
get an extra 1 percent., which will raise their rate of in-
terest to the original 4.J- per cent. If there is still any
surplus remaining after this operation, the “A” and
“B ” depositors are to receive an extra 1 per
cent., making their rate of interest 4 per cent.
Supposing there is still some surplus after all these things
have been attended to, the shareholders are to get an
additional 13s. 4d. per cent., making 2 per cent, in all;
hut they are not to go above this figure until the “ A ”
and “B” crowd are entirely paid off—except that, if any
new capital is called up, the dividend on it may go as
high as 3 per cent. Then, by a strange oversight, nothing
is said about what is to be done with the rest of the sur-
plus. Perhaps even the most sanguine committee couldn’t
imagine the A. J.S. Bank having anymore surplus after
all these things had happened to it.
The arrangement provides a fearful maze of
complicated ways and means whereby it is to he decided
which deposits are “ A ” and Which are “B,” but as the
rate of interest is the same in either case the “ A ” and
“B” complication is comparatively unimportant. The
mam features are : The A. J.S. can save nearly £70,000 a
year if necessary. The shareholders are not likely to re-
ceive more than £1 6s. Bd. per cent, for several years, and
not more than £2 per cent, for a good many years ; fur-
ther, it may be some time before even the dividend of £1
6s. Bd. gets into motion. Also the reserve fund isn’t
likely to boom to any great extent until things improve
materially. Another casual complication is that the re-
duction of interest on the inscribed deposit stock starts
from Ist January, 1897, while the reduction on the “A”
and “ B ” deposits only begins from the date when the
scheme is sanctioned by the N.S. W. Supreme Court. All
new business is to have a prior lien on the assets —barring
the fact that certain assets are to be kept separate as a
fund for payment of the “ B” deposits, which may thus,
under certain conditions, be paid before the “ A ” de-
posits. Likewise, £2,000,000 of the “B” 3 per cent, de-
posits may be converted into 34 per cent, inscribed stock.
In fact, the small complications and side-issues of the
A. J.S. scheme are about as hard to follow as the theo-
logical dissensions of an ant-hill.
* * * *
Ex-premier and director Morehead, orating at
the meeting of the Queensland National Bank: “It was
proposed by the commission’s scheme to wipe out the
shareholders entirely, and a certain section of the press
blamed the shareholders for the position the bank was
now placed in through their having kept the present
directors on the board. He failed to see the reason of
this argument, and also failed to see why the shareholders’
property should be taken from them. To his mind it was
a most unjust proposal.” The Q.N. bank directors have
put up a good many records for superhuman gall, but
this lays over everything up to date. Director Morehead
can’t “see why the shareholders’ property should be
taken from them.” By the bank’s own acknowledgement
the shareholders’ property in the bank is all lost—they
have no property at all. Also, they have lost an immense
amount of the depositors’ property, for which they are
liable so far as the uncalled capital will go. The
only sense in which the shareholders of the Q.N. Bank
own “ the property ” is that they owe it nearly £400,000.
The Q.N.B. is not like the other reconstructed institu-
tions which all have assets enough (on paper, at least) to
cover their liabilities. It hasn’t even paper assets to
meet its debts with ; it is admittedly a beggar howling to
its creditors for charity and saying, at the same time,
that it doesn’t want to pay even so far as it can ; and in
the light of these matters director Morehead’s attitude is
all the more interesting.
* » * •
The municipal valuation of Newcastle (N.S.W.)
in 1891 showed an annual value of £374,400. This year’s
valuation shows £245,000—a drop of 34 per cent.
« * * *
The Premier Permanent Building Society,
whose downfall was the beginning of the great Melbourne
crash, has now been seven years in liquidation, and so far
has yielded no dividend to depositors. In the long struggle
it has paid away £751,000 to preference creditors, and
there is about £60,000 more to pay before the depositors
begin to have a look-in. The Premier Permanent pawned
nearly every security it possessed to banks and other
institutions before <it closed its ddhrs, and all this time
has been spent in struggling with these prior clairiis.
Liquidation ex.’s have absorbed £33,000, and £45,000 has
gone in keeping the society’s vast rows of jerry-built
tenements—most of them permanently empty—from fall-
ing about its ears. It now figures out that it has £92,000
worth of city property; 683 suburban houses, and 31
vacant allotments on which it doesn’t venture to place
any definite value; and about £35,000 worth of other
assets. The city property will probably he mostly needed,!
to cover the balance of prior claims, and £530,000 worth
of depositors are mainly dependent for dividends on the
683 houses and other sundries. Deposits have sold lately
as low as Is. in the £l. Many ’cute Hebrews and others
bought them at 14s. in the £ immediately after the stop-
page, and were denounced as “ cormorants.” Alas 1
where are those Hebrews now ?
. » * »
The returns to the New York Insurance De-
partment for 1897 show that the Mutual Life Insurance
Co. of New York has 5857 loans in force on first mortgage.
These loans amount to a total of £14,690,745, and the
State Insurance Department experts report that each
piece of property-is worth more than double the amount
advanced upon it.
* * * *
The story of a bill, as related the other day in a
Melbourne court, suggests that the financier’s existence
is rather,a squalid affair nowadays. According to the
narrative, No. 1 sold some shares for £5O, and was so
glad to do business that he took a bill at six months
in payment. He asked No. 2 to endorse it and
get it discounted. No. 2 apparently hadn’t £6O handy,
but he charged £5 for putting his name on the back, so
apparently the value of a name in Melbourfie now is 10
per cent, on the sum that its owner hasn’t got about him
at the moment. Then he went to business’’man No. 3,
who lent £5 on the bill. Afterwards the latter introduced
the holder of the bill (No. 2) to financier No. 4, who lent
£l5 on it. No. 3 got his £5 back out of this and charged
£2 for the introduction to No. 4, so that No. 2 got £8 net
out of the £l5. It is alleged that he claimed all this ; £5
for the use of his name, and £3 as commission for hawk-
ing the bill round to Nos. 3 and 4, So, according to the
plaintiff (No. l’s) story, it took four financiers several
weeks’hard struggle to melt 5, £5O bill with three names
on it, and the net result was £l5, all swallowed up in
commission—for, according to plaintiff’s tale, the little
cash he did get. out of the business had to be paid away
as commission or something tb a fifth person, who seems
to have looked on. Most of these people are now
suing each other for unpaid commission, or something of
the kind. Even gojng oti the land seems better than
being a modern Melbourne financier, when five carnivor-
ous birds get on top of one little p.n.
* * * *
Mr. James M. Finlay, manager and part-owner
of Mitchell’s Creek Freehold (N.S. W.) gold-mine, shot
himself in Sydney on Sunday last—for no known reason.
He was a man greatly liked and respected, and of most
steady habits. But he was of mercurial disposition, and
had of late suffered much from alternate excitement and
depression—and he had reached the fatal age of 37.
* * * *
Silver Hill Junction has its little milling-plant
almost ready, and now it is busy looking for ore. It has
some, of course, but the greater part of the bodies ex-
posed rs very patchy, and often mixed with much quartz.
Tarrawingee quarries continue to send in 2000
tons of flux a week.
The latest count of men on the Broken Hill
mines showed a total of 6030— probably the greatest on
record.
Nine vessels loading, or to load, sulphides were
lying at Port Pirie at one time recently. The aggregate
capacity was 15,000 tons. And Port Augusta and Port
Adelaide also do a good deal of this trade.
In order to profitably carry the large quantities
of sulphides from Broken Hill at the specially-reduced
rates both the Silverton and South Australian Govt, lines
are being re-graded and awkward curves removed.
The British runs its mill two shifts only, but
almost maintains its reduction-record. Very little car-
bonates are, however, being treated. In the last fort-
night of ’96, for instance, 1990 tons carbonates and 1698
tons sulphides were put through ; during the last-reported
fortnight 3315 tons sulphides and no carbonates. The
output of concentrates is now smaller—in the former case
it was 637 tons, averaging 670 per cent, lead and 16oz.
silver; last fortnight it wass37 tons, averaging 66 percent,
lead and 250 z. silver. The first grade concentrates, of which
last fortnight there were 482 tons of the gross total of 537,
is, however, better than formerly : the lead is 2 per Cent.,
and the silver soz. better, while the zinc has fallen from
8 per cent, to 6 per cent. But, though no carbonates are
going through the mill, additions are being made to the
big heap at surface at the rate of 300 t%ns a week.
What concentration means in losses of metal,
even when the latest and most improved machinery is
used, the North’s figures show. In a week 555 tons sul-
phides were milled ; the crude ore assayed 27 per cent,
lead, 7oz. silver, 12J- per cent, zinc—a total of 149 J tons
lead, 38850 z. silver, 69 tons zinc. The concentrates (from
which, of course, not all the metal can be recovered) were
shown on assay to contain 107 tons lead, 14400 z. silver,
and 114 tons zinc. Yet this is “ the solution of the sul-
phide problem.’’
A vugh or cavern in the lode, 85ft. long, 33ft.
wide in its widest part, and 30ft. high, has been broken into
in the 600 ft. level at The Central (Ashcroft’s Sulphide Cor-
poration) mine. This is said to be the biggest Broken
Hill vugh to date.
* * * *
Christmas Gift claim, Wyalong, has crushed
about 1000 tons averaging 20z., raised from the surface to
150 ft. deep. Aside-on claim, the Block, has
the reef at 240 ft., and is now raising a first crushing—not
counting a five-ton lot treated for 4oz. per ton when the
reef was first cut. At the bottom of the shaft the ore is
all sulphide ; assays have given 16oz. from the sulphide
ore. Although an east and west reef, the Gift has
managed to live down to 240 ft., so there is a reasonable
chance that it goes further.
The deepest shaft on Wyalong is in the Light-
house claim —360 ft., the last 200 ft. through hard granite.
The sinking is to get Klink’s reef where it runs out of that
claim on the underlie. The deepest workings in Kiink’s
are about 175 ft., and if the underlie had continued, the
Lighthouse should have got the reef at about 350 ft. The
Lighthouse people intend, with some Govt, assistance
now almost promised, to sink another 100 ft. The Prin-
cess., on same line, has been raising 4oz. stone from 230 ft.
As the stone in Klink’s has averaged about 6oz. from a
monthly output of about 50 tons, and as the Lighthouse
claim is side-on, the reef should be good in the latter if
cut.
Wyalong is agitating for a diamond-drill “on
easy terms.” The main reefs having been proved to
well on towards 300 ft.. there is a strong opinion in some
quarters that it would be better to give Govt, aid in sink-
ing the deep prospecting shafts. A man can go down a
shaft and look at the bottom and drive in any direction
and perhaps find something. A bore doesn’t tell much
worth knowing where reefs are small and gold-shoots
intermittent.
The first successful attempt to sell Bull a
Wyalong mine is reported. The Garryowen and Scotch-
man’s, comprising in all about 10a., is reported sold for
£5OOO and a quarter interest. Show fair and stone good,
hut reef small—like most on Wyalong.
* * * •
The Hongkong Co., working a mine at Mt.
M‘Donald, N.S.W., has had a crushing at last—l6o tons
for 1500 z.— and “the mine is in splendid working order.*’
Slender consolation for the Hongkongites, who must be out
at least £30,060 over this mine which has been worked six
years without a div. '
* * • •
Now there is no demand in London or elsewhere
for scrip in undeveloped Westralian mines, Block 45 of
the Hampton Plains Estate Co. has been thrown open to
prospectors on wonderfully easy terms compared with
those demanded at the birth of the boom. A reward of
£lO,OOO and a half interest are offered for the discovery
of the first payable gold-mine, and for eaeh of the next
four payable mines the finders will be entitled to a reward
of £2OOO and a three-quarter interest in the claims.
Leases to he granted subject to Govt, royalty and the
employment of one man to each 12 acres. To what ex-
tent the finds must be payable nothing is said. They
would need to be more permanent than nine-tenths of
the big finds of the country to warrant such rewards.
Some 2(4 years back a well-equipped prospecting party
found what seemed to be a good surface show ou this
gigantic estate, and enquired as to the terms of opening
it up. The leader told the writer that after some months
delay he was informed that, firstly, he would have to put
up a sum of money as evidence of good faith —that ope-
third of the gross results would go to the c-O. which held
the gold-rights of'this part of tiie estate, and another full
third to the owning eo. He asked what was going to
become of the other third and was told that that was fot
himself and party, less, of course, expenses of working,
&c. That show probably remains unworked. At one
time Bayle.v’s mine was supposed by this huge monopoly
to be on the estate. Also the co. had no doubt that the Lon-
donderry was. Neither turned out to be, nor anything
glse up to date. Now that Bull is no longer a milch cow
for W.A. mines the dog-in-the-manger policy has been
abandoned.
* • • *
“The Hit or Miss mine (W.A.) is
months’ exemption while capital is being raised in Lon-
don, and as soon as ‘the manager is in fpnds he will re-
start t,he mill, and under his supervision it is expected
that the results will he highly satisfactory.” This reads
all right, but as poor Abigail used to say : “ What ape the
fax and circumstances?” Over £40,000 working capital
has already been raised in London and lost in the working
of this stringer. Many hundreds of tons have been
crushed at a loss. There are thousands of tons of ore in
sight, but it will not average 4dwt. to the ton. The Hit Or
ifiisshas a 20-head mill, plerfty of water, and though the ven.-
dor cabled London that there were,2o,ooo tons of good ore in
sight, and that the failure was due to mismanagement, he
took good care not to start the mill, but secured four
months’ exemption “to raise more funds.” The irony of
it 1 Not to be wondered that Bull isn’t taking any Wes-
tralian mines at present.
• * * •
Up to date the gold-producers of Menzies (W.A.)
make a very good showing—l3,oB7 tons for 34,4250 z. A
little over 2Jqz. per ton is a magnificent average for so
great a tonnage. One feature of it is that while the great
bulk of this gold is won by local and irrterprovincial co.’s,
most of the ‘‘cats” of Menzies are owned by Bull, who
has already lost on them a great deal more money than
this gold represents.
* * * *
Vats ordered for the purpose of treating Bayley’s
Reward tailings bj 7 bromo-c.vanide. No doubt many
hundreds of ounces remain in the heap. The public have
enjoyed a long, well-earned rest from the riches of this
mine. If pockets have been found they have been kept
dark, and the two and three oz/per ton in the thousands
of tons of “ white quartz ” at grass must have cleared out
of the stone in disgust at being left so lon'Jr untreated.
Chiefly by the aid of that splendid mining plaything of
Australia, the press, Bull was landed with three-fourths
of the shares of this mine at big prices after its glory had
faded, its divs. had ended, and its worked-out condition
was known to every miner who examined it.
« ♦ * «
To The Bulletin. Kalgoorlie : “Re the water
question. I fancy there will not he any serious lack Qf
water. Hannan’s Proprietary in twp claims (the Queen
of the WeSt and Golden Dyke) is primping up about
120,000ga1. a week, which is mostly going back to earth,
There is quite a small stream running over the rood from
the Queemof the West. This not like that ordi-
narily met with in a quartz-lode. The whole basin here
seems to befull of it, and, so far, there has been no Sign
of any serious diminution. It comes from the country
rock.”
• * * *
From Kalgoorlie to The Bulletin: “The
mines here are looking better than ever, but there is next
to no market in London. Within three months, there
will be a big increase in the yield, and there may be an-
other boom, but it will only be in shares in big mines.
At. time of writing, the Ivanhoe has shown nothing pay-
able on the 300 ft. At that levtel, the Boulder is looking
remarkably well. Boulder Perseverance, showed a falling
off last month, but the total crushed (3675 tons) gave an
average of 2oz. Last month’s yield for Hannan’s
district, 21,4430 z. If this is largely increased, arid no
demand takes place in London for shares, I wonder what
will happen. Kaufman has returned, hut admits that
London will not look at new ventures from W.A. The
Associated mines are doing well, and should turn out
bullion shortly. The group of mines around the Boulder
appears to be consistently good. Mt. Charlotte strike, I
am informed, does not amount to anything. Lake Lefroy
rush may turn out something. Not the usual white buck
quartz, but a Sort of porphyry with fine gold.”
* * * *
By the crushing of nearly 4ewt. of specimens
in London, the Queen of the Earth mine, W.A., has paid
a div. of £75 a share. The chute from which they came
was found some twa years ago. It was literally slep't on
for some months. A little thin and short streak in a
huge body of white barren quartz. It had to be worked
because no one would buy at the price. The gold taken
out surprised everybody. How much is left is an unan-
swerable enigma.
* * • *
Norseman, W.A. : “ The Scotchman has crushed
207 tons for 24t)oz. gokl, which is considered a very excel-
lent returns showing the consistency of the mine and the
stability of the field.” Alas! too many Westralian mines
have faded away after two or three “very excellent’’
An ounce crushing does not establish the
consistency of the mine, much less that of the field. It
would be as reasonable to say that one big tree made a
forest.
« « * »
A godsend for the whole howling pack of Lyell
pups. Tasnuyi Lvell has opened up a sft. lode formation
containing gold, silver, and copper. But three Sfkhe five
feet are schistose rock, one foot is oxidised ore, and some
inches of a galena vein make up the “sft. lode.” The
oxidised stuff and the galena assay all right, but—well,
the dissection somewhat modifies the size of the godsend.
”» * • *
For March the total gold-output of Tasmania
was only 2510 z.; hut April started well with 35740 z. from
4017 tons of Tasmania G.M. Co. stone. The Is. dividend
pajd by this mine is*at least a change from the monotonous
18d. aggravation. The Tasmania has, in all, paid £646,795
in divs. Present average quality of stone Shout 18dwt.
* * * *
Silver Queen (Tas.), though at present off tho
div.-list, has had over a year’s prosperity, and share-
holders can’t growl. Necessary dead work appears to
have been dodged, with the result that there was no div.
last month. There is every indication of divs. being
resumed shortly.
"'V * * * * *
Silver Queen Extended (Tas.) pays a 3d. div.,
and gets the wherewithal out of the toil of the tributors ;
Grubb’s (Empress) is also kept going by tributors. In the
former little machinery is the usual justifica-
tion for sweating the workers (shareholders’ money
invested in machinery) does not apply. The sooner a
Mines Department can be evolved which will refuse to
acknowledge tributing as a lease-holding qualification the
better for the mining industry.
* * * •
Duping first quarter of ’97 Tas. West Coast ex-
ported 5081 tons sjlver-lead ore worth £57,085. Chief
contributors :—Western, 088 tons, £13,016; Oonah, 690
tons, £10,506 ; Montana, 637 tons, f 10,455 Silver Queep,
1253 tons, £10,312 ; Comet; 590 tons, £3215 ; Silver Queen
Extended, 320 tons, 13721 ; Mt. Zeehan S.L. (British
Zeehan), 159 tons, £2043.
* • * •
A Maoriland mining scribe to country sub-
scribers :—“ I can recommend the following sharebrokers
to those of my subscribers and readers in the country and
at a distance who ary investing in shares and who wish to
have their commissions executed by reliable and trust-
worthy men.” Mi's. S. Walker, 20a, Ooombes’ Arcade, is
the first name on the list.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRULTH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING
OFFICE _ BUSH -
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and 1 inish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS.
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6rt. Each.
tg ' See the name CORTO on tie Unde, and beware ,/ imitations
SOCIETY
The question that is agitating Adelaide is :
shall an apartment in the Town Hall be reserved
as reception-room for the Mayoress ? Parties are
divided in the council and among the public, and,
a few days ago, the anti-Mayoress section euchred
the other group by snatching a vote which post-
poned the acceptance of tenders until after the
next municipal elections. The “ toney ” people
are all in favor of establishing a place where they
can eat “kyke” and drink tea supplied by the
female Hisworship. The other crowd, having no
hopes of agitating their molars, go all the other
way.
* * * *
It was a year on April 9 since the old
honorary medical and surgical staff of Adelaide
Hospital went out on strike, and no one has lost
by the change but themselves. There are now
no medical students in the hospital to experiment
on the patients or to philander with the nurses.
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT.
MRS. SMITH (who has been making private enquiries): “I thought you told
me you left your last place on account of your religion, Bridget ? ”
BRIDGET : “I did, mum. I world them they were miserable prodistants for
atin’ mate on Fridays !”
The fledgling physicians have all flown to Mel-
bourne or Sydney Universities.
* * • *
A S.A. poisoning-case turned out to be a
very ludicrous affair. Some,workmen were paint-
ing and coloring the inside of a house, and the
tenant asked them to clean the picture-frames.
They cunningly averred that whisky was a splen-
did thing to clean them with, and she immediately
gave them a small gin-bottle full. The frames
were cleaned with soap-and-water and the whisky
drunk. Shortly afterwards the painters were
attacked with violent pains in the stomach—so
severe that one had to be taken to the hospital,
while the others lay down and bellowed. Police
were called, and the workmen explained that they
had drunk the liquor and wanted to give the
woman in charge. On being appealed to, she
said she had given them the spirits to clean the
pictures and not to drink, as it was whisky she
had used for cleaning her dog with.
Citizens of Launceston, Tas., in public
meeting assembled, decided to mark the record
reign by founding a maternity hospital. Then
local sassiety commenced to think it over, and
resolved to “ put down ” the project “in the
interests of morality.” So the Mayor was requisi-
tioned to call another public meeting, at which a
screaming effort was made to rescind the former
decision. But the meeting re-affirmed the hos-
pital idea, and the alternative proposal (that a
certificated midwife should be dressed in royal
uniform and sent round to attend the poor in their
native slums) was indignantly scouted by an
unfeeling majority. Probable result: The town
will get neither the maternity hospital nor the
royal brass-bound nurse, and the population will
continue to arrive in the same way it arrived
before the record reign was thought of.
The Salvation Army is launching a Chinese
Mission in Little Bourke-street, Melb., in rivalry
to the Anglican and Wesleyan. John says
Allooyah gal no good—doubled up, too white, too
muchy starve. He can’t stand a kink in the back,
can John. Please give him nicee lit’ gel with
nothing else to do. No stitchers, or the like.
» » * «
H. : “I have heard, from a white woman
married to a Chinese, a new version of the death
of the Misses Saunders, Australian missionaries,
in China. Now, I pledge you that this is the talk
among the Chinese, although I believe it untrue.
They say one of the Misses Saunders was trying
to arrange her marriage with an influential
Chinese man, who afterwards became one of her
murderers, and that she did this as a measure to
advance the cause. Mrs. Saunders and her third
daughter have just gone to the same mission-
field.”
« * • *
Clutha Presbytery (M.L.) re Sunday ex-
cursion to open R. C. church :
The Presbytery unanimously resolved to protest against
the inauguration of such trains, and expressed regret that
this inauguration of Sunday excursion trains has been
connected with a professedly Christian church.
“ Professedly ”is good. The cautious Calvinist
doesn’t take any risks in the way of reckless en-
thusing about the rival sin-shifting establishment.
* * * *
As per 1896 cen-
sus, Maoriland (po-
pulation 700,000)
boasts of over 200
sects. There are 61
Christian Israelites,
3 Dippers, 16 Mora-
vians, 2 Puritans, 3
Ranters, and 6 Zwin-
glians. The Cove-
nanters, United
Saints, Christian
Freethinkers, Ordi-
nary Christians, Sal-
vation Catholics,
Chaldeans, Philadel-
phians, Chartists,
Fatalists, Kalizoists,
Universal Hedonists,
Truists and Natalists
are each represented
by oneadherentonly.
One individual gives
his religion as a Free-
mason, while another
with equally hazy
ideas on the subject
is a Pessimist, and
another an Anarch-
ist. The Eclectics
and Egoists are each
represented by 3
members, while the
same number believe
in “ the nurture and
admonition of the
Lord,” whatever that
may mean ; 8 “ Be-
long to Christ ” and
6 “Belong to Jesus,”
while 15 are Brethren
of the Lord. Six
“Know Jesus,” and
24 “ Belong to the
Latter House of
Israel;” 6 are “Not
Yet Saved,” 1
“ Thinks for Him-
self,” 1 “Has been
Born Again,” and 18
are Psychic students.
Also, 5 are Altruists,
2 Zoroastrians, 2 Ca-
meronians, and 4 are
Christians According to the Holy Scriptures.
* * * *
The praying for rain business was badly
muddled, as usual. Some N.S. W. denominations
rain-prayed on Friday and some on Sunday, while
the Vic. churches propose to come in by them-
selves later on, instead of all making a simultaneous
effort. It is just the same as three men trying to
lift a 4cwt. bag of potatoes. If one gives a lift on
I riday and doesn’t shift it, and another does a
hoist by himself on Sunday, yet the potatoes don’t
budge, and the third hauls at the bag and finds it
immovable next week, the aggregate result is that
it remains just where it was at first. Yet, if they
all lifted together, the same amount of effort would
have done the business. The three separate com-
binations which have been struggling separately
to lift the drought should consider this parable.
Last Friday about 1 per cent, of the
N.S.W. male population prayed for rain, and the
other 99 per cent, or so drifted around holiday-
making and said “blanky.” The Bulletin, as
self-appointed returning-ofiicer without salary
reports that the blankies have it
* * * *
At Longreach (Q.) the Chinese have a
No Savee Union, under which all members
agree to plead “ no savee ” in courts of law, thus
necessitating employment of a fellow-countryman
as interpreter, and thereby despoiling still further
the “ foreign devil.”
Mrs. MAESMORE MORRIS: the Melbourne belle with
“ The Prisoner of Zenda ” co.
Photo., Talma.
Melb. : “ The Salvation
Army sells bicycles, tea, gro-
ceries, boots and shoes, drapery,
besides uniforms. Same objec-
tion as to prison-labor and pen-
sioners : Subsidised labor cutting
down tradesmen.”
* » *
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Na-
tional Advocate :
Mr. Douglas made an able speech,
speaking for 40 minutes. ... He
also mentioned that he opposed the
sale of a piece of land for £5OO
which afterwards brought in £2OOO,
and which enabled the Council to
erect their Town Hell free of cost.
* « •
A Darlinghurst gaol-war-
der, defending the use of the
triangles, makes public the state-
ment that there is at present in
Sydney a man who has received
a total of 600 lashes. As 50 are
the ordinary large dose, this man
must have been strung up at
least 12 times—which fact rather
militates against the deterrent powers attributed
to that form of punishment.
* * * *
Last week, all the Sydney dailies came
out with a 30-line news-column par. about a social
function at a certain city undertakery. It began
with the cheerful heading, “A New Hearse.”
1 hen it went on to state that many mayors and
influential people met, by invitation, to inspect
the firm’s bran-new corpse-barrow, and how it was
of an improved early-ripening slipstone New-
foundland breed, with two masts and deep centre-
board, bound in half-calf, giving a beautiful clear
light with less than half the usual consumption of
gas, docile, non-forfeitable, free from spavin,
guaranteed to keep accurate time, and to
Pay 7h per cent, endowment bonus without
manure, and to lay eggs regularly at least
nine months in the year; also, that it was
a light-smoking variety with good aroma and
india-rubber frost-proof annuity, rifled in both
barrels. The crowd, it was further reported
greatly admired the receptacle, and had light re-
freshment among the wooden overcoats and the
embalming apparatus. Also a social ghoul pro-
posed a toast, “ Success to the firm,” and trusted
that it might have many affluent stiff s to carry to
the graveyard loam in the new vehicle, and much
embalming to do, and plenty of bones to rattle
over the stones with the red-nosed mute in attend-
ance. Likewise a visitor formally christened the
new vehicle, and the gathering had a real good
time like a, lot of early Christians on the razzle-
dazzle in the Catacombs. Thus does the under-
taker solemnly paste his advt. on the ghost of the
departed and leave his business-card in the bony
hand of Death with a view to future orders
♦ * * *'
S.M. Herald advts. :
WAITED home, Unison-st., Monday. Knock
Darlinghurst ’ ba ° k ' Write or cal! Tuesday.
WOULD Gentleman whom 0. met last night 11
train Stanmore, write Oxford-st. Post-office.
Oh, Mister James !
In city hotels and big board-
ing-house where Chinese cooks are
kept (and they are many) Bung Hi
takes a holiday just when and
how he pleases. He gets another
Chow, installs him, and simply
goes off without asking permis-
sion or approval. If an alleged
white chef tried on such a practice
his fate would be too fearful even
to think of.
* * ♦ *
Two Dunedin (M.L.) but-
chers were lately fined for color-
ing sausages with oxide, of iron
after admitting that the trick
was usual, as sausages were apt
to become black and unsaleable
within a day or two of manufac-
ture. This paper is gradually com-
ing to believe that sausages, es .
pecially in a hot country, ought
to be prohibited by Act of Parlia-
ment.
* • * *
Polynesian humor ! South
Sea navigator tells how a chief at
Santa Anna came aboard suffer-
ing from skin disease and seeking
a remedy. Received as remedy a
mixture of kerosene and sulphur
which he applied as prescribed-
only to be immediately set on fire
by a match judiciously held near
by a jocose countryman. The
dusky potentate was in among the
sharks in half a jiffy.
* * * *
A plague of locusts in N.Q.
Mulgrave mill is buying them at
3d. a lb. delivered at the mill !
This for destruction only. Roast
’em, ye lepers ; roast ’em, and eat
’em, and feed your oily Kanakas
with ’em. Gammon the psalm-
singing Polynesian that these (with
the molasses) are the “locusts
and wild honey ” that John the
Baptist burst out his camel’s-hair
vestment with. Or, better still,
let the locusts eat the Kanakas,
and then co me into the Australian
Federation.
Brisbane (Q.) Telegraph, in a rabid
attack on the 0. of E. and the R.C. sects, declares
that “ the Nonconformists have no desire, or, if
any, very little,” for the money of the State. The
Nonconformists have, in common with every other
sect, grabbed as greedily as they could at State
grants of land. And wasn’t there a first-class true
story about South Brisbane Methodists evading
the municipal rates by holding service now and
again on a vacant allotment, or something with
only a ruined humpy upon it, and then asseverat-
ing that the land was “ set apart ” for religious
rites, and was exempt under the Act ? Also, is
not the Telegraph editor a Nonconformist par-
son or ex-parson ? And is not its ex-managing
director ditto ? And doesn’t the \v r riter remen,her
a wrathful editorial years ago from the former’s
pen, declaring that there are no such things as
Nonconformists in Australia, and there is no
State Church here ?
POOR MAN!
MRS. QUINN: “Good mornin', Mrs. Heeley, an
how arc ye the day?”
MRS. HEELEY : “ Good mornin’ to you, Mrs.
Quinn, an’ how’s yerself? ”
MRS. Q. : “ Troth, I’m well. I ain’t had the ache
or pain these two mont’s, plaze the saints .”
MRS. H.: “ Indade, thin, an’ how’s that same?”
MRS. Q. : “ Sure, it’s becaze me mahn have got a job
carpet-batin’?”
MRS. H.: “ Carpet-batin’! what have that to do
wid per aches, Mrs. Quinn?”
MRS. Q. : “ Tverythin’, Mrs. Heeley. Ye see, Dan
is so tired in the arrms wid batin' carpets
all the blissul day, he have no heart to be
batin’ me in the a renin’s, poor mahn!”
MRS. H. (sympathetically) : “ Poor mahn !”
KISS-AND BE DAMNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I took the crimson flower of love
The devil proffered me,
And laid its petals at thy feet
And laughed in careless glee.
I took the kisses from thy lips
Like draughts of mellow wine,
That set my heart a-glow with love,
Quick-beating love for thine.
I took the notes of one glad song,
And sang them wild and well;
I gave my soul, and love, and lost,
And —this is woman’s Hell.
Yet would I give another life
For love that I have spent,
And live with thee, and die, and then
Be damned, and be content.
Waikato, M.L.
D.M.R.


The experienced lady superintendent of a
Sydney Jhospital states that fully 60 per cent, of
the cases of uterine disease that have come under
her notice are traceable to the use of nostrums
advertised as infallible preventives of maternity.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
TYPHOID
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman Melb.
Health Board, says : “ Out and
out Jeffery’s are the best fil-
ters.” The Professor of Hy-
giene, Melbourne University,
says : “ Ordinary filters are
powerless against germs so
small as typhoid /forms;
use a J EF'FE RY FI LTER.”
The Jeffery filterprinciple
is highly recommended
bv the President of
N.S.W. Health Board.
Sole Asrent for N.S.
Wales & Queensland :
J. S. Peardon,
4 Bond St.,
SYDNEY.
USE A
Jeffery
Filter.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
67 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly reoommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane O’land.
BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “ Victoria ” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ *lO and *2l
LADIES’ *IS and *2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
Many people who have read in Sydney
Daily Telegraph Mr. Colin M'Kay Smith’s
earnest denunciation of what, in painter’s slang,
are known as the “tripe” and “dingbats,” pur
chased for and hung in N.S.W. Art Gallery, more
or less agree with his outburst against “ The
Judgment of Paris,” by Greiffenhagen, and
several other expensive canvases. But will Mr.
M‘Kay Smith kindly tell people why he calls
Salle’s “ Anatomy Class”a “ disgusting ” picture ?
The Bulletin has up to now regarded it as a
model of figure-painting, and has never heard
artists speak of it but with admiring enthusiasm.
* * * •
The M.L. National Council of Women, at
its annual meeting, announced some important
discoveries. Mrs. Cunnington contended, as the
result of patient research and elaborate experi-
ments, that she had proved men to be “ quite as
kindly-hearted as women.” An exception as
against reporters was made amid loud applause,
and the thesis was taken as proved. Mrs.
Hendre, while reserving minor phases of the sub-
ject for further consideration, confidently an-
nounced that “Nobody loved men better than
women.” Many members seemed to regard the
induction as not fully justified by the investiga-
tions detailed, and the announcement in any case
as premature. It was eventually agreed that it
was desirable to make further observations and
experiments and report at a future meeting.
At a recent meeting of the Council of Women
aforesaid the members had at first rather a slow
time with their favorite Age of Consent. There
was no vim in the talk and no novelty in the pro-
posals. The trouble seemed to be that everybody
knew all that could be told about the consenting
side of the subject, while nobody had any fresh
first-hand information about the asking aspect of
the case. But Mrs. Cunnington was equal to the
occasion. She “ was strongly of opinion, seeing
the great importance of the matter, that the sub-
ject should be dealt with and discussed by a con-
ference of men and women.” Whereupon there
followed much vigorous applause and a hopeful
and expectant discussion. When that conference
comes off with the right men, and when everyone
talks right out ! ! !
• • • •
Over thirty Japanese “ women ” were im-
ported via Singapore for the Murchison district,
W.A., during last month.
* * * *
Hobart coronial enquiries take place in a
stuffy room, lately described by an irate juryman
as a veritable chamber of horrors. In the fire-
place, for instance, are the loose boulders which a
suicide of some months ago had hung around his
neck as an anchor. The other day a skeleton was
the subject of “ crowner’s quest,” and a juryman
casually ventured to presume that the dry hones
would be indefinitely left on the mantel-shelf with
other gruesome mementoes; but the coroner
solemnly promised to have the remains, in this
instance, carted away somewhere. N.B. —The
juryman who so violently disturbed the usual
slumber of the court is curator of the local
museum. Otherwise —well, a rival show isn’t to
be tolerated.
* * * *
Some time ago a Geraldton (N.Q.) citizen
separated from his wife and migrated to Cool-
gardio. Here he dabbled in speculation, made
money, and married a second wife. Falling sick
he willed all his property to his “ wife,” thereby
meaning No. 2, who hastened, on hubby’s de-
mise, to get the will executed. An old
North Queenslander, resident in W.A., hearing
of the affair, informed wife No. 1, who speedily
set to work, claimed the estate, and, as the result
of a well-arranged compromise, came out at least
jeio,ooo to the good.
* * * *
The way of the transgressor is exceedingly
hard sometimes. At Melb., the other day, a man
got concussion of the brain from slipping off a
tram-car, and was removed to the hospital by a
policeman. On his way to the hospital the sufferer
threw away a couple of watches which proved to
have been just stolen from his employer. He had
intended to tram into town and pawn the goods.
In the words of the casualty reporter, ‘ ‘ should the
man recover —his recovery is very doubtful —he
will be prosecuted for the larceny of the watches.’
A notorious land-
shark and bone-
grinding boomer of
the deepest dye sat
in the d.c. of a Mel-
bourne theatre one
night recently, dri-
velling copiously and
noisily over the woes
of a “ pore, ” suffering
fellow-creature on
the stage. “ Have
you no heart ? ” a
widow asked a well-
known Melb. money-
lender. “Yes,
ma’am,” he replied,
“ but it would get
callous if I used it
in my business.”
Picnickers at
Coogee (Sydney) last
week were horrified
at the sight of a
woman and a naugh-
ty man bathing
openly on the beach
as the sun went
down. The lady
wore her robe de nuit
and an innocent ex-
pression, but a big
policeman thought
this insufficient, and
insisted on escorting her to the shelter of a clump
of trees and mounting guard until she was safely
into her clothes again.
A DEFINITION.
Wot’s gettin' married, Sis?”
Why, carn’t yer see—she’s been buyin ’
a fader for herse’fl”
The Coo-
namble (N. S.
Wales) police-
tracker, writes
a Bulletin
correspon-
dent, i s a
Hind 00, not
a n aboriginal
black. Hin-
doo! Can
Hindoos
track ?
Several Melb. churches have done away
with single-cup Communion. They have a num-
ber of little cups on a tray, and the discomfited
microbe can only look on.
Toaßana-
naland bush-
parson a
daughter was
recently born.
On his next
round he
could speak of
nothing else,
telling every-
one “how
good the Lord
had been ” to
him till he
came to a sta-
tion owned
by bluff old
Mac Misery.
Here he grew
such a bore
anent the way
the “ Lord
had blessed
him ” that
Mac. at
length lost
patience.
“Look here,
Mr. X., if I
were you 1
wouldn’t tell
people that
yarn, but
would take a
little of the
credit myself,
nstead of giv-
ing the Lord
all the glory.”
X. now looks
very hard at
you if von
ask him how
his “bles-
sing” is get-
ting along.
A certain good-natured Teutonic mining-
man was made a J.P., the other day, and his first
Court case was one of riot. Only one defendant
was placed in the box—the other being left in the
cell. “ Are you kilty or not ? ” asked tle “ beak ”
sternly. Then, without waiting a repi y, his wor
THE ADVENT OF THE BIKE—“ONE OF THE UNEMPLOYED .”
ship went on: “ You can go to chale for dree
months, und your mate can go mit you, und ven
your time is done I vill gif you a job at the mine.”
The first woman
imprisoned at a cer-
tain WestraTian dig-
gings drank the lock-
up-keeper into dismal
wailings over the pur-
blindness of the magis -
tracy. “I winked at
him,” said the peeler,
“but he would give
her 14 days.” There
was but a ono-apart-
ment tent to serve as
gaol,andasthe woman
was married she was
allowed to go home
every night. But, fur-
ther, a water-famine
was on, and every
evening she carried
home a gallon of gaol
water for use in the
night. “ 2s. a gal-
lon 1 ” cried the peeler.
* * * •
Five Chinamen charged at Sydney sessions
a couple of weeks ago with conducting a lottery
pleaded guilty. Being remanded for sentence till
the following day, they were taken into Darling-
hurst Gaol, where, as is usual under the circum-
stances, they were all searched. The Judge
changed his mind during the day, and in the
afternoon they were brought up for sentence, and
fined £5 each. One of them put his hand in his
pocket and, producing five presented
them in payment. Now, where were those fivers
hidden ?
* • * •
A banquet will be held by “ the English-
men of Sydney ” to celebrate St. George’s Day,
April 28. Apart from the absurdity of paying
HE UNDERSTOOD THEM.
MRS. JUMPUP : “ This is not a smoking-carriage, sir !”
BARCOO BILL (down on a holiday) : “ You’re just like my ole woman, marin; she’d
keep on saying a thing till someone would contradict her, so that she
could argufy.”
reverence to St. George, who, if The Bulletin
mistakes not, was a fraudulent army-contractor,
noted for his villainously rancid bacon, the “Eng-
lishmen of Sydney ” have struck a somewhat
novel idea. Who ever before heard of the
Englishmen celebrating their alleged, national
anniversary in Australia, where, up to a
recent date, the English (as distinguished
from other British) nationality has been
dominant? A long time ago a certain Melb.
University professor was asked to stand
for Parliament. “Why should Ido so?” he
enquired in astonishment. “I am not a Scotch-
man, and so no Scotchman would vote for me;
nor am I Irish and entitled to expect the Irish
vote. lam only English, and, therefore, cannot
necessarily look for the English vote. In fact,
there is no English vote.” Is Bull in Australia
becoming clannish at last?
* * * *
The abortive discussion in the Adelaide
Convention re the proposed Easter recess incident-
ally illustrated the varieties of mind that go to
nation-building. Certain Christians desired Fri-
day to be a holiday for an Anti-Jewish celebration;
certain Jews wanted Saturday a holiday for an
Anti-Christian one ; both parties agreed to lie low
on Sunday, and both sent up a, lusty voice to
devote Monday to the Onkaparinga (Adelaide)
races.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —When that victim of a
Judge’s liver complaint up Bingara way (he got
three years’ hard, including nine months’ solitary,
for annexing a ninepenny tin of baking powder !)
comes out of “ quod,” his testimonial might be of
value to an enterprising baking-powder manu-
facturer. How would this do—
Three years ago I used (say) Gibson’s baking powder,
since when I have used no other. —Yours, etc.,
Another “ Pestilent F’lah."
P.S. —Makes pastry light and sentences heavy.
—H.H.
* * * •
Bishop G-oe : “So long as some enter the
world without brains or commonsense, so long
must there be poverty.” And parsons.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any pro vince) accompany.
Y.M. (Uralla): Can’t promise to publish poems
on gaol-warders or on any other subject till we’ve read
them Mulga Bill : Not a vestige of a new idea or a
new expression in your drought poem ..While the Gum
Boils: Declined Hori: Hardly good enough ... F. A.VV.
(Kalgoorlie): You say that if the Federal capital was
fixed by popular vote the place selected would be that
chosen by “ a majority of the people.” Not much. Say
there are 700,000 electors and about 40 places to be voted
for, the place at the head of the poll might have only
100,000 votes or less J.M.F. : Two jokes -one a chest-
nut about hell, and one about ladies' underclothing
Platypus : Very old Hebrew' second-hand clo’ shop anec-
dote A.P.D. : No demand for scraggy poem about the
seduction of a deaf girl Clodhopper: Your verses on
Fitz Gibbon are even worse than F. Gibbon’s verses on
things in general ..Una (Narrabri) : Many thanks .....
Ivanhoe : An old Bulletin story retold An Embryo
Quack : The Bulletin takes money for patent-medicine
advts. ! Certainly ! And it denounces the great bulk of
the said medicines as rubbish and their published testi-
monials as shams ! Certainly ! The money received from
the patent-medicine liar helps to pay the salary of the man
who denounces him. If the paper didn’t take the liar’s
money it mightn’t be able to pa}' the salary of the de-
nouncer, and then he wouldn’t denounce .....B. : “The
unanimous wallop of grovelling stomachs on the floor
around the throne ” is a good expression Baal Gammon :
Each accident insurance co. makes its own definition. If
one of them likes to say that lightning-stroke is accident
and sunstroke isn’t there’s nothing against it Constant
Subscriber : Can’t undertake to publish “ local incident
about the cook hanging a cat, which caused great
laughter.” J. G. O’D. (Oakleigh) : Thanks. Will use.
Pakeha : One tale is implied seduction, the other
seduction straight with moist, warm, huggy cir-
cumlocution thrown in. Can’t publish moist, warm
hugginess in a family paper like this Y. : Yes
A.R.A. : Sorry unavailable C.A. : Can’t always give
reasons for refusal. Life too short. Eight times in
ten the reason is that your skull (or ours) isn’t big
enough R.H. : Neither funny nor original Minx :
You haven’t hit it Bob N. : Unprintable Carl-
tonian : No, thanks .. C. W.G. : Reoeived Horseshoe j
Both unusable. ...B.S.M. : Veteran wheeze. H.P. :
Rare as a barmaid in spectacles FitzG B. : Your lines
read just so—we don’t quite mean Fitzgibbonish. There
is an awkward juxtaposition of words, as in “ Oh, Promise
Me,” when the singer asks a (presumed) girl to let him sit
beside her in her eyes Toe-ragger : Pretty good ; will
try and use S.B. : Nothing in it R.J.M. (Haw-
thorn): Another uncooked story D.W. (M.L.) : Verse
nicely worded, but getting rather thin for space ; try for
more brevity, novelty, force J.F.H. : Get some ideas..,..
Bull-bait : Received Newcastle : Old Recklaw :
Very trite Austral : “God Save the Queen” is in the
Church of England hymnbook, wherefore any clergyman
may give it out at any service Elisheba : Can’t accept
letters on such conditions Weka(M.L.) : “Bushwhack-
ing” acceptable, but “A Welcome ” too deliberately in-
vades the realms ofjhe gruesome Cal. C. : They just
miss the mark J.D. (8., Q.) : It tails off too much
M.L. (Tas.) : True bill? Also, what is the name of the
building? D.H. : Can you call? 6xB: “Sixteen’
too suggestive R.A.A. : ’Tain’t worth much Coo-
lana : Now, at cutting-out a bullock you could probably
give us points, but at writing the office cat could give
you two dozen country exchanges and the most persever-
ing poet T.S.B. : Can’t use C.P. : Probably verse:
but the prose hardly novel or forcible enough H. A.C.:
Verse dull ..Ascot: No fault in particular, except that
it’s manufactured in a head like this o, and we want it
manufactured in a head like this O G.G. : But it
doesn’t gee-gee :it only snail-snails H.N.A.: Most of
your questions have been answered at various times,
and we can’t undertake the task of wading through
them seriatim. Sketch-ideas unusable B.: Dislike
dialect; and verse is too long for pith W.B. (Vic.): Too
sermony N.V.P. : Pretty mawkish Janus : Dashed
off—in three senses Breaker : Far too long and watery-
inked for the point Quiz : Capable ; too essayish for our
print. Hang your comments on topical pegs
L.R.M. : “ Deschard” starts anywhere and ends nowhere.
Besides, the name Deschard is Becke’s copyright
Senlette: Those pretty little pins came in handy
S. Arthur : Just let the dream-plot rest. The poor thing
has been worried to skin-and-bone D.C.K. : No value.
C.A.B. : Rather less value Allie : Simply drivel-
ling C.H. : Fair album verses Cashamba : The
Afghan’s fight with the camel wants a better pen—
Hazlitt’s, say Meanatchie, also D.M'F., also 5.8., also
Angus : Can’t print those azure and ordurous yarns, but
we’ll tell ’em to the angels when we’re dead Old Stock-
whip : Better stick to facts Katie: “Dear Bulletin,
any use?” Dear Katie, no use F.B. : Good sense ; bad
verse George Bruce : Condense that cloud of verbiage 1
concentrate those sprawling images! Wanderer: Not
quite up, old man —the “ old man ” being put there in an
affectionate spirit to soften the blow a little, because
you’ve done your level best in something out of your
line J.W. : So hot out your way that you have to keep
the cartridges in the water-bag to stop ’em exploding?
But that wouldn’t have been safe out our way, for the
water always caught Are before Christmas, and the rest of
the summer we drank nothing but condensed mirage
Five-railer: Couldn’t clear it C.C. : “Brunker” has
that irritating air of being written up to an idea
A.Z.B. : Considering P.T. : Not unlike it W.B.
(Vic.): “ Reminiscence ” too much untutored imagina-
tion Marie B. : Unusable W.M.F. : Nothing’s-worth
of emptiness tied in six knots 0.8.0. : Not much in-
terest by itself Two D.’s (W.A.): The usual hungry
Coolgardie “blow.” M.E.G. : Not up Phil R. :
Rhymed copybook-maxims. Nothing we love more than
copybook-maxims—in copybooks W.P.B. : Milk-and-
water rivulet meandering through meadow of stale senti-
ment E.E. : Bit too thin, despite characterisation
W.S.S. : Gushy-mushy-slushy J.F. : Thanks ; but we
can’t take very much Transvaal J.M. (M.L.) : Flat
H.W.B. : You say, “Roll, heave, and swell, thou ever-
moving ocean 1 ” —and you a Byron who hasn’t budded
enough to address a decent puddle! G. 1.8. : Rather
clever; but only a “religious” paper could print it
Paul Hope : Lot you know about wild aboriginals
W.C.A. : The familiar mountainous yarn made from an
ant-hill F.C.C. : Blackfellows’ gibberish is just as tedi-
ous as any other fellows’ gibberish. Phormi: Not up. ...
F. A. Hank : Will print Hot Cross : Please send
address.


R, OSE ’ S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimnyss of Sitrht, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Lead a,™- Sydney
Oculists. If. .4. ROSE, Chemist, 531 Georg e-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
Write for Patterps
Of the following new and fashionable
Dress Fabrics :
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters, etc.,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
WANOO!
The following speaks for itself:—
t , w erris Creek, 15th March 1897
Manager, Loasby’s Wahoo Mftr. Co Ltd
171 Kent-street, Sydney. ’
r J/. ear Sir,—For some years I have suffered from
TISED REMEDY th ? Ugh f r tHe,! EVERY ADVER-
<<VV A f r(»o™ IfT’ no rehef Ulltil I used
“ WAHOO” aboufc half a bottle of
•u 1 j , n y appetite returned, my headaches
vanished, and the PAINS BELOW MY SHOULDERS
and in my side, which I thought had become chronic
also disappeared. “ WAHOO -is splendid It has
made a new man of me. spmnuia. it nas
Yours truly,
JOHN M'GARRIGLE.
WAHOO!
Loasbjr's
«tl° e 26, from all Chemists and
storekeepers, or Post Free from
“Waboo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER .
r „ Sydney, April 20,1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
Women at Rand wick races on Saturday and
Monday were a sweltering crowd groaning beneath
too-previous winter garments and a much-too-
ardent sun. A few fortunate ones had furbished
up seasonable apparel from the wreck of last
season’s chiffons, and managed to look less boiled
than the majority, but the mass of fur and velvet
and heavy cloth gave a sensation of universal
smother. On Saturday, amid a thin stand, a
purple gown from Paris stood out conspicuously,
worked with pleated black silk and glittering
braid; a girl in another importation wore a bodice
showing quaint arrangement of flimsy and furry
bodice trimmings in stripes. Several tweed suits
were copied from the Tivoli sporting girls’ frocks,
and very heavy they looked. A bride from Mel-
bourne wore a tailor-made, and repeated it on
Monday. One woman wandered about holding
tight on to her silken skirts with both hands,
thereby showing mueh grass-lawn and lace frillery
beneath.
Cup-day went with a swing. The stand, includ-
ing the vice-regal box, was packed. The Gover-
nor’s party was clad, to a woman, in belated
summer frocks, and every A.D.C. looked exactly
like every other A.D.C., as these lofty youths
always do. Lord Kilmorey, who was here with
H.R.H. of Saxe Coburg many years ago, both
under different names—the nobility have usually
an alias or two in the family—surveyed the field
through elongated field-glasses with a bored ex-
pression. Mrs. Freeman Thomas, with hubby
well in sight, looked happy as usual. His Ex.
made the breasts of some of the Zenda Co. swell
with pride by conversing for quite a while with
the handsome mother of one of them, dressed in a
pink velvet bonnet and black and white gown
of pronounced design. The bridegroom-elect
looked white and wan, and wore Knowles-like
pants. Miss Ferrar had a lattice-work of black
velvet on a loose-cut jacket. Noney Seabrooke,
in a pretty white embroidered frock, made a
modest book and “ fell in ” over every race. A
marvellously slim boy, palpably corseted, looked
like a double of his own walking-stick. A
prominent Melb. lawyer was dividing his atten-
tions between a leading actress and a golden-haired
cafh divinity ; on Saturday it was 6 to 4 on the tea-
room girl; on Monday she receded slightly in the
betting. The brother of an Australian actress
now making a name at ’Ome escorted Mrs. M.
Morris, who was enwrapped in an ermine cape
rather too warm for a Borchgrevink’s polar search.
The A.J.C. secretary’s daughter wore a hat
with multitudes of white plumes like an in-
fant’s funeral. The wife of Australia’s only
Jewish Judge had a gown of a fashion
that few have caught up to yet—wide navy velvet
skirts and spreading cape of the same, much
jetted; black sleeves and low-cut neck-band. Some
courageous donners of the sac-back coat only suc-
ceeded in getting all-overish baggy effects, and
seemed too small for their clothes. At tea-time
there was a hurried scramble for a large cup of
strong, bitter fluid and thick, unappetising slabs
of cake. A daintily-served refreshment-room on
the tea-shop plan would be an immense additional
attraction to Rand wick.
On Easter Monday, at Rand wick, the leading
man of a visiting dramatic co. was taken in tow
by an influential society dame who introduced
him to the Nicest only, and had him to her after-
noon-tea ; whereby the feud between the red and
black Elphbergs is reproduced in real life with
added bitterness.
It is an oddly incongruous sight to see Puritan
girls arrayed in sad-colored garb and white bib
and tucker selling elaborately ornate clerical vest-
ments at the Cardinal’s Fair. Also, the worship
of the horse is blessed by the fact that the wife of
a prominent bookmaker is presiding at the Rand-
wick stall, which is arranged with a back-cloth
representing an alleged Spanish street—if a street-
scene is particularly picturesque and back-slummy
they always label it Spanish ; for which reason
Balmain would pass well as an ancient Iberian
sea-port. Mrs. Toohey’s Indian embroidery has
been bought up rapidly. I have seen some gowns
in the making for this week’s festivities, with
much wealth of Ind. worked up into the indis-
pensable “ boleerio,” as fashionable costume-
builders will persist in calling the short jacket
now the mode. For the rest, the Hindoo finery
at the Burwood stall resolves itself chiefly into
fans and gaudy brassware.
The fancy-dressed damsels at the Fair are doing
good business in more ways than one during the
progress of the carnival. Going about begging in-
discriminately for customers gives the most re-
tiring girl an insight into the methods of less-
restricted walks of life, such as barmaiding and
cafe-serving. And then they can speak to strangers
without introduction, and chaff the prevalent
straw-hatted youth and enjoy his brilliant return
sallies; also the bazaar belle can extract in one
evening more coin from his pockets than she can
screw out of him painfully in a month after she
marries him, which she sometimes does as a result
of bazaar-acquaintance.
In a back row of the d.o. a much-bediamonded
dame made a sensation in a shady place with her
glittering tiara and riviere, or, in plain English,
hairpins and necklace, supplemented by various
brooches, bangles, etc. Sensational dressing on
the stage was not forthcoming; many of the
Nicest people present had had practical experi-
ence of the length of a court-train, and those who
hadn’t wisely suppressed a damaging astonish-
ment at the regulation yards of superfluous rags
trailing on the floor. Princess Fla via’s last gown
gave a useful example of a sac-back coat worn
gracefully. Elliott Page, who stars as a beauty,
shared honors with Miss Ferrar. She is the
sassiety lady of the co., and, with J. Knight, in
the recent Melb. season was invited out exten-
sively to Toorak’s stuccoed palaces. On Good
Friday Miss P. and her mother entertained many
of the local Nicest at an afternoon tea-drinking at
their hotel.
A crowded house worked up to a frenzy of
deafening chatter greeted “The Prisoner of
Zenda,” at Her Majesty’s on Saturday night. A
dress-circle which seemed overcrowded, over-
heated, overdressed and overfed, was intensely in-
terested in the first appearance of the Court
dresses and the much-talked of photograph-belle,
Mrs. Maesmore Morris. At her entry m a spangly
black gown with bunch of red roses, her anxious
critics simmered down into disappointedly admit-
ting that she really is a beauty, and gave their
attention to trying to find out what the play is
about. An unexplanatory prologue confuses
people to begin with, but gives Julius Knight a
chance of wearing fascinating lace and ruffles in
last century style. In the play the leading man
has a lightning-change part, personating the Eng-
lish Rudolph in a vivid wig (apparently borrowed
from Bessie Rignold) and a replica of Capt.
Ferguson’s moustache ; as royal Ruritanian
Rudolph he retains the Elphberg beet-root-colored
hair, but peels off his lip-ornament. Miss Ferrar,
who as Princess Fla via can also lay claim lawfully
to ruddy tresses, exhibits a more becoming shade
of carrots. In the Court-scene the society beauties
who enthralled audiences in the South with their
intimate knowledge of how to gracefully kick
along a train, are not on show, and are
meagrely replaced by ordinary supers who grovel
at so much per week. A Melb. girl with Clytie-
like curves, dressed in gas-green and florally-
Eatterned appendage, shows the best shoulders m
er genuflections before the Napoleonic Knight.
Miss Elliot Page’s new notion of hair-dressing has
distinction ; success lies in the knack of fixing
aright the sparkling paste-combs.
Considered from a “ sassiety ” standpoint, the
Agricultural Show at Moore Park was rather dull,
though the Nicest, to a limited number, paid
reserve prices to see the arrival and going-away of
the Govt. House party. Vice-regal gowns, like
most others of last week, showed that their
owners were mindful of the sartorial demands of
Easter-week, and were consequently limp and
faded. On Thursday, some deluded wearers of
winter garments must have shaken the dust of
Moore Park off their skirts as a testimony against
road-authorities. Country visitors plodded through
the sand as cheerfully as hens taking a dust-bath.
One oppressed dame in a coppery-hued silk flamed
in the sun and radiated heat-rays around.
After the two merry Swiss maids in the dairy,
the most cheerful exhibit was the jumping,
especially the female steeplechasing, which made
many girls resolve to sell their bikes and return to
a real live horse —until the alarming sight of one
intrepid fence-taker hanging head-downwards
from her stirrup rather restored their conceit in
the jigger which won’t jump hurdles. When his
Ex. and cortege rolled away, the wife of an emin-
ent personage, anxious to keep in the procession,
stepped into her carriage, followed by her
daughter and a shiny-hatted male, and hastily
observed “Home”—not “ ’Ome,” mind you—to
the flunkey. The surrounding throng watching
the proceeding solemnly repeated the mono-
syllable, and murmured it to each other with awe-
struck tones.
The most gruesome exhibit at the Show was a
well-advertised hearse —inaugurated with speeches
and drink at an invitation scramble attended by
a lot of fat and pompous “ business men,” whose
names made about 30 lines in the S.M. Hebald.
But why should hearses be on view at shows?
And if hearses and coffins and other such hideous
gear are to be obtruded upon people’s notice
at what is ostensibly a place of entertainment,
why should not the confraternity of ghouls be
allowed to hold a public competitive exhibition of
embalmed corpses ? Let me urge this idea on the
up-to-date committee and their enterprising secre-
tary, who, so far, have not done anything by
halves.
A Govt. House circular has been issued calling
a meeting for next Wednesday afternoon to dis-
cuss a sensible project for celebrating the record-
reign by founding a hospital for consumptives.
The Thirlmere Home holds about three-dozen
beds, and is always full. It is suggested that a
shilling-subscription be started at a Town Hall
meeting, convened by the Mayoress, copying the
successful “ Queen’s Shilling ” movement in Vic-
toria. There are just as many tuberculous patients
in non-record years as in Jubilees, but if it is
necessary to tack on a royal title to the subscrip-
tion-list before the coin is forthcoming, “ loyal ”
feelings have a commercial value which can be
utilised.
The wife of one Australian Premier is particu-
larly keen on accompanying him on his trip to the
Jubilee rejoicings. She is so much interested in
all his doings that she won’t let him go without
her. The N.S.W. Prime Minister’s wife has
wisely decided to stay behind and look after her
babies. She could hardly leave the children at
home and sail away without them. Possibly there
is no nursery accommodation at the Hotel Cecil,
and if there is the squalling of infants might dis-
turb the assembled statesmen in their cogitations
over important matters of deep Imperial interest,
so Mrs. Reid and the babies don’t go.
The Bathurst Picnic Race Ball Committee is in
trouble over the annual dance, as someone outside
the circle of City of the Plains aristocracy has had
the mean audacity to engage the School of Arts
for the very night best suited to the P.R.B.C.
While the best set was discussing reluctantly the
possibility of enjoying itself in the second-
best hall in the place, that, too, was snapped up
by some of the common herd, and only a very
third-rate building remains available to the picnic
racers. At a late date there was an awful possi-
bility that the ball might not come off at all.
Westralia’s Six Families are now swamped in a
flood of t’other-siders, but the hauteur still remains
sufficiently to brand with a broad arrow anybody
outside the pale of the half-dozen. In Perth hos-
pital flannels and linen supplied to the unfortunate
patients are all marked with the convict sign.
One sensitive invalid nearly died of horror on dis-
covering, on regaining his senses after typhoid,
that his flannel-shirt was stamped all over with
the arrow, and he hastily left hospital long before
he was really recovered.
Prince Alfred Hospital report shows that patients
have been cheered by visits from members of dif-
ferent religious bodies. Protestant nuns are now
numerous and are called sisters, only to differen-
tiate them from the old original cowl-bearers the
Wesleyan organisation are only referred to as
“ sisters ” in quotes.
The Society of Artists has rented a room in
George-street, No. 384 a, for its exhibition of small
pictures. Gov. Hampden will pay the show a
visit on 3rd May—it opens on the Ist—and the
monotony of the invariable “musical afternoon”
will be varied by special afternoons got up by
different professions.
The male beauty-show has set the discussion
going again about women’s appreciation of beauty
in men, and, of course, the late lamented Wilkes
is dragged in. As he is the only instance of an
ugly fascinating man ever mentioned, by this time
he should be considered the exception to the rule
that beauty fetches a higher price matrimonially
than brains. An “amusing man ” has not a large
following of admirers. “We seldom give our love
to a humorist.” We don’t take him seriously—or
otherwise. The professional funny man at picnics
would be a terrible person to marry ; but fancy
being tied for life to the “ serious man who rarely
smiles ” ! In fact, it would be too deadly to know
exactly the kind of man you were about to marry ;
you would lose all the charm of unexpectedness.
As Sam Rogers said, “It doesn’t matter very
much whom you marry, for next morning you will
find you’ve married somebody else. ”
The Southern traveller, Borchgrevink, has been
more successful in his matrimonial voyage than in
Antarctic waters. He was lucky enough to have a
trip ’Ome subscribed for him, and when there he
won a moneyed bride with whom he is now visit-
ing Australia. She is always clad in exploring
get-up—alpine hat, “pilot ” coat and business-like
skirt.
Mr. Tigheßyan says that Sydney girls have big
feet. Goodness knows how he found it out, but
he and editor Fitchett take the joint responsibility
of advancing the proposition that while in Melb.
“stock sizes” in footwear-stores, as Americans
call boot-shops, are 3’s and 4’s, local daisy-trippers
are mostly encased in s’s and even 6’s. This try-
ing climate again ! It is a fact that visitors from
the South here, in replacing their down-at-heel
shoes, have often to take a size larger than before.
Ada Ward, now turned Hallelujah-lass, em-
ployed as chaperon, on one of her Australian tours,
a little bull-pup always on a very long string. It
was a very respectable dog. The animal was the
cause of breaking up the devotion of an admirer-
now one of the Federal Conventioners. Meeting
her adorer one day in Spring-street, Melbourne,
the actress, remarking that something had gone
wrong with her cloak, gave him the dog’s string
to hold and—well, she let him hold it all the way
down the Opera House side of Bourke-street.
When he had made his way, with Ada’s well-
known puppy trotting after him, through the
jeering and chaffing bookies outside Tattersall’s,
he turned over Toby to its owner, and thereafter
he and Ada met as strangers.
Miss Ward is thoroughly entering into the spirit
of her conversion : she is detailing to interviewers
interesting particulars of her past career, and not
sparing herself in the recital. A newspaper-
account stated that she was married at 16, and got
divorced vvithin a year. She immediately pointed
out that it was against herself that the divorce
was obtained. The “artistic” instinct of posing
gracefully before the public here asserts itself—
another form of Jane Shore’s candle-and-penance
sheet. An actress repenting prettily in public is
much more interesting than the cruelly-wronged
wife who has got rid of the wicked husband.
i( Attractions of shopping during one of the
monster sales ” were considerably increased one
day by the appearance in the shop of Ada Baker’s
clever little, daughter, Alina Grey. This pocket
copy of Alice Leamar was most gorgeously ap-
parelled in silk, with velvet trimmings, and her
brightly-tinted hair was carefully tousled. An
imitative infant like Alma is a proud possession
for any parents, and a profitable one—but it is
cruel to force a child’s mind into such unnatural
precocity as to make her sue for gallery applause
by singing alleged comic songs about bloomers. A
child assuming to be ashamed to show her little
legs is as revolting as the taste which thinks that
sort of thing funny. And the pretended innocence
yet real knowingness covering (what should
be) babyish ignorance in such a ditty as “I’ve
asked Johnny Jones and I know now,” works up
to a most bewildering and intricate effect.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“As far a,s Melbourne is concerned, female
sympathy with lady-doctoring* is being severely
tested jugt now. Women in all the city divisions
and suburbs are canvassing women for shilling sub-
scriptions towards ‘a woman’s hospital for treat-
ment of women by women.’ The male powers that
be (and their wives) have turned a cold shoulder to
the unpretentious scheme. It comes at the most
unpromising time possible, in the face of a fashion-
able rival fund, and with seldom a poor little
newspaper paragraph to help it along. It appeals
for the bulk of its support to the poorer people
among most of whom the idea of a doctor in petti-
coats is still regarded with ignorant ridicule. The
woman missionaries with their collection-cards
have to fight prejudice on one hand, and hard-
uppishness on the other, and if in the end they
can show a substantial sum for their cause the
local Argus will feel ill for a week after publishing
the grand total.
“Women are like apes, only more so. In Mel-
bourne they ape the ape. The latest popular
actress sets the fashion. Has she a peculiarity in
her walk, straightway you find that peculiarity
affecting the whole procession of ladies upon the
Block on Saturday morning, or on St. Kilda
esplanade Sunday afternoon. If the smile is
remarkable, that smile haunts you everywhere it
grins out of every ‘fashionable’ feminine face,
and, it you are sensitive, gets on to your brain
and guns at you in your sleep. Miss Frances
Ross is responsible for the smile that is just now
pervading Melbourne ; the Princess of Zenda walk
has just caught on, but Cora Brown-Potter’s dis-
mantled hair and hat-tilt still hold sway, and the
Brown-Potter glare a cross between anticipations
of nausea and maidenly meditation, has not yet
been deposed. If a bandy actress with a cackle
* e u a trm mphant hen were to come along and
catch on, I am confident that all the swagger
young women of Melbourne would presently go
warped m the legs, and pipe that snigger all over
week° Wn h marvellous fideli ty in less than a
“ The floral-tribute farce was carried to pre-
posterous lengths at the braw Caledonian per-
,n,Mp bOI T one P lum P a nd smiling
lady spoke about six short, scattered sentences in
the course of a scene, and after every sentence a
few bouquets were passed over the footlights The
P uu’i o u C ° UrSe ;- Came t 0 a st °P at thes « moments
whilst the audience gave a ‘ reception ’ to each
bouquet. An actress, under the same circum
stances, would have kicked the inopportune
bunches of vegetables aside. 11
“Melbourne sassiety is whispering of two
divorce petitions filed before Easter. In one cZ
(which will have a strong interest in Sydney
Hebrew circles) an aggrieved husband-a musician
-applies for financial revenge upon a ‘ betrayer ’
who looms gaudily at levees and other official
functions Rumour says that hundreds—posi
tively hundreds—of captured letters testify to the
co. s affection for the grass-widow, vvas
SK £p k e r the
intensely respectable legal firm, petitioner being
the daughter of a partner, whilst her husband has
or had a share in the business. Here it was the
wife who returned to Victoria from abroad to put
the machinery in motion. Hubby seems to have
disappeared ere the dashing matron burst upon
the scene of his alleged indiscretions, hence the
belief, the sorrowful belief, that he will not turn
up to defy the allegator, and provide spicy details
for the newspapers.
“ Mr. Theodore Napier, who, during a long
residence in Melb., masqueraded as a Highland
Chieftain of the last century, is just as striking
and picturesque a figure in the streets of Edin-
burgh at the present time. An Edinburgh paper
thus describes him : ‘ With his white moccasins
and the enormous cairngorm in his shoulder
brooch, his collar of fine Honiton laee, and his
cockade quite a foot long, he is a picturesque and
imposing personality. He is every inch the
picture of what a Highland chieftain'might have
been in the days when Black Roderick passed
round the fiery cross, and when the heather was
the home of an indomitable and warlike race.’
Mr. Napier’s startling costume, it appears, is
designed as a protest against Scotland’s ind’ivi-
duality being covered up by so one-sided and re-
strictive title as ‘ England ’ where the whole island
is meant.
“ A bona-fide lord is living a secluded life at a
fashionable St. Kilda hostelry. The noble hermit,
35 years of age, is in poor health, and attended by
a valet (who transacts all his business) and a
medical attache. He dines in his own rooms, and
is so exasperatingly exclusive that, last week, a
lady-boarder rigged up in cap and apron ’to
invade and reconnoitre the noble quarters. She
reports that the invalid’s surroundings are quite
commonplace, with the exception of travelling
appurtenances and toilet fittings—which are
aesthetic. Unfortunately, she forgot to bring
away a full description of his lordship’s tooth-
brush.
“ Matthew Davies was recently asked to deliver
a lecturette to the Try Excelsior boys at South
Yarra. The subject chosen for the discourse bore
the edifying title‘Honesty.” The discourse was
most convincing.
“ Lecturer Naylor, of Ormond College, Melb.
University, is one of the distingud beaux in Mel-
bourne, very much after the style of Chas. Ryley
in ‘dear Charley’s’ best days. The Prof.’s for-
get-me-not blue eyes, with luxuriant lashes, are a
religion among girl-graduates, and at Toorak
Sunday-high-teas they have been likened to twin
suns shining upon heaps of slain. One eye alone
suffices to kill at first shot. Also, Orpheus’ lute
was a tin-whistle compared to the magic of his
singing, and the figure of Adonis sinks into
nothingness beside his fine scholastic proportions.
It was this dilettante who ran the Greek play
Aristophanes’ ‘Birds,’ at Ormond, last year. And,’
ye gods ! he is a bachelor, and at large.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
A chapter from the history of the mad
New Guinea rush. From the log of a vessel just
arrived in Cooktown from Woodlark Island (an
alleged goldfield off the New Guinea coast)
Left Woodlark Island for Samarai on the 21 st March
with 40 passengers, most of whom crawled to the vessel
stricken with fever and dysentery. Just after leaving a
miner named Kennedy, hailing from Castlemaine (Vic )
died, and was buried at sea. On the following day, just
after the bunal of Kennedy, his mate named M‘Donald
hailing from same place, died. . . On the Ist April a
miner named Boyce, from Castlemaine, died and was
buried at, sea. . John Smith, an old Starcke miner,
died at 11 o clock on 6th instant. A miner named Rarw-
stone, late of Croydon, died on I.3th inst. While the
vessel was anchored at Cape Melville, Wm. H. Grant,
22, a well-known northern compositor, and an old man
named Dwyer died. . . One man named Dale went
mad on the voyage. . . Every two out of three men at
Woodlark are sick, and they are dying fast.
Ihe periodical accident has happened to
the peace of Europe, and at latest advices the
Greek and the Turk were fighting each other on
their mutual frontier, with all manner of possible
results ahead. The present state of things is a
cheerful satire on what is called the “ concert of
the Powers.” These six overwhelming nations
gave orders to the Turks for six years, off and on
to do certain reforms in Crete, and the reforms
never eventuated. When the latest Cretan in-
surrection began they gave orders to the com-
batants to cease butchering each other, and they
went right on and butchered just the same. The
Greek invasion followed, and the Powers gave
positive orders, at least a dozen times, that the
-Hellenes should take an immediate denar*
ture, notwithstanding which they still re-
main. And after many stern commands
that the Greeks and Turks should keep the peace
on trie border, these two nations have now started
a splendid free fight, while the Powers looks on
aghast. If Greece and Turkey are left to settle
things by themselves, the utter knock-out of the
former is quite certain ; numbers are heavily
against Greece, and the Ottomans, man for man,
can wipe the floor with the Athenians of the pre-
sent day. Possibly, however, an insurrection
in Macedonia, or a declaration of war from
bervia or Bulgaria or Rou mania or Montenegro
or all four at once, may take the Turks in the rear
and make a diversion. Also, there is always a
possibility that the Young Turkey party may rise
in Constantinople, and wipe out Abdul-Hamid
11., and put some fresh lunatic on the throne in his
place, and thus make a change of scene. Moreover
the usual end of troubles in Turkey is the swarm-
mg of a Russian army over the frontier, and if
Russia steps in the present appearance of things
is that the other Powers are too much flabber-
gasted to interfere. The “concert of the Powers”
seems to consist of five bewildered paralytics hold-
ing each other up and Russia looking on.


EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
Liverpool & London & Globe, Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRoT FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates.
Head Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 £9,708,495
Total Claims Paid ... ... ... 32,796,549
Total Claims Paid in Australasia ... 2,259,404
Income for Year 1895 ... ... 2,339,622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
»"ll
ill'll
/,<>
illli
wllllllll.lllll
Mt£
m
M.
L'millllll! 1 '
>V
mm
2k
9m,
*£®i«aaS*
\K
Si
rtlmn!
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—op—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- • - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
, All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and l have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Personal Items.
Gilding the lily banqueting Premier
Reid.
Premier Nelson served his time to an
accountant in Ipswich (Q.).
It wasn’t one of the absolutely-bald N. S. W.
Judges who lately advocated the abolition of
wigs.
Persistent attempts are made to put away
a high Vic. police official for a peccadillo before
the Flood.
Louis Becke’s next volume of S.S. life is
to be entitled “ Pacific Tales.” Fisher Unwin is
to publish it in May.
The Lord Newry Hotel, Melbourne, is a
reminder to Kilmorey—who, by the way, calls
himself “Kilmurray.”
A very well-known Australian pressman,
who edited a Sydney weekly a few years ago, is
now a travelling palmist in N.S.W. backblocks.
A Sydney Chow, who lately left Sydney
for the Flowery Land, built up a fortune of .£BOOO
in 10 years, from the humble beginning of a walnut-
pedlar.
Melb. : “Unlikely that Hartley Williams
will appear on the Bench again. He never got
over his crab about Madden, and had made up his
mind to retire this year.”
N. : “I see it obtrusively noted in the
press that the Melb. farthing-in-the-£ man is
going home in style on the English celebration of
Queen Victoria’s Accession.”
Of the ten Victorian delegates to the Con-
vention, five have been either professional jour-
nalists or regular paid contributors to newspapers,
viz., Berry, Deakin, Quick, Isaacs and Peacock.
Mr. T. A. Coghlan, of N.S.W. Public Ser-
vice Board, is to marry a daughter of the late Mr.
D. C. J. Donnelly, erstwhile member for Cowra,
and will leave Sydney for England per R.M.S.
Rome.
An ex-policeman, just returned from
Westralia, says that the first man he met on
arrival in Perth from the goldfields was a quon-
dam able metropolitan magistrate of “ genial ”
habits, who offered to carry hiß baggage for a fee
of sixpence.
The first man of Australasian birth to
occupy a seat in the British Commons was Chis-
holm Anstey, a Tasmanian and a barrister, elected
for Mallow, Ireland, in 1847, as a supporter of
Smith O’Brien.
R.: “ Sydney doctor-lawyer
Todd is outdone by Dr. William
Lowell Mullen, who is Master of
Arts, Bachelor of Laws, Doctor of
Medicine, and Bachelor of Surgery,
and practises both at the bedside
and the bar. W.L.M. is the
talented eldest son of dead book-
seller Mullen, who gave his name
to Melb. ’s most frequented book-
shop and Block rendezvous.”
Horan, the Southern Cross
(W.A.) station-master who told
Gov. Jerrysmith to mind his own
business when the latter ventured
to interfere in a detail of railway
management, has been dismissed,
ostensibly for rudeness to another
passenger. At his valedictory ban-
quet at Southern Cross recently,
Horan ascribed his dismissal to
the Governor’s resentment, and
said that he would have still been
in the service but for his encounter
with vice-royalty. Nor was the
contention denied.
Ex - Commissioner Speight
nearly lost his life recently—an
incident unnoticed by the Wes-
tralian press. He had been com-
missioned to look over the timber
areas of one of the many timber
companies. With others he was
riding on a truck when the engine
bumped into another train on the
same line—quite a common occur-
rence in those parts. Speight was
thrown between two trucks and
picked up unconscious, his head
very badly cut. He was, at latest,
to be seen in the streets of Perth
with his face like a badly-damaged
paper-plan of bis own Victorian
railway-system
Memoriesof a famous divorce
case were revived, in Melbourne
the other day, by the announce-
ment that W. J. Malpas had died.
Malpas of yore was a cold, hard,
uncanny - looking land-owner,
whose wife had been a faithful
partner in their struggling days.
When prosperity came, the man
ceased to appreciate his jolly,
warm - blooded spouse, and she
lapsed into “indiscretion.” Malpas
got his divorce, but a sympathetic
Judge (Higinbotham) awarded the
wife substantial alimony. In after
years Malpas turned to share-
broking, and was the chief pro-
moter and the first manager of
Melb. Stock Exchange Club.
The lay staff of one Australian denomina-
tional paper is made to begin each day’s jour-
nalistic work with prayer.
W. C. Rodgerson, P.M. of Glen Innes, who
died last week, was some quarter of a century ago
an appreciated Sydney pressman. He devoted
himself later to the country press, but finally
settled down as Beak.
Policeman: “It was an uncle of Ned
Kelly’s who put away bushranger Power for a
reward of =£soo. It became known in the force,
through an order for the money coming into
the hands of a relieving officer.”
In one respect, Acting Chief-Justice
Boucaut (S.A.) is an improvement on the per-
manent occupant of the office. He is never late
in taking his seat on the bench, whereas Chief-
Justice Way was never punctual.
Peacock’s laugh furnished columns to the
Convention reporters, especially to the Adelaide
men. But, in its way, Kingston’s grunt, with
which his speeches and his conversation alike are
punctuated, is quite as remarkable a thing.
Vic. : “Although Chief Police Commis-
sioner Chomley is allowed to hold on, at 65, by
Act of Parliament, speculation is rife as to the
next man. The fact is, it is hopeless looking
through the Victorian force for a successor. ”
N.S.W. has had seven Presidents of Leg.
Council and eight Speakers of Leg. Assembly. Of
the Presidents only Lackey, the sitting one, sur-
vives ; of Speakers there are four yet to the good
—Daniel Cooper, Barton, Young, and Abbott.
“Billy” Grimes, the Brisbane draper,
whose will was proved at over <£16,000 the other
day, is to have a monument to commemorate him
in an English church. He was the first Queens-
lander baptised into the Congregational Church.
Painter Arthur Streeton, writing from
Cairo to a Victorian artist-chum, enthuses over
Egyptian surroundings, and meditates making a
stay there. Streeton’s “at homeness ” in the
gorgeousness of Cairo color is easily understood, as
his best pictures display more Oriental than Aus-
tralian coloring.
Cecil Rayne, whom Chief-Justice Darley
had flogged last week at Tamworth, wore, it
seems, a black coat—and even spectacles. He was
a Sunday-school teacher and lay preacher, and his
offence was, of course, criminal assault on a young
girl. The first “genteel” person N.S. Wales
has ever excoriated!
Mrs. Goodwin, widow of the once well-
known Dr. John Goodwin, died last week at
Scone (N.S.W.), aged 87. Dr. Goodwin was one
of the first to take up residence at Scone, as far
back as 1837, and for many years performed the
combined duties of doctor, parson, politician,
alderman, and constable.
“HOW LONG, OH LORD, HOW LONG?”
“I’ve got ’erjorb at Wagger, an' only want ’er few bob to see me
on the road.”
“Oh, stow that! Why, I gave you a shilling on the same lay
last week.”
“Well —how long d’yer experk a man to live on a shillun?”
H. : “Re Bulletin pars, on Ricciotti
Garibaldi. Marcus Clarke told me he went to see
Ricciotti one Sunday at Brighton, Melb., and
Ricciotti showed him his newly-invented chicken-
incubator, which was afterwards said to have
blown up with an explosion.”
CAN AFFORD TO RETIRE .
SHE: “ Well, Willie, will you be sorry if the Queen dies?”
WILLIE: “No! You see, it don’t matter so much now —as she’s
got the record!”
Henry Ayers, six times Premier of S.A.,
and, outside vice-regal domains, the only G.C.M.G.
in Australia, will be 76 on May 1. He was, for
37 consecutive years (1857 to 1894), a member of
the S.A Leg. Council, over which he was president
for 13 years. He came to S.A. 57 years ago and
made his pile out of Burra Burra copper.
James Fletcher and W. B. Dailey, whose
statues have been unveiled—one in Newcastle and
one in Sydney—within a few days of one another,
were cordially intimate for many years. One
speech written by Dailey for the use of a politician
whose lungs were sounder than his brains, passed
through Fletcher’s hands to the noble Stentor.
levers, of Melb. Corporation, informed
his fellow-councillors last week of how he was an
English soldier in Spain when the news arrived of
Victoria’s accession to the Throne, whereupon he
helped to raise “ a shout which rang over the
mountains of Valencia.” For sixty years he has
kept it bottled up, and now he is ready to shout
once more.
N. : “Re Way. Wrixon, after arguing in
Ah Toy v. Musgrove before the Privy Council,
expressed his surprise at the offhand way in which
its pleadings were conducted—no -wigs or gowns,
no oratory, mere conversation. All the legal
fuss and feathers are merely to hoodwink the
public. The highest. English Court is just an
American Court, in practice.”
The Vic. Cabinet stipulation, in recom-
mending the commutation of Phillips’ death-
sentence, that the full term of 20 years shall be
served, is not only contrary to usual practice, but
in itself practically futile. A to-day’s Cabinet
stipulation in a matter of a prisoner’s punishment
has as much effect on a Cabinet of 15 years hence
as would a stipulation on a tariff question.
Is military enthusiasm an indication of a
weak mind ? When Captain Pursy Chirnside for-
warded to the Vic. Government his cheque to cover
the exes, of an Easter encampment, he threw in a
“funny” stipulation that the Govt, astronomer
should be “ directed to arrange for fine weather.”
It is distressing to think That a humorist of this
description oan be born with the power to pay a
solid =£2ooo for his little joke.
Rather convincing testimony to the steady
business character of the Federal Conventioners,
as a body, was supplied by the boss of a leading
hotel in Adelaide, who said, “The blankers don’t
spend a shilling.” Boniface’s notion of a high-
class delegate was, seemingly, a man with plenty
of-public spirit in him— i.e., public-house spirit—
and lots of leisure time for exchanging political
opinions with the bar nymphs.
The most persistent litigants in N.S.W.
are the two Lucases, father and son, who allege a
long-standmg grievance against veteran Neeld in
connection with a Wyalong mining-claim. Their
case, in one form or other, has been heard of
almost weekly for three or four years past. The
two plaintiffs dispense with lawyers—and only
budge at Equity jurisdiction, where small techni-
calities have more than once tripped them up.
Portraits of Milner, the neu
British South African commis-
sioner, remind one very much of
what Hori Grey was forty years
ago—particularly in the pose of
the head and the shape of chin
and lips.
Editor Vosper, of Coolgar-
die Miner, has “ settled his per-
sonal differences ” with Smiler
Hales, and gives the latter a
slightly qualified support in his
Parliamentary candidature for
Coolgardie in the Labor interest.
Yet Hales, in his paper, called
Vosper names of which “ long-
haired mongrel ” was one of the
mildest, and Vosper was editori-
ally pleased that the local Labor-
organisation, on selecting Hales
as president, had appointed its
officials for a short term only, as
some of them were unfit to be at
large for half the period. Like-
wise, Hales went to the Miner
office and the pair indulged in
hair-pulling and scratching until
the comps, pulled Hales off, and
he was subsequently fined in the
police-court, while each side
whooped about its victory in its
respective paper. But such mat-
ters are easily adjusted in Cool-
gardie.
A “ parcel ” of 50 Australian
landscape paintings, by Curtis,
destined for the Stanford Univer-
sity (Cal.), is pretty venomously
criticised by the fraternity of
Melbourne artists. Mr. Stanford,
of Melbourne, has for years past
had Curtis in constant commis-
sion to paint Australian bush
scenery from a matter-of-fact
point of view, and these 50 can-
vasses are intended to show the
natural characteristics of the
country to students at the Uni-
versity aforesaid. As educational
works of the class of art which
puts no strain on imagination Cur-
tis’s landscapes are more or less
admirable. Also, the fact that
they represent a big cheque for
the producer is likely to have a
chastening effect upon many
envious snorters whose pictures
please nobody at all. It may
encourage those hungry impres-
sionists to paint something that
pleases somebody, even if it be
only a signboard picture.
Defaulter Craddock, of the Katoomba,
distinguished himself at Hobart by attending the
Anglican Synod’s sessional meeting and delivering
addresses on the amount of good he was doing
among the crews of the fleet. His earnest manner
carried conviction to the hearts of many. Some
of his hearers were moved almost to tears, and the
grey-beards pointed to him as a worthy example
to all young men. There is little doubt that the
unfortunate officer utterly lost his mental balance
over his love-affair.
Gov. Buxton’s aide, Capt. Guise, is one of
the goodiest of young men. He takes parcels of
tracts with him on country journeys. On a re-
cent trip up the Murray in the Government
steamer, he distributed tracts at each stopping-
place. At one settlement he made kind enquiries
after the soul of a deaf bush man. “ Well, sir,”
said the man, who thought he was referring to the
farm, “ the drought and the rabbits have played
the very devil with it this year.”
“ Constant Reader,” to The Bulletin :
Having seen in your issue of 10th April the reproduc-
tions of ’Frisco prison portraits of Butler-Harwood-Ashe,
I am now thoroughly satisfied that he is the man who
was employed by the Coolgardie police as private detec-
tive in the hope of the speedy arrest of the perpetrator
of the Broad Arrow, or Bardook, murder. Without a
doubt it is the same man, and no doubt the portraits will
be at once recognised in the West.
This story does not much impress this paper,
which lets it go just for what it is worth.
Old George Throssel, the new Westralian
Lands Minister, is pretty deaf, but not always so
deaf as his friends think him. A young man was
introduced to him a day or two after he took
office, with the intimation that Throssel was as
“ deaf as h—.” The new Minister let the young
man roar and yell congratulations alternately, but
brought the y. m. and the introducer up with a
round turn by saying, in tones of Throsselian sar-
casm, “ Yell a bit louder, old chap—l’m as deaf
as h— ! ”
One convivial crowd in Adelaide shocked
Brother Brunker unspeakably. The good man who
never smoked, drank, or swore, told off to reply to
a toast at some sort of side-show, dropped into
Biblical language, and, in tones which would make
a nigger-comedian’s fortune, hoped that the founda-
tions of the Commonwealth would be “upon the
rock.” The crowd, a fairly merry one, thought
the old man was giving them burlesque, and
laughed till the speaker’s pained surprise put on
the brake.
The executors of the late Bishop Tyrrell,
who died in Newcastle (N.S.W.) 20 years ago, are
nourishing their diocesan fund in a very worldly-
wise way. Last year they bought 4000 acres of
land just over the Queensland border, and the year
before they bought 5000 acres. They intend to
increase these blocks till the whole reaches 30,000
or 40,000 acres. Meanwhile, they are stocking
heavily with sheep and cattle, and they reckon
that when their design is completed the Newcastle
Diocese will be as independent of church donations
as any lay enterprise.
Cockaigne : “ Would it surprise you to
hear thal; Rosebery, chagrined over his snub by
Princess Victoria of Wales, is trying to get a
Parliamentary Act to make him plain Mr. Prim-
rose, in order that he may tackle the Commons ? "
K.C.M.G.
Hark ! ye empty souls,
Hungering to be filled,
Kings cannot make gold ;
Kings can merely gild.


THE “RECORD” HOT CROSS BUN-AND-TREAOLE.
G.H.R.: “ It gets a fellow in a mess, don’t it?”


* fco^c T >
ilOo p eh annum
/»pf»L r
u'.t;:;.j
w h r*
'Ptrt s»flr~r'
l' ctu . „tW»>
4,fr Vitnta '
-r Vr
e
2
1 /
.
f%
e /~^^^te/-S
Y/ze r ° y & ] !>tJ ~~ <: *- t ~cl {a / %*-/iPn /s -noi*~
hh T^ ac/<a "
A x
MATTERS MELBOURNIAN.


Gran urn a for Health,
Fad. ill saoeth Wealth,
Homah for the very best of Bread;
And, if long life you'd see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And — there's really nothing Jurther to be said.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
t T?,V T S R be « eneral] y known that Rose’s
drink CoKi ’ IAL applies a delicious cooling
and ln ' vate r- ( 'hervescing m all mineral waters
-and an excellent stimulant blended with snirits
wholesome and refreshing in summed It 5 em
L axof.t Tt° f r^ P 1 ntS ‘ Recommended by the
nertips "■ P° s ‘ s^ ses valuable medicinal pro-
lating i„«i ."ifting dgS* ptoSS, JhouM
&SSL*SS? only ass
W ,LL,A M FLEMING,
-MERCHANT-
-24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive—
BAND SAW MILLS,
POKT xrt T? c C[ BCIILAR saw mills
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
WOon ENGINES and BOILERS,
woon-w ORKING MACHINERY
IMP Em 4 i 7, EEL TKAY XAVVi ' BARROWS
IMPERIAL LI BRICATING OILS,
stati.TT^vl l^ ? S heltable buggies
STAI iON WAGON.'', HARNESS, etc., etc .
C atalogue on application.
p
FLUID SHEEP DIP ]
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE” .
Mn O Dn.o h ' r i : articulars Prl «*. •«.. »ppiy to-
MORRIS, LITTLE & SO i LTD
DONCASTER, ENS., and MELBOURNE '
Or the following Agents— *
CO
CO
POLITICAL
POINTS
Port Augusta (S.A.) is the last place up to
date that announces itself as the only possible site
for a Federal capital.
One of the icicles around the Federal
Convention was the little crowd of defeated S.A.
candidates who wandered like lost souls about the
corridors. Their gloom gave visitors the shivers.
The latest aspect of sectarian fury. In
Brisbane Courier the query was recently pro-
giunded: —“ If a Presbyterian minister like
uchanan is to be appointed Immigration Lec-
turer, why not appoint also clerical representa-
tives of the Anglican and R.C. churches?”
Maoriland having a surplus this year,
Herald points out in a leading article that
the plain rule ”in such cases is to reduce taxa-
tion. A much plainer rule would be to do the
road-making out of revenue instead of with bor-
rowed money. When is that kind of rule coming
along ?
H- : The \ ic. militia needs exactly such
a reform as that wrought by Graham Berry,
while Premier, in the police, abolishing the cadet
style of officer—cadet is mostly the comparative
of cad—and allowing every private soldier to
carry the marshal s baton in his knapsack, as
Napoleon said.”
ic. Governor Latrobe, as far back as
1843, ukased for the right of the community to
unimproved land-values, when he ultimatumed
the pioneer Henty family at Portland : “ You
shall be allowed a pre-emption of such lands as
are actually under cultivation and fenced, at the
amount which it may be estimated that they would
realise without any improvements upon them.”
The Single-taxers at the S.A. Federal
Convention elections trailed right away at the
bottom of the poll, but they are having their
revenge. Under their auspices, every day a
sandwich-man ” parades up and down in front
of Parliament House, Adelaide (where the dele-
gates are sitting), between two boards, on which
are written : “Land values taxation is the true
basis of federation,”
A very nice point was raised over the invi-
tation of the Convention delegates to Broken Hill.
Though local people took the initiative, the S.A.
Ministry issued the invitations, with the result
that not a single N.S.W. man, except J. T.
Walker (who had cut himself off from the others),
went up. Most of the others who weren’t too
busy “couldn’t accept the S.A. Govt.’s invitation
to visit N.S.W. territory” !
Trenwith s defence of the maintenance of
the secrecy of the Convention Committees came
as a surprise. In effect he said that members
might feel compelled to argue in favor of a com-
promise in the committee which they dared not
support in public—surely a pretty severe reflection
upon the intelligence of the public. And a strong
argument, too, in favor of letting the public see
the mechanism behind the Cons’tooshun.
The elections for the S.A. Leg. Council,
and also the contests to fill the vacancies caused
by the death of George Ash and the insolvency of
A. L. Harrold, take place Sat., May 22. The re-
tiring Councillors are President Baker, John
Warren, W. Haslam and John Darling (Tory),
Guthrie and Kirkpatrick (Labor), Addison
(Liberal) and Dr. Magarey, a one-time Liberal
driven from grace by the hospital dispute.
Bananaland is perhaps the most resource-
ful of the Australian provinces. It has countless
acres of rich sugar land yet untouched ; a whole
El Dorado in the reefs of Carpentaria—and back
country of limitless resources. The other day
selectors took up about a million acres round
about Hughenden and Longreach, and nobody
made any particular fuss over the transaction.
It was only withdrawing a pannikin full from the
artesian bore.
J.T. Walker was very wroth at not being
chosen on the Federal finance committee, and he
refused to give evidence before it. He blames
Lyne for jockeying him out of the place. Walker
and Peacock were the only laymen on the judicial
committee, and Peacock said to the writer : “As
we shall be the only members who will not have
our eyes more or less on the fat billets we are
creating, it will be our mission to keep the salaries
and the perquisites from being fixed too high.”
Old Adye Douglas, of Tasmania, foaming
over his white beard in the Federal Convention :
“ The men who have been elected in Victoria all
represent one party. They don’t represent the
people. The candidates who represent the people
are those who were rejected. Tasmania is inde-
pendent. I have lived there 60 years. lam still
sound in mind and body. Victoria is going back-
wards. She is losing her population. She can’t
pay her debts as Tasmania can. They are a lot of
insolvents in Victoria. We don’t want any rene-
gades here.”
It looks as if “ the
Diamond Baubilee” would
express the situation.
Ex-Judge M‘Farland
proposes to stand for St.
Leonards at next N.S.W.
general election. Mr.
M‘Farland had better save
himself the trouble.
AUSTRALIA IM-
PERATRIX.
Speaking at the A.N.A. ban-
quet held at Melbourne re-
cently, Vic. Acting - Premier
Best informed the excited
Natives gathered around the
board that “their destiny was
in their own hands,” and that
“ they could help to huild up
the greatest power the world
had ever seen.” Whoop !
Away with your stories
of classical glories that
musty old Tories in col-
leges tell! —
Of Empires so splendid,
o’er earth that extended
—long busted andended!
They make me unwell.
Egyptian, Assyrian, Par-
thian, Tyrian and Graeco-
Illyrian—all are in-
terred.
Each was a world’s won-
der, and tore round like
thunder ; but all have
gone under —I give you
my word !
Though proud was old
Rome in her day, and
her women a terror to
foemen, North, South,
East and West,
A State shall rise greater
below the Equator—
you’ll get no tip straigh-
ter from young Bobby
Best.
Then here’s to Australia in
crown and regalia, and
paraphernalia of red,
white, and blue !
Though not Latin’s our
lingo we’ll show ’em, by
jingo, an Empire—yell
dingo, and jump kan
garoo !
Henry Dobson, the most frankly Con-
servative member of the Federal Convention
(likewise the most effective speaker among the
Tasmanians), established a reputation as the most
convivial of the fifty. Trenwith, the only Labor
man, established a counter reputation as about
the most terribly in earnest and mirth-despising
of the crowd. But, then, Trenwith is far from
well. _ His obvious astonishment at G. H. Reid’s
occasional misplaced levity and Gordon’s sparkling
flippancy was a thing to admire.
After all, N.S.W. Parliament is to sit
during Premier Reid’s absence. The Premier
isn’t all fat: he’s mostly elastic.
The church petitions about “the recogni-
tion of God ” evidently made a deep impression
on the Federal Convention. The drafting com-
mittee spent all Sunday (April 11) in drawing up
the new Bill.
FOOTBALL IS IN.
THE GOAL-SNEAK : “ Have you got me picked for next Saturday?”
THE LONG ’U N: “ No; you couldn’t get a goal while I hed my boot in
that bloke’s eye last Saturday.”
THE GOAL-SNEAK : Well, if I hadn’t been there to hold him while you
stood on him you wouldn’t have get on very well. So that’s
no reason.”
Mulhall : “In the matter of earnings
Australia comes first, United States second, Great
Britain third, Canada fourth, and France fifth.”
Figures are very delusive, for the Frenchman, who
comes fifth in this list, probably stands first in
material comfort. “Further,” says Mulhall, “if
occasion required, the colonies could probably pay
taxes to the extent of 20 millions, or double what
they pay now.” The which statement will pro-
bably fill the hearts of Australia’s borrowing poli-
ticians with joy unspeakable.
A NICE LI GAL POINT.
CLIENT: Now, thin, Musther Quillen, I waant some laygal advice .”
LAWYER QUILLEN : “ Very good; state your case.”
CLIENT : “ Case, is it? Well, thin, sooppoasin you was the Widdy Clancy’s ou'd gray more an’
sooppoasm I horryed yez, an’ clapped a saddle on yez, an' got on top o’ yez an’
starrted fur the township; an’ sooppoasin at the foorst hill me hem to yez bucked
an played up that bad yez fell an’ bruck yer neck; d’ye think Oi’d pay fur yez ?
Musther Quillen I’d SEE-YEZ-DAMNED foorst!"-(Seizes his hat and runs out
in a much over-heated state.)
Playfbrd has accepted a three years’ renewal
of S.A. Agent-Generalship, with the option of re-
politfcs 716 * 4 January ' His am hition is to resume
Australian Federation is at present very
hke a proposed marriage postponed while the
StL°L over the
W hen Queen Victoria ascended the throne
the population of France was almost double that
of England ; now, the numbers are about equal !
Judging from a notification published in the
oydney Courrier-Australien by Consul-General
±>iard d Aunet, inviting all Frenchmen domiciled
in Australia, who have quitted Europe to avoid
conscription, to communicate with his office, with
a view to the settlement of their relations with the
home authorities, it would appear that an all-round
exemption from future liabilities will be extended
to those who, having made money in Australia
would like to return to La Patrie.
Ihe dreadfully smart railway men of
Maoriland some months ago sold a whole lot of
their ancient and decayed rolling-stock to the
placid fossil in charge of the W.A. lines at very
nearly its value when new, and the M.L. depart-
ment still wakes up in the night to laugh over the
deal Recently the bottom fell out of one of the
mouldered horse-trucks attached to the Coolgardie
express, and the train reached the next station
with a horrid mass of mangled horse-meat trailing
behind it. It might just as easily have been a
passenger-carriage, and the meat been a syndicate
that had come out to invest half-a-million of Bull’s
money in wild-cats.
Some patriot should insist that the £lO,OOO
a year which the Convention decrees as salary to
the Governor-General of the Federation should be
defined as covering salary, allowances, perquisites
and everything. Otherwise, the bill may mount
to another .£lO,OOO. Gov. Barkly (Vic.) drew
£lO,OOO salary, but ran up an extra .£5OOO as
allowances. N.S.W. Governors have long been
drawing .£7500 as salaries, but until the last
couple of years an average of .£2500 a year was
added for extras. The U.S. President runs his
fixed salary up to <£25,000 a year by a long string
of allowances and incidentals. Carington charged
for Ins toilet-soap and stove-blacking. The amount
of salary should be fixed and stuck to.
Ireas. Holder (S.A.) is of the half-hundred
Conventioners about the smallest federalist. He
it was who first suggested in Convention that the
post and telegraphs—local services, at any rate—
should not be handed over to the Federal Govt.
He pointed out that the S.A. department pays
and the other provinces’ don’t. In his reply Bar-
ton reserved his choicest invective for Holder.
.No wonder the S.A. department pays when it
charges 2d. on a town letter and 2s. to send a
wire to Sydney,” he exclaimed. Gordon and Dr.
Lock burn, who share a good many of Holder’s
views, at once came to the latter’s assistance ; and
Barton showed more warmth than at anv time
before or since in open convention.
Item from Melbourne Punch :
>re,n ' er an( ' Treasurer has one great ambition, and
that is to see a surplus in the public accounts of the
province. We sincerely trust that his desires will be grati-
ned, and that as a result therefrom we mav shortly be
Tax t 0 ab ° lsh the and inquisitorial Income
This makes the sixth Victorian paper which has
risen, in the few weeks since a surplus be-
gan to look reasonably certain, to demand an
immediate reduction of taxation. Victoria has
2f millions of accumulated deficit to pay off
before it can honestly begin to reduce anything.
It has had six years of deficit. And at the first
sign of a £50,000 surplus a yell goes forth for the
immediate sacrifice of £1168,000 of revenue. The
blessed policy of self-reliance again.
Premier Nelson having practically promised
that Queensland will come into the Federal move-
ment in time for the second Convention, and
having then departed for England with Attorney-
General Byrnes, Tozer is left to pass the necessary
bill. And Brisbane Telegraph states openly that
iNelson and Byrnes know that the bill won’t pass
and have fixed things to that effect, and that they
have left Tozer either to make the attempt and
tail utterly, or to take the responsibility of not
making it In the first case, Nelson and Byrnes
will come back to tell Tozer what an awful bungler
he is, and, in the second, they will return to point
the finger of scorn at Tozer as a traitor to the
cause of unity. Evidently the internal loyalty of
i - e - so £' Bymes-Tozer crowd isn’t rated very
highly in Brisbane. J
Brisbane Worker, “ fche official organ of
the federated workers of Queensland,” respect-
fuHy asks Labor-leader Glassey to consider
• tune has not arrived when a change
in the leadership of the party could be made with
advantage. The party-split is widening. Glassey’s
offence-apart from ffis general tendency to hearken
to the voice of the charmer, whose name is
JnTwjf C °v: hes ! n h i s support of the bank-
and-boodle politics that he formerly denounced.
other t 0 R , h6ad when > with the
othei cajoled Labor-members, he voted against
Sith the a Q ? mV 11 Govt ‘ arrangements
■f*. SrX d A E£2Si& I sa:


ip
1C i
1
•Ml!,|l
WE ARE THE LARGEST IMPORTERS OF
PIANOS,
ORGANS
and all kinds of
Musical^
Instruments
IN AUSTRALIA.
We buy for cash at the Factories ! This is the reason
we can give our Customers such good value, at least
20 per cent, less than other Houses. We guarantee
all our Instruments and exchange free of cost if
Customer not satisfied. We have been established in
Sydney 50 years and our guarantee is valuable. We have
the largest and best selected stock of high-class goods.
If you send your order by post you can rely upon
our giving the same careful attention as though you
were personally present to select. Catalogues sent
post free on application. Easy Time-Payment Terms
can be arranged for any Instrument.
PALING & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 in Daily Use
Easiest Running
Typewriter know n
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
■
Wl
I*** 14
might-
««■
smith
22*®* typewrite*
Corrections Easily
Made.
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Direct Interchange-
able Platen.
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
This SilllTH PREIDIER TUPEUIRITER SALES
. . EXCEED A.LL OTHERS . .
THE KEYBOARD is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable. The platen is self-feeding. Line-spacing automatic, adapted for column-writing.
Automatic right and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The only typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carriage. Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing. ,
NOTE. —Second-hand Machines, of various makes, from £3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Varnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons (or ill
machines. _ _ _
. . See Our Special Typewriter Table . .
Fisber&LiQgban),
Sole Importers for Australasia
1,2 k 3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney*
At Poverty Point .
Maggie Moore’s letters from London wear a broad, an-
eouraging smile characteristic of the writer. All the ex-
Australian artists whom she saw on the stage, or who
visited her at the hotel, were looking “charming” and
getting on splendidly, and doing immense credit to their
native land. A Sydney girl has started business as a
dressmaker, or milliner, at Hanover-street, and she also
has “ lovely rooms, beautifully fitted up, and is doing
splendidly.” Maggie’s letters beam upon everything
Australian, and don’t seem to find much to admire in any-
thing else.
The advent of Phil Newbury and a few other high-grade
artists at the variety ’alls should lead to a spread of
ballad-singing and the enlistment of supporters for the
concert proper. The programme at a recent Sydney
Town Hall show by very ordinary persons did not include
a single English composition. Singularly enough, finished
artists, to whom the high-falutin’ arias are child-play, are
practically the only people who condescend to warble
simple ballads in a language which their audiences under-
stand.
A piquant Yankee variety artiste, now in Adelaide,
sings a song in which she selects two members of the
audience, an old and a young man, and warbles verses to
them, designating them “darlings,” “duckies,” and other
endearing things, generally poking amatory borak at
them. Some Conventionists, having heard the song, en-
ticed Premier Turner and Peacock to the show and
planted them in the front row. Turner’s horror at being
invited (in song) to take the young lady in short frocks
on to his knee and press her to his heart, was beyond ex-
pression ; but Peacock guffawed so riotously that the
singer broke down, and there was an interval for laugh-
ing. Turner wished he had stopped at home to draft
bills.
S.S. : “Dropped in to see the Caledonian amateurs, at
Melb. Alexandra, Saturday night week, and am now sure
that a steam-hammer could not get a joke into the aggre-
gate Scotch skull. ‘Rob Roy,’ as performed by these
amateurs, was a shrieking joke, and a large, canny Cale-
donian audience took it like pills, and between the acts
great, grey, prosperous Scotchmen shook hands enthusi-
astically at the top of the stairs, and said, ‘ Eh, mon, it’s
gran’ ! ’ as they went away in long links to feed their
patriotism with whisky. The amateur performing for
charity is liable to criticism, I take it. There are some
sins charity cannot cover. It is good for a critic to see a
performance of this sort, in order to appreciate the excel-
lencies of the worst possible pro. Davy Gaunson’s bitterest
enemy should have seen him covertly sneaking through
the part of Francis Osbaldistone, afflicted with a horrible
distrust of his clothes, and burdened with 700 pairs of
hands, and as many conflicting feet. The Rob Roy looked
freshly varnished, and fat, and red, like a bran-new whisky
advt., and remained so through all tribulations to the
sweet end. But most terrible of all was the corpse-like
gravity of the great audience, suggesting the performance
of a mad burlesque in a graveyard.”
The most refreshing item in the amateur performance
of “ Rob Roy,” at Melb. Alexandra, was provided on the
last night, when a privileged spectator, forced by the
unlicensed crowd behind the scenes, broke through the
scenery, and stood disclosed to the audience in the midst
of the boiling torrent, more unconcerned than ever a
Scotchman was before in so much water.
As to a South Sea opera, Mr. F. A. Packer, the com-
poser, writes :—“ This appeared in last Bulletin: ‘J. O.
Williamson is looking for a theme for next Xmas. There’s
an opera ready-made in any South Sea village, with the
pathetic minor strains and wild original dances of the
islanders set to an accompaniment of the roar of the surf
on the coral-reef and incessant rustling of the palms.’
Singularly enough, I had anticipated the suggestion,
having had a charmingly-written sketch of such an opera
sent me by an Australian ; and I have actually written
part of it, though interrupted in so doing by other com-
posing and an attack of illness. Speaking of the libretto
itself, I don’t think anything prettier could be put on the
stage ; but the question arises—how is a composer to get
paid for such a work ? One good song ‘ pays’ better than
a whole opera consisting of many numbers and much
thought.”
X.Z. : “Italian magician mind-reader Pagilani, who re-
cently stormed Paris, has been betrayed by a confederate.
Pagilani’s specialty was answering from the platform
questions conveyed in a whisper to an assistant moving
about among the audience. Crowds of scientists and
university professors and the like were utterly mystified.
Yet the explanation was a very simple application of the
telephone principle. Pagilani wore a thick wig flowing
down over his ears, and the reason of that flowing down
was that over each ear was a telephone-receiver connected
to a wire which passed under his clothes to the sole of his
boot. He always stood in a particular spot on the stage,
which meant that the wire-end in his boot made a circuit
with other wires passing under the floor of the hall, and
ending in contact points at certain places in the floor
known to his assistant. The assistant wore a scientific
white shirt (?) rigged up to act as the diaphragm of a tele-
phone transmitter, from which a wire passed down to his
boot-sole. Result : audience whispered at level of shirt-
front, sound conveyed by wire to contact point, thence by
wire under fi jor to Pagilani’s contact point, thence by his
wire to the receivers under his wig. If ever you want a
muddleheaded jury when conjuring, take a crowd of pro-
fessors and Supreme Court judges. They will be so
anxious to detect the obscure that they will miss the
obvious.”
A Hindoo yogi—some kind of priest—is now showing at
London Aquarium. This gentleman has bones as pliable
as indiarubber, and ties himself into knots so wonderful
that the Rontgen rays (which reveal no malformations)
are unable to explain the phenomenon. One of his favorite
exercises is to ioin his hands and play skipping-rope with
himself.
Far and away the best illusion ever thought out is the
Appearing Lady, now witching Europe under the wand
of Buatier de Kolta. There is a smallish table with four
legs. Kolta whisks a cloth on it, and leaves the edges of
the cloth off the floor, so that the audience can see under.
The cloth begins to bulge up, and a lady stands on the
table. No mirror in this trick. Scientific American
explains. Under the stage an assistant pulls the lady up
through a trap with a windlass. Kolta, arranging the
cloth, allows this to be done. She is kneeling in a kind
of cage, which crunches up as she leaves it. The windlass
wires are in the table-legs. The carpet and table-cover
patterns ingeniously fit the traps.
There is a legal process called writ of capias (ca. re)
on which a debtor can be detained in one province if
he shows a disposition to leave for another. The other
week a certain literary man drove both the capiater and
his attendant sheriff’s officer quite daft by appearing at
the Melbourne station barrier for six days in succession
(whilst the “ writters ” were on the platform watching the
departing Adelaide trains) and taunting them thus :
First day, “Grand day for travelling, boys, isn’t it?
Not going to-day. Sorry to have troubled you. Tra-la.”
Second day : “Ah, ah, you sly dogs! Enjoying your-
selves, I see, looking at the pretty girls 1 Eh ? See you
to-morrow, dear boys.” Third day : “ Well, well! you are
attentive : come again to-morrow, do, or I shall be so dis-
appointed.” And so on. As the literary man anticipated,
the bloodhounds “chucked it” the next week, and he
took train safely on the eighth day to Adelaide, whence
he considerately wired both of them announcing his arri-
val there and “‘thanking them from his innermost heart
for their enthusiastic appreciation of his society during
his most enjoyable stay in Melbourne.” Since which he
has paid up voluntarily.
John Gourlay lent a Melb. Rob Roy amateur the other
night the bonnet worn by Corbet Ryder, Gourlay’s
grandfather, the original Rob Roy. Sir Walter Scott
was at the first performance, which made more stir than
anything on record in Edinburgh. But even in a house
packed with Austral-Scotties, the bold outlaw won’t gee.
“ The second night was cold haggis,” says a contem-
porary.
The pleasing Bertha Rossow has been engaged for the
series of concerts to be given by Antoinette Sterling m
the English provinces. Sterling had for some time been
looking out for a concert soprano for concert purposes.
Austin Brereton, sometime famed and defamed in
Australia for his childlike and “ Blande ” criticisms, is
sec of the dramatic section of the Victorian Era Exhibi-
tion, London, and chief of the press bureau. Brer Brere-
ton threatens magniloquently “ to trace, with painstaking
care and accuracy, the progress of the stage from its
actual and metaphorical darkness up to its present splen-
dor ” The present writer contemplates also a marine
store section to similarly trace the advance of that pro-
fession, from the time when Tubal Cain bought Naaman
and Nebuchadnezzar’s cast-off armor at scrap-iron rates
right up through the chiffonier and bottle-oh eras to the
present Henry V. Rignoldian tin-plate splendor.
One of the best-known Vic. musicians suffers from such
amorous propensities that lady-pupils are becoming a
rara avis, and when the men fall off.'there will probably
be talk of a benefit for the “ deserving artist. Then the
girls who have been distressed by his unparliamentary
attentions (the professor, not being young and beautiful,
really did distress them) are going to sit up and snort
audibly.
" From Rev. Dr. Strong’s paper, the Australian Herald:
“ The Australian heroine and the Australian villain are
growing in popularity on the stage, and in fiction. The
premier British dramatist, Mr. Henry Arthur Jones,
makes the bewitchingly wicked temptress in his latest
play, 1 Michael and His Lost Angel,’ an Australian native.
Mrs. Audrie Leslie, who is rich, beautiful, and possessed
of more than her share of original sin, is the daughter of
an Australian millionaire. She sets herself to tempt a
high-church clergyman, and to bring about his downfall
from the pedestal of virtue on which he has set himself.
A few years back, a dramatist would have made such a
character a French woman. But fashion changes. The
French villainess gives place to the enterprising, attrac-
tive, clever, and bound-to-be-successful Australian native.
The dramatist knows his public, and, judge of character
as he is, he is aware that if he puts an Australian villainess
into his play, the audience will take her success as a
matter of course, since success and Australian nativity
are pretty well synonymous. Hence it is that this country
seems to have been appointed purveyor of frozen meat
and ehoice villainy to the British Empire.”
Graham P. Moore, of Ballarat, now a professor at London
Royal Academy of Music, has been turning out some tune-
ful love-songs lately.
Kyrle Bellew, the actor, is related to Gov. Gormanston
of Tasmania. Gormariston has been married twice. His
first wife was a daughter of Patrick Bellew, an Irish peer
and baronet of County Louth. Bellew’s father’s name
was Higgins, but being left some property by one of his
kinspeople, the Bellews, he took their name.
Superfine critic William Archer, in his book, “About
the Theatre,” is rather rough on the veteran Paulton,
soon to be with us. He gives credit to the late H. B.
Farnie, authdr of some awfully-stupid burlesques, for a
talent that was worthy of better things, and then he goes
on to instance Paulton, the part-auihor of “Niobe,” as
one who has shown “no fitness for better things.” The
Bulletin, in its ignorance of the work which Farnie might
have done, but didn’t, is disposed to reckon Paulton
the smarter show-writer of the two. “ Niobe,” although
it may be only a burlesque of Gilbert’s “ Pygmalion and
Galatea,” is not less elegant, in its farcical style, than
the famous “fairy-comedy,” nor lessoriginal than Farnie’s
imitations of French opera-bouffe. “Niobe” is a well-
sustained joke. When the Greek heroine converts old
Peter Amos into Petramos, or fires off her innocent “Yes-
mum ! ” or greets the furious mother-in-law with “ Hail
to you ! ” one doesn’t ask for better things. The authors
of “Niobe” can claim to have shown what Jack Point
would call “a pretty, pretty wit.” Who made William
Archer an authority on humor, anyway ? Why, he can’t
even see the absurd side of Ibsen’s pretentious plays.
The Hero of Trafalgar is described as cutting a dull
figure in the new (and unsuccessful) play, “ Nelson’s
Enchantress.” Somebody says that Horatio, in his amour
with Lady Hamilton, is “ always repenting bitterly and
doing it again.”
In Catulle Mend6s’ one-act piece, “The Wife of Tabarin,”
a husband kills his wife on the open stage, and the blood
gushes forth. Then the remorse-stricken husband madly
kisses the wounds and pets his face boltered with blood,
and, all jrory, addresses his further rants to a delighted
N.Y. audience. And this is realism !
E.D. : “ One gets weary of the ‘ fallen ’ woman in fiction
and the drama who has repented and taken to the work
of ministering to the ‘ pore ’ as a sort of penance. Is
charity the last resort of the ruined female? We have
had her often, we get her again in ‘ A Woman’s Reason,’
where she spends two-thirds of her time in repentant
tears, and the other third in carrying soup and blankets
to the aged and afflicted. Is there no other means of
expiation open to the deceived heroine than rubbing
old Mrs. Blank’s ‘ rheumatiz,’ spoon-feeding the bed-
ridden Hodge, and reading elevating literature to deaf
paupers? When I write my celebrated drama, I shall
make the harmless, necessary fallen female a cheerful
creature who bears her sins bravely, or else set her to
scourge herself every act before breakfast, and have her
frequent fashionable haunts, and meet all the women she
knew in happier days, wearing big boots, a hat of two
seasons back, and a horribly ill-fitting, dowdy dress of
comparative antiquity. The she-sinner who soups the
poor is, I notice, always particular about the fit of her
dress and the date of her bonnet. My latter idea, as a
guarantee of good faith in the matter of repentance and
self-abnegation, is the only genuine. Besides, if things go
on as at present, it will soon be more than a woman’s
character is worth to be found ministering to the poor.”
Many of the London caf6s have theatrophones connect-
ing them with a dozen of the leading theatres and music-
halls. A dial and pointer indicate the particular show
on circuit, and by putting sixpence “ in the slot ” any
customer may hear the vocal or instrumental efforts of
his favorite comic-opera or hall artist on the stage a
mile away.
Re the “cartwheel” hat-nuisance in theatres—some-
body writes to The Stage pointing out that actresses who
attend matinees frequently make themselves conspicuous
by means of “ hats like juvenile umbrellas,” They, at
least, ought to have some regard for the feelings of the
public situated in the rear, but they haven’t. Lovely
woman is ever a selfish animal where her vanity is con-
cerned. If the man who had paid for the offending head-
gear were seated right behind her, she would refuse to
take it off to give him a view of the performance.
The theatre-fan is becoming as big a curse as the theatre-
hat. Sometimes, when it is a square yard of palm leaf
flopping about, and making a hideous row as it flicks
against a beaded bodice.it is a bit worse than the mil-
linery monstrosities.
The religious moral of “ Silver King ” is a vexed ques-
tion. Did the Lord, to whom Wilfred Denver appealed
for aid, specially ordain the destruction of the railway-
carriage in which the fugitive was travelling to Liverpool,
so that he might appear to have been burnt to ashes, or
did the Deity inspire Wilfred to travel by a train which
was about to get overtaken by a legitimate catastrophe,
and then further inspire the penitent to jump from his
doomed compartment before the catastrophe came off?
Probably the latter. Author Jones, being a serious-
minded person, wouldn’t represent Providence as a ruth-
less destroyer of half-a-dozen passengers for the sake of
giving one reformed “ drunk ” a chance to escape police
pursuit. Dear Wilfred prayed in effect: “ O Lord, show
me a way to get out of my present trouble,” and the way
was shown to him. The Lord didn't create the way
merely to oblige Mr. Denver. A Low Church parsonic
argument on this point would be deeply instructive.
Federici’s tombstone, in Melbourne cemetery, gives
no hint as to the tragic story of the actor’s death -
His stage name is quoted, within brackets, under his
proper name of Frederick Baker—born at Florence : died
at Melbourne—but the inscription doesn’t even state that
he died suddenly.
Henry Betty, son of the Infant Roscius, and a constant
benefactor to theatrical charities, died the other day in
London. This Betty inherited the fortune which his
father founded in 1803, so, as a capitalist, he was unique.
Probably there never was another man on earth who
could say that his own father had earned thousands a
year as an actor, or as anything else, 94 years ago. The
story of the original William Henry Betty, or “ Infant
Roscius,” reads like a romance. Before he got into his
teens he had “ starred ” in a round of Shakespearian
characters at Drury Lane and Covent Garden ; the town
went mad over the boy, and the great Sarah Siddons, at
50 years of age, found herself playing Lady Macbeth
to this nipper who had, for the time being, put her into
the shade. Master Betty reigned for about four years,
until he outgrew his boyhood. He then went to Cam-
bridge to complete his education, but as a young man he
reappeared upon the stage a soulless mummer, and the
public took no more interest in him. He was not a born
actor, he hadn’t even a naturally theatrical dr position ;
Betty was just a graceful, intelligent, teachable child,
possessing a good memory. Between the acts of “ Ham-
let ”he would play marbles at the wings with-a chum pro-
vided for the purpose, and at a word from the manager
slipped his marbles into the bag, and took the stage to
soliloquise or storm —just as he had been taught to
do. Fond mothers and medical men who talk about
the evils of “ straining” a child’s memory will regret to
hear that Master Betty lived to the age of 83, with all his
Shakespeare lines in his head. His son got as far as 77.
Melb.: “ Celia Mavis ! Mabelle Darley ! What Frangi-
panni stage names.”
The telephone enables the Melb. Princess’ box-office to
be open both at Allan’s and Menzies’.
John R. Rogers, the Minnie Palmerite, intends to intro-
duce “The County Fair” to Britain, where that Mac-
Mahonic failure of Australian other days is still unknown.
John R., like the misguided Macs, before him, reckons
that)" The County Fair ” will knock them with its ridicu-
lous mechanical horse-race in the last act. He will dis-
cover his error when the time comes. The yokel-character
drawing and simple domestic - life episodes in “The
County Fair” are first-class —like those we got in Good-
win’s “In Mizzoura.” But the horse-race ! What’s the
good of attempting to boom such a hollow-sensation
device in the country which supplies us with Bland Holt’s
dramas ?
Maude, wife of Chas. Godfrey, the comique, died in the
Alfred Hospital, Melb., Sunday, April 11, aged 30.
Carl Hertz is booming in Maoriland. At Wellington the
wizard had the loan of a N.Z. Times reporter, to whom
he told some stirring tales of his adventures, and next
day the local evening paper stated that a full set of false
teeth had dropped from a dress-circle lady’s mouth during
the Hertz performance, and was awaiting restoration to
the lawful owner. Agent Geach manages this branch of
the business.
Strong-man Samson was lately advertised to reappear
at Westminster Aquarium, and lift, without assistance, a
pedestal whereon twelve ladies would be posed for a
tableau-vivant.
The Firm paid a higher price for the Australian rights
of “ Two Little Vagabonds” than for any other drama
it has ever staged.
R.: “ The very day of rare old musician Cecchi’s death
he was to have given Miss Mary Callanan the final sitting
for her portrait of him.”
Jeromekjerome’s farce, “ The Macllaggis,” produced at
London Globe Theatre on March Ist, turned out a dismal
frost, even though W. S. Penley advertised the first four
nights’ takings as a gift to the Prince of Wales Hospital-
fund. Penley evidently lays to his book.
_ Marian Burton, who came to Australia as a concert-
singer with Santley, and remained to play Paul Jones in
the Nellie Stewart-Musgrove company, shows her fine,
manly figure no more upon the stage. She is living with
her husband, the docile Waterlow, on the continent, and
has a group of handsome children about her.
“ One quiet Sunday evening recently,” The Bulletin’s
London correspondent writes, “ the Duke of Fife gave a
dinner to the leaders of the footlight. fraternity. Sir
’Enery Irving, George Alexander, footy Toole, Bb. Tree,
Wyndham, and one or two others were present, and, with
their noble host, discussed the ‘stars’ who were to be
titled on Jubilee Day. I know opinions were divided,
and altogether the musical instrument was out of tune as
a sounder—the Fife was unable to communicate much of
a guiding nature to his regal deputisers. All other
jealousies, both male and female, shrink into unnoticeable
insignificance when compared to the actor’s of a brother
or sister pro.”
Haresfoot: “Be theatric philoprogenitivity. Mr. and
Mrs. Robertson, actor and actress, had twenty-four
children, Mrs. Kendal the youngest.”
Oscar Wilde’s little weakness : “ Woman of no Import-
ance.”
Zangwill wrote to Wilde, aftor “ Lady Windermere’s
Fan “ You require twelve months’ hard labor.”
According to Parisian stage tradition, an actress who
kisses the theatre fireman on New Year’s Eve is lucky.
Opinions upon Australia. Connor : “ Jolly.” Fax :
“ Splendid.” Goodwin : “ Uncivilised.” Potter : “ Nice.”
Bellew : “ H’m.” Bernhardt: “Magnifique.” Warner:
“Fair.” Toole: “Hole.” Farren : “Enchanting.” Lon-
nen : “ Tol-lol.”
Hereford House, the London residence of Dion Bouci-
cault in his halcyon days, is now converted into a fashion-
able Wheel Club.
“If the succession to the throne had not been firmly
established, Miss Soldene’s autobiography might have
endangered it.”— London paper.
Wing : “Theatrical professionalism is extra risky in
India, because the amateurs are so good.”
The Gory Gallows General is the seductive appellation
under which ex-hangman Berry lectures, in England. He
bossed, or shared in, over 500 judicial murders.
After finishing with Rickards, Alf. Bellman and his
fascinating little wife, “ Lottie Moore,” leave for South
Africa on a professional tour.
Bandmann had the cheek to act Rob Roy in Scotland.
“ My food’s upon my nadiv heed, my name’s Makrekka 1 ”
In a Brisbane divorce-case evidence was given that
certain high jinks were heard 200 yards away. It was
sought to prove that the noise was caused by petitioner’s
son (an amateur actor) practising Shakespearian parts.
Julia Mathews’ son, Mumford, is a theatrical agent. His
great Melb. hit was in “ Aladdin,” singing “ Sweet Spirit
hear my Prayer,” from “ Lurline.”


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIKTHKK REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLERISAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
vious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every .£1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over ,£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Svdxey Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,K00,000
Paid-up £3,950,311 ss.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornier,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
iNStBCToRs: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M’Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hi.shop sc/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.0.;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macgregor
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
jdtROKBR.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
jA. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
iO Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Olients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
<Barker in charge.
J BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phienix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... "" ... ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed £20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
-*■ LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the ‘‘Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up ... .. £1,660,032 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 89,967 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. „ 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman ; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Auditors: W.H.Tackett,
Esq.; Andrew burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: JohD
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
ITIHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable _
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protectbd by Registration
by the
lnjport Co.,
PACKER'S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the I.ending Warehouses.
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each 6s. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up," per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllllam-st. Only, Sydney
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
fiANDSOMS
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With it will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON,
Missing Friends.
TyANTED, information of MARY MINOGUE HEF-
’’ FRON, formerly of New Kay, Clare County, Ire-
land. She or any of her children can hear from their
relatives, by addressing Margaret Minogue Ford, Cottage-
street, Natiok, Middlesex Co., Massachusetts, United
States
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Tyrian, Saturday, April 24,12 noon.
Buninyong, Tues., April 27, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Tyrian, Saturday, April 24, 12 noon.
Buninvong, Tues., April 27, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tues., April 27, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, April 24, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, April 27, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Leura, Saturday, April 24, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 1, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian. Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wallowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, April 24.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney),
Saturday, May 1.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wallowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, April 24.
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) Saturday, May 1.
ESPERANCE BAY
Steamer from Adelaide every Sat'day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY '
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. South Australian, Tues-
day, April 27, at 5 p.m.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddert, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oanadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Boohed Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
LINGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. ’
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, callim? at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, I
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to ,£7O, inch
table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED R A'
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD A
For further particulars apply at the Comp
Offices, Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney
E. BLANC,
Principal Age
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
-for London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, 155. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Koyal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
Business Announcements.
:kAv-
Si
52
S 3
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Dumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALBO,
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
High-Class Tailoring.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
<a€Qtl€n?€Q , & S(litif?gS.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed
—'Vickerman's Ssrges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application.
AT REFORM
- - PRICES
Ladies’ Tailoring
Ladies 9 Walking - -
or Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’ Trades.
CYCLING- SUITS Made to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. 6d. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. are the Sole Agents
for Cellular Clothing.
( 1 ELLULAR PYJAMAS.
The most comfortable that can be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellul ar Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Fitted, with Short Fronts
for every-day wear. Dress Shirts, &c.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Braham and Co., 384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sole Agents. Sydney.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George and York Streets).


Extremes meet. There is one word com-
pounded of Greek and Maori—the name Monowai,
given to the U.S.S. Co.’s greyhound. When a
Government survey was being made of the Otago
Lake district, a small lake was found with but one
creek running into it. The surveyor forthwith
christened it Monowai (Gr. monos, one; Maori
wai, water or stream).
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
w
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QtJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
t !>€ Leading Pipe.
GBD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
" Trust in Providence : but keep your
powder dry ”
Oliver Cromwell’s advice to his army applies
to our every day life under almost all circum-
stances. To expect Providence to step in and
preserve us against carelessness, or total apathy, is
simply ignorance.
There comes the Express ; will Providence save
you if you remain on the metals? The fierce fire
rages in yon stairway; will Providence save you if
you refuse the proffered ladder? The huge, majes-
tic steamer is fast filling with water; will Pro-
vidence save you if you listlessly refuse the life-
boat? The epidemic of kidney disease is raging
round you; can you afford to simply trust in Pro-
vidence when there is a simple, proven, safe remedy
that thousands tell you cures—Warner’s “Safe ”
Cure? Do you think you will not be responsible
if you make no efforts to save yourself or friends?
Read the experience of the Rev. R. A. Caldwell,
Mt. Gainbier, S.A., who writes on the 22nd Dec.,
1896.—“1 have much pleasure in saying that I
have used several bottles of Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure,
for liver troubles, and derived benefit from it. I
have also heard others bear similar testimony to
the good effects reaped from the use of it. ”*
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.
F. C. : I saw a 3ft. Gippsland worm the
other day. They also grow some very fine cater-
pillars ranging from 3in. to 6in. long. But the most
extraordinary circumstance I have encountered
lately was one of these same caterpillars petrified
—or rather earbonified—with a small tree growing
out of it. They say locally that the animal some-
times dies with the seed of a tree undigested in its
stomach—if it has one—or in its mouth ; this,
springing up, grows into a tree, its roots spreading
into and filling up the worm’s body, thus making
a sort of petrified caterpillar.
Lectures to men only—Curtain ones.
Straw squeezed into solid bales in a baling
press at the rate of 25 bales per hour, is found by
Vic. farmers an excellent building material for
barns, stables, sheds, and the like. The bales do
not readily burn, are rapidly built up into firm,
solid, walls, will keep for years, and in stress of
drought may even be fed to farm stock.
“ A little girl named Florrie Norrie tell out of the train
carrying the Ballarat Orphan Asylum children on an ex-
cursion to Queenscliff this morning. An engine was
immediately dispatched by the station-master to look for
the girl, who was found under the care of some line-
repairers. She had escaped with a few bruises.” — Melb.
Paper. Florrie Norrie. The name sets one’s Muse
going.—
O begorry ! Florrie Norrie
Tumbled from a train.
No disaster—station-master
Fixed her up with sticking-plaster,
Made her “ right as rain.”
Florrie has no mother prayerful
To remind her—“ Now be careful 1 ”
Nor a father, who’d be sorry
If she died and went to Glorry ;
Hence our pleading incidental
Sung in accents fond parental—
“ O begorry ! Florrie Norrie,
Don’t fall out again!”
PROSPECTUS of the
LOCH FYNE CENTRAL (SOLD MINING COMPANY,
MATLOCK, GIPPSLAND.
CAPITAL : £15,000, in 30,000 Shares of 10s. each. (To be Registered as a No-Liability Co.)
10,000 Shares, paid up to 55., to be allotted to the Vendors ; also the sum of £5OO cash. 20,000 are offered to the public
at Is. on application and Is. on allotment. Over 0000 Contributing Shares have already been applied for by
the Vendors. Proceeds (less brokerage and flotation expenses) will be placed to the credit of the Company,
which may be registered when 10,000 Shares have been subscribed. Calls not to exceed Id. per Share per
month, power being reserved to make one call of fd. per share, if necessary, for machinery.
BANKERS : Bank of Australasia. BROKERS : Messrs. J. B. Were & Son, Trustees Buildings, 412 Collins-st., Melb.
LEGAL MANAGER (pro tern.): G. W. Smith, Baring Chambers, 64 Market-street.
rpuiS Company is being formed to purchase and develope an area of 37 acres 1 rood, held under Lease 3553, adjoining
the famous All Nations, and in close proximity to the New Loch Pyne, now one of the best mines in Victoria.
The All Nations lodes, which all the authorities agree dip into the Loch Fyne Central ground, yielded gold to the
value of £320,000, running from 930 z. per ton to 7 or 8 dwt., and paying dividends on the last-named return.
The Loch Fyne dyke is even more convincing evidence of the great richness of this locality, since, after yielding
handsome returns during the sixties, the present proprietors, New Loch Fyne Co., have won from it within the past
four years gold to the value of over £BO,OOO, of which £46,700 have been distributed in dividends, while the property,
with dyke proved 200 ft. wide, and carrying five distinct lodes, is valued in open market at £150,000.
Mr. D. B. Walker, who visited Matlock and reported on the district for the Victorian Government (ride “Our
Neglected Goldfields ”), states in a special report for this Company “ The richness of the New Loch Fyne dyke,
which traverses your ground from end to end, is now so well known as to need little notice. The All Nations claim,
from which gold to the value of a third of a million sterling was obtained close by your boundary, adjoins your lease,
and there can be little doubt their reef will be found in your ground at a reasonable depth.” “ If, as is probable, the
sandstone bar against which the All Nations reef was practically lost should prove to be the eastern wall of the Loch
Fyne dyke, the prospects of the Loch Fyne Central will be second to none among Victorian mines.” And further,
“ I cannot but think that careful, steady work will be rewarded by the discovery, at an early date, in your claim of
the rich groups of reefs known as the All Nations and Loch Fyne lodes.”
Mr. R. Blythman, J.P., describes the Loch Fyne dyke as clearly traced from east to west through this lease, and
its course well defined. He also says that “ good facilities exist for proving your dyke to a great depth at compara-
tively small outlay.” And further, “ Your tunnel is 500 ft. long, and I roughly estimate the 5 chains extension would
reach the dyke, and give 300 ft. of backs. It could then be extended on dyke course, when there is every reason to
believe that valuable shoots and reefs would be found.”
Mr. P. Fleming says “ There is a diorite dyke traversing your lease diagonally. This is the continuation of the
rich Loch Fyne, at present yielding such rich stone. The dyke enters your ground from the adjacent Loch Fyne at
the S.E. corner, where it has been prospected on the surface ; also on the eastern slope there is an ironstone and
quartz lode 28ft. wide, and carrying nice gold in the casing. Further along your eastern boundary are the workings
of the old All Nations Company, in which above 80,000 oz. of gold were won from lodes tending to and dipping into
your ground. The last stone was got by a tributing party, and gave 14300 z. from 1600 tons. Ithinklyou have here a
valuable property, splendidly situated, as it is between two such famous mines as are the All Nations and the present
dividend-paying New Loch Fyne.”
Unsolicited Praise .
GRATITUDE OF A NEWTOWN
INHABITANT.
It is an old saying that one volunteer is worth
ten pressed men, and when we receive unsolicited
testimony as to the value or efficacy of any par-
ticular article we are inclined to place double value
on such voluntary statements, more especially
when they hail from old-established and respected
men of business. It was in view of the foregoing
paragraph that a reporter interviewed Mr. Charles
Green, Provision Dealer, of 4 Alice-street, New-
town, who, for the last four years has been a
martyr to indigestion, accompanied by a dry,
hacking cough.
Our reporter, on making himself known to Mr.
Green at his pleasant home in Newtown, asked,
“ Is it true that you have been suffering forever
four years from indigestion, Mr. Green ? ”
“ It is, indeed, and it has been so bad at times
that I have often felt tempted to go up to a
stranger in the street and get him to punch me in
the back. I have often had friends to do it, and,
simple as it was, it gave me relief for a time.”
“ Did you have any other ailment at the time,
Mr. Green ? ”
“ Yes, I also suffered from a nasty cough in the
summer time ; it was also on me on and off for
about the same as the indigestion. As an example,
I would cough and immediately a lot of thick
black phlegm would fly up into my mouth., I
presume it came from my chest, on account of the
ticklish feeling I would feel there. For that I
have taken numerous concoctions, including cod
liver oil, which did me no good, but now I am
thankful to say I feel grand, and hope the cough
will not return. In one sense I miss it, as I have
been acquainted with it so long, but it is a very
welcome miss. ”
“ To what do you attribute this marvellously
happy alteration in your health, Mr. Green ? ”
“To one medicine alone, and that is Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, for from nearly
the first pill I felt relief and an improvement in
my appetite. I went steadily on taking them,
until I got as I am now, and there doesn’t seem
much the matter with me now, does there ? ”
_‘ ‘ Indeed, no, Mr. Green, you look the very
picture of health and strength.”
“ I feel so, and I assure you that I have such
unbounded faith in their restorative properties
that I have recommended them to plenty of my
customers, numbers of whom are taking them,
observing the wonderful improvement in my
health and condition. Why, I have actually
gained 141bs in weight since taking them, and I
continue to put on weight daily. I learnt of them
first through an ad vertisement in one of the papers,
and I can truthfully state that they have done
all and more than I expected them to do.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills create new blood,
build up the nerves, and thus drive disease from
the system. In hundreds of cases they have cured
after all other medicines have failed, thus estab-
lishing the claim that they are a marvel among
the triumphs of modern medical science. The
genuine Pink Pills are sold only in boxes, bearing
the full trade mark, “Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People. ” Protect yourself from im-
position by refusing any pill that does not bear
the registered trade mark around the box.
They are now obtainable of all chemists, and
from Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s
Place, Sydney, at 2s 9d a box, or six for 14s 9d ;
but are genuine only with full name, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.*
As the supply of proofs is very limited,
irly application for same (together with a
remittance of £3 35.) should be made to
Messrs. C. D. SMITH & CO.,
Fink’s Buildings,
Elizabeth-street, MELBOURNE,
who supply a key to the picture with each
copy.*
The Diamond Jubilee .
There can be no doubt that the English-
speaking peoples are determined to make
the forthcoming Diamond Jubilee the
memorable anniversary of the Queen’s
reign, and it seems very fitting and proper
that it should be so. Contemporary with
these six past decades, the progress and
expansion of British trade has been so
phenomenal tha
thoughtful people
naturally look for
a cause. They find
it in the fact that
the prudent, judi-
cious government
of the British Em-
pire has enabled
them to push their
enterprises far and
near in peace and
security. The pro-
tection of the Flag
has ever been
cherished as an
unique protection,
even in the re-
motest lands and
waters. Hence, no
doubt, the enthusi-
asm which the
forthcoming cele-
bration has evoked.
* * *
In Melbourne
lavish preparations
are being made to
keep up the festi-
val on a large scale.
Illuminations and
fireworks, the
founding of hos-
pitals, and special
benefactions to the
charitable institu-
tions are all in-
eluded in the programme. And the enter-
prise of a local firm (Messrs. C. 1). Smith
and Co.) is also providing a permanent
souvenir of the occasion—not only available
for Melbourne and Victoria, but for the
whole of Australasia, and one which there
can be no doubt Her Majesty would wish
her faithful subjects to possess. In fact, it
is by the special permission of the Queen
only that it could be offered, and it is the
Official Memorial of the Longest Reign.
• * •
The souvenir is a proof copy of the Jubilee
celebration in Westminster Abbey, from the
celebrated painting by W. E. Lockhart,
R.S.A., which was painted by the royal
command. The original picture, of which
the copyright represents a capital value of
THE JUBILEE CELEBRATION IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
£lO,OOO, is in Windsor Castle. It is the
Queen’s favorite picture, and Her Majesty
has purchased over 50 additional proofs.
The picture—which measures about 50in.
by 40in.—contains nearly 300 portraits
of historic value. These were painted
from individual sittings. The memor-
able scene in the ancient abbey is vividly
depicted.
* * * *
The life-like portraits of the greatest men
and most beautiful and distinguished women
of the age are recognised, and even minor
details of attire stand out distinctly. The
following English press notices speak for
themselves :
The Times, describing the soene in the Abbey, on
the occasion said: —“A noble pioture it is,
one that has never been equalled in this
country. . . . Grand, majestic, thrilling
to tears, and in every sense a worthy memorial
of the Golden Wedding of the Queen and the
Nation.”
The Daily Telegraph.— “ A very excellent finish
as well 4 as a refinement of execution distin-
guishes the engraving issued by Messrs. Doio,
from W. E. Lockhart’s painting. . . .
Most skilfully is the distance managed.
. . . The light streams down upon the
prominent place occupied by Her Majesty.
. . . The picture indeed commemorates an
event of which every native of the sister Isles
should be proud, also the dwellers East, South,
West and North, who are content to be safe-
guarded by the flag which belongs to the
* Queen of the Seas. ’ ”
The Scotsman.—“lt is a picture certain to be
popular.”
The Glasgow Herald.—" Of the enormous labour
involved in the painting of the Jubilee pic-
ture, few people can form any adequate idea.”
The Weekly Scotsman.—“ Mr. W. E. Lock-
hart, R.S.A., may be proud of his Royal
Jubilee Memorial Picture, so, too, may the
Royal Scottish Academy, that it possesses a
member capable of producing such an excel-
lent work. . . . The picture is truly ad-
mirable. There are no fewer than 277 figures
in it. . . . It is appalling to think of it.”
Sussex Daily News.—" It is certainly the most
remarkable work of the kind that the public
has ever seen.”
Yorkshire Post.—“ It is really a magnificent
work, thoroughly worthy of the greatness of
the occasion. ”
Liverpool Mercury.—" It fulfills the highest
expectations that had been formed of it.”
Manchester Examiner.—“ The picture far sur-
passes anything ‘ painted by Royal command ’
that I have ever seen.”
The Civil Service Guardian.—“ The picture is
a success from whatever point of view we re-
gard it.”
Society.— “ In every sense an honour to the
occasion, and a lasting Memorial of the
Queen’s Jubilee.”
Figaro.—“An achievement no other artist can
boast.”
Lady’s Pictorial. —“A valuable and unique
record of the most remarkable event in the
Victorian era . . . This really superb
historical picture. ”
Illustrated London News.- “We can honestly
congratulate the artist on the result.”
The Sportsman. —“Splendidly effective.”
Morning Post. — “ A fine pictorial record of an
ever memorable event.”
The Daily News. “In itself a gallery of por-
traits.”
New York Herald. —“ It is full of faces that
will at once be recognised as amongst the
greatest and most beautiful of living men and
women.”
The World. —“ A faithful record of one of the
most memorable and picturesque historical
occurrences in the history of the 19th
century.”


Packets
Of
s
v™*%-ttLIEARS
PUR£
rl/LD
nulacTurtd by
Payerke jwwm .
Is.
SoftCaQv/a& Shirts
Madb to Measure.
Post free 30 - per >4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
X
LADIES’ BLOUSES,
REAL FREXCU CAMBRIC.
To ORDER only. Price, Bs. 6d. EACH.
. terns and directions for Self-Measure-
ment forwarded to any part of Australia on ap-
plication to
B* MOUNTOASTBE k SONS,
BRISBANE.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street, SYBYEY.
jjicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney Cup this year was perhaps the greatest
" boil-over ”in the history o( the race. Almost any price
could be got about the winner, Tricolor, who is by that
sterling stayer, Trident, whose stock of late have been
running very well. Kaliatina nearly brought off a well-
planned coup, though 25 to 1 was always on offer against
her. Loch Leigh, the third horse, was perhaps the most
unfanoied animal in the race, and yet he beat the well-
backed candidates—Tom, Battalion, Coil, Vanitas, etc.—
into a “ cocked hat.” Ikev and Co. completely skinned
the lamb over Doncaster and Cup.
Monday’s starting prices at Rand wick were:
4—l, 3 —l, I—3, 40—1, 3—l, 3—l, whilst, on same day, at
Onkaparinga (S.A.) the “tote” dividends panned out:
£4 155., £l2 45., £6, £3O 135., £8 195., £lO 15s. Thus,
despite the victory of outsider Tricolor in Sydney Cup,
the machine easily comes out on top.
• • • *
The sensationrl gelding, Hopscotch, added to
his unsavory notoriety by showing miraculous improve-
ment on his Hawkesbury form and winning the Autumn
Stakes in a common canter, downing, with the greatest of
ease, Battalion, Coil, True Line, and Vivian. The groans
and yells that greeted the gelding’s return to weigh in
were loud and hearty enough to almost reach the ears of
owner Long in the London hank parlor of the A. J.S. ; but
the stewards met and decided that the hooting was un-
reasonable.
The demonstration against Hopscotch, when he
got home for A.J.C. Autumn Stakes, was second only to
a previous experience of the Chipping Norton stable
when the crowd yelled, and Mr. “ Bill ’ Lons stood at the
and smiled sweetly. And, by the way, Mr. Long’s
trip ’Ome has not been quite a happy outing. He has
suffered severely from influenza, and writing to a Sydney
friend, says he would rather live in a hovel in sunny Aus-
tralia than in a palace in foggy England.
As in Epsom, so in its counterpart, the Don-
caster, the country division with its outsider, Superb,
has come to the rescue of Ikey Mo and Co., whose bags
are now fat with the shekels of the unfortunate backers
of Vanitas, Reka, Adoration, Cremorne, La Carabine, &e.
The honors of the race are Cremorne’s; he carried his
thumping impost of 9st. 91b. into second place, though,
had little Cical b ought Adoration a bit sooner, this hand-
some filly would probably have been returned winner.
The mysterious tactic i adopted by the Vanitas division
availed nothing, as that much-bepuffed animal finished
“down the course” both in’Caster and Cup. The La
Carabine people had good reasons for backing their filly,
for, although too small to successfully compete in a big
field, yet she made mincemeat of her opponents in the
First Nursery on Monday.
That marvellous nugget, Aurum, easily carried
his penalty successfully in the Champagne Stakes ; his
meeting Newhaven to-day (Thursday) will be the event of
the meeting. Newhaven will probably have to strike his
colors to the Trenton flyer if the latter is jumped off and
kept hard at it, but in a slow-run or muddling race
Newhaven will prevail.
Resolute’s “ poor feet ” have troubled him so
much that backers may have to wait some time —perhaps
till next Caulfield and Melb. Cups— to see him once more
exhibit those good racing capabilities which he is well-
known to possess. The Officer is another of this season’s
crack three-year-olds who may be heard of about Cup-
time.
Though the Leger Reserve at Randwick is
largely advertised as being under the direct control of
the A. J.C., yet flagrant cases of rampingand ticket-snatch-
ing are but too prevalent. On Doncaster day one punter
from Morpeth had his winning ticket stolen and then had
the pleasure of seeing the thief draw the money. With
no means of ascertaining- jockeys’ names, and with but a
very badly-managed scratching board, Leger patrons have
plenty to grumble at. On Cup-day there were plenty of
“ balancers ” about, and several backers of La Carabine
were thankful enough to get their own money back, with-
out any winnings.
Tricolor, the Cup-winner, with his nearest
attendants, Kaliatina and Loch Leigh, never once did a
really good Cup gallop, and yet they managed to beat the
much-fancied, over-trained moderates that opposed them.
Properly trained and ridden, True Blue and Coil could
give the winner any amount of weight and then lose him
over two miles.
In the Second Hurdle Race, Irish Stew and C.P.
appear to have good winning chances, whilst Ellengerah
and Pilatus may be expected to run well in the Welter
Mile. In the absence of Aurum, The Hypnotist or Am-
berite should secure the Easter Stakes: and the City
Handicap of a mile and a half may be better suited to
the capabilities of Vanitas than his last two trials, though
Wahine and Tom also possess winning chances.
If, as was done in same case with Marvel and
Carbine, Newhaven be pulled out in Cumberland Stakes
to day (Thursday), he should win, but, in his probable
absence, a good race should be seen among Coil, Bat-
talion and True Blue—leaving the mysterious and unre-
liable Hopscotch out of the question.
Much enthusiasm was shown at Sydney Agri-
cultural Show over the trotters and the trotting contests,
but, as usual, the trotting section was woefully misman-
aged. The Bulletin last year pointed out that Tuxedo,
winner of the stallion prize, was a pacer, and this j ear
the committee very properly barred him from competing
against the trotters. So far so good, but in the very next
item of judging the judges stultified themselves by giving
the prizes for trotting mares to Hattie S. and Charmer,
both pacers, who were merely led into the ring and never
showed their paces; and, to make matters worse, Charmer
has a hip very badly knocked down. Violetta Junior,
that beautiful mare by Childe Harold from Violetta
(imported), was passed over altogether, and the writer
ventures to say that if a vote were taken among N.S.W.
trotting men as to the best local trotting mare Violetta
Junior would easily head the poll.
Trotting stallions were poorly represented, bar-
ring that handsome little horse Prince Harold, bred,
owned, and driven by Mr. Frank Morris, who was
awarded the champion ribbon. In the contests for speed,
however, he had to cry ago to Mr. Harry Knight’s rapid
Van Cleeve mare, Siren 11., who fairly distanced all com-
petitors in harness and saddle, driven and ridden by
Knight, senior and junior respectively. As often here
pointed out, the ring is not large enough for speed con-
tests, but Siren showed a phenomenal gait round the
little track and took the crowd by storm. However,
Prince Harold is just from a season at the stud, and Is
not in racing trim.
The entries for blood mares comprised but three,
Mr. Sam Hordern taking first prize with imported
Meridian. Second was awarded to a shapely little mare,
standing about 13.3, pedigree doubtful, with foal at foot.
To award a prize to a pony mare of doubtful origin, as a
representative of the class of thoroughbreds now bred in
Australia, is playing the game very low down.
The high jump, at Sydney Show, was a very in-
teresting item. Only Rainbow, Receipt, and Frisco were
left in. Rainbow failed, also Receipt; and Frisco knocked
the bar down twice, but at third time of asking he flew it
like a bird, amidst the delighted shouts of the onlookers.
* • • *
At a recent Show a lady rider took a fractious
horse over his jumps without a mistake, and then gave
nourishment to her eight-day-old infant whilst awaiting
her next turn at the fences.
* ♦ « *
Ed. Bulletin, —Have you noticed how fre-
quently of late years the letter “a ” after the capital
letter has been successful in principal racing events in
Victoria?—Caulfield Cup: Paris, Sainfoin, Paris, Water-
fall. Newmarket: Laundress, Maluma, Carlton. Mel-
bourne Cup : Carbine, Malvolio, Tarcoola, Patron. Derby:
Camoola, Carnage, The Harvester, Wallace.
* * * »
“ There are two Nortons and two Erl Kings, all
jumpers more or ’ess, running here, thanks to lax racing-
regulations,'’ writes The Bulletin's London corres-
pondent, “and the reputation of the illustrious Austra-
lian first-named makes many ignorant punters back his
English namesake, a fourth-rater, who started the other
day at tens and won. Little is heard of Daimio, and the
B.P's opinion is that Norton can smother him on the
present form of both.”
* » * *
Dreadnought will be remembered as a 3-year-old
that might have won Melb. Cup if he hadn’t been care-
fully omitted from the entries. The late James White
threw away two chances of winning the Cup in ’B9, firstly
when he didn’t enter Dreadnought, secondly when he
scratched the penalised Abercorn, who at the V.R.C.
Spring meeting proved himself superior to Carbine.
• • * •
An event not carefully and fully chronicled in
the Melb. dailies was the recent abortive attempt of a
much-paragraphed detective to raid a big Collingwood
tote-shop. This time the tote-man was too cute, and the
moment the massive d’s hove in sight the doors were
closed and barricaded. For the next ten minutes a
wondrous sight was seen ; four strong detectives in their
agony lashing into big red gum gateposts with axes, but
by the time the obstruction was demolished and the place
rushed, the whole of the crowd inside had escaped by the
secret exits, and had gathered in the road, chaffing
the crude axemanship of the sleuthhounds.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—Your London correspondent,
who says “ Most billiard-bailers are aweary of the spot-
barred, 1 push ’-playing champion who will have his own
rules and stipulations,” speaks for a very small section of
the billiard world —the section that has little practical
knowledge of its subject, and can’t appreciate Roberts’
cannon practice which has brought English billiards into
touch with the Franco-’Murkan game. Hear what the
Referee says about the Roberts-Peall controversy :
“ There may be forty championships set up, with as many
different holders, and Roberts’s name missing from the
lists. This will leave John Roberts what he is—in short,
John Roberts, a class by himself. He can, till he loses his
power of execution, command the highest terms of any
professional, and you can’t find a sounder test of excel-
lence than that.” Roberts traded on his pre-eminence as
a spot-stroker until he found other fellows, also capable
of putting down the red hundreds of times in succession,
equal to himself—for show purposes. Then he took to
the all-round game and developed the push-stroke. The
other fellows have tried to come near him at this— and
failed. — Melbourne.
* * * •
Frank Farnell, M.P., not satisfied with the
sheaf of honors already won, threw out a sculling chal-
lenge at Drummoyne, which was at once accepted by
Edward Terry, an old Parramatta magnate. Both men
have gone into training. There’ll be money on the row.
» ♦ * •
Stated that “ Grammy ” Graham, now in the
West with Giffen’s Australian team, will not return to
Melbourne. “ Grammy ” pulls teeth when he is not
playing cricket.
» » * »
Norwood Club —Lyons’s team—has won S.A.
cricket premiership. The Norwoods have been top of
the tree oftener than any other club in Australia ; in the
old days they carried everything before them with the
Giffens at the head, and now are top once more without
them. But there is not much in it considering the pre-
sent state of S.A. cricket.
* • » •
Dear Bulletin,—" Colonial blow ” appears to
be more vigorous and more provincial than ever. Last
week Vic. Chief Justice Madden, re the matter of sending
a rowing team to England, blew as follows—“ Anybody
who chose to stroll along the Yarra bank could see a
body of grenadiers that would have gladdened the heart
of Frederick the Great. It mattered not whether the
Australian eight won or not; it would show the class of
men we had here.” This from a Chief Justice. Why
didn’t he propose to send ’Ome full reports of all legal
proceedings appertaining to bank failures and private
bankruptcies in Melbourne—to show the class of men we
have here ? About the same time that Madden was twirl-
ing his waxy moustache at Melbourne Town Hall the
Maoriland Premier was enjoying a “ blow” in Wellington.
The cable tells us : “ Mr. Seddon said that in his recent
visit to Australia he saw the country at its best, and the
more he saw of it the more he thought of Maoriland
and its people.” Seddon, however, is probably biassed.
Let Maoriland send eight oarsmen ’Ome for comparison
with the Australian eight, and let the voice of Europe
decide which of these two Southern countries has the
finest population in the world.—Yours, Chkapsidb.
* » » •
London Olympia indoor track is nine laps to
the mile, with two straights and two turns, banked almost
to perpendicularity. Yet. tandems and even triplets can
spin round the corners at a two-min ute bat.
* * * •
Bilmartin intends having a month’s rest in
Queensland, and then making for Italy. “ I’ll put in a
season there,” says Bill, “ an’ then I guess I’ll come back
an’ settle down. The two years I raced in Italy and
France brought me in nearly £-2000—and I only meant
stopping four months in Australia when I came. I think
I’m about done, too ; your winds here plav up kinder
badly with a man on a high gear. There’s no winds to
speak of in Europe—only sorter thin airs, and a bicycle
cuts through them as slick as lightning. I reckon the
best ridin’ I’ve ever done was about the end of last year ”
* * * *
While Vic. Justice Hood smashes himself up
with a bike within three months of buying it, his brother
Williams, J., rides continuously for 15 years without a
fall, and at last fractures his leg mountaineering. By the
way, the Judge's sister, Miss Jessie Williams, was killed
through falling over a precipice in Orbe, Switzerland, 22
years ago, when travelling with Mrs. Bladen Neill,’ of
silkworm celebrity. The news of his daughter’s death
wag conveyed to old Judge “ Bomba ” Williams while he
was in court, and the shock was so great that he fainted
on the bench.
* * * •
Within the last week in Australia one man aged
73 and another aged 67 have been seriously injured while
riding bicycles.
* * * *
A recent careful investigation of the Vic. Cus-
toms’ returns shows that the invoiced price of the dif-
ferent bicycles imported varies from t'3 to £l2 10s. This
is, of course, less saddles and tires, but even adding the
cost of these accessories at retail price the topmost grade
machine is brought up to only £l7—and the public pays
£33.
* * * *
Bevan, the red headed heir of the wily, woolly,
Melb. doctor of divinity of that ilk, whose “ lepping” at
Oxford has been extensively cabled around the world, is
a very tin-pot long-jumper at the best. At the amateur
sports at St. Kilda, last Nov., Bevan ran a very bad third
to Roseingrave. C. H. Watson, perhaps the best all-
round amateur athlete in Australia, was only a few inches
behind Roseingrave on that occasion, and he and a couple
of other Melb. lads could make a hack of Bevan any day
of the week.
* « • *
One riderof the successful triplet in the multicycle
race at a recent big meeting was fairly “ dotty ” for 24
hours after the race. Another record-breaker between
two Australian capitals gave his pacers on the home
stretch a heap of bother. He would take long, round-
about routes, for fear of dead trees, which he swore
shudderingly were alive, and would frequently swerve off
a good road into natural earth when a passing breeze dis-
turbed the shadows of the branches overhead. Arriving
at a township at nightfall, he refused to enter, saying
that he would be eaten, and rode round and round' the
cluster of houses until a fall sobered him up and enabled
bitn to be dragged in to rest. Long-distance cycling and
* • * »
A notion that the cracks would be all there in
the final of Melb. Eight Hours Anniversary Wheel Race was
shattered by the result of the first heat. Porta and
Martin, after catching their field, never recovered from
the effects of the stern chase. The plugger, finishing
fourth, objected to the winner for having bored Porta
against him, but this little misfortune, which was only
one of the chances of the game, didn’t seem to make
much difference to the tired rider, and the protest was
dismissed. Waning William’s real grievance lay in the
fact that he couldn’t go faster than the others when the
pinch came. All ex-champions suffer from the same
complaint.
Megson, assisted by a ssec. slower pace, won
the next heat brilliantly. Then came a masterful per-
formance by Walne and Relph, who soon got on terms
with the sluggish leaders, and were able to work the finish
between them. In the fourth heat, Green and Kellow
were right in the thick of it after going a mile at top
speed, and the scratch man looked to be a certainty for a
place. However, he hadn’t a sprint to bless himself with
at the business end of the journey. The multitude, after
discovering wondrous virtue in the Simpson chain whilst
it was levering Green to the fore, went back to the opinion
that it handicapped the advertiser. Green, who looks fit
and well, must be feeling sorry that he didn’t return
’Ome with his mate, Edwardes. Their expedition had
been chiefly an advt. of biking “form” in this savage
country, and up to now there is no reason why the links
in the chain that bind us to the dear old Mufferland should
be manufactured by Simpson.
\et Britisher Relph, as it happened, was the
only back-mark man to achieve a place in the final. The
first of the semi-goes (won by Body) brought Megson,
W alne and Relph together, and the new-chum alone sur-
vived. Every now and then Relph rides a great race, and
this was one of his happy moments. In the final he
was cut off from humanity, a gap of 35yds. lying
between him and A. A. Middleton, who (going* strictly
on his own) was 30yds. behind the nearest of the
others. By the time the field had got bunched
Relph and Middy, were fairly pumped, and Body
took care that the man from England shouldn’t
give him another severe shaking. The winner started
from 80yds., a decrease of 30yds. upon his handicap in the
A.>.A. event. Barker, who got third money, had to go
100yds. further than on Natives’ Day, when he also
finished third. What a soft thing was’ the League Cud
for Barker aforesaid 1 e
And what a fine show the scratch men were get-
ting at the beginning of the year ! On January 26 Teb-
butt and Barker met Martin and co. upon 170 and 100yds.
better terms than nowadays. Same distance, same track,
Matthews (from the 240yds.) won his heat in the
E.H.A.W.R. by the simple policy of making the pace hot
all the way. Time, 4min. 29 2-ssec. In the semi-final he
got collared and beaten—time, lOsec. slower than before.
A long start is wasted upon these bad judges of pace.
Body was reckoned among the very probable
ones on account of his sturdy pacing in the 50-miles
championship, and the public were glad to see the 200sovs.
captured by a rider who had previously given them some
lively sport. Since the occasion when a bad fall made
him a bruised and sore Body he has displayed an
admirable weakness for working into the front rank and
stopping there as long as possible, out of harm’s way.
One of the heats in the mile foot-race last Satur-
day was amusing at the finish. Three men completed
their journey in very slow time, and then the winner
started to spnnt under the delusion that he had another
lap to go.
• * * «
Vic. League of Wheelmen moves into new pre-
mises next month-a big RusseH-street building occupied
\ -M-C-A- ere Matthew Davies persuaded that
godly body to build a palace in Bourke-street and start
Y.M.C.A. came Jos. Syn.es and
the infidels, and when his congregation gave out the shop
became successively a registry office, a dancing hall and
a costumiers. The league is to pay £175 rent.
* * . .
The bike throws stones; the pneumatic tire of
the hind wheel will sometimes jerk a piece of road-metal
with much force. A rather serious accident happened in
this .way at South Melb. recently : a stone, flipped bv a
passing bike, struck above the eye a child sitting on the
kerb, nearly destroying the eye, and inflicting a nasty
wound. The writer has already broken one window i£
* * • .
The English professional cyclists who went
across to New \ork lately have left a fine reputation for
blackguardism behind them. They smashed any amount
of tomture, .ndudmg a chandelier, at the Hotel Bar-
tholdi, and otherwise played Sheol, of which the Sporting
Lifb (Lon.) says : “ The average American is probably not
aware at the outset, though he soon learns, that pro-
fessional cyclists are recruited from the very lowest orders
in this country.” They don’t seem to be a very high-c S
crowd in Victoria, for that matter ' class
* * « «
Massimiliano Porta is his full name.
* * • •
For trade purposes General Booth has registered
a bicycle called the Scarlet Runner gisterea
<.***•
“I never see a woman cycling in Svdnev
without a sickening mind-picture of a smashmp '
never regulate pace-they shoot hastily through tanSld
cross-roads without an effort to dodge 'traffic
cyclist’s present salvation is that shifts sufficientv
to catch the admiring gaze of drived* When more
numerous and less noticeable, she had better learn to
w^ r .ssr ,I<le h "* 11 *“■* * ■
* • * *
The two crack clerical cyclists of \r Q iu
Fathers Robinson and Malone, of' Albert Park Thcnivf 8
day the latter entered a Melb. bibeavenfv in ® "
state of trepidation and asked what wwThe matter with
his machine. "Divil a bit can Oi undersold UaJ’s
wrong with it at ahl, at ahl,” he observed. “Oi go out
with Father Robinson, and, as soon as we git going, he
looks round. ‘Are ye coming, Father Malone?’ sez’he
‘Are ye coming, Father Malone?’ An’ Oi'm plugging
away as hard as Oi can, but Oi can’t get up to him, whoile
ahl the toime he’s calling ‘ Are ye coming, Father
Malone?’” The attendant raised the back wheel, spun
it round, and said, “There’s nothing wrong with the
machine—it runs beautifully.” His reverence paused
“Then how is it Oi can’t ketch Father Robinson?’’
“Well,” hesitated the other, “you’re not fast enough.”
Father Malone stood aghast; but, after the horrible truth
at last soaked into him, he lured the agent into a con-
spiracy to take down his holy brother, and left the shop
chuckling with a racing-machine in his possession. F
* • * •
Horse-sense from a Yankee sheet : “ The only
lesson to be learned from the several recent local cycle
accidents is that the rider who, while a-wheel, gives any-
body credit for any intelligence whatever, runs the risk
of an accident every time he does it. The only safe rule
is for the rider to regard all persons except himself, other
riders especially included, as being absolutely incapable
of taking care of themselves, and to look out for them
accordingly.”
« * • *
Item from Pearson’s Weekly (London) i—
“ E. Trickett, the once-famous oarsman, is now an active
member of the Salvation Army, and may be seen any day
at Echuca Bridge, in Sydney, attired in a red jersey, sell-
ing the War Cry.” “ Echuca Bridge in Sydrtej-.” Next
please ? *
• • * •
Included in a recent contract for fencing on
Coongoola (Q.) is a clause stipulating that a bicycle-track
be cleared along the fence to allow of boundary-riding on
wheels.
* • * *
A trial spin showed the N.S.W. interprovincial
eight-oar crew to be anything but a bad lot, and with a
bit more coaching and rowing together they should prove
really hard nuts to crack. Victoria, seeing that N.S.W.
has picked and put its crew into work, is showing its
hand, and now states that each crew must row under its
own province’s definition, so that, after all, it is not
absolutely certain that the N.S.W. crew will start. J.
Bannister was chosen to represent N.S.W. in the wager-
boat race, but as Victoria has picked upon a cash cyclist
to represent it, he has decided not to compete. The
Gumsuckers have been informed that N.S.W. will only
compete under conference definition of an amateur, and
have been asked for a definite reply.
• * • *
A Bingara (N.S.W.) challenge :
T JACK BROWN, will find a youth in Bingara to
box any Boggabri man for a' dozen ’possumskins
and as many £ as he and his friends can muster.
JACK BROWN, Coorangoora.
• * *
Those enthusiasts who introduced pike into
Maoriland waters some time ago are not quite so elated
over their acclimatisation as formerly. As a fresh water
shark the pike is an excellent institution. He will eat
rata, swans, etc., and attack the heads of horses when
drinking, and the feet or hands of bathers when swim-
ming.
• * « *
A writer in English Field sizes up the ideal
polo-pony as an animal “not over 14.2, combining the
substance of a hunter, the speed of a racehorse over a
short distance, and the docility of the Arab horse.” The
same writer has a high opinion of the few Australian
ponies he has seen, styling them “ superlatively good.”
Apropos of polo ponies, Vincent Dowling, up
near Mudgee, has in his imported Arab “ Snow,” the
champion Indian pony, and “ Arab Chief the prize-
winner of his class at last Sydney show—a pair of polo
pony sires unsurpassed in N.SiW.
• • * •
The S. African difficulty is evidently" settled, as
the local papers declare that the Rand is overrun by an
army of Australian boxers.
* * * *
Little Patrick, who won the ALL. 100yds. cham-
pionship on a wet track in lGsec. dead, ran the distance
every day for months before the meeting.
* * « *
Favorite dissipation in N.Q. backblock towns
just now is a female tug-of-war. Of an evening the female
helps of various rival hotels grip hold of a cable and pull
for the honor of their respective establishments. Male
backers are there in abundance, and when one tbam falls
backwards and shows its legs, the mobs bellow iirq'oy un
speakable.
The ice-bicycle has one wheel and a skate.
* • * »
Archdeacon David (C. of E.) is an active mem-
ber of the tj. Bowing Club. When he turned up at a
special meeting of the association, the other evening, after
a severe illness, he was welcomed with enthusiasm. The
meeting was held at a hotel, too.
• • • •
A brother of Frank Allan — the bowler of a
century—-is located as bank-manager at Maffra (Gipps-
land). He trundles for the local cricket-club, and the
other day got five wickets for six runs against Stratford.
* * » *
, *''*• • Three bookmakers’ money-bags, with
the names on, are displayed by a Melb. pawnbroker. I
suppose they have had to get bigger ones.”
* * * »
The select little "‘school” used to gather o’
nights and play devil's pool. There wasn’t a straight ’un
among them, and they all knew it. After an hours play
j "If" w u° hadn’t two marbles at least was a chump,
and though this game was worked very openly there is
but one occasion on record when objection was taken.
One night there were four in the pool, including the
marker. After playing an hour or so the marker
starred and went to the basket for a shake: but
instead of a dozen marbles rattling there were tiro-the
o\\ est, of course. The marker turned an admiring gaze
?" the others, and ejaculated, “By ! you are ahot
• Gome on now, tip em up.” And he went round
collecting the marbles—two from one of them, threefrom
another, and four from the third. Then he produced
three from his own pocket, and a couple from “ cobbers-’
on the sofa, after which there was another shake-up and
the game of ‘ skill ” was resumed.
* * * *
i The D . l ,’j shearing record to date is that of
w“w A l ™?* who last season made a tally of 33,895 sheep.
orked at Ixigan Downs, Oondooroo, Cambridge Downs,
Telemon, Marathon, Barenya, and Beaconsfield. Earn-
sheep 101 Beason ’ 155., and average per shed 4840
* • • .
Suggested 1 ‘ Bulletin ” polo-team :-The Banjq,
?L he^ ker ’ GJ e nrowan, Steele Rudd. (“Old Dad” in
the background.) v
• • * •
nn Jv ie ttouKRiKB Australien notes that there is
one branch of athleticism in which France evidently beats
PINK A PUNK.
When you hear a gicish, then ncizzle,
And you feel a rearward bump,
And your back wheel wants to lie down,
Vi bile your front wheel tries to jump,
And you re seized with thoughts of childhood’s prayers,
And sure you’re close to death,
Just dismount and get the pump out,
For your bike’t got out of breath !
X.Z.


The Adlake, a real, good wheel, is sold by
Mr. A. L. Baird, one of the best-known of Aus-
tralian sporting men—known, not because of his
sporting proclivities alone, but because of his well-
recognised mechanical knowledge—Baird’s judging
machine being one of the sporting inventions of
the day. Mr. Baird made a special trip to
America for a wheel, and the Adlake was his
choice.*
wsoroni
mmsmm
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. G-RBBKTER’S
Celebrated GUNS and RIFLES
YIj_REENER’S EJECTOR GUN is the highest develop-
v '* nient of the sporting shot-gun. The mechanism is
the simplest in the world. This class of gun for symmetry,
balance, pattern and penetration is without a competitor.
Prices from 25 to 76 guineas. Address, C. W. Buckland,
16 Ourral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vie. rep.), or
Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney.
J. R. Fairfax entered the S.M. Herald
firm as a partner in 1867, and has been head of
the firm since 1877.
The ACME!,
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
%vc.^c\e&
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
- 1 - wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade ” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence—have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£21. CASH or TERMS.
Tib ex nvavillQ ABSOLUTELY the
MlCVlllC, CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£11. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
pOR CYCLES,
You cannot BEAT the
“Dunlop
= Tyre.”
A Perfect Tyre.
Practically Puncture Proof.
Excellent in Quality.
Easy to Detach.
Twelve Months’ Guarantee.
First in 1888 —Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
(LIMITED),
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle*
For LAMES and GENTS.
T?MBODIES. elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few; minutes without the use of tools. ‘ The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Ti>e iQtercbaQgeabk
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
IT HAS ARRIVED 1
IT HAS ARRIVED 1
IT HAS ARRIVED 1
The FOWLER.
The FOWLER.
Acknowledged by Experts in America and England
to be without rival for Elegance, Lightness,
Rigidity, and especially Easy Running.
When you see a High-Grade Bicycle with a
Truss Frame you will recognise
The FOWLER!
Australian Agency :
Hoffnung’s Buildings
171 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and see us, when the various improvements
will be exhibited to you.
“ DOWKJDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BEES TON - HUMBER ■ CYCLES
—ARE—
ABSOLUTE PERFECTION!
is
&8E
m
f£STO
cfi'fRHAM
NTR'f
Ekg
iVM i t|j/
Sees-rot*
N6LAH
B€€STON-HUMB€R
TRAPE MARKS.
For Thirty Years Humber S have
been the standard bicycles of the
world. All other bicycles are copies
in some part of Hlimbers, and
makers of other bicycles acknowledge
this fact in their catalogues and
advertising. For Thirty Years
Humbers have held the premier
position on road and path. Humber
bicycles hold more records and cham-
pionships than all other makes
combined.
The Humber is acknowledged
to be the most successful bicycle in
the world either for road or path
purposes.
rta/C-r 'mA/s^frtts/'
a 6 sf&ttAe'. Srf/s/ne
s&hi. w rdrtfs __ t
The AUSTRAL CYCLL AGLNCY is absolutely the greatest
and largest Cycle Dealer in the world.
A post-card to any of our Australian Depots will be promptly
attended to, and catalogues and price-lists cheerfully fur-
nished if requested.
Tbc AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY, Limited.
Sple Agents in Australia for the Beeston-Humber.
BRANCHES !
Melbourne -229 Elizabeth -s+.
Sydney —393 Creorge-st.
Adelaide—33 Riandle-st.
Brisbane —Adelaide-st.
Perth —Hay-st.
HEAD OFFICE: 285 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Charters Towers (Q.) —Gill-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.)—Goorge-st.
Christchurch (N.Z.) —Manchester-st.
BRANCHES :
Launceston, Tas
Hobart, Tas.
the Englishman—i.e., cycling. “Beurillon holds the
world s championship for 1896 ; Auret the 24-hours’ long
distance record ; Ludovic Rorin carried off the Grand
Prix de Paris ; and, lastty, Lesna retains the most im-
portant Australian records.”
* * * *
N.S.W. played a very poor team, in a represen-
tafcive sense, against Queensland at Brisbane, yet won
easily by an innings and 101 runs. Queensland’s first
innings totalled 180; the second only 73; while the
N.S.W. men piled up 354 with no apparent difficulty. Q.
fielding was very slip-slop, and Pye gave five chances for
his 166. Coningham, Howell, and Newell bowled for the
visitors, getting second innings averages of 3 for 8. 4 for
23, and 3 for 33 respectively.
PILES.—Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “Canna-
lm cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Redmond, the Irish politician : “I was
especially gratified to find Messrs. Powers’ Three
Swallow whiskey in every good hotel in America.”*
Cardinal Moran ata recent church function:
“ Of all people I would mistrust it would be a
body of saints in Parliament. . . The Federal
Con vention is, after all, better constituted without
clerical representatives.” Sour grapes!
Edmund Barton was, on the whole, not in
his best mood in Adelaide. Trenwith scored
heaviest off him. Barton had rebuked Carruthers
for suggesting that members, of the Convention
could be guilty of a subterfuge; there were, he
said, 49 members as incapable of such a thing as
Carruthers himself—which was probably about as
far as any man could safely go as to such a matter
in a body of politicians. A week afterwards
Barton opposed the admission of the reporters to
the committees on the ground that members would
talk to the galleries. Using precisely the same
words as Barton had suppressed Carruthers with
Trenwith rebuked the leader for the insult. The
incident was underlined by Barton himself : while
Trenwith still had him under the whip, he turned
his back upon the speaker perhaps because
ashamed of the hollowness of his own rebuke.
“ I was present,” writes Louis Becke, “ at
the great meeting in Hyde Park yesterday (Sun-
day, March 7) to protest against the upholding of
the Turkish bond-holding interests against the
rights of human flesh and blood. It was a curious
and impressive sight. No noise, no confusion,
though there had been but 36 hours’ preparation
for the demonstration which had been forbidden
the use of Trafalgar Square. There was cheering
at the mention 'of Greece and Crete, ominous
silence when the name of Lord Salisbury was
spoken, and then Havelock Wilson, M.P., touched
the soul of the huge gathering by a few words.
‘And Lord Salisbury,’ he concluded, ‘and his
minority get their policy made for them in Ger-
many bv that magnificent young man who thinks
he has been appointed by God Himself to rule the
world—the Emperor Will Before he could
finish the name there burst forth an indescribable
roar of contempt and hatred. The English work-
ing man is no German lover, anyway.”
Captain M‘Leod, for many years in
the employ of “ Bobby ” Towns of Townsville
brought the first ship-load of Chinese to Australia’
Many Australian rivers at present are
such only in name. The Lachlan has ceased flow-
ing at Condobolin, the Macquarie has stopped
some distance above Warren, the Namoi has six
inches in it as it rolls by Gunnedah, and the
Castlereagh is as dry as when bushrangers Angel
and Thurston ran along its bed after, shooting
Constable Mitchell and escaping from Coonamble
gaol.
The Argus gushes about Nansen’s daring,
his dash for the Pole, his noble sufferings, his
heroic perseverance, and concludes
This is a story which, as a mere exhibition of human
courage, stirs the British imagination like a vignette from
the great breach at Badajos, or an echo from the thunder
of Trafalgar, or the musketry of Wellington’s stubborn
squares at Waterloo.
Let us see. _ Nansen’s real name is Bill Adams ;
he was bom in “ Londing.”
The various Sydney dailies variously inter-
pret the cables. Last week one paper announced
that the Gulf of Martaban, with the N.S.W.
Mounted Rifles, had arrived at Suez. Another
placed her at London on same date. A third was
delightfully vague as to her position, whilst the
fourth located her at Gibraltar.


Special Advertisements.
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager geer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
A TERRIBLE CASE OF
ECZEMA
CUBED BY
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. E. Wyatt, of Port Road, West
Hindmarsh, So. Australia, writes of
the sad condition of her little daugh-
ter, whose portrait she also sends:
m
iftfSl!
“My daughter was afflicted with
Eczema of the most aggravated
type. The disease first appeared in
eruptions on her head, then her hair
began to fall out, and in spite of
the best medical advice and treat-
ment she grew steadily worse. The
sores were full of matter and were
extremely offensive. Her eves be-
came affected, and she was, in truth,
in a terrible state. Mv neighbors
were very sympathetic and took
great interest in the case. Thev
persuaded me to try Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla, and I am most thankful to
be able to say that this wonderful
medicine completely restored my
daughter’s health. She has now as
good a head of hair as anyone could
wish, her eyes are perfectly well,
and she is a fine girl of eight years
with every prospect of growing up
to be a strong and healthy woman/’
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
WITH
COPYRICHT BOOK:.
How to Disinfect
The
AN
Bethnal Green
„ LONDON
4
\
A NOVELTY!
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Tliree in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
. natural perfumes. '
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
fagurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made m London.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Wh'ftiJS
t <3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAXD for Pretty Stamps. H'e
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. o<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
X.S.W.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hdt Climates
Restores the Colour to Carpets Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
I
Sole Agents for New South Wales
ELLIOTT BROS,, LIMITED. SYDNEY
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL HALL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“DIAMOND REIGN” YEAR, 1897.
THE following established Exhibitions and Markets are held under the auspices of and with the
support of all the leading members of the respective Trades. All the largest Engineers and
manufacturers from all parts of the world exhibit (under one roof) at these annual gatherings, and
® re >e I st . mal 'kf ts f° r all "ho desire to buy to the greatest advantage and who may wish to see
the latest novelties. Buyers unable to attend personally should instruct their European agents to
visit these Markets and advise them of all novelties, etc. Catalogues of each Exhibition are published
separately; and a copy of any one of them will be sent post free on receipt of Is.
Prospectuses and full particulars can be had free on application.
THE Papei makers , Printers, Stationers’, Photographers’, Foreign
and Fancy Goods Exhibition and Market
will be held from
JUNE 23rd to 30th, 1897.
THE Hardware, Machinery, Inventions, Electrical, China, Glass
and Pottery Manufacturers’ Exhibition and Market
will be held from
AUGUST 2nd to 9th, 1897.
T
HE Confectioners’,. Bakers’ and Allied Traders’ sth Annua)
International Exhibition and Market
will be held from
SEPTEMBER 16th to 23rd, 1897.
THE Grocery, Provision, Oil and Italian Warehouse and Allied
Ti adeis 2nd A_nnual International Exhibition and AEarket
will be held from
SEPTEMBER 30th to OCTOBER 7th, 1897.
Managing Director of above Four Exhibitions—
W. E. AYLWIN, Esq., Canned Goods Broker.
Brewers, Maltsters’, Distillers’ Mineral Water Manu-
facturers’, Wine and Spirit Merchants’ and
Allied Traders’ 19th Annual Exhibition and Market
will be held from
OCTOBER 30th to NOVEMBER sth, 1897.
. „ Managing Directors—
ARTHUR T. DALE. M.J.1., and Capt. JOHN REYNOLDS.
T
HE
BAKCR’S
STANDARD
Sheffield Razors.
|in. (as illustration), 5/- each.
p • /«• T iin. l as illustration), 6 each.
pfit’ h *P I dsom ? Silk *»d Leather Case, 21/
per case, tost free to any address m Australasia.
r cate sap if round or square point preferred.
u^er - 3 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Gold Medal for Cutlery, Albnry Exhibition, 1596.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
food for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food la sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
trugCo., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation ol its own.
I>ritish Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
The aged.
Think of the last railway-carriage of a
tram being derailed by the body of a six-months-
old calf, which had previously been run over by
the locomotive and all the rest of the carriages'!
As easily imagine a ham being capsized by col-
liding with a pound of butter at midsummer.
Japs, of Thursday recently petitioned John
JJouglae re diving regulations. According to the
| little brown men, fatalities are caused hv deep-
dn-ing inexperience carelessness, and ambition,
they desire to prohibit all diving over 2o fathoms
but assert at the same time that then- art divers
on Thursday who have got shell at 30 fathoms—a
statement contradicted some time ago by a Bul-
letin correspondent.
A correspondent of a financial contem-
porary, says the Tobacco Tbade Review, caps
the jokes about things “made in Germany” by
sending a letter he has just received from a cigar
manufacturer in Germany, advising the dispatch
of samples, and remarking, “ I would thank you
tor taking the pain of smoking the cigars.” That
phrase, remarks the Financial Times, was un-
doubtedly 'made in Germany,” but it possibly
contains an essential truth.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in*
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield andißarraclough, the
weli-knownopticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers m the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of cou-se be
measured bv the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
AtCampaspe (Vie.), lately, a man drank
ft- gallons or so of the local wine in a fortnight,
lie was inquested and buried in due course An
epitaph :
A gallon a day
Of the vin du pays
For fourteen days drank he
If he’d stuck to beer
He wouldn’t be here
In CampaBpe cemetree.
Rev. Theophilus Parr, M.A., Grand Chap-
lain of the Order of the Yellow Pup in N.S.W.,
is much above par in the matter of clerical modesty
Interviewed as to his probable return to England
three years hence : “I cannot say where I shall
be m the year 1900—whether in Methodist-Union
Australia, England, or Heaven. One is just as
likely as the other at present. ” Quite so—but
there is another alternative.
S.M. Herald telegram :
Reports from Townsville state that the Queensland
authorities have been moved at last to prohibit the land-
ing of 400 Japanese immigrants.
. Japanese Govt-, has ordered a war-ship to proceed
to Townsville.
This, at least, was how The Bulletin’s prescient
imagination read the message. It was really
Honolulu, not Townsville. But who will bet it
won’t be Townsville next time, or the time after ?
\V hat remarks would the Q. Govt, make to a Jap.
war-ship in Cleveland Bay ?
Sample of a recent Henry Lucy contribu-
tion to S.M. Herald :
I hear from one of the Chancellor’s colleagues most
nearly connected with the business. . . . The Right Hon.
gentleman, conversing with me on the subject ... my
friend told me, and his special post in the Ministry lends
peculiar weight. . . . As a matter of fact, I saw only one,
Sir Frank Lockwood, in the handsome velvet suit ... a
member of the committee tells me. . . . The Prince of
Wales ... as he remarked to me. . . . Cecil Rhodes .
said to me a little more than two years ago . .
An egotistical local scribe, nicknamed the
“ I-I-’un,” goes on in much the same way. “As I
was chatting with my friend Sir Charles Lilley in
the palatial smoking-room of the Australia Hotel,
puffing a magnificent cigar which Max O’Rell gave
me on parting with him after luncheon, I was re-
minded of a story told me by Sir Henry Parkes
as we sat together in the cosy library at Annan-
dale,” etc. “ Ain't it sickenin’ ” !
Dear Bulletin, —Somebody tells you
For years past the British navy has declined to follow
deserters. The motto is, that the man who “ jumps ship ”
is not worth keeping. Before that any policeman of civilian
who captured a deserter received ±T, known as “ blood
money. ” If Craddock’s only offence had heen desertion
his name would simply have been taken off the roll. What,
then, was the use of warrant No. 2 ?
This is mostly wrong. Navy deserters are fol-
lowed as rigorously as ever, and every runaway,
from A.B. down to admiral, is worth £3 to the
man who arrests him. The use of warrant No. 2
was simply this, it is a law of extradition that
the extradited person can only be punished for
the offence upon which extradition is granted.
Thus, if Craddock got off on the charge of
embezzlement, and had not been made liable
for desertion, he could not have been made subject
to penalty for the latter offence. Geake’s case
was somewhat similar. He was extradited from
Uruguay on a charge of fraud only, but is now
also serving a sentence for absconding from bail.
Possibly he is smart enough lawyer to discover
u S so ’ ke appeals, the chances are
that the illegal period of imprisonment will have
to be remitted. Similarly, if Butler were acquitted
for the Lee Weller and Preston murders, he could
not be tried for any other crime of which he is
suspected. One thing is true, and to the credit of
the police force, in connection with
deserters—no decent policeman will arrest them—
in spite of the £3 blood-money.—Lex.
“ All servants love titles.”—Dumas fils.
\S e reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.*
A W.A. goldfields pub. Two thirsty men
sitting in front of bar. Big, bulkv six-footer
comes in partly drunk, takes a drink “on his
own,” and sits down between the two stone-
brokers. “11l bet you two drinks,” says one of
the pair, “that he goes forty-five inches round the
chest." Takes his belt off and starts to measure.
The other : “ 111 bet two drinks he goes seventeen
round the calf.” Pulls up his trouser-leg and
starts to measure. The man of means and bulk
shoves the two of them aside and says, “ 111 bet
you two drinks that I don’t shout.” And he
doesn’t. There are many ways of scraping ac-
quaintance with a man who looks good for a drink
but very few of them end in liquid refreshment ’


A
Herr Rassnraa,
THE CELEISItATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOE THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OP A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING- PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfalme Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice ; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
6ome seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Ilerbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out' of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders ar—’ve
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
A. Few of Thom.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your lfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousm ss. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived yreat hern fil
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
success, which 1 do most heartily wish you.—Yours srrale
fully. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. — Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCRHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-Bt., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R ssmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you 'hat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. t UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. t kker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Butt.in writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
j you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear *ir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMiTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
llhaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr kamhussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I hive recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who 1. v« -»ason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to inform jou that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to iny friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmijsskn. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,-In the year 1871 I contracted “rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am ’now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as 1 was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: JoitN Hagerman(my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Files.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandara, N.S.W,
HERR RASSMUSSEH’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
♦
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—" Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Bally Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.— “Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
B.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.— “Herr Bass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Bruggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depdt at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut* . — “ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r< quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Hlail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Australisrhc Zeitung, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
I3T* ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN'S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTiAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
AWARDED.
TWO
GOLD
EDALS
dfH
N
LL
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD * NERVES,
A Certain Cure for the Nerves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affection*
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6<L
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections,
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens ttie System, .Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Cora Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6st
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL. DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - 150 Bourke-street.
Brisbane - - - - 160 Queen-street
Charters Towers - Royal Arcade, Mosman-st.
Adelaide - - - 154 Rundle-street.
N.Z. - 91 Larnbton Quay, Wellington.
Perth, W.A. - Corner Hay and VVilliam-sts.
Coolgardie - Next Coolgardie Hotel Bailey-st.
Kalgoorlie - 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st


W. W. Greener’s celebrated book, “The
Gun and its Development,” is the recognised stan-
dard work of the class — splendidly illustrated,
printed, bound and finished —and contains an
exhaustive history of firearms and explosives.*
“ TASSY ” SCORES ONE 1
We have just received the following:—“Marra
Creek, Brewarrina, N.S.W., 24th March, 1897.
To the Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co., Hobart.
Dear Sirs, —Enclosed please find a postal note for
3s Will you kindly forward me a bottle
of your ‘ Platypus ’ Eucalyptus Oil. It will,
doubtless, seem curious to you that I should send
over 1150 miles for this, but, as far as my observa-
tion goes, the art of making this commodity pro-
perly has not reached this colony. The stuff which
I have used and met with here, and which goes by
the name of eucalyptus, I can only describe by
the one word, ‘ rubbish.’ Having frequently used
yours and knowing its value is my reason for send-
ing this order to you. Yours truly, .”
“ Platypus ” Eucalyptus Oil, which our customer
refers to, is to be had in Sydney of all chemists,
but purchasers should only buy original bottles
with our trade-mark (a platypus) on the labels.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., of O’Connell-street,
Sydney, are the wholesale agents. The Tasmanian
Eucalyptus Oil Company, Limited, Hobart and
London.*
The Smelting* Co
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director: JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited),
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings.
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
mHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or smalt quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
The Celebrated.
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
m
O
A Fabric of surpassing'
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICK.
♦
Rick & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEIN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costume e
Blouse*, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, ar
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine 4 ' LOVI.
Velveteen bears the name (spelled Ir-tt-U-l-i, and in >■,
Other v>sey), and is stamped with a guar anise af tveai
The Ediswan Lamp holds a unique position
in the world’s market, because “ the best are the
cheapest in the end.” This is the lamp whose
points are economy in current, long life, equality
of light, complete reliability. Worthless imita-
tions must be guarded against ; it is the best thing
which is imitated most.*
Medical.
“ pHILDBIRTH WITHOUT PAIN:” a Code of
Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse : to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Onlv of
M adame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ACCOUCHEMENT.— LADIES received in the house
of a well-known MEDICAL MAN, close to his own
residence in a quiet seaside suburb. Every comfort and
attention. The Lady Superintendent is an experienced
and certified Obstetrician. For terms, etc., address “ OB-
STETRICIAN, ”C/ o Gordon & Gotch, Queen-st., Melbourne.
Public Notices.
DUBLIO SERVICE BOARD.
-*• 60 Young-street, Sydney,
9th April, 1897.
The Public Service Board hereby notify that the next
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION for JUNIOR CLERK-
SHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE of the colony will be
held on the 28th, 29th, and 30th days of JUNE' next, at
various centres, which will be fixed to suit the conveni-
ence of candidates. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made during the year is 50. Candidates must
be over sixteen and under twenty-one years of age on the
first day of examination, be of good moral character, in
sound health, and have resided in the colony for at least
three years at the date of application.
Every person who desires to submit himself to examin-
ation must forward to the Secretary to the Board, to
reach him not later than the 7th June, 1897, a statement,
in his own handwriting, giving his full name and address,
and his age, and notifying in which of the principal towns
of the colony he wishes to be examined. He must also
submit, with his application, an extract from the register
in which his birth is recorded, or other satisfactory evi-
dence of his age ; a certificate to the effect that he is of
good moral character, signed by his teacher, if he is at-
tending school, or has ceased to attend school for a shorter
period than six months ; by a clergyman or Justice of the
Peace or other responsible person if it is more than six
months since he left school; and a certificate from a repu-
table person to the effect that the applicant has resided
in the colony for at least three years.
A list of registered candidates will be advertised, with
the times and places of examination ; and, in addition,
every candidate registered will be personally notified of the
time and place when and where he must present himself.
Every candidate whose name is not registered by the
Board will be so informed, with the reason why registra-
tion is refused.
The subjects in which candidates will be examined are
—Handwriting, English (dictation, grammar, and com-
position), Arithmetic (full course), Geometry (Euclid,
First Book), Outlines of Physical and Political Geography,
and the Geography of the Australasian Colonies in
moderate detail, English History from the middle of the
Eighteenth Century to the present time, especially with
reference to the colonies and dependencies. Candidates
will also be allowed to take any two, but not more than
two, of the following subjects .-—Mathematics, English—a
prescribed author—(the same as that prescribed for
the Junior Examination of the current year), Latin,
French, German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary
Geology. Every candidate who wishes to be examined in
the extra subjects must give notice of his desire in his
application.
The fee for examination will be 10s., which must be paid
to a Clerk of Petty Sessions or into the Treasury, and the
receipt lodged with the Secretary of the Board 10 days
before the examination. Every successful candidate must
produce a medical certificate to the effect that he is in
sound health, and free from physical defects, before he will
be allowed to enter upon his duties.
The regulations governing the examinations appeared
in a supplement to the Government Gazette dated Ist
April, 1897.
By order of the Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
9a48.
Amusements.
(CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
« Lessee and Manager ... Frank Thornton.
THE SUCCESS OF THE SEASON!
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) AND EVERY EVENING.
FRANK THORNTON,
AND HIS NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In Brandon Thomas’s Farcical Comedy,
“ CHARLEY’S AUNT.”
Prices —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. L. J. LOHR.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8, and MATINEE,
SATURDAY NEXT, at 2 o’clock.
The Romantic Play, in a Prologue and four Acts, adapted
from Anthony Hope’s Famous Story, by Edward Rose,
The Prisoner of Zenda.
The most richty-costumed play ever presented in Sydney.
Plan, Nicholson’s. gW PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
237 gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
The Extraordinary Success which, during the past five
months, has attended the Exhibitions of the Greatest
CINEMATOGRAPHE in the world, and which so far has
been witnessed by 150,000 people, has been emphasised in
the most unmistakable manner by the Enthusiastic
approval of the never-ending throng. JAS. M‘MAIION.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brii/liant Success of
Mr. Marry Jtickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle.
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS ol
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
gW Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Easter Holidav Attraction,
IN SKaHT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
The SECOND PRODUCTION of the Season will be the
Revival on
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, 22nd and 23rd April, of
“Tbs School for ScaQdal.”
Prices of Admission —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss:
Stalls, 3s ; Amphitheatre (early door Is extra), Is.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
6 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Full Size.
POST FREE.
ExpaQdiQg afyd Sclf-CloSiijg - -
BRACELETS.
£b. d. £s. d. £s. d.
Solid Gold 212 6 217 6 310 0
EXPANDING- Si SELF-CLOSING
Bracelet $ (Hatch
COMBINED.
£ a. d. £ s. d. £s. d.
Solid Gold 610 0 710 0 810 0
6 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Full Size Watch.
Guaranteed for Three Years.
POST FREE.
CfcT't.
NOTE:
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS—
fj
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“A BORN PHYSICIAN.”
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE —Posted, Sealed—
J6l, including ONE MONTH’S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
g-*<y
wfiim.
**<n
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household worrt ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to’
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed In an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with ‘want of sleep a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice k> this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press price £2 Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successful!}'.
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men.
NB -—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments
SURGEON LANGSTON. MB. C S., Eng., 121 Colllne Street. Melbourne
Mivnoy this Pap mr
MABYELLOUS
RESULTS
eLCCTRKITY
AS A
Curative Agent.
PULYERMACHER’S
WORLD - FAMED
galvanic Belts.
! The Only Genuine Ones made are recommended
by the most eminent Medical Men throughout the
world, and have received testimonials from—
CIR CHAS. LOCOCK, Bart., Physician to HER
O MAJESTY.
QIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart.,* Physician to HER
0 MAJESTY.
OIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., Physician to HER
0 MAJESTY.
QIR E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H. the
0 PRINCE OF WALES.
T\R. J. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. the EMPEROR
OF AUSTRIA.
T'vß. ONIMUS, of the ACADEMY OF MEDICINE
of PARIS.
DR. VALENTINE MOTT, of the ACADEMY OF MEDI-
CINE OF NEW YORK ; and the following Members
of the
COLLEGE of PHYSICIANS of LONDON :
T\R. C. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, St. Mary’s
■U Hospital.
GOLDING BIRD, Physician, Guy’s Hospital.
DR. JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, London Hos-
pital.
J)R. T. W. NUNN, Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital.
"pjR. R. M. LAWRENCE, Physician, Great Northern
Hospital.
IAR. J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, University
Hospital.
D R. R. QUAIN, Physician, Brompton Hospital.
JJR. H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, Leeds Hospital.
TAR. JAMES WILSON, Physician, Worcester Infirmary ,
and from hundreds of other well-known Physi
cians, &c.
Pulvermacher’s
Galvanic Belts
Have rendered Electricity perfectly SELF-APPLICABLE
in a mild continuous form, and EXTREMELY
EFFICACIOUS without shock or un-
pleasant sensation.
They SPEEDILY SOOTHE agonising pains, reanimate
torpid limbs, revive the sluggish functions of life, and
impart renewed energy and vitality to constitutions en-
feebled by whatever causes. They are exceedingly effec-
tive without the aid of medicine, restriction of diet, or
the least derangement of the patient’s habits and daily
occupations, in the following maladies :
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
NEURALGIA
HEAD & TOOTHACHE
LIVER COMPLAINTS
TIC DOLORBUX
INDIGESTION
DEAFNESS
SPASMS
FEMALE COMPLAINTS
CONSTIPATION
CRAMP
URINARY DISORDERS
SLUGGISH CIRCULA
TION
PARALYSIS
EPILEPSY
DEBILITY
FUNCTIONAL DISOtC
DERS, &c., <Scc.
The effects of the application of PULVERMACHER S
CHAINS in any of the above disorders are immediately
perceptible—the relief of pain generally instantaneous.
HUNDREDS of Testimonials are received
yearly speaking of their marvellous efficacy,
and we print here a few only to show what people
think of them. We are glad to send full descrip-
tive pamphlet to anyone wishing it, or to advise
or give any information necessary.
Testimonials.
Neuralgia.
Shaw, near Oldham.
Gentlemen,—l have much pleasure in stating that the
six Galvanic Chain-Bands which I have obtained from you
within the last few months were in every case highlv
successful in curing most obstinate Neuralgia when ail
other remedies tried had failed to give relief.
Yours faithfully,
W. A. PATCHETT, M.R.C.S. England, L.S.A, London,
Epilepsy.
Upton Hall, Northampton.
Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in stating that I have
derived great benefit from the use of vour Galvanic Belts
Before using them I suffered from" Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, and Indigestion. lam glad to state I have not had
a fit for more than twelve months, and the other com-
plaints are quite cured.
Faithfully yours,
GEORGE TURNER (Alderman of Northampton).
Pain and Weakness in the Back
Byers Green, Spenny Moor, Durham,
_ , "20th January, 1892.
Dear Sir, The Galvanic Appliance that I received from
you has quite cured me of the dreadful pain in my back’
from which I was suffering.
The first week after wearing your Belt I was better, and
in two months I was cured, and have had no return of
the pain and weakness since.
With many thanks, I am, yours faithfully,
EDMUND GLAND
Testimonial from Dr. Tyrrell
(Member of the Royal College of Surgeons).
2 Albert Mansions,
Victoria Street, S.W.,
_ 0 . October 28th, 1891
Dear Sir, I have used your Electric Belts in manj
cases and have found them serviceable in restoring lost
functional power.
Faithfully yours,
Walter Tyrrell, m.r.c.s. Eng.
GALVANISM : g estorer
. , . . . . Impaired Vital Energy,
interesting and instructive booklet sent post free to 1
address. All sufferers should read it.
Pulvermacher's Galvanic Agency.
OSBORN & JERPAN
(Late FROST & SHIPHAM),
Medical and Household Eleotricians,
438 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
Sole Agents.
The officers of a Union Co.’s steamer got a
shock while between Lyttelton and Wellington
recently. When on the look-out for Kaikoura
Peninsula, they suddenly descried a light to star-
board—where there should have been open sea.
Soon innumerable other lights appeared, and it
seemed as if the ship was running into a good-
sized town. Under the circumstances the amazed
officers decided to go full speed astern, but by
some occult agency they did not get away from
the lights—the town was apparently chasing them.
Some of the passengers hinted at an “ optical
delusion ” or “ sea phantasy ” and the like, until it
suddenly dawned on the skipper that a squadron
of warships was the cause of the eerie and uncer-
tain sight. So it proved. Admiral Bridge and
co. were on their way to a northern coastal town.
Coincident advts. from English Clarion :
ME. FLURSCHEIM’S LECTURES on “ Co-opera-
tive Exchange Bank Notes.” Conditions : Mr.
Flurscheim pays his own railway and hotel expenses ;
society engaging his services pays for advertising
meeting and hire of hall. Application for dates to be
made to A. Brittlebank, Organising Sec., 40 Hounds
Gate, Nottingham.
T ECTURES on COSME COLONY by W. LANE, in
London or South-East England, between March
13th and 25th (week nights), may be arranged.—A.
Tozer, 220 Goswell-road London, E.C.
Brittlebank for Flurscheim and Tozer (not Horace)
for Lane. Thus the two men who first astonished
the Guaranis by introducing British fisticuffs to
the Paraguayan backblocks meet again in
the (advertising) columns of a Socialist paper.
Brittlebank (the writer presumes) is the
N.S. Wales single-taxer who, four years ago,
went to Paraguay, and didn’t like it. In a
truly communal spirit, he plugged young Tozer.
Tozer, a New Australian who has never been
in Old Australia, retaliated with one
on the Single-taxer’s countenance, and, in a spirit
of true mateship, levelled an acre or two of
“ monte ” scrub with the belligerent brother’s car-
case. Then Britt, went to England and wrote
violent anti-Lane letters to the papers, and re-
marked that socialism, of the Tozer brand, any-
way, wasn’t what it was cracked up to be. Tozer
helped Lane to found the Cosme settlement, and
now figures in England as It. S. Smythe for Don
William. And the first man he sees glaring at
him over a metal-rule, is his ancient antagonist,
Brittlebank! So whirls the whirligig. Writer
suggests a conference between the rival showmen
in the interests of Liberty, Equality and Fra-
ternity, and to prevent the undue warping of
Blatchford’s metal-rule.


A xjttjmkt
G-OODS
496 CASES and BALES.
NOW READY FOR INSPECTION.
Call and See the Grand Assortment.
Do not buy shoddy when you can get
the Genuine Article at FINNEY,
ISLES & CO’S at same price.
Hard-working people, their wives, and
families should go to FINNEY, ISLES
& CO’S to lay out their cash to the
best advantage.
Finney, isces * cn.
BRISBANE, Q. ;
Also at MARYBOROUGH, Q. ;
And 27 Milton Street, CRIPPLEGATE,
London, E.C.
The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ •
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO.,
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
XRegiQald A. F. flGrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
X
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Co*oi)’s Noted Accord^osjS,
Or call at one of our Branches— lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of f> per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Wlocue?
*-<T\ POST FREE
Watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
WEDDING £ CtIRiSTEtIINC Presents
H NeWMAIVI- 1755177-ELIZARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.Q,
MELBOURNE-
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
The Only Certain Moustache Producer•
111 Try It.
CAP3LLARINE!
Posted (under cover)
to anypartof Austra
lasia orNewZealand,
price, 10 «
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
C^pirmerer
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“ BEET HAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2,6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
skiuM
X
—DESTROYS-
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
I For the House, Conservatory
and G-arden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from t
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Cats, and Fowls of e
Parasites. S>
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
%sisto's
FOB
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
m muTunc store, im.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
£2T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIKUItESSEKS A> l> WIE.IIAKKItS
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumety, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
, CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
080 A 082 tieoige Street, Sydney.
m
wot.
m
Whitehead’s
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King- & York sts.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne* _
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “Arbenz,” with trade
mark “ A ” in Swiss cross for first quality, and “ B ”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
The Celebrated
POKER MACHINE
§| A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
CIGARS FREE
fIfIOPS? IN THESLO
HOME ROLE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia.
Price - £5.
Pubications.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers' Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
| —godallct Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
g—{Odalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
| —godalla. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equai M the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
SUSSEX STREET, SYOXEY.
SP*
T «E DRUM
>N POSITION
Peafoess
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free!, giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.” —I. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
J'li n der.s-.ft., Townsvtile.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rpOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
T Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL'S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Could a Kanaka nobleman (or chief) be
sued for sureties in this court (B.mdaberg Police- j
court) was argued out the other day. In contra- !
vention whereof a solicitor quoted Burns’s “ Jus- !
tices of tiie Peace “ There seems to be no
doubt that it (surety) ought, upon a just cause of
complaint, to be granted by any justice of the
peace against any person whomsoever under
dei/ree of nobility .” Now Johnny Man Decka-
Decka was a mighty prince in his own land—
whence the trouble to legal luminaries.
The other day a young man, acting as
third assistant to the cook in a Sandringham
(Vic.) coffee house, was sent a scrap of newspaper
by one of the waitresses, who had found it
wrapped around the ham or something. The
paper contained an advt., intimating that certain
lawyers desired to meet with a person of the same
name as the cook’s assistant. A lump sum was
waiting the pleasure of that cook’s assistant in
Sydney, and now he is off ’Ome to take possession
of £17,000 a year and a palatial residence in
London. Which shows that the devil is indeed
good to cooks.
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MAONIVEN & CAMERON'S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
A couple of Chinese cabinet makers were
fined for evasions of the Factories Act in Melb.
the other day (working after hours), and the
Argus headed its report “Work or Starvation,”
and pointed out that the poor pagan had to toil at
all possible hours or perish of hunger; therefore,
the Factories Act is a tyrannous and inhuman
piece of legislation. It is useless pointing out to
the Argus that if the Chow is allowed to work at
all hours, his white rivals must perish of starva-
tion, or take to burglary, or garroting, or some
other industry in which they are not likely to suffer
from Chinese competition. Argus’s charity for
the Chow is the charity that dissembles a multi-
tude of conservative sins.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., desires to
inform intending patentees that on account of his
satisfactory arrangements with leading patent
agents in all the Australasian provinces, the prin-
cipal countries of Europe, America, and South
Africa, he is in a position to take out patents,
register trade-marks, companies and copyrights,
at rates very much below those hitherto charged by
expert patent agents, and which will be within the
reach of everyone. For the sum of =B2O, exclusive
of cost of drawings, he will obtain a Certificate of
Provisional Protection (in the first instance) for
any invention in the seven Australian provinces
and Great Britain and full patents in any other
countries in the world at proportionately reason-
able rates. Mr. Griffith’s office is 41 Castlereagh-
street, City, next Hotel Australia.*
There has been trouble amongst the
soldiery of Ballarat, where the native man of
blood and iron has fierce and flaring tastes in the
matter of clothes. It became known at head-
quarters that unless the bold militiaman at this
town was given something more startling than
khakee wherewith to drape his figure, he would
retire from the army in disgust. There were
pleadings, and protests, and negotiations, but the
soldier triumphed, and Government is having a
large quantity of scarlet cloth, as flaring as measles,
manufactured, and presently the garden city will
be painted red by a fresh outbreak of local soldiery
clad in the color of a smoky sunset, and picked
out with slabs and splashes of glittering gilt. A
horrible fatality amongst nursemaids will speedily
follow. When one thinks of the tremendous
expense to which a Government is put to enable a
vainglorious young cobbler to mash the boss-eyed
girl at the store round the corner, one can fully
appreciate the honest efforts of the Peace Society.
Extract from document written by Sydney
Cingalese who lately tired of scraping the dirty
edge off existence: —
“ Notic to every poor people. How the Goverment do
to poors; also how to pass missrable life. Dear Sir.
Since the year our lord one thousand eigt hundred and 82
I was left my nativ home of Ceylon and came to Australia
to earn my living without robbing or frauding, etc., only
by working, hut I find it was failur up to to-day; I have
been earn by working a few years back and start on busi-
ness. That was failure as well, and went broke. There I
had to go on the track again to work. There I made a
bit, also start a farm on Tweed River in N.S.W. I was
there until 1893 with another person name . When
1 was doing farming I got an attack of rhumatic because
I was working ‘ wet, and dry to earn my daily bread.
Through that been laid up had go to hospital at Brisbane.
There was for some time and pain releaf no of. Then
return home, and as I colled the farm. After I was
arrived to farm I was told by mates one day our landlord
came to us and asked us to give our crop of sugar-cane to
crush by him, because there was rent due to him ”
And much more to the same effect. This is the
history of Australian land-development. Fail in
business, “ go on the land ” without much know-
ledge of it, incur rheumatics or something equiva-
lent, get back with the rent, and then it is either
Hell or the Bogan scrub. That is the common
way of helping to build the Great Australian
Damnation.


To Prevent or Remedy INSECT BITES or STINGS, RINGWORM,
ITCH, PILES, and most SKIN AILMENTS, use
CALVERT’S 207. CARBOLIC SOAP.
APPROVED BY THE LATE SIR ERASMUS WILSON, M.D., F.R.S.
1/- 'X'alble'tsj (English Rate).
IF USED AT BED-TIME, IT INVARIABLY PREVENTS MOSQUITO BITES.
Gairdner Blackmore, Esq., Wellington, N-Z., writes . —“ When in Australia, during the hottest weather,
we used it on the body where bitten by Ants or Centipedes It quickly healed the spot and drove away pain.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H- NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
It? 1
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlerv and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-payment
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and VV. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
Forbes’s PHOSFERRIJNE.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance, 180 Collins-St., Melbourne
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
Perdriau Co.,
Rubber Manufacturers.
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE. -
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
MXean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
ROOK OF NATURE
" AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Tub Notorious Moll Flanders, by D<- Foe, complete
and unabridged,' illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gu,stavb, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Piping Hot, Nana, and all Zola’s Novels,
posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free, Is 3d.
komanck of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mystekies Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love arid
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, poet 2s.
Fox's Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
New Realistic Novels:—Wife in Name Only;
Thais, or the Vengeance of Venus ; Decoyed ; Modern
Don Juan ; With Unchaste Purpose ; His Last Pas-
sion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Deoz, posted 2s.
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Maupassant’s Contes Choisis (in French), posted 2s.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post. Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Booh Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Remington
STOTT & HOABE
SELL
THE FAMOUS
200,000 in Daily Use,
as compared with 80,000
of 27 other makes.
Many new Improvements
on the new No. 7 Model.
Typewriter.
The REMINGTON STANDARD TYPEWRITER maintains unquestioned supremacy, because
it does the work quickly, easily, and clearly, by improved mechanism of unequalled simplicity and
durability. We also sell the REMINGTON BICYCLE.
STOTT & HOARE,
Temple Court, 42S Collins-st., Melbourne
—AND —
-49 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WHITE; DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depdt, 484 GeoFge-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will'effect a saving of 50 per cent, as .compared with’buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints, ft can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.BB wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES. •
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Pianos can
bo had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. Tlie touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
m the middle coinpass ; and a clear, bell like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BftALK & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
THE
Plum
p ID
THE
‘ Plum’
( i ENTLEMEIn who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
JC Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rlce \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle*- in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
STYLE No. 14.
&9 98. CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT
WRITE FOR OUP
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
Perfect in Every Particular.
Th® Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
hank machines
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having: been appointed Agent-
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
ss
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a. stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil aud Fittings to snit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
BAILEYs
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. .Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
I; I'll i 41
MODERATE TARIFF.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING \
Per Post, Is. 3d.
Boys of 11 or 12 years go round with the
dust-carts in several Sydney suburbs. As the
rubbish is tipped into the carts they sort it out
and throw articles of possible value into a separate
heap. The law, which is so beneficent to tender-
aged stage children, might also have regard for
those youngsters whose bodies must make com-
fortable nests for the multifarious germs that
haunt suburban dirt-boxes.
“The medical brotherhood of Britain
is a close guild,” writes The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent. “No foreigner (Australian
included therein) need apply for any position, no
matter how high his credentials. Yet Playfair,
the King’s Hospital gynaecologist and discoverer
of Dorothea Baird ‘ Trilby ’ —he whose wife’s confi-
dential whispers were prescribed for in a famous
libel-case of late; the prescription was a .£lOOO
draft, but it was not taken or offered—plainly
avows he got his appointment as a specialist in
obstetrics when he was absolutely ignorant of that
wide subject. To-day, certainly, few are his
superiors, but the hospital and asylum appoint-
ments are now cut and dried before advertising
in accordance with the regulations. In one par-
ticular case, recently, an Australian was refused
because his degrees and testimonials were ‘ too
good,’ and the local butcher’s son with a low-class
degree got the job. The scalpel and the cleaver.”
The hominy ’bus—Black Maria.
Viator : “ What a blather about the diffi-
culty of managing the Australian railways in
block. I class it much about the same as the job
of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Be, or the
English Midland.”


Tl)€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOR COLOMAL-MADE WIRE AETTIAG,
And. see tnat you get it.
*?
PROOF
%
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
LySBGHT BROS. $ CO.
LIMITED.
m
m
m
mm
mm
ItMm
ili
c»
pvOE
PROO
Ofj
Ei
The Trade Supplied. Price Tdsts on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb Chambers, Bligb-St., Sydney
Works
Parrarqatta Riycr.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
In the Grey of the Morning .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glamor the dull present throws over the dis-
tant past, in which eyes were brighter, smiles
sweeter, and lips more dewy ! Here, in the small
hours, when a long white glove lies forgotten on
the floor and a broken fan lies among faded
flowers and soiled glasses ; when the heat of the
wine has vanished, leaving regrets and memory
for company ; a line of bygone faces file silently
round the table more real than the noisy, reckless
flesh and blood so shortly preceding them. How
charming they were, those girls one did not
marry ; how dainty their ways, how neat their
waists and their ankles, how warm their kisses !
What good fellows were those chums of the old
days ! How sweet was love, how true was friend-
ship ! The shy look that set one’s blood tingling,
the hearty hand-grip ! To youth the gods are
lavish.
There was a day, dear love, that we spent by the
sea, with the south breeze stirring your hair ; and
your hand in mine, when the summer moon came
up, round and full, and met the evening star in the
still southern ocean, making a wide shimmering
pathway to the west, where, under a line of rosy
clouds, a white-sailed boat drifted slowly. There
was the scent of creamy ti-tree flowers, the kiss of
tiny waves on the sand below. The flash of swift
gulls, and the twitter of birds in their nests near
by. For the rest, you were there, giving, for that
one day at least, the meaning of the earth and sea
and sky, and interpreting the sweetest love lyric
in your shy eyes.
O, days that were ours ! dreams that were ours .
Ambitions dead or realised, what matter ? Who
climbs a high peak but sees from thence a higher ?
The mile stones of life are marked failure and
folly, and he who passes one marked success may-
be has the more furrowed brow, the more lagging
step, and he reads the letters with dim, listless
eyes.
The young cry: “See what the gods have
given ! ” and they point to the great grey piles of
Dead Sea apples, seeing neither the greyness nor
the ashes —only ripe, red fruit sufficient for all
desire.
All will so soon be over and done with, and one
returns to the cool, old earth, to lie unconscious of
the pulsing life above ; knowing neither love nor
sorrow nor sin. To lie where, by stretching out
one’s hands to either side, one could touch the
brave men and sweet women who went before and
come after.
Will it be a quick, fierce death, life clinging for one
cm»l instant to the warm body she has nourished
--cl—gUig like a bride to her groom, crying to the
hot pulse, the strong muscle and sinew ; and then
torn away to perish in the parting ? However it
be matters little, it is so soon over.
The ghostly company have flitted from my
table ; there is nothing but the empty glasses, the
disorder, and the flickering candles. The glove
lies where it fell. Let’s to bed, to wake again pre-
sently to the workaday world, in which To-day is
of paramount importance.
S.O.S.
Concentrate of impossibility—Carrying
three water-melons in a saddle strap. — Brown,
M.L.A. (Q.).
An Idyll of the Ring.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The combatants were known, and Victoria Hall
was uneasy with the impatience of a Saturday
night audience. In a dressing-room under the
stage ; Monty Hammond was being rubbed down
by his seconds. Monty was anxious ; at every
volley of heel-stamps and shrill whistles he en-
quired : “ Hasn’t that bloomin’ Moonlight turned
up yet? ” The answer was invariably in the nega-
tive. Presently, a tiny man, possessing the
pressed-down nose peculiar to pugilists, came in,
announcing an injury to Moonlight’s hand, and
said there was “ no ’ope of ’im turnin’ up.”
“ There’ll be no fight ! ” growled a second.
Monty Hammond's face grew black.
“ Carn’t yer move round and get some bloke to
take me on instead ? ” he suggested.
The second went to move round. He returned
shortly: “ There ain’t no blokes in the’all as is
willin’ an’ yer weight. ’Arry Thompson ses ’e
don’t mind fillin’ in, but ’e’s three stun ’eavierthan
you an’ knows more.”
Asked Monty : “ But will ’e split the ’ouse ? ”
“No; ’e wants 75 per cent, to go to the winner,
cos ’e knows ’e can beat yer ; so it ain’t no good
yer takin’ on a bloomin’ ’iding fur a couple o’quid.
I’ll tell ’im you ain’t taking any.”
“ Don’t tell ’im that: tell ’im I’ll ’ave a cut,”
said Monty, doggedly.
“ But ”
“ Go on, carn’t yer—tell ’im ! ”
Half an-hour afterwards, Monty was helped
back, having received great punishment and a
“ knock out ”in six rounds. A few sympathising
friends accompanied him, as well as his garrulous
second, who eased his soul with talk beginning:
“ Didn’t I tell yer yer ’ad no ’ope ” and ending in
curses for a fool. Monty was sphinx-like in his
silence until the entrance of the “gentleman” who
had attended his interest at the “ gate.”
“ ’Ow much in the ’ouse ? ”
“ Twelve sixteen, after exs.”
“ Wot’s coinin’ to me ? ”
“ Three pun four.”
“ There, I told yer so,” interposed the second,
disgustedly. “ A bloomin’ idin’ an’ a smack agin
yer rep. for 64 blanky bob. Gawd, yer was
balmy ! ”
“ Stow yer lip,” said Monty, savagely, “ ain’t I
got a bloomin’ missus an’ a kid at ’ome ! Wot
else could a blanky fam’ly man do?”
H. A. CONANT.
The Labor Question —“Any show for a
job, boss ? ”
A London illustrated paper, just to hand,
drags out half-a-dozen instruments of torture used
to-day in the Anglican Church, a hair shirt being
the mildest.
“ She said somedings about somedings, but
vat dat somedings vas or vat she vas say aboudt
it I vas not know.” It took 25 minutes to extract
this evidence from a small, fat, bewildered Ger-
man one day recently in Masterton (M.L.) magis-
trate’s court, and the bench was in such a bad
temper for the rest of the day that it was con-
stantly on the verge of giving the whole town six
months without the option.
The Crow and the Crane: an
Aboriginal Legend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Crane was a great fisherman. He used to
hunt the fish out with his feet from underneath
the logs in the creek, and so catch numbers.
One day, when he had a great many on the bank
of the river, a Crow, who was white then, came up.
He asked the Crane to give him some fish. “Wait
a while,” said the Crane, “ until they are cooked.”
But the Crow was hungry and impatient; he would
not cease bothering the Crane, who kept saying
“ wait, wait.” Presently the Crane turned his
back ; the Crow sneaked up and was just going to
steal one. The Crane turned round, saw him,
seized a fish, and hit the Crow right across the
eyes with it.
The Crow felt blinded for a few minutes. He
fell on the burnt black grass round the fire, and
rolled over and over in his pain. When he got up
to go away his eyes were white and the rest of
him black, as the crows have been ever since.
The Crow was determined to pay out the Crane
for having given him white eyes and a black skin.
He watched his chance. One day he saw the
Crane fast asleep. He crept quietly up to him
holding a fish-bone. This he stuck right across
the root of the Crane’s tongue. Then he went off
as quietly as he had come, careful, for once, not to
make a sound.
The Crane woke up at last, and when he opened
his mouth to yawn he felt choking. He tried to
get the obstruction out of his throat; in the effort
he made a queer scraping noise, which was all he
could give utterance to. The bone stuck fast.
And to this day the only noise a crane can make
is gah-rah-gah, gay-rah-gah, thus giving the name
by which he is known to the blacks.
K. LANGLOH PARKER.
The S.A. bootmakers’ strike is mainly
owing to starvation wages following on the
machinery system and cut-throat trade competi-
tion. Some of the piece-workers have been
averaging under 10s. a week for months past.
A resident of Greendale (Vic.), has a
grievance against the trustees of the local ceme-
tery. He bought a small allotment in Green-
dale bone-yard, on the supposition that he was
securing a last resting-place in a truly Christian
district, where he might sleep the sleep of the
righteous undisturbed by doubts concerning his
neighbors’ respectability. He had hoped that
when the Last Trump awoke him he would be
quite safe in formally introducing himself to the
occupants of the adjoining graves, with a view to
getting included among their little “ set,” so that
he could have the pleasure of passing them into
the Kingdom as personal friends, after giving
their names to the angel at the gate. And now
it seems that the tenant of the ground next
door to his property is an alleged suicide, in
whose company the great man would appear to
great disadvantage in St. Peter’s eagle eye.
Therefore, he desires the authorities to eject
this disreputable dead ’un, otherwise he will be
compelled to forfeit his freehold and buy another
plot in a more select corner of the cemetery.
Dogma has its discomforts.
To Sydney’s Champion Newspaper
Sore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dear Mr. Knapp, you make a mistake
If you really are pleased to suppose
That the country’s alight with the letters you
write—
We could all do the same if we chose.
From Solomon down we may read as we run
Of the ways of a man and a maid,
There is nothing that’s new to us under the sun,
And certainly not in the shade.
The Jingo remarks that you fiddle aloud
Are as vulgar as coin from the Mint;
And you merely distinguish yourself from the
crowd
By the fact that you get them in print.
You’re a ’prentice, my boy, in the primitive stage
And you itch, like a boy, to confess ;
When you know a bit more of the arts of the age
You will probably write a lot less.
For your wearisome clap-trap we don’t care a fig,
It is this that we deeply deplore ;
You were cast for a common or usual pig,
But you play the invincible “ bore.”
AUTUMOSA.
Labouchere declares Truth’s numerous
libel experiences have taught him that of all wit-
nesses on questions of fact, clergymen are least
trustworthy.
From London Labor Chronicle :
A London stockbroker of our acquaintance, talking
over these matters a few weeks ago, expressed surprise
that Labor leaders had not made use of the Stock Ex-
change in fighting employers. Why should not a Trade
Union, contemplating a strike, sell the shares of the com-
pany before announcing the strike ? The fall in price as
soon as the news is spread abroad would enable the Trade
Union to buy at a profit, which would place them in funds
for strike-pay for many months. It was reckoned that
the fall in North-Westerns amounted to four millions. A
slice of this would have been a welcome addition to the
£lBO,OOO which the Amalgamated Society of Railway Ser-
vants was said to have had at its back. There is, of
course, a difficulty in the way of Trade Unions dealing in
stocks and shares with their funds, but there is nothing
to hinder the striking of a bargain with some enterprising
stock-jobber. The Union might supply exclusive infor-
mation of their intention for a lump sum cash down.
Dear Bulletin, —Splendid fellow as San-
dow is, I think he opens his mouth too wide in
calling himself the strongest man in the world.
Dr. Winship, of Boston, may be dead now, but he
was certainly very much alive when he lifted
30001b.—7601b. over the ton. Done with straps and
careful weight-distribution, certainly, but still an
astounding feat for an ordinary-sized man. Also
Whistler, the American wrestler, carried drunk
—a 13cwt. iron girder upon his shoulder for 100
yards. Also Harrison —many years ago “ muscle-
model ” at the Royal Academy, and rather a small
man—could twine two heavy horse-shoes round
each other. These two latter men are dead, but
it’s hardly to be doubted that others like them are
in the flesh. The world may know nothing of its
strongest men—as well as of its greatest.—Del-
toid.


Visitors from the country are respectfully
invited to call upon Hordern’s in Pitt-street
dressmaker or tailor (as the sex may demand), and
leave theirmeasurementsforfuture record. (We are
the Horderns who send all parcels of drapery free
per rail, boat, or parcels post to any town in New
South Wales). Be sure you get into Pitt-street
Hordern s. Hordern Brothers for economic dra-
pery and excellent dressmakers and tailors, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
Influenzas After Evil Effects, Debility, Loss of Appetite, Indigestion, Rheumatism and Gout
POSITIVELY CUBED
1E3"2Z~
O'- IP 18 " 8 ' PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE.
A Pensioner’s Plight.
CHRONIC DIARRH(EA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA
DYSPEPSIA, CURVATURE OF THE SPINE.
WHAT PINK PILLS DID IN THE WAY OF CURE.
(From the “Times,” Kansas City, Mo.)
Robert H. Hunter is an old veteran of Arlington, in the terri-
tory of Oklahoma, who, after 33 years of helpless suffering, is now
so far rejuvenated that he has taken up a quarter section of land
“to grow up with the country,” as he says.
In 1863 Mr. Hunter was serving at the front in Co. G., Ist
Mo. Cavalry, and while on a long forced march was ten days and
nights in the saddle during very rainy weather. He was, shortly
/
; />
after getting into camp,
from the exposure he
had gone through, taken
with such severe cramp-
ings and swellings of
the limbs that it was at
first surmised that he
had been bitten by a
rattler or copperhead.
The regimental sur-
geon was not of that
opinion, but diagnosed
it as a case of saddle
cramp and acute rheu-
matism of a very severe
type. Here is the old
soldier’s own story:
“The regimental sur-
geon informed my cap-
tain that I would not be able for some time, if ever, to ride my
horse, so I was appointed commissary sergeant of the company, in
which capacity I served until September, 1864, when from lack of
exercise, owing to my crippled condition, I was taken with
chronic diarrhoea. Neuralgia, dyspepsia, and curvature of the
spine soon added their presence to my weight of woe, and at my
discharge I was a pretty badly used-up man. Of course, I was
obliged to undergo medical treatment, and had numerous physi-
cians who attempted to give me relief without success, and as the
years rolled on hope grew dimmer until I saw nothing that would
assuage my suffering but the grave.
“ Thus I dragged on a miserable existence until 1890, when, to
add to my misery, I caught influenza, and when that left me all
my diseases were emphasised, and my lungs became affected. I
was not able to walk any distance, and when I came to Oklahoma
in 1893 was too ill and weak and helpless to look at the quarter
section I had taken up.
“ In August, 1893, I read in a newspaper that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People had cured the effects of la grippe in a
great many cases, so I thought it could do me no harm to try
them, and I did.
“ Before I had finished the first box my cough was cured, and
all pulmonary symptoms had disappeared, and my general health
became better, especially my appetite and digestion. My heart,
which had been irregular, missing about every third beat, resumed
normal action, and my liver and kidneys began once more to do
the labors for which they were intended. I continued to take the
pills, and soon my right arm, which had grown useless, and my
hand so nerveless that I could not grasp a pen, became much
better, and eventually well. I can now use my right arm, hand,
and shoulder as well as ever. I can chop wood, and often walk 10
or 20 miles, and can plough a whole day.”
‘' e looks altogether different to me, thanks to Dr. Williams’
Dink Pills, and with my pension I hope to be able from my labors
to lay up a little money. As I had entirely given up all hope of
health, it may be imagined how happy I am, and how changed
the world looks. I have offered to pay for Pink Pills for others
who cannot afford to buy them, as a debt of gratitude that I can
thus partially pay, and I try to let everybody know what the
remedy has done for me.
t i j r m npt able express my changed feelings, nor could lif
, l , had a far higher command of language than I now have. I hope
that this testimonial may be the means of others knowing that
there is a relief for them in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People.
(Signed) “ ROBERT H. HUNTER.
Counterfeiters at Work.
HEALTH AND LIFE ENDANGERED BY UNSCRUPU-
LOUS DEALERS, WHO PERSUADE UNSUSPECTING
PEOPLE TO TAKE IMITATIONS—SOME POINTERS
WORTH REMEMBERING.
No medicine that is not of more than ordinary merit suffers
from imitations or substitutes. The fact that an imitation is
offered is one of the strongest proofs of the excellent qualities of
the genuine article. The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. is con-
y im P ress upon the public the fact that Dr.
Williams Pink Pills are sold in Australia only in wooden boxes
the wrapper around which is printed in red ink and bears the
registered trade mark “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Notwithstanding this constant warning, there are unscrupulous
dealers here and there who defraud the public by selling an imita-
tion pill (also colored pink) either by the dozen, hundred, or bv
the ounce, alleging that they are “just as good,” or “just the
same as the genuine Dr. Williams’Pink Pills. This is a false-
■l the unscru P u l° us dealer who offers the imitation knows
it, but is more concerned for the extra profit he makes on the
im \irii lo1 L ™ an or th® health of his unfortunate victim.
Will the public, in their own interest, bear in mind the following
facts;—Dr. Williams Pink Pills are “never’’sold by the dozen
hundred, or ounce. If any dealer offers you a pill in this form (no
should bLavofde'd ° red Pmk ° r n heis trying to cheat you > and
The formula of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is a secret, and is
known only to the company. Therefore, if some dealer tells you
a substitute is ‘ just as good,” he is simply trying to deceive you
because there is a larger profit for him in selling the imitation.
When you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, see that the trade
mark is on the wrapper of every package, and do not be persuaded
to take anything else, no matter how plausible a story the dealer
may tell. Imitations in medicines are always cheap, always
worthless, and often dangerous, and people who have a care for
their health will always refuse them.
„ Williams’Pink Pills “cure” when other medicines fail,
lhat s why they are imitated, and that is why you should insist
on getting the genuine. Used as a tonic medicine for this season
tc the year, Williams’ Pink Pills surpass all other medicines,
it teehng out of sorts,” give them a trial.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
r . What can he more distressing than to see a girl drooping and
lading in the spring time of youth ? Instead of bright eyes, glow-
ing rosy cheeks and an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale sallow
or greenish complexion, and a languidness of step that bespeak
disease and an early death if proper treatment is not promptly
resorted to and persisted in until the impoverished blood is en-
riched and the functions of life become regular. Upon parents
rests a great responsibility at the time their daughters are budding
into womanhood. If your daughter is pale, complains of weakness,
if j l lP°nthe slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with
headache or backache, pain in the side ; if her temper is fitful and
er appetite poor, she is in a condition of extreme peril, a fit sub-
ject tor the development of that most dreaded of all diseases—
onsumption. If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the
patmnt to develop properly and regularly ; they will enrich the
blood, and restore health’s roses to the cheeks ; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and all danger of con-
sumption and premature death will be averted. Wise and prudent
mothers will insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
fuU, upon approach of the period of puberty, and thus
avoid all chances of disease or early decay.
•vr Williams’ Pink Pills are a sure remedy for Rheumatism,
winJ^Wo!,H. P u ral J S,S ’ 1 : l i' oc^ 10t01 ! Ata xy, St. Vitus’s Dance, Ner-
„ Headache, Scrofula, Chronic Erysipelas, etc. They are not
the J restore pale and yellow complexions to the
l ‘ vf-i •’ and y e a specific for troubles peculiar to the
femate, while in men they effect a radical cure in all cases arising
P 0,77 y ’ ove ;work for excess of any nature. Dr Williams’
Dr Wi i- ar ® ohtamable from all leading chemists, or from the
Will fL!! an // M f d ™ Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, who
1 hnr £ OSt Pt ld l’ on , rec eipt of stamps or post-office order,
1 box for 2s. 9d., or half-a-dozen for 14s. 9d.
INK
ILLS
The Master.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In sea and air, in leaf and stone,
Where’er Truth’s magic words are writ,
Where thousands throng, or rapt and lone,
Life was his book. He pondered it.
Through page of earth and sun and star
He heard the swift sweep of the Song
Of Law and Motion, streaming far,
Which seemed to sing, “ The world is wrong. ”
Men passed him by. They brushed aside
The dreamer in his dreams of law.
They laughed and left him, open-eyed
Fixed on the point that no man saw.
“ Life is to scheme, to love, to play.
Strike out for plunder in the fight !
Our fathers did so,” answered they,
“And they have said, ‘The world is right. ”•
Men took the baubles at the call,
Men rose to wealth and power and state,
But he —the mightiest of them all—
Remained, because his heart was great.
The fool cried : “ Life is but a jest,”
The schemer : “ Earth is for the strong,”
The thoughtless : “ Why think for the rest ? ”
But he cried : “ Nay. The world is wrong.”
And friends declined, and fortune frowne.d,
And hope grew dim with health’s decay,
The thorns of hardship hedged him round,
But still he toiled from day to day—
From clue to clue, from year to year,
From law to law, from light to light,
Till came the triumph flashing clear—
“ The world is wrong and I am right 1 ”
“ The Laws of Life, eternal, true,
Swerve not by prayer for that or this.
A Power hath given the world to you
And ye have made it what it is.
Why see worth perish, want accrue ?
Why see greed flourish day by day ?
A Power hath given the world to you,
And ye can make it what ye may.”
No mourners wept beside his bier,
Scant homage to his grave was brought.
He left no wealth behind him here,
Only the splendor of his thought.
And as the brown earth, heaping slow,
Shut the rude coffin from the sight,
One who had known him long ago
Cried: “ After all, the world was right! ”
But Thought is king no clowns can bind,
And Genius, in its crowning hour,
Sows deep the seed that, for Mankind,
Springs, centuries hence, to splendid flower,
When, by that lonely stone of white,
With heads uncovered, men shall say :
“ The world was wrong and He was right
Who died for what we reap to-day ! ”
GEO. ESSEX. EVANS.
District-Court Judge Paul (Q.) to witnes 8
giving evidence in a very misty way: “For
heaven’s sake, man, give us the plain facts, and
don’t talk in parables. There has been enough
mischief caused by people talking in parables 2000
years ago. ”
Counting up to Thirty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One evening about two years ago I was knocking
the balls about an American pool-table in the
“Solid Silver ” saloon, Denver city, and chatting
at the same time to Sheriff—generally known as
J udge—Benham.
“ Yes,” he said in answer to a question of mine,
“ there’s still a bit of shooting done here at times ;
though I’m thankful to say that it’s getting rare.
If you stop here long and frequent this sort of
place you may drop across an incident in that
line ; and if you’ll take my advice, whenever you
see it coming on, just light out for all you’re
worth, for the contending parties are seldom shot,
it is generally an outsider that pays for the fun.”
We were separated from the bar by a screen,
but could distinctly hear anything that was going
on there, and soon after the Judge finished speak-
ing a rasping Eastern voice full of twang de-
manded a whisky cocktail—“and make it up
smart, my man.” The Judge nudged me and
whispered, “ He’s into the establishment for a
long score, and has done two or three ruffianly
things here, and the bar-tender has promised to
pitch him out. Let’s see.”
So we sauntered from behind the screen, the
Judge handing me a match for my cigar and in-
viting me to drink. We breasted the bar as the
tender thereof handed to him who was expecting
an addition to his many free drinks a long bill
with the words, “ I’ll see the color of your money
and hear you speak civilly, you loafing dog, before
you drink here any more.”
The whisky-desirer opened his mouth and
dropped a few choice Yankee swears, which
seemed to hang in tha*smoke-charged atmosphere
and befoul the place. Then he was looking down
the barrel of the bar-tender’s “ long Colt.” “ Get
out of this, !” etc., etc., hissed the bar-tender,
who, it appeared, could swear too.
The loafer had time to leave behind him the
memory of a hideous look of fear and baffled rage ;
then he was out of the door like a hunted cat.
The bar-tender replaced the Colt on a handy shelf
behind him, served our drinks, and went about
his business.
* * * *
“I opine,” said the Judge, “that the curtain
will ring up for Act 11. of that little play before
long. “You and I will sit right here, play a
game of dominoes, and wait.” The Judge, it
seemed, had the common failing of advice-givers.
I knew him for a man who dispensed justice not
in name only, but in very truth ; and wondered
what scheme he had in his eye.
One by one the habitues dropped in, chatted,
and partook. We were seated at a small, round
table close to the bar, playing with the dominoes.
When there were eight men in the room, and the
bar-tender was busy concocting a drink, the door
swung back with a bang, as a kicked door does,
and, with an overcoat on and his hands in the side
pockets, the Easterner appeared on the scene. All
who were sitting stood up. The man behind the
bar went any color, and half-turned to his shelf.
‘ ‘ Better not, I guess ; or you’re as dead as yar
look, yar sneak,” snarled the man who now held
the situation ; and out flashed a pistol in each
hand.
“ Now, gentlemen,” he began, but without ever
taking his eyes off his victim, who, in his turn,
was watching him for a second’s wavering, “ I’m
going” (he drawled horribly) “ to shoot that, etc.,
etc., but if anybody interferes I’ll drop him first.”
He spoke as if about to try a conjuring trick, and
he were just asking for a handkerchief or a watch
from one of the audience. “ Guess we’ll play the
fish a bit,” he said ; his face expressing a devilish
delight such as I have never seen equalled by a
melodramatic villain ; and he walked right up to
and faced the bartender. “Now you, etc., etc.,
you cahn’t see the clock because it’s behind with
your shooter, but you’ve got just 30 seconds to
breathe, so that if you’ve got anything to say,
you’d better talk, I guess.”
* * * *
The man of drinks had pulled himself together,
and was as game as a pebble. He never opened
his mouth, nor did it tremble, and his eyes never
wavered from those of his enemy. I knew as
well as if he had said it out loud that he was
counting up to 30 himself, and that he would have
some sort of a “go ” for his life in the last five. I
was counting, and I believe every man in the room
also. I stared and counted ; then counted and
stared. In a hideous sort of way it was fascinating
me, while I tried to think what I should do. I
wasn’t going to stand by and see an innocent
man murdered without making an effort to save
him; yet if I moved I should most certainly be
“dropped” before I could do any good. Of
course, my “dropping” might give the bar-
tender a chance ; but was there any reason why I
should offer myself up as a leaded sacrifice for a
man to whom I owed nothing—not even a score
for drinks ? So I went on staring and counting—
perfectly resolved to do something before the half-
minute was up, but, for the life of me, I couldn’t
think what.
I had clean forgotten all about the Judge, who
was standing kind of half-behind me and to the
right rear of the brute with the pistols, distant
from him about 12 feet. “ Twenty ! ” drawled
the Easterner, “ nothing to tell us, you etc., etc.,
eh?” The Judge crouched down; the murderer
mistook the movement, thinking he was going to
sit, and took off the corner of his eye that had
noted the motion. . . .
It was a splendid standing jump for a heavy
man in no training, and I could not suppress
something between a cheer and a relieved sob as
13 stone of athletic judgeship hurtled through the
air and literally fell upon the man, bringing him
with a crash to the ground. They rose as one
man, chiefly Judge, the arms of the shooting
scoundrel pinned tight to his sides.
» * » *
Act 111. followed naturally enough. The bar-
tender wheeled to his shelf, and his hand, un-
steadied by the awful seconds through which he
had just passed, made it excessively uncertain
whether he would pot his enemy or his preserver,
for he evidently meant business. “ Don’t shoot,
George ! don’t shoot, man ! ” cried the Judge, with
a clear ring of command that seemed to come
natural to him now that he had taken the floor in
earnest. “Just leave him to me and he’ll be no
more bother here,” and he picked up the defeated
shootist, pistols and all, and carried him out into
the street, telling us not to follow him.
Nobody did follow him, and what species of
justice it was that the Western Judge dealt out to
the Eastern loafer has ever since been shrouded in
mystery. All that we inside heard was a double
clang as the two pistols dropped on the sidewalk,
followed in two or three minutes by that sort of
squelching thud made by a powerfully-urged boot
helping humanity on its way.
J. JINGLE.
Dear Bulletin, —The Chinese must go 1 I
am in a solicitor’s office. A week or two ago a
Chinaman came in to see my boss. He wanted to
go through the Bankruptcy Court. The boss
explained that it was necessary to find some
money for that purpose. “Ah!” said John
“ can’t me go through court in form paupery ? ”
The boss fainted.— R. R.
Recent exposures in Vic. Postal Depart-
ment were all engineered by “Dick” Hain, son of
the late election-agent, Hain, of Ballarat. Hain
had a two-year-old charge brought against himself,
involving a technical alleged offence regarding
private moneys officially in his keeping. The
Board of Inquiry very willingly punished a man
who sheeted home serious charges against officials
in high places. Hain resigned and is now attached
to the Age staff.
A novel form of University life is being
seriously talked about in Queensland educational
circles. For a quarter of a century Queensland
has been thinking of establishing a University
but till the present has got no further than the
extension lectures provided by Sydney. The new
proposal comes to this : Young men who go in for
these extension lectures will, on their own
account, rent a house or houses in Brisbane where
they will “ batch,” or live in common. The idea
is feasible, and will have the advantage of keeping
the students together. At present they are scat-
tered all over the town.
X.Z. : “Noted that the next big shekel'
attractor in London is to be a huge model of the
earth, showing mountains, rivers, lakes, oceans,
everything, on a scale of one half-millionth of a
mile to the mile. On this scale London would
show as a little bigger than a penny, Melbourne
and Sydney about the size of a sixpence ; all the
other Australian capitals would range from the size
of the head of a tin-tack to that of the head of a
pin. After such an illustration, the sudden pain-
ful diminution in the size of the swelled head of
the Little Boy at Manly and the extensiveness of
the j awfulness and general dough-rise in Jawbone
Neild’s head are left to conjecture.”
Dear Bulletin,—l have lost all faith in
the sincerity of females who shudder at the sight
of a black beetle. The other morning I stood
around in the operating-room of Oldfield’s Dental
College-hospital, whilst a calm, unmoved woman-
doctor was administering chloroform to a woman-
patient. When the figure on the table was “nicely
off,” a young damsel, one of the pupils at the col-
lege, took part with the principal in a cheerful
extraction of 20 stumps from the patient’s gums,
whilst a natty nurse mopped up the flowing gore
with a sponge. The lady pupil, smiling breezily
every time she captured a stump, was very sug-
gestive of Little Jack Horner pulling plums from
a pie. The nurse, also, revelled in her portion of
the business, whereas the lady-doctor seemed only
moderately happy, she not being able to dabble in
the berlud. Timid little creatures are women !
Melbourne.


I
7L
TALES OJF THE -
- CONVICT SYSTEM.
Bt “PRIOfI WiHUNG,”
—■ ■ " ♦♦*♦♦>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ——■■■—
PHI OB lc. ... ... per Peat, Is. 3d,
BEEGHAM’S MUSIC PORTFOLIO.
CHEAPEST COLLECTION OF MUSIC EVER ISSUED.
Just Published, Volumes 9 and 10.
volumes 1,2, 3. 4,5, 6,7, and 8 may also be had. Each Volume is lithographed on stout paper, and contains Thirty Songs
and Pieces, either old gems or some of the most popular songs of the day. Order at once from your Newsagent.
Price, TWOPENCE per Volume.
SOLD BY ALL NEWSAGENTS IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND. PUBLISHED BY
TbonjaS Beecban),
Proprietor of
Beccbani’s Pills,
St. Neko&, Eoglao'd
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.’
ESTAB. 21 YEARS,
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
_, * ? an j® a F professional testimony to the value of your Lung Tonic. As •
aaH? nt me “ ,c ' ne it is unrivalled. I have given it to Mrs. Forshaw for severs
im™ ”!?• a . , bronchial afiections, combined with much coughing, and it has
mmediately given relief when all other remedies have failed.”
CHAS. F. FORSHAW, D.D.S., Bradford.
Airbridge's
Ujhngionic.
*' My family have used it for years, and have found it matchless. My little
girl has been taking it unremittingly for a fortnight for whooping-cough,
which has nearly disappeared.”
J.D.H., 7 Beever’s Terraoe, Beeston Hill, Leeds.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBR DGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THIS LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STRFET SYDNEY.
Mick. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSH WARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &0., *O.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remibtar.ee. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMABKET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
THE LAST KICK.
I.—“ I’ll cure yo' ob kickin’! I’ll tie
dat hitehin’ weight to yer hine foot.”
2. —“ .now, jst lemme see yo* hist
yer heels ! ”
3. —“ Dab mule kin kick yet, sho! *
4.—! II**!!!
5.—“ He’s cured ob kickin’ now, an* din
nigger am mint J ”


7...
m
-
‘Oubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
w
St
DCibcc”
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
Ballet&irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application,
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Wortljiogtoo Piinjpisjg Epgipe Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st..
TRADE- MARK.
Sydney, KS.W.
VICTORIA: Welch, Perrin & Co., Moray-street, South
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Brisbane.
Agencies:
f ARM ANT A : T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
I NEW ZEALAND: E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland.
I J. Anderson, Canterbury Eoundry, Christchurch.
Worthingrton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION, MINING, GARDEN SUPPLIES, WOOL-DUMPING. SEWERAGE, TANK-FILLING,
SINKING, CREAMERIES, WOOL-SCOURING, WATER-SUPPLIES, MARINE, BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
*ar £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality inhere they m ay be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who wmdd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Fioueera of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS fßefreshment)-92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. IL. PATESON, MANAGER.
Ropp Furnace.
Huntington Mill
Frue Yanner.
Challenge Feeder.
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Gates’ Rockbreaker.
Knowles’ Pump.
Ingersoll Compressor
Tngersoll Rock Drill.
Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulveriser.
Roger Rolls.
Engines, Boilers.
All Fittings.
■GO
o_o
fj
:: <
Prospecting Outfit *» £l6O
Consisting of
3-head‘Prospector’ Battery
(2851 b. STAMPS),
with AMALGAMATING TABLE and PLATES.
4 H.-P. VERTICAL ENGINE.
UPRIGHT MULTITU BULAR BOILER,
WITH ALL FITTINGS AND CONNECTIONS.
DOUBLE-ACTING IP XT' HUE P.
Belting, Pulleys, Tools, etc-
Parke & Lacy Conjpaoy Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Work. Agents Everywhere.
Bafho’s
Baking Ponder.
Scale or Acivertlsins
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.’
nett.
Single Column ... 6s. per inch per insertion,
Quarterly Contraots Per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ .. ... ••• ••• “9 » ” ”
Q ne YgB,r ••• ••• ••• ••• •) j> »
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... . 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 6 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is.
••• •«
per Post, Is. 3d.
Boi)i)ii)gtoi)’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
_ INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
lhroat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Kemoves all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
