

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Louis Koederers i^mimpiigjLAc.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. G-, WATKINS & CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Our Kindred Houses are-
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
-BRISCOE and CO., Melbourne; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin;
BRISCOE, MACNEIL and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BRISCOE and SONS, London.
• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
° -V
o, W.O'
<RAckArocK>
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydnbt.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
onwrim.- v'gn Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & 00., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrioal Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFES SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIYET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart ss. 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE POR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
SYD3XTRY.
I Dining Boom for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 65.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
&
w
Card ef Tariff, (brrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBANE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Propruitor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE
Hotel,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYOKrEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
/
Use “Pioneer 99 Sole Leather<
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
Ann
Tanned it Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
I m ported.
THE REST IN THE WORLD.
J. C. LDBOWICI & SON, Ltd.
TANNKHS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boat.i tiff, Bathing', and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, e-psciall; suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains front
Byd ney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence <£i per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agbnts: Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
FRQSSARD’S CAVOUR CI6ARS.
PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Vol Ib. —iso. 913 j
[Saturday, August 14, 18^7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/GEORGE KOBhRTSON & CO.,
xUT George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
AI.EX. MONTGOMERY'S -TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin ; price, Is. (id. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALKS OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from T(I8
Hull tin , by Price YY' irunir; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. (id.
MOS YN STAYNE, by Roderic ; price, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. li d.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
\ G. STEPHENS,
1 * AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
A// work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
lnterviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“r | -lIE BULLETIN ” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; prioe, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
“ALL M€N ARC LIARS”
Is a statement mad on the best authority—and, ye gods ! how this spirit of Ananias does creep out when we sit
down to write an ad Superlative follows superlative as fast as the pen scratches. What a blessing it would be if
the syllable Lol were eliminated from the writer’s lexicon. How much more wholesome our advertisements
would be, and how much more likely to be believed, if we resorted to moderate statements instead of wild em-
phatics. Ve have endeavored to speak the truth in our announcements on this page and intend to Keep on that
track. Ike simple but noteworthy fact that '
CAMEO CIGARETTES
enjoy the largest sale of anv cigarettes in Austialia
QUALITY and FLAVOUR.
is sufficient evidence that the public appreciates their superb
THE BED PAGE .
1 Ob. Jean Ingelow, poet and author, aged 77.’
It is likely that this other-day’s .announcement
drew from most Australian readers a'mere mild
‘ Who was she ?:’ —the expression of incurious
wonder at a name now little more than a literary
memory. \Y hen Laureate Tennyson died, indeed,
there was found one lander of past time who ex-
horted Lord Salisbury to remember merit proved
and ‘give the wreath to Ingelow,’ But the call
went echoless. Even in England, her home, Jean
Ingelow has been all but forgotten in the notoriety
of new reputations,. Yet the first volume of the
’BB edition of her verses was reprinted from the
twenty-third edition . . . and how many of
the names so glib upon our lips will be printed
in a third ?
* * * *
Jean Ingelow never married; and her poems
are her children. She wrote prose also, but her
stories are undistinguished. For good prose-
strong, fibrous, pregnant prose—intellect and
knowledge are necessary ; and Jean Ingelow had
neither. She was essentially feminihe, emotional
—a lute with a single string. ‘All the secret
that many, nay, most women have to tell, is— l
love you.' The phrase is Dr. Holmes’s; and
throughout his work the idea recurs continually.
He never ceased grieving at the tragedy of ‘ our
dear sisters, the unloved ’ —surely the saddest, the
most pitiful of all civilisation’s tragedies. And
yet. and yet . . .
* • *
Well, here are Jean Ingelow’s poems—her
maiden longings., her mother yearnings, her
romance, passion, devotion, her very life. ‘Earth-
lier happy is the rose distilled’; but in distilla-
tion is lost how much of the fragrance which the
rose withering on the virgin thorn may shed to
the blessing of humanity ! ‘ These women,’ says
Bartle Massey, ‘they’ve got no headpieces to
nourish, and so their food all runs either to fat or
to brats.’ Surely ‘George Eliot,’ of all women,
knew better than her creature the high-strung
woman’s alternatives—she who upon celibacy
and sterility built a pyramid of literary work
rarely matched by her sex. Solid old Bacon cer-
tainly'•new better . . . ‘ the best works, and of
greatest merit for the public, have proceeded from
the unmarried and childless men, which, both in
affection and means, have married and endowed
the public. ... A single life doth well with
churchmen, for charity will hardly water the
ground where it must first fill a pool.’ ‘ Men ’ —
and women. ‘Charity’—and virility, muliebriety,
vitality—the life energy which is talent’s staple,
genius’s sustainer. ‘ A virtuous woman is a
orown to her husband ’; and but for her husband
she might have been a crown to her generation,
country, race. So Jean Ingelow, the potential
imbecile-propagator of a dozen sturdy English
pumpkinheads, pressed her lonely breast against
the thorn, and sang thrillingly, and sadly, and
very tenderly. And it is quite beyond question
that she would -have given all her twenty-four
editions for one red, curly, commonplace baby.
Lucky for some of us that woman is built that
way.
* * * a
Tenderness is the chief characteristic of Jean
Ingelow’s matter ; melody, of her style. She is as
comforting to a woman as Matthew Arnold to a
man. Matthew titillates the intellect and the ear;
Jean, the ear and the emotions. Positively and
absolutely, Matth-w Arnold is not a poet of the
highest rank; though one may read him with
more pleasure than one reads poets of the highest
rank. Positively and absolutely, Jean Ingelow’s
poems are distinctly of second-rate merit, with
lapses to third-rate and beyond. She has con-
siderable power over rhyme and rhythm, and
occasional touches of fine'verbal felicity; but her
thought is generally shallow or weak, and sense is
often sacrificed to sound. Her temptations to a
parodist )i e Calverley were irresistible; Yet
even in the youthful and semi hysterical ‘Divided’
there were touches of poetic phrase and sentiment
which brilliant Calverley could never compass.
Touches like
A little piping of leaf-hid birds . . .
Or
He prays, ‘Come over,’—l may not follow
I cry, ‘ Return ’ —but he cannot come:
We spea , we laugh, but with voices hollow ;
Our hands are hanging, our hearts are numb.
Do those lines concentrate Jean Ingelow’s own
life- tragedy ?
• • • •
The truth is that minds like Calverley’s and
Jean Ingelow’s move on different planes, and a
dweller on each seems often unintelligible and
absurd from the other. Calverley glowed
with cold intellect—one of his friends says
■he seemed literally to lighten on a subject.’
The expression is crucial ; for Calverley is to Jean
Ingelow as an eieetrie-liglit to a fire, illuminating
where she warm-. And, if you choose, you can
talk of mere illumination’ or ‘mere waimth,’
just as a biased painter speaks of ‘mere form ’ or
‘mere color.’ But it is better to recognise that
color is good and form is go. d. that warmth is
good and light is good, that female is good and
male is good—each in its special way and degree.
* * * *
Calverley saw things so clearly that he always
found the just word, and expressed precisely what
he ielt. Jean Ingelow felt tilings so strongly that
her sense of words was obscured, and she often
suggests more than she can express. Yet Jean
Ingelow was a poet, and Ciilvi rle-y a very clever
writer of verses, He had the better vision ; but
her vision is instinct, and by dint of feeling
keenly she occasionally saw far more clearly even
than he did. The x-rays are invisible, but they
penetrate where light-rays cannot. And, despite
science, when a gouty toe is in the pink of condi-
tion there is no barometer like a gouty toe.
• * » •
Woman is the fragrant sex ; but she loses her
fragrance in literature. Anthony Trollope used
to say that even when he was grey and sixty his
heart leapt to the music of a petticoat. It is rare,
in turning over a woman’s book, to hear more
than tin- rustle of the leaves. ‘ Abandon sex ! "
is the legend over the gates of the literary
Inferno. In life, when Blue - Stockings com-
petes for male applause with Bright-Eyes, Bright-
Eyes is a romping winner. She takes the apple
from every Paris under forty-five, and from many
an indecent Paris over. But in literature . . .
there are compensations. Y"ou cannot see Bright
Eyes smiling over her undistributed middle, oj
pass bathos when all’s unwell in the thrill of a
tender fan-tap. And Blue-Stockings prims he*
legs severely, and marches to victory in an all-
askew last year’s gown with the trimming off one
sleeve, and & large stain in front where she spiltr
her coffee that agitated midnight when she had
the triumphal idea about Goethe.
* • • *
Jean Ingelow can no more than other women
get all her life-fragrance into her literature ; bub
she gets a little. In ‘ The High Tide on the
Coast of Lincolnshire’ there is a melancholy
savour, a crooning pathos of sound and
cadence, which gives the true trembling-
Madonna’s-mouth emotion—ecstasy on the edge of
utterance. (There is something of the same effect,
with a stronger vibration, in David’s lament :
‘ O my son Absolom, my son, my son Absolom ! ’
—thanks to the good lock which gave the most
beautiful man in Israel the most beautiful name—
there is no poetry in 1 O my son Mahershalalhash-
baz, my son, my son Mahershalalhashbaz !’)
* * * * *
In ‘The High Tide,’ ‘Echo and the Ferry,’and
‘The Letter a third piece rather stronger
than the other two, and hardly less sweet—Jean
Ingelow is felt at her best. But there are several
poems and a hundred verses and phrases which
make her work worth knowing and treasuring : as
for example—
Men must die—one dies by day, and near him moan 9 his
mother ;
They dig his grave, tread it down, and go from it full
loth ;
And one dies about the midnight, and the wind moans,
and no other,
And the snows give him a burial— and God loves them
both.
The first hath no advantage—it shall not soothe his
slumber
That a lock of his brown hair his father aye shall
keep ;
For the last, he nothing grudgeth, it shall nought his
quiet cumber
That in a golden mesh of his callow eaglets sleep.
(Essentially a stale, easy sentiment; but where
set more sonorously and forcibly?)
Grand is the 1 isure of the earth 1
(How many Le Galliennes would it take to com«
pose an august line like that?)
She gives her happy myriads birth
And after harvest fears not dearth,
but goes to sleep in snow-wreaths dim.
Again—
Tne lookings onward of the race before
It had a past to make it look behind ;
Its reverent wonder, and its doubting sore,
Its adoration blind.
The thunder of its war-songs, atid the glow
Of chants to freedom by the old-world sung ;
The sweet love-cadences t! at long ago
Dropped from the old-world longue.
(Listen to the long vowels trumpeting ! Jean
Ingelow had mastered the tone-poet’s first-lesson :
Consider the long vowel.-, how they go; and
notice wliat a mean fellow is sliort-vowelled,
swiftly-said Solomon, shorn of the slow magnifi-
cence of ‘all bis glory.’)
Here was a man familiar with fair heights
That poets climb. Upon his peace the tears
And troubles of nur race deep inroeds made,
Yet life was sweet, to him, he kept his heart
At home. Who saw his wife might well have thought-
‘ God loves this man. He chose a wife for him—
The true one.’ O sweet eyes, that seem to live,
l know so much of you, tell me the rest!
Eyes full of fatherhood and tender care
For small, young children . . .
And again—
Ecstatic chirp of winged thing,
Or bubnling of the water-spring,
Are sounds that more than silence bring
Itself and its de'ightsomen ss.
And so on, and on, through the homely old themes
of love, and life, and death. But space is done—
and preachment just ilh d ?
ECHO AND THE FERRY.
Ay, Oliver! I was but seven, and he was eleven ;
He looked at me pouting and rosy. I blushed where I
stood.
Thej’ told us to play in the orchard (and I only seven ;
A small guest at the farm) ; but he said, ‘ Oh, a girl was
no good ’ ;
So he whistled and went, he went over ihe stile to the
wood.
It was sad, it was sorrowful.! Only a girl—only seven !
At home in the dark London smoke I had not found it
out.
The pear-trees looked on in their white, and blue birds
flashed about,
And they too were angry as Oliver. Were they eleven ?
I thought so. Yes, every one else was eleven—eleven 1
• • • •
So Oliver went, but the cowslips were tall at my feet,
And all the white orchard with fast-falling blossom was
litter’d;
And under and over the branches those little birds twit-
ter’d,
While hanging head downwards they scolded because I
was seven.
A pity. A very great pity. One should be eleven.
But soon I was happy, the smell of the world was so
sweet,
And I saw a round hole in an apple-tree rosy and old,
Then I knew ! for I peeped, and I felt it was right they
should scold ;
Eggs small and eggs many. For gladness I broke into
laughter ;
And ihen some one else—oh, how softly I —came after,
came after,
With laughter—with laughter came after.
* • * •
And no one was near us to utter that sweet mocking call,
That soon very tired sank low with a mystical fall.
But this was the country—perhaps it was close under
heaven ;
Oh, nothing so likely ; the voice might have come from
it even.
I knew about heaven. But tlim was the country, of this
-Light, blossom, and piping, a> d 11 shing of wings not at all.
Hot at all. No. But one litth bird was an easy fotgiver;
She peeped, she drew it< ar as I niov< d from tier domicile
email.
Then flashed down her hole like a dart—like a dart from
the quiver.
And I waded atween tin- long grasses and felt it was bliss.
• * * *
—So this was the counlry ; eh ar dazzle of azure and shiver
And whisper of lea\ is, amt a him n it g all o\ er the tall
White brunches, a humming of liees. And I came to the
wall
A little low wall —and looked over, and there was the
river,
The lane that led on to the village, and then the sweet
river
Clea shining and slow, she had far far to go from her
snow ;
But i aeh rush gleamed as»cid in t lie sunlight, to guard
iter hug flew,
And site mm mur’d, methoughl, w ith a spe, eh very soft—
very low.
‘The ways will he long, but the days will he long,’ quoth
the river,
‘To me a long liver, long, long !’ quoth the river—the
river.
* * * ♦
I dreann d of the country that night., of the orchard, the'
sky,
The voice that had mocked coming after and over and
under.
Bill at last—in a day or two namely—Eleven : nd I
Were very fast friends, a’d to him I ( onfided Ihe wondt r.
He said that was Echo. ‘ Was Ei ho aw se kit dof bee
That had learned how to laugh: could ii laugh in one’s
ear and then fly
And laugh again yonder?’ ‘No; Echo’—he whispered
it low —
‘Was a woman, they said, hut a woman whom no one
could see
And no one could find ; and he did not believe it, not he,
Bui in could not get mar for the river that held us
asunder.
Yet 1 that had money—a sliil iug, a whole silver shilling—
We might cross if I thought I would spend it.’ ‘Oh, yes,
I w as willing ’ —
And we ran hand in hand, we ran down to the ferry, the
ferry,
And we heard how she mocked tit the folk with a voice
eli-ar and merry r
When they called for the ferry ; but oh ! she was very—
was very
Bwift-footed. She spoke and was gone ; aud when Oliver
cried,
* Hie over ! hie over 1 you man of the ferry—the ferry 1 ’
By the still water’s side she w'as heard far and wide—she
replied,
And she mocked in her voice sweet and merry, ‘ You man
of the ferry,
You man of—you man of the ferry 1'
• Hi * • • *
e over! ’ he shouted. The ferryman came at his
calling,
Across the clear reed border’d river he ferried us fast—
Such a chase ! Hand in hand, foot to foot, we ran on ; it
surpass’d
All measure her doubling—so close, then so far away
falling,
Then gone, and no more. Oh 1 to see her but once
unaware,
And the mouth that had mocked, but we might not (yet
sure she was there 1),
Nor behold her wild eyes and her mystical oountenance
fair.
* * • *
We sought in the wood, and we found the wood-wren in
her stead;
In the field, and we found but the cuokoo that talked
overhead ;
By the brook, and we found the reed-sparrow deep-nested,
in brown—
Not Echo, fair Echo 1 for Echo, sweet Echo 1 was flown.
So we came to the place where the dead people wait till
God call.
The church was among them, grey moss over roof, over
wall.
Very silent, so low. And we stood on a green grassy
mound
And loot ed in at a window, for Echo, perhaps, in her
round
Might have come in to hide there. But no ; every oak-
carven seat
Was empty. We saw the great Bible—old, old, very old.
And the parson’s great Prayer-book beside it; we heard
the slow beat
Of the pendulum swing in the tower; we saw the clear
gold
Of a sunbeam float down to the aisle and then waver and
play
On the inw chancel step and the railing, and Oliver said,
‘Look, Katie 1 look, Katie ! when Lettice came here to be
wed
She stood where that sunbeam drops down, and all white
was her gown ;
And stepped upon flowers they strew'd for her!’ Then
quoth small Seven :
‘Shall I w»-ar a white gown and have flowers to walk upon
ever?’
All doubtful: ‘lt takes a long time to grow up,’ quoth
Eleven ;
•You’re so little, you know, and the church is so old, it
oan never
Last on till you’re tall.* And in whispers—because it
was old
And holy, and fraught with strange meaning, half felt,
but not told,
Full of old parsons’ prayers, who were dead, of old days,
of old folk,
Neither heard nor beheld, but about us, in whispers we
sp-ke.
Then we went from it softly and ran hand in hand to the
strand.
While bleating of flocks and birds’ piping made sweeter
the land,
And Echo came back e'en as Oliver drew to the ferry.
* O Katie ! ‘ O Katie ! ’ 'Conte op, then 1 * ‘ Come on,
then 1 ’ ‘For, see,
The round sun, all red, lying low bv the tree ’—‘by the
tree. ’
‘By the tree.’ Ay, she mocked him again, with her voice
sweet and merry:
■Hie over!’ ‘Hie over!’ ‘You man of the ferry’
‘ the ferry.”
‘ You man of the ferry
You man of—you man of—the ferry.*
• • • •
Ay, here—it was here that we woke h' r, the Echo of old.
All life of that day stems an echo, and ninny times told.
Shall I c.inss by the ferry to morrow, and cimt in my
white
To that little low church? and will Oliver meet me anon?
Will ir'all seem an echo from childhood pass'd over-
pass’d on ?
Will the grave parson bless us ? Hark, hark ! in the dim
failing light
I hear her! As then the child’s voice clear and high,
sweet and merry.
Now she mocks the man’s tone with ‘ Hie over ! Hie over
the ferry I ’
‘And Katie,’ ‘And Katie.’ ‘Art out with the glow-
worms to-night.
My Katie?’ ‘My Katie ! ’ For gladness I break into
laughter
And tears. Then it all comes again as from far-away
years ;
Again, some one else—oh, how softly !—with laughter
comes after,
Comes after—with laughter comes after.
Jean Ingelow.


Medical.
DB. FREEMAN.
THAT THIS NOTED SPECIALIST
-Stands pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question That
\e has investigated further into the mysteries of
ife, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than his quite worthy but less successful associates,
is now acknowledged by all. His experience is
lifelong, and his record right here in SVIINKV
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts.,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
there are thousands upon thousands iu this land
•o-day who are pra : sing his name, because he has
nade their lives happy and brought sunshine into
'heir homes.
9
if you are troubled with
vital losses, exhaust-
ing complaints, pimples,
bashfuluess, aversion to society, stupidness, des-
pondency, loss of energy, ambition and self-confld-
mce, which deprive you of your manhood and
bsolutely unfit you for study, business, or
narriage—if you are thus afflicted you know the
■ause. Get well and be a man.
MIRDLMEIII l OLD MED,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, and other unmistakable
signs of nervous debility and premature decay
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause.
The most obstinate cases of this character treated
with unfailing success.
PRIUHTE
Diseases Inflammations, Stric-
tures, Weakness of Organs, Hy-
drocele, Varicocele and kindred
troubled quickly cured without pain and detention
from business.
m\i
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living’ away
from the city and unable to come to his
office. Treatment in this manner always satisfactory.
Write for Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise, NER-
VOUS AND PRIVATE DISEASES, post free on ap-
plication. A perusal of it might save much mental
and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life. Send £1 by post, and you will receive treat-
ment by return mail.
DR- FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts., Sydney.
CORRESPONDENCB P.O. BOX, 1359.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, Ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Yaricooele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than .£1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■**of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Curb. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
. “MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
“ABori) PljySiciai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sutticient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far iii
advance of any Institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention tihs Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
* '
29 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL. CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a. distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
83T* MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq;;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
TO LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Sydney, May 19th, 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I tried it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which I have avoided.—M.J.R.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-. _ 127 Redfern Street,
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
REDFERN.
R K CORD’«
tssfc** cE °f F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In oases q f 12s, or four quantities in one for JGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for Australasia —Perry <t Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street , M JRLBO URN TV.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
T HS DRUM
IN POSITION
PcafQ£SS
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using 1
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
Refined
New Scientific) Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamyphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Mooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto oaused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief Of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either oall
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privaoy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition'of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STKEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
Phe Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
' Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
" permanently 'cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes “ I cari-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful oure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure."
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Vour remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7Ciuwao.
igl


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
lIAW KESBURY H. Sept. 4.
2j,Q00 Subacritaera at 5.
,To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame '
Address
DEMONSTRATION H. Oct. 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
MELBOURNE 0. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers ja,-fc 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Sulbsoritjers a,t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C
Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers a-t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5 a
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Add i *ess ;
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE-
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S. W.
List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, Tetnora
Album Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
8,100
8,000
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
4,000
4,000
3,550
and 100 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Djstiibutioil fill, the Drawer of the First Prize- will have the option of taking the Homestead, or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.'
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City aod S6b(irbai)
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss* Each*
Ist Prize. - terrace Houses, Glen more
Load, and large L well ing-il<.use, Va,ne
Woollahra 7. ...’ £8,500
2nd Prize. I louse and Land, Hunter’s
llill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars applt/ tor Prospectus.
For foil particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
Inthony Hordern ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY)
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Has a record of nearly 60 years
in curing affections of the Throat
and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QVEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London, E.O,
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes ... 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10/6 „
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 6/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
tasscu. ajucaaiuuajkzS
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia •
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
nCAFNESS
W and PERFECT HEART
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
45 Col lins-street, MELBOURNE
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue *
WaSbiQgtoi) H- Sotil & Co.
Do not be satisfied with “Good Enough.”
The Best is the only “Good Enough” you should have, and
always the Cheapest in the long run.
A FEW EXAMPLES:
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER is a pure and sound article, at 6d. per tin.
DENTAROMA, at Is. 6d., whitens the teeth, purifies the breath. A most Fragrant
Dentifrice.
DR. THOMPSON’S COLTSFOOT COUGH LINCTUS, or GLYCERINE and
LINSEED, each Is. per bottle. Splendid articles for Coughs, Colds, &c.
YAALA, or PEPALGEN, 2s. per bottle. If you have no indigestion, you will not
need it ;if you have, use it. The most effective cure to be obtained.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. The tonic that reigns supreme, and its
qualities are recorded in many an Australian household.
Do Not Forget the Old Shop--Next door but one to the City Bank.
WASHINGTON & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & ISO Fitt - street, Sydney,
also at 2GB PITT STREET; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessuess, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent/’ _S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, J,ondon Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish,
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird's Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest In the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality ;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from <£3 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOXJRKTE
Every Variety of
TEA f
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
m- SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Plum
THE
* Plum*
('1 ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
•p • f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
t'rice |gj n «] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra,
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
Delicious to Plum Pudding,
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Custard. Giveita trial ••
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ADRIFT.
The weary, slow-unfolding wave
Lips the dim softness of the cave,
Whispering the chancel of the sea
How sweet it is in peace to be !
Ah ! witchery of dying hours !
Oh ! pain of adamantine powers
That draw the full, reluctant tide
From where its slumber would abide !
Thus have I dreamt to dwell with thee,
But thou hast said it may not be ;
And now I drift for evermore
Far from thy soul’s secluded shore.
For thine could never make ret urn ;
Love’s lonely vigil did but learn
To show thee, dearest one, in vain
Its incommunicable pain !
Maoriland.
H.C.
MY MOTHER’S BARQUE.
These words a gentle mother spake,
What time her babe would baubles win :
“ Some day, my child, these mists will break,
And pass my good ship in.”
My mother’s barque ! She often told
Of boisterous storm and baffling wind ;
Of silken bales and bars of gold
For us when seas grew kind.
And all my fancies placed above
The compass of her tender hand
Were lading in this ship her love
Had built in Fairy Land.
And when on nights in winter deep
Loud blew the direful tempest’s note,
I’d turn and pray that God would keep
My mother’s barque afloat.
But long this sail was held afar,
And wan and pale her sweet face grew;
She often said some evil star
Had lured astray its crew.
Then came the day when on the stream
There stood a shattered barque austere !
I wove a garland wi th our dream
To grace my mother’s bier.
Melbourne.
H. A CONANT.
IMMORTALITY.
At twenty-five I cast rny horoscope,
And saw a future with all good things rife—
A firm assurance of eternal life
In worlds beyond, and in this world the hope
Of deathless fame. But, now, my sun doth slope
To setting, and the toil of sordid strife,
The care of food and raiment, child and wife,
Have dimmed and narrowed all my spirit’s scope.
Eternal life—a river gulphed in sands !
Undying fame —a rainbow lost in clouds !
What hope of immortality remains ?
But this : “ Some soul that loves and understands
Shall save thee from the darkness that en-
shrouds.”
And this : “Thy blood shall course in others’
veins.”
Maoriland.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
THE FOUR CITIES: MAORILAND.
WELLINGTON.
Here, where the surges of a world of sea
Break on our bastioned walls with league-long
sweep,
Four fair young queens their lonely splendor
keep,
Each on a city throned. The first is she
Whose face is arrogant with empiry ;
Her throne from out the wounded hillside’s steep
Is rudely fashioned, and beneath her creep
The narrow streets; and stretching broad and
free —
Like a green waving meadow—lies the bay,
With blossom sails and flowery wavelets flecked.
Elate she stands ; her brown and wind-blown hair
Haloes a face with virgin freshness fair,
As she receives, exuberant, erect,
The stubborn homage that her sisters pay !
DUNEDIN.
And one is dear and loving, and her face
Is stung with winter’s kisses, and is yet
With winter’s tears of parting sorrow wet,
And all her figure speaks of winsome grace.
High on the circling hills her seat has place,
Within a bower of the green bush set;
And ’neath her feet the city lies—a net
Of broad-built streets and green-girt garden space.
And high behind, the climbing suburbs crown
The city’s battlements ; and she who reigns
Binds them, her captives, with a moving wire.
Proud of her riches and her broad domains,
And on her gleaming city looking down,
She needs no new ambition or desire!
CHRISTCHURCH.
And one within a level city lies ;
To whose tree-shadowed streets and parks suc-
ceeds
A vista of white roads and bordered meads,
Until each suburb in the great plain dies.
A crown of clustered spires above her rise ;
And for a girdle round her form she leads
The Avon, green with waving river-weeds
And swept with swaying willows. And her eyes
Are quiet with a student’s reverie,
And in the hair that clouds her dreaming face
There lurks the fragrance of some older place,
And memories awake to die again,
As confident and careless, sorrow-free,
She waits, the queen of all the golden plain !
AUCKLAND,
Lulled in sweet sunshine is the last fair queen,
As o’er her shining city she holds sway,
Her throne in sleeping Eden. And through grey
And red strewn roads and gleaming gardens green
The city goes, and lingering seems to lean
To bathe its beauty in the cool, clear bay
That out past isle and islet winds its way
To the wide ocean. In her hair a sheen
Of sunlight lives ; her face is sweetly pale —
A queen that seems too fair and maidenly—
Her beauty all too delicate and frail—
To hold a sway imperious. But forth,
From deep, dark eyes that dreaming seem to be,
There shines the strength and passion of the North !
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Wellington, M.L.


Australia!) MCitCial p rftl#i XrT < ■ ttf
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ * ® ICI 1L ■O C/ %IX * y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income .. ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 8 V PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
BATES :
per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagrh-streefc, Sydney.
BRYANT & MAVS WAX VCSTAS
axid.
. PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Med.ala for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTRALIAN BRANDY
(Joshua Bros . 66 Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
BBT Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. TEH
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUHG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
ZEfcO^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric- Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
LoQdoQ ai)d Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount,
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS at
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers —from 12s. 6d. to 255.
Send or call for Patterns —Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M, BAUMARSHE, Manager.
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring's, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Sijver Dash Bail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£lll7s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
N. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing: to the large increase of m.v Saddlery and Vehicle; Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-payment
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and VV. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EIU>M £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (onty).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
HT'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Eridyeworh.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-93 King-at., S vdney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
| —{odalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
| —{oda-lla. T3ac on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
I—goda.Ha lEXazns
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It, having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SV»NE¥.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
1 Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Euildi »fjs, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
K 3" INSURERS SHA R E in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per-cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed ( 2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Gtiavantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. tiiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W\ C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRE IST, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 ToqS n>ore Imported Leaf
tbaQ all the otber Tobacco
Factories POt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yai)k« Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, lor the SIX MONTHS
Cbanjpioi).
The Choicest Bright Cat and Plug.
Cooq<isror.
New and Old The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
CeQtcQQial.
Choicest Bark Twist.
Cigars.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite ]VEonoOO*e
Roth-ehilds. * 1 '
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 913.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1897.
Prick, Mo.
Cf IIM '
CIII6-
I
#^o 1
Mon.' frightful still Is the case of the fe-*
male wbitelead workers. Here English wo-
men and girls work until tlielr lltnbs are
twisted. Their gums and teeth rot away
early; they cannot take solid food, and their
'Constitutions soon become 'wrecked/ Few
bent.” There are numbers of women. in
England to-day >vho have no choice between
such a living death as this but the streets,
Vand feus of thousands of men who, having
fled from the horror of some kinds of work
flnd the certain death which awaits those
tvho follow them, have returned because-
.they could find nothing better to do.,
Sy cl Dai\y Jelcqniph S
TCYtt iv oy recet)-t
su ' e ‘ °i W not
h f tymber- Isfiy jUftt
.old d]afo, IJoure 0/2
15f Cornn/iffe? OrttjTyou 2 .
2 nd yenjber " £*«/
J sr f'lenjk. "hell ifljflj.tyis
Club ij foujf toUjf —f/unji y
Hjefeay rubbish atjd fust'
Ijovlljudubuij hfitt
only onercusoyin
if and flier is-
nftldU
gimtffe
(quug^
//■
I#:/
f\.
—' E^actftj So *.
isnT %t
Scud 0 . " l|s all a nxatTcr
of 9uPPiyaitdDf/1/IND!
And lie wa/Pd.
cjjuC'jfiflq
fife face of ffiP
earffj (viifj o»]('
X>tv( J i'f> df-
XV
VJii
/Tq fßic/N fiIjIRICT /4TTORNEy
(on receiMif Sjaf fund] dowi -J " Jhanhsole
foiUij flit’ if you. Cud See yer iVay k fit out our Chief fetice
iVittj a Site Sfuf-fpoy I’ve. qorfdeubr fye lends of
fesftie Would he tfreatfy accelerated iq fife /
farm 1 : /
(fodfearirjif ffemiei’ Wt/,
"Sorry Sir, But really \ f
jyc/jf'm/j/■oif'"
1 ". , a') 01 lL 0- l 7
n k<'i Vv»- Vl
i C«- f 1
0 Tfye IVicK id ScliooL boy h/l]o
ujjoi} ja/uUs .
"iVifijl] Li oty 1' 117 a cgrecxjr belie.Ser 1/7
a o1 1 ctieT"
OA RTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu l lettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New Sooth Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rt icles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London >
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
it Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiif. Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage -IJ'(. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1897.
A Federal Referendum.
Among the swarm of proposed amendments
to the Federal draft Constitution sent along
from the various provinces, Victoria contri-
butes one for the solution of deadlocks
between the two Houses of the Common-
wealth Parliament. This is probably the
most important, and it is certainly the most
remarkable, amendment evolved up to date.
The proposal is practically the same Referen-
dum scheme which Premier Turner laid
before the Convention ; and in so far as the
Referendum, even at its worst, is more or
less a democratic idea, this particular pro-
posal may, by a violent stretch of imagina-
tion, be set down as democratic—in inten-
tion, at all events. At the same time
Premier Turner deserves credit for having
invented the most hopeless kind of Referen-
dum scheme on record. It is so lengthy
that many subjects would perish of old age
before they got to the popular vote. Also it
is so apologetic, and is built on such a mild
desire not to offend anybody or break any-
thing, that this scheme for deciding dead-
locks seems likely to leave them more un-
decided than they were before. The fact
that some method of settling deadlocks
is essential, if the Federal Constitution
is to work well, is generally admitted.
The Referendum, if it can be applied on an
intelligent plan, is as good a means as any.
The trouble in this case is that the thing
which is called a Referendum in this instance
is a trifle more hopeless and impossible than
the customary method of letting things settle
themselves by a policy of delays and aggrava-
tion, and by mere effluxion of time, or
through the obstructionist party dying off.
* * * *
The first essential in this circuitous scheme
is that the two Federal Houses must have
disagreed on some measure in two successive
sessions. After the second disagreement,
the House which originated the scheme may
begin to set the machine in motion by pass-
ing a resolution that the pi’oposed measure
is urgent. This will be notified to the
obstructing House, and if after 30 days it
still obstructs, the proposed act of legislation
may be remitted to the popular vote. Then
if a majority of the whole number of electors
who voted, and also a majority of the states,
are in its favor it will become law—not other-
wise. If three-fourths or four-fifths or five-
sixths of the electors who vote are in its
favor, and yet three out of the six states of
the Commonwealth give a majority, how-
ever small, against it, it will not become
law. It is this provision which makes
the Turner-Isaacs Referendum utterly use-
less for all practical purposes. If there is
any Federal Constitution at all, and this
peculiar idea should by any means crawl into
it, it will riot make the Constitution any
more unworkable than it would otherwise
be, and in that sense it would do no harm.
But as the scheme is labelled “Referendum ”
it would, by its utter worthlessness, bring into
disgrace the valuable Democratic idea whose
name it bears, and for that reason every
Democrat in Australia should raise his voice
against it.
» * * *
So far as all the signs go, the Common-
wealth Parliament will consist of two Houses,
one mainly representing population and the
other mainly representing states. In one
House each province will apparently be re-
presented according to the number of people
it contains ; in the other, so far as appears at
present, each will have equal representation
regardless of population, size, wealth, or
other considerations. If a majority of the
Representatives is in favor of a measure it
will mean, in most cases, that the majority
of the people are favorable. If a large
majority of the Senate is on the other side it
will mean, in a general way, that the
majority of the provinces are unfavorable—
in other words, that the small States are on
one side and the large ones on the other.
There will be times, of course, when it will
only mean that one House is out of touch
with its constituents, but very often it will
signify a genuine division of opinion. The
trouble about the proposed Referendum is
that it will leave matters exactly as they
were—in fact, it will leave them a little
worse than they were. To get a majority
both of the States and the population is, in
the main, exactly the same thing as getting
a majority both of the Lower House and the
Senate. The first deadlock will be because
the representatives of the people and the
States can’t agree. The second will be
because the people and the States can’t
agree—in other words, because they feel the
same way as their representatives. But in
Parliament a majority of the people as repre-
sented by a majority of the popular dele-
gates can carry a measure in the Lower
House, while in the Senate (supposing there
are 48 senators—eight for each of the six
States) 24 votes, representing three States,
will do likewise, the Speaker, presumably,
not voting except in case of a tie. In the
popular election it would require not only a
majority of the people, but a majority of
four States. Therefore, if the two Houses
represent accurately the feeling of their con-
stituents, the Referendum, which is to
decide the difficulty, will be less decisive
than the original deadlock. The original
trouble will be bad enough ; the remedy for
it will be still worse.
* * * *
Assuming that the voters represent one-
fifth of the entire population, the number of
possible votes on present estimates would be
716,000 ; New South Wales supplying
255,000; Victoria, 236,000; Queensland,
92,000; S.A., 71,000; Westralia, 30,000;
and Tasmania, 32,000. It is apparently in-
tended that if three provinces, however large
so far as population is concerned, give the
largest kind of a majority in favor of the
measure in question, and three provinces,
however small in point of population, give
the smallest kind of a majority against it,
it shall not pass ; an absolute majority of
provinces is required. Therefore, supposing
all the electors could be induced to vote,
there might, to put an extreme case, be
640,000 votes in the affirmative, being the
practically unanimous voice of three pro-
vinces and a large minority in three more,
and 76,000 in the negative, being a small
majority in three provinces only, and yet
the negatives would carry the day. As-
suming that the Senate consists of 48
members as suggested, and the House of
Representatives of twice that number,
they would represent a vote of 144.
The smallest minority there which could
create a deadlock in a full muster of both
Houses would be 24— i.e., 24 Senators
against 23, the Speaker standing out.
Therefore, whereas one-sixth of the voting
power in Parliament could block the popular
will, it is proposed that in the Referendum it
may be blocked by less than one-ninth, and
the deadlock in Parliament will not be a cir-
cumstance compared to the deadlock in the
country at large. And the larger deadlock
is seriously proposed as a remedy for the
smaller one.
* * * *
If the House which represents the people
in general and the one which represents the
States separately can’t agree, and if the dis-
agreement arises through the fact that one
of them does not' properly represent the
feeling of its constituents at the moment,
the proposed Referendum might, or might
not, produce a definite result. If both
Houses do properly represent the feeling of
their constituents, which may easily be the
.case, then either the majority of the people
or the majority of the States must give way.
They can’t both come out on top, and the idea
of relegating the question to both of them is
simply leaving matters where they are. If
the States are to prevail, then a miserably
small minority of the population could boss
an immense majority. If the people are to
have the benefit of the doubt, then the two
States of Victoria and New South Wales
could boss the other four ; in fact, supposing
the Victorian population to be equally
divided, so that its vote went for nothing,
New South Wales alone could boss the other
four. The latter policy would mean that the
two States of New South Wales and Victoria
would practically annex the other four, and,
as the less populous provinces would cer-
tainly not federate at all on such terms, this
idea may be dismissed. The other idea is
that the smallest kind of a majority in the
least populous States might block progressive
measures on which the large States were
practically unanimous, and which were
favored also by a considerable minority of
the small States themselves ; and this is at
least equally absurd.
* * * *
It is difficult to imagine any kind of a
Referendum which would meet so complicated
a case, and it is for this reason that The
Bulletin advocates the idea of letting dead-
locks be settled by a vote of the two Houses
sitting as one. The one House would speak
for the majority of the people; the other
would represent the State majority ; and by
lumping the two together the result would
be a combined Chamber which, in a certain
rough and not too scientific manner, would
give both ideas and both interests a fair
show. In it a large majority of the nation
could certainly vote down a small majority
of States, but it would require the votes of
the representatives of two-thirds of the com-
munity to do it, and to allow one-third of
the nation to block the way is a very liberal
concession to the minor provinces. The
proposal that one-ninth should be allowed to
block the way is altogether too lavish. More-
over, the Victorian Government’s Referendum
would require at least a year to get into
motion, which is a long time to wait for an
immensely costly device which, in very many
cases, would leave the deadlock just where
it was. The other scheme would come to a
much more definite conclusion inside of a
week with no extra expense whatever.
The Bogus Trail e Protection Man.
As fully nine-tenths of Australian trading is done
on long credits, the Heed of a system by which
such credits can be regulated is obvious. Two very
powerful institutions monopolise the whole Trade
-Protection business of the TJ.S. Such influence
do they wield that no American business man
dreams of asking for credit unless his “ status ” is
“graded” by one or other of these concerns;
indeed, the trader invites the T.P. Society to in-
vestigate his financial position and the result is
embodied in a private directory (issued to sub-
scribers half-yearly) which names the extent of
credit (if any) to which any business man in the
States may be entitled. So well are these societies
paid (=£2o to <£2oo a year per subscriber) that
Yankee corruption seems to have gathered neither
of them in, so far. The American system has
been tried in Australia by the same two corpora-
tions, but whilst our bad “ marks ” defy the in-
quisitorial Yank., the sound “marks” are in-
sulted by their credit being questioned, and the
would-be investigator gets kicked out. Anyhow,
what has turned out a “ frost ” for the Yankees is
sunshine for unemployed lawyers, clerks, unsuccess-
ful trade-assignees and the like. The average Aus-
tralian law or assignee clefk who knows a score or
two merchants, immediately he loses liis billet and
gets stone-broke, either becomes a “commission
and financial agent ” or starts a “trade protection
society ”; one of the most important features of
which is always “ the collection of bad and doubt-
ful debts.”
* » * *
The Bulletin, being weak on logarithms, can-
not count the number of such “ societies ” that
have been started in the leading Australian cities
during the past score of years, but several of them
(together with their customers’ funds) seem to
have suddenly vanished at the very time their
success as debt-collectors had become established.
That there are still several genuine trade protec-
tion societies afloat in Australia The Bulletin does
not deny, but considering the vast amount of sound
information they gather and supply on the deepest
mercantile problems, for fees ranging from Gd. to
2s. a week, it is difficult to imagine how all the T.P.
societies can honestly exist. The sources from
which the most successful Australian commercial-
enquiry men have been recruited would certainly
lead the outsider ”to imagine that a large propor-
tion of these individuals were open to “make a bit.”
Some of the lea.ding admittedly reliable “ enquiry
men ” of Australia, prior to taking up the Trade
Protection business, were respectively a soldier, an
actor, a life-insurance fiend, trade-assignee, a boot-
and-shoe salesman, a prison-warder, a ship’s cook
and a time-keeper in a gas-works. One or two of
these “ boss ” their respective shows and draw fair
remuneration, but the others, as employes, are
very poorly paid, considering the responsibilities
their reports carry.
* * * *
There is nothing to prove any specific crooked-
ness in re Societies who exist upon their trade-
reports only, but it is, to say the least, extra-
ordinary that occasionally in the daily lists of
writs published by some' of these societies the
names of wealthy subscribers to the societies in
question are overlooked, whilst full details of the
writs against insignificant individuals are most
carefully set forth. for the delectation of sub-
scribers. Even the best of the Australian T.P.
concerns will issue directly conflicting reports on
the same man’s position. The Bulletin saw two
reports made by different societies on the same
day, in which the enquiree was, in report No. 1,
described as “a spieler who had done four
terms of imprisonment,” and, in No. 2, stated
to be “a young gentleman of good character,
son of a wealthy settler, living on his
means and studying for a profession.” As a
matter of fact, the man was a successful
draper, a decent fellow, travelling on a holi-
day jaunt. Had The Bulletin received these
two reports from societies to which it had paid
fees for information, it would, not knowing the
facts, have looked upon one society as bribed to
damn the man, and the other to crack him up.
It would possibly have regarded both concerns as
frauds, but investigation revealed the fact that one
report was obtained by a cheap office-boy, and the
other by a born fool, who had been given a billet
as an enquiry-man, and had been “stuffed up”
by the first man knowing him to be an idiot, whonj
he met.
* * * *
It stands to reason that a commercial man’s
credit is often damned or exalted on the general
impression the enquiry-man receives from the
various sources to which he goes for information,
and it is ridiculous to imagine that a man of suf-
ficient genius to sum up correctly the different
opinions of a dozen firms on a single man’s position
would give his services for £2, or even £lO, a
week. As a matter of fact, the average rate of
pay of the actual enquirers, whoseVreports influence
hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of credit
in Australia every week, pans out a little over £2
a week apiece, whilst the proprietors, who live on
their men’s brains and know nothing (outside
what their employes gather) as to the status of
traders, often rake in comfortable incomes. Thk
Bulletin car.not help believing that the £2 a week
man, who influences .£200,000 a week credit, has
opportunities that must often severely test, if not
overmaster, his honesty, but, on the whole, one
recognises that some trade-protection societies
are splendid value for the money. The bogus in-
stitutions are a study in themselves, and worthy of
separate treatment. The biggest bogus t.p. concern
in Australasia was that into which certain notorious
crooks, since historical, years ago bought (through
a dummy). To the ordinary subscriber, the value
the society ga,ve in the way of lists and informa-
tion was ridiculously lavish, but the reports to
London and continental subscribers (through Eng-
lish corresponding Trade Protection Societies)
were regulated so effectively that the credit
of the sharps who traded as merchants, under
assumed names, became so well established abroad
that they are believed to be still dwelling
luxuriously on shores beyond the reach of
extradition - treaties. One of the gentry who
was “ had in this swindle, grasping the big possi-
bilities of Trade Protection as a cash raising
scheme, invested his last few pounds in sending a
most plausible and gentlemanly canvasser into the
country with a prospectus offering to collect the
most hopeless debts, to supply trade-lists, infor-
mation about anybody or anything, to give legal
advice and to carry disputed law matters (gratis)
to final appeal (if necessary). For what ?
£1 Is. per annum, payable strictly in advance. The
guinea subscription was the canvasser’s perquisite,
provided that he appointed really good marks
(J’sP. preferred) as local collecting agents.
The canvasser did great business in various
country towns, and got the leading and most
saintly merchant in each place to act as collecting
agent at 10 per cent, commission on the amount
collected. Once the greedy fearers of God
acknowledged the “society,” the canvasser, using
their names as lures, went round to the others, got
their guineas and hundreds of pounds’ worth of
debts for collection. The “collections” were
duly handed over to the prominent local agents,
whose power was great for good or evil in each
town. Such being the case, the outstanding debts
rolled in to the merchants who acted as agents.
The agents duly deducted 10 per cent, commis-
sion as agreed, and forwarded the balances to the
“ society.” The “ society ” duly received as much
as it could get, vamoosed, and left the various
God-fearingmerchants (who were dazzled by 10 p.c.)
to explain matters as best they could to their
fellow-traders.
* * * *
There are tricks in every trade, but trade-
protection honestly conducted and properly paid,
is a boon and a blessing to those who give
credit. Run otherwise, it is a curse, a fraud,
and the most plausible swindle that Australian
traders have to contend against. It behoves
every man who is approached by a “society”
or individual who yearns to collect accounts and
to protect him against rogues, to ascertain beyond
a shadow of a doubt whether the biggest rogue of
the lot is not the very man who professes, for a
trifling sum, to protect the trader against rogues
of less ingenuity than the t.p. man.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—Cheap Miners.
General manager Stewart, of the B.H. Pro-
prietary, told the N.S. W. Royal Commission
on Mine Accidents that “ Government ought to
encourage the immigration of competent miners,
as there are not enough in Australia to man the
mines when they become further developed.”
Mr. Stewart, a two-year-old Australian, im-
ported from Spain and accustomed to handle
low-priced foreign labor, seems to have over-
looked two or three things. Assuming that
there is a dearth of competent miners in Aus-
tralia, isn’t it possible, while the mines are
being developed—generally a slow process—to
develop also the competent miners? Broken
Hill has been working 12 or 15 years, and isn’t
any bigger now than it was at one time in the
past; and if in that period Broken Hill has
not trained enough men, it looks very much
as though the companies had made a mess of
their business ; or, if they have trained the men,
that they have not offered enough to keep
them. The latter pretty fairly states the-fease.
Thousands of the most proficient workmen fol-
lowed their old managers to Westralia and else-
where, not content with the wages, or disgusted
with conditions of life on the Barrier. Yet, in
the face of this efflux, the companies very curtly
refused applications for higher pay. The officers
of the Miners’ Association in Victoria have
shown on oath to the Old Age Pensions Com-
mission in Victoria that the miners of Bendigo,
Ballarat, and the other larger fields, don’t
average 30s. a week ; and, on account of the
deep workings and poor ventilation, “miners’
complaint” is becoming dreadfully common
there. Still, the agents which the B.H.
companies employ haven’t bidden high
enough for the services of more than a
few hundred of these now poorly - paid
men. The N.S.W. coal - miner averages
a good deal less than the Victorian gold-miner •
and the only rational way out of the troubles*
which every few months threaten to end in a
coal-trade strike is the thinning of the ranks of
the miners. Yet, though these men could no
doubt be got for the Barrier, Mr. Stewart
wants the Govt, to encourage the immigration
of competent miners from other parts—to pro-
vide relief works for unemployed miners on one
side of the province, and to land shiploads of
foreign miners on the other side ! Apart from


the silver industry, 34,300 miners are employed
in N.S. W., according to official figures, and last
year the average gross production per man of
them was under £75 —less than 30s. per week.
What the average wage was in those circum-
stances Heaven only knows ! In South Australia
the Yorke’s Peninsula copper-mineraverages27s.
6d. per week, and can’t get work now at that ;
and the Australian gold-miner is so desperately
hard-up that the Govt. is sending out prospect-
ing parties in order to find new fields for him.
Off the Barrier, Westralia and North Queens-
land, where in each case the cost of living is
high, the average wage of the Australian miner
is certainly under 30s a week ; and if the
supply of miners were not already heavy
some higher figure than that would be demanded
for such unhealthy and dangerous work. As to
whether the majority are competent, opinions
will, of course, differ. But, again, competency
is mostly a matter of remuneration : if a trade
offers only starvation pay, you can’t expect
geniuses to rush it or intelligent plodders to
stick to it. There is, no doubt, plenty of room
for the encouragement of men to become com-
petent miners in order to keep up the supply
and provide for development; but the Broken
Hill managers’ wail over the scarcity of them
at present was transparently intended to throw
the responsibility for the many accidents in the
mines on to shoulders other than their own. So
far as the complaint was justified at all, it only
draws attention to the fact that, though the
average wages of miners in the settled districts
of Australia are under 30s. a week, the Broken
Hill companies can’t get the good men to put
upwiththeconditions of laborandlifeonthe Bar-
rier for a 50 per cent, average advance upon that.
As to the conditions of life themselves, most of
them might have been improved, but greed and
the uncertainty of the industry stood, and still
stand, in the way.
+
The 'Vertingr of Grigson.
Rev. Canon Grigson, late of the North Queens-
land diocese, has “ ’verted” to Roman Catholi-
cism, and the world goes round the same as
usual. Mr. Grigson, who is a brawny, ambi-
tious, restless young pietist, offers a purely
R.C. explanation of his latest move. “ My
misgivings were principally on the question of
continuity, but also on the subject of dogma.
I cannot but feel that, at the Reformation, an
absolutely new church was established, and I
could not but doubt the validity of the orders
of t hat church.” The spectacle of a Grigson
wavering between two varieties of church
fiction, whilst closing his eyes to the old
Christianity fact, is quite absurdly humorous.
Luther’s break - away from the decorative
dogmas of his ignorant period was simply the
rebellion of a priest who wanted to satisfy the
cravings of human nature in an honest, candid
manner. The church he established was perhaps
rather more out of sympathy with original
Christian doctrine than the Roman Church, which
Mahomet for a while bad religiously hoped lo
reform near a thousand years before the German
preacher came upon the scene. But, considering
that both churches are worldly satires on the
religion of Christ, it is impossible that an in-
telligent thinker can be governed by “ con-
scientious ” scruples in the matter of choosing
between them. Conscience is a sense of Truth,
and it couldn’t induce a well-to-do Canon of
one Christian denomination to start competing
for a bishopric in a rival religious school. The
Salvation Army man, slaving away on a small
salary, obeys his conscience as regards Christ’s
teaching, yet if he had the chance to become
an Anglican Canon—the same as Mr. Grigson
was until a month ago—the red-coated enthu-
siast would probably yield to the temptation,
and get the better of bis conscience, and then
anything would be likely to happen to him.
“ God ” in the Federal Constitution.
The ancients had different names with which
to designate the different gods, and never were
guilty of confounding Jupiter with Mars. We,
however, have obliterated these distinctions
and are limited to the single word, “ God.” It
might be thought on that account that only
one being or force existed which we call God ;
yet we find that while a Jew will call Jehovah
God, a Deist will not; his God is quite a
different thing. The R.C. Deity is a Being
similar in many respects to the God of the
Protestants, but with some very important
differences ; thus, the former regards the Pope
as God’s vice-regent on earth, and the Catho-
lic Church as the true one founded on the
rock, whereas the latter considers that prelate
to be the Antichrist and the Catholic Church
itself to be hopelessly apostate. These two
Divinities, then, although so strongly resem-
bling each other, cannot actually be the same.
Again, the God worshipped by the Unitarians
cannot be the Christian Trinity any more than
Jupiter can be Saturn. The Jehovah of the
Synagogue cannot be the Jehovah of the Chris-
tians even although similar in name, because
the Former has not yet sent the Messiah and
never had a Son, whereas the Latter is one per-
son of a Trinity, and is also the Father of
Christ. All this confusion has arisen through
the use of one word to designate distinct
Deities. In the middle ages, no doubt, men
could only apply the word God to one particular
and definite person ; now on the contrary we
have a Jewish God, a Catholic God, a Pro-
testant God, a Unitarian God, and a Deist’s
God, and yet these are not one God but five
Gods. The Australian Federal Parliament
ought, in fairness, either to recognise all of
these or none. If we have no particular estab-
lished Church we should likewise have no par-
ticular established Deity.
The Casii-Box God.
Editor Bulletin, — “ Le Juste Milieu ” con-
siders that Mr. Panton, P. M., of Melbourne,
in virtually destroying a convicted man’s evi-
dence of previous good conduct (by endorsing
his written testimonials with a record of his
conviction), was performing a duty to the com-
mercial community. But “duty to the com-
mercial community,” however imperatively
paramount from the characteristically British
shopkeeping point of view, is not absolutely
the last word of sociologic ethics. Our obliga-
tions to our fellow-men do not necessarily
begin and end in the till; and, in view oi
the fact that a man of the strictest commer-
cial integrity may be—and very often is—
a mean and miserable creature in most
other relations of life, it will be by no means
so cheerfully obvious to everybody as to
“ L.J.M.” that Mr. Panton’s industrial damna-
tion of the individual was justified by the possi-
bility of future injury to the mass. It was not
Mr. Panton’s business to “ protect society from
imposition,” any further than by punishing the
man specifically for the specific offence he was
convicted of ; and the magistrate had no more
right to deprive the culprit of testimonials
acquired before the lapse from probity than he
would have had, in the same circumstances, to
confiscate an offender’s honestly-earned £ s. d.
Neither was it any more Mr. Panton’s place to
assume that the single delinquency would not
be followed by a return to former rectitude
than it was witiiiu his proper function arbi-
trarily to make that return almost an impossi-
bility. It is characteristic, also, of the sordid
“ substance ’’-worship which dominates so
completely the administration of boasted
“ British justice,” that, in the case of a man
convicted of, say, bashing his wife to a jelly, it
would never enter into Panton’s head to record
that little circumstance upon any mitigatory
documents the offender might produce. The
criminal, in that case, moreover—being merely
a cowardly and murderous ruffian—might count
upon probably a tenth of the punishment
which would be deemed fitting for the
sacrilegious miscreant who should offend
to the extent of sixpence-halfpenny against
the bowelless British Property-god. Fur-
ther, although, with “ L.J.M.,” I feel
personally inclined to “ set aside sympathy for
the poor devil who has brought himself to grief,
in favor of sympathy for the p.d. whose trouble
is undeserved ” —I am at the same time con-
scious that the impulse is an irrational one, and
that there isn’t the shadow of a logical reason
why the man who has himself to blame should
receive less of our sympathy than the man who
hasn’t to carry the additional burden of self-
reproach ; especially as the difference between
honesty and dishonesty is so often no more than
the difference in temptation or opportunity.—
Sardonyx.
♦
Pottering with the Railway Problem.
Sydney insurance magnate Teece proposes to
make a compromise as regards the Federal
railway problem, by handing over all the trunk
lines to the Commonwealth Government, the
branch lines to remain in the hands of the
States. The idea looks well on the surface,
but it isn’t new, and it has already been
proved impracticable. The branch lines mostly
have no connection with each other, except by
means of the trunk lines, therefore the State
property would consist of from ten to forty or
fifty isolated scraps of line with communication
only by permission of the Federal management.
This would be cumbersome as well as ridicul-
ous. The system would involve the expense of
two managements instead of one. The Federal
Government would, presumably, make the
trunk lines of one uniform gauge, at the
Federal expense (if it didn’t there would be
very little advantage to be gained), but the
branch lines would keep on growing in the
same confused fashion as at present. The
branch lines being thus of a different gauge
from the trunk system, they would mostly have
no communication at all with each other;
therefore, each isolated branch would require
to have its own separate supply of rolling stock,
which would be shut up on that branch like
Crusoe on his island. Later on many branches
would connect with the lines of other provinces,
and develop into trunk railways, and then they
would also have to be taken over and converted
to the uniform gauge. The only result attained
by the delay would be that there would be so
many more miles to convert at so much greater
cost. Moreover, no one can say for certain in
many cases when a line gives up being a mere
casual branch, and becomes a trunk railway.
Mr. Tekce’s plaint is that if the railways
are all federated, “ it would be impossible for
N.S.W. to construct a line, say to one of her
Sydney suburbs, unless the Commonwealth
gave permission.” This looks very dreadful,
no doubt. But even now Broken Hill can’t
make balf-a-mile of railway unless Sydney gives
permission, and unless it gets the approval
of Newcastle and Wagga and other remote
places, which is quite as awful, yet neither
Teece nor any other provincialist has any
remedy to suggest. If, under the Federal sys-
tem, the Commonwealth refused to construct a
much-needed Sydney suburban railway it would
certainly be hard. But under the provincial
system Sydney flatly refuses to give the west
and south-west any communication with their
nearest ports, Melbourne and Adelaide, which
is quite as villainous. The new villainy couldn’t
possibly be any worse than the old.
Drink, and the Want of It.
Dear Bulletin, —A Ballarat witness, before
the Yic. Old-Age Pensions Commission, gave
the teetotallers “a piece of cold iron to chew ”
(to use the phrase disastrously used on one
occasion by Premier Reid) :
Jambs William Graham, secretary of the Old Colonists’
Association, Ballarat, described what his association did
for its members. Those who needed it got from 10s. to
2s. 6d. a week. They could not meet all cases. Poverty
was not on the increase in Ballarat, and he denied that
drink had so much to do with it as Rev. Mr. Edgar
alleged. In fact, the author of the blue ribbon movement
was now an inmate of the Old Colonists’ Home, Melb.
The predominant cause of poverty was the inability to
earn sufficient to make provision for old age.
Singularly enough the Commission received on
the same date a letter from a teetotaller in
distress:—
Gentlemen, —I nominate myself as truly worthy of your
kind consideration to the Government pension of Victoria.
I, James Kilmister, was born in 1821, in the city of Bath,
England, and came to Victoria in 1857, and came to Bal-
larat in 1860. I challenge anyone to prove that I ever did
a mean or a dishonest act in all my life, or seen me the
worse of drink, or a pipe or anything of the kind in my
mouth, or play cards, or shake dice. I never gamble,
only speculating in mining, and it was on the wrong side
of the ledger, like thousands of others. I am well-known
in Ballarat, and would like you to make the most search-
ing inquiries as to my antecedents or worthiness for your
consideration.—l am, &c., James Killmister, saddler, 42
Brougham-street, Ballarat.
This singular and pathetic slab of humor indi-
cates the average perversity of the teetotaller,
“I never gamble, only speculating in mining.”
As who should say, “ I only back the favorite.”
Like thousands of other teetotallers, poor Kill-
mister lias never smoked or held a hand at
cards. The many of his class are ascetics in
certain directions, because there is a lack of
sap, of bonhommie, of the instinct that leads to
good fellowship. They are the very people
who ought to be compelled for their own sake
and their neighbors’ to take a dram of sound
liquor occasionally. As a rule, the teetotaller
cuts himself ofF even from association with
“ drinkers.” He never gets under the influence
of people who get under the “influence.” In
fact, his creed is that moderate drinking is a
shade worse than drunkenness. Thus lie shuts
himself off from the world, and the opporluni-
ties of the world. Yet he has otherwise a
sort of economic advantage. The contagious
and too - contiguous Asiatic has fewer wants
than the white man, and so can under-
bid him. The teetotaller does not always
underbid; but, when he does not, he gets
the advantage of a wage that is hitther
than his absolute necessities. Witness, a cer-
tain traveller in the wine-and-spirit trade who
is a teetotaller. He has his allowance for ex-
penses, and has to spend a little at every pub.
he visits. But he always takes cigars. Each
night he sorts out the accumulated cigars of
the day, puts them in boxes, and, sells them at
a discount off trade price. He merely follows
the instinct of his sort of teetotalism. Did
The Bulletin ever join a lodge ? If so, it
knows the deadly dreariness essential to such a
thing—but it cannot join a temperance lodge
and thus plumb the deep below the deep of
desolation. The teetotal brethren, with their
sour faces, their cramped views, their hole-and
corner bigotry, preach a sermon that is
as effective as it is humorous. And
they all declare that total abstinence is
the road to wealth—and they are all
so seedy. Of course, there is another sort of
“ temperance ” man. A specimen was before
Melbourne magistrates a few days ago. In a
drunken state, and in the presence of a con-
stable, he dashed a bottle of beer on the
ground. Next day it came out in court that
the man had just finished a course of “ temper-
ance ” lectures in the country. He, of course,
was of the faddist tribe —and will probably
preach vegetarianism next week and theosophy
the week after, reverting in due course to
aggressive atheism and evangelical Chris-
tianity. You will be shocked to hear that I am
myself a life-long teetotaller, for reasons which
are not given in this epistle. F.
♦-
The Quality of Pious Mercy.
Vic. Factory Act, passed in the teeth of organ-
ised Fatmanity, and practically forced at the
point of the sword through the Upper House,
did not escape the touch of the professional
pietists of both Houses, and, as a result, some
hundreds of women are being cruelly sweated
in the name of God, while the administrators
of the Act have to stand by as idly as a solitary
European at an East African torture-show.
According to the wisdom of the Vic. Legisla-
tures, charitable institutions were exempted
from the operation of the Act, but the utter
unfairness of this distinction was only made
apparent during the past week. A Melb.
laundry proprietor, summoned for over-working
his girls a few hours a week, pointed out that
the Factory Act was ruining him by compel-
ling him to work his employes decent hours
and pay them decent wages, while the
so-called charitable institutions were able
to undercut him without being amenable
to any principles of humanity but those
practised by conventional Christianity. Ac-
cording to statements published since the prose-
cution, and so far uncontradicted, the authori-
ties of two convents and one “ retreat for
fallen women ” make a neat profit on the labor
of their inmates upon terms only worthy of the
most mercenary Polish slum tailors. Siuners—
female ones whose sin mostly takes the form of
an unwelcome infant—are received into these
places, and are worked in the laundries from 12
to 16 hours a day. They not only wash, but
do all the hard work of the establishment,
even the engine-driving and stoking being
accomplished by girls expiating their “sin.”
And for this work the “rescued sinners”
receive—exactly nothing a week. Their keep
and that of their babies is provided—at a cost
of perhaps 10s. a week—whilst they work
against the outside girl getting 255. On top of
this, the “charity” occupies land granted by
Government, pays no rent, is exempt from
water and other rates, and is thus enabled to
cut down prices, and force struggling out-
siders, who would otherwise be fair to their
employes, to shorten wages and lengthen hours.
The English Divorce Court has decided that an
unsuspecting husband cannot get release from a
bride who promises to present him with another
man’s baby a few weeks, or months, after mar-
riage. In fact, if she were to inaugurate her
honeymoon by introducing the little stranger to
notice she would not break the holy bonds of
matrimony, or any of her conjugal rights.
According to Sir Francis Jeune’s interpreta-
tion of the marriage law, a husband must take
his wife as lie finds her, and though he finds
her about to give living evidence of a previous
attachment, the awful discovery has no bearing
on their civil contract. This interesting suit
(Moss v. Moss) didn’t broach the question as to
whether the lady’s husband will be expected to
retain possession of his unearned family in-
crement under the Married Woman’s Pro-
perty Act, or be entitled to “ mainten-
ance ” against the other fellow, seeing that
his wife probably can’t get an order for
the support of an illegitimate child born in
wedlock. Can a newly-made husband refuse
to accept delivery of his wife’s improper infant
on the ground that he never ordered it? May
he forbid her to suckle somebody else’s off-
spring ? Does he confer his name upon the
child fraudulently concealed within the flesh
which became his flesh at the altar or registrar’s
office, or in Rev. Kinsman’s back parlor ? And
if not, why not? Amidst the clouds of doubt
and difficulty enveloping the Moss v. Moss
case one golden rule glitters in the light of
connubial experience, so to speak. No man
ahould accept a wife without a formal certificate
—from a lady doctor or jury of matrons —that
she is composed of herself alone.
At Port Melbourne Court, the other day, a
man was accused of arson, and a grain-mer-
chant named Lyons offered to put up the .£5O
bail required to ensure accused’s appearance
when wanted. Then ensued this conversation :
Lyons was then placed in the witness-box, but objected
to being' sworn.
Mr. Murphy (clerk of the court): “What religion are
you ? ”
Witness : “ No religion."
Mr. Murphy Then, is there any oath binding on your
conscience ? ”
Lyons : “ No ; but I know that I would be liable for the
£50.”
Mr. Murphy : “ Under the circumstances, your Wor-
ships, you can’t really believe a word he says.”
Which opens up seveial questions: (lLWhat
right had Murphy to ask w hether Lyons had
a religion or not, seeing that, under the Evi-
dence Act 1890, no man is bound either to take
an oath or to disclose his religion, but, on the
contrary, has the right to affirm with uplifted
hand ? (2) By what logical process did the
prophet Murphy arrive at the conclusion that
a man without a religion cannot be anything
else than a liar ? Huxley, Spencer, Darwin,
Haeckel, Bradlaugh, and a few more no-
religioned persons have not achieved conspicu-
ous distinction for mendacity, “ by merit raised
to that bad eminence.” (3) Lyons seems to
have been the sanest of the crowd. He calmly
said, “ I know that I should be liable for £5O. ’
Your wild Calvinist will talk dour religion by
the mile, but just ask him to back up his dogma
with .£5O worth of bawbees !
From London Daily News, 30th June :
The most strenuous measures have been taken by the
Colonial Office to keep the Colonial Premiers from the
contamination of Liberal society. Lord Rosebery
wished to entertain them at dinner, but was told at the
Colonial Office that all their evenings were engaged.
They are not to be allowed to attend the Eighty Club, or
visit Ireland, which once refused to receive a visit from
Mr. Chamberlain. Lord Carrington, not having ap-
proached the Premiers through the Colonial Office, has
secured their presence at the National Liberal Club and
also at his house in the country. They will also be re-
ceived by Mr. Gladstone at Hawarden. Rut really this
party spite is too ridiculous for words. The country has
not been celebrating sixty years of Tory rule. If it had.
there would be small ground for rejoicing.
“ Been There,” to The Bulletin :
Speaking of Pentridge prison, it is often said: “You
can get there in half-an-hour, hut it may take you 10
years to get hack again.” Many a law-breaker has been
sent to Pentridge for one or two years, hut it has taken
him 10 or 15 years to get hack again. An unobtrusive
paragraph may be often seen in Melb. papers similar to
that in a recent Age, July 19 : “ Wm. King for insubor-
dination at Pentridge was yesterday sentenced by the
visiting magistrate to three days’ solitary confinement.
The prisoner, who is at present serving 12 months in
irons, and was originally sentenced to nine and a-half
years for receiving, has already had his sentence almost
doubled for various breaches of the gaol regulations.”
That is to say, King, who, after a presumably fair trial in
a court of justice, received the heavy sentence of nine
and a-half years, has now got an additional eight or nine
years, in a private court, undefended, opposed by
necessarily biassed judges, prejudiced witnesses, and
betra3-ed, or at best hampered, through his own
witnesses—if any- being intimidated by the presence
of gaoler and warders, and by the fear of a subsequent
prosecution of themselves if they dare to speak out. For
any prisoner charged with insubordination is brought
before the visiting magistrates in gaol- a private court—
where the prosecutor-gaoler sits, as it were, on the bench,
where the “Crown” witnesses are all accredited, and the
defence ditto all discredited in the ej-esof the judges, and
where accused and his witnesses are ever prevented from
speaking out by the fear of the subsequent prosecution
and additional sentence for making, or assisting in
making, unfounded ( i.e ., unproved) charges. Consider
all this, and then say what chance has a prisoner against
a warder who has a “down” on him. English law pro-
vides that a prisoner must (unless convicted of a further
offence in open Court) be released free on, or before, the
termination of his original sentence, no matter how
had his behaviour, and the same law should obtain
here —no man should have one hour added to his
original sentence, except by public trial before a
jury. Notwithstanding his position, King must smile
to himself grimly when he thinks that the Victorian penal
authorities —policemen, judges, warders, gaolers, hang-
men, with all the splendid weapons of civilisation, baton,
gaol, dark-cell, bread-and-water, chains, lash and rope,
have so far been unable to tame the spirit of one man—
and that man a prisoner, unaided and alone.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) thinks these pro-
vinces “ might fairly expect that Britain would
accept from them such produce as she may
require in preference to that from foreign
growers.” So they may expect. Britain can’t
give preference to Australian produce except by
putting heavy duties on that of other countries,
and she won’t do that merely to gratify Aus-
tralia. Australian produce must be dearer
than the European article by reason of heavier
freights. The Australian spling callot and let-
tucee and things like these are four weeks older
and more stale and musty when they arrive in
England than the Danish vegetable ; and in
this drought-cursed land the supply is always
miserably uncertain. And, anyhow, isn’t it
better for Australia to learn to manufacture for
herself £10,000,000 worth per annum of goods
she now imports from England, and save the
money that way, than to keep on importing the
goods and stand at the kitchen-door of Bull
asking him to buy our nice cabbagee to enable
us to pay for them ?
“ A band of devoted (Sydney) women, whose
sole object in their weekly meetings is prayer,”
have been tackling the Almighty on their own
account about His meteorological shortcomings,
“ and such,” according to one of them, “ is the
faith of these women that they believe God
will most assuredly answer.” This is cer-
tainly a curious reason for expecting a like
credulity in those who are not “ devoted.”
Also, since, according to their spokeswoman,
belief is all that is necessary to secure answer
to prayer, and, since 20 persons can’t believe any
harder than one, The Bulletin respectfully
suggests that if one specially staunch believer
were selected to do the necessary believing, her
single supplication would fill the bill—leaving
the rest of the “band” free to revel in the
latest divorce-scandal. Also, the supplicant,
while she is about it, might as well pray that
there should never any more be anywhere any
drought or flood or pestilence or famine. And,
if that contract’s too big even for Heaven, will
any prayerful person explain at precisely what
size of order it becomes useless to expect the
Deity to alter His existing arrangements.
Tamwortli : It was not Mr. R. E.
O’Connor, Q.C., who lately came into conflict
with a police-witness as related in these columns.
The Bulletin said ‘‘ barrister O’Connor." It way
Mr. B. B. O’Connoi-.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS ... ... ’ D
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
a „, Si" y *worid TI ES °° eTerr staiMiard larger
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims)-
WILLIAM M.A k Bg. HENRY MORT, M.L.0.,
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager fox N.S.W.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs damned Chicago,
Premier Reid (in his capacity as Treasurer) will
damn ’Frisco over the Butler bill.
Adelaide Zoo has just had presented to it
a litter of eight white dingo pups captured on
Nilpena run by Mr. R. J. Mathieson.
Clement Wragge, the self - advertising
weather-man who laboriously auto-signs his let-
ters “ Clement L. Wragge, Govt. Meteorologist of
Queensland, Director of Chief Weather Bureau,
Brisbane,” writes that the gilded Barr-Smith, of
t\A., did not stipulate that his name should be
affixed to the Kosciusko observatory, which he
pays for ; but desired, on the contrary, that his
double-headed cognomen should be left out of the
matter altogether.
The story of old Coroner Youl’s last drink
is a gentle reproof to many dull, respectable per-
sons who were wont to find fault with his official
contempt for death. It is an actual fact that
these orthodox critics had, in many instances,
looked forward to the old fellow’s decease as a
punishment to the scoffer, likewise an awful
warning to his irreligious admirers. The writer
recalls to mind a little social gathering whereat
Coroner Youi’s “ heartless jokes ” were a matter
for severe comment all round the circle, and an
excited matron closed the debate by requesting
the present writer to wait and see how the aged
would regard death when Ms turn came.
v y e T his turn came last Friday, and the passing
of Coroner Youl was told—with good feeling
—in Me!bourne Argus : “ Later the change came,
and Dr. Mollison, who was sleeping in the house,
was summoned to the bedside. The coroner smiled,
and said, ‘lt’s almost done now, Morrison,’ and
the doctor saw that it was. Some stimulant—a
glass of champagne—was sought by Dr. Mollison,
and as he turned to get it. Dr. Youl said, ‘lf I’m
to have it you must be quick. There is not much
time. The stimulant was procured and given.
Ihe patient drank it, placed the glass upon the
table, and smiling a farewell to his daughter, and
glancing round upon Dr Mollison and the nurse,
the old dictator of the Morgue passed quietlv
away.” Being quite free from Kerristian conceit
in the importance of hjs own particular life,
Coroner Youl died as a good sinner should. Per-
haps he indulged in one regret at the finish. He
faded in his cheerful purpose of outliving Dr.
Mullen, the young lawyer-medico, who was under-
stood to be waiting patiently for the ancient
coroner to pop off.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
‘ talking machine,” costing only =£l2, will soon be
found m every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
Quality
Tells
the Tale
And quality is what we
offer. Quality first and
foremost. Our prices
are just as low as the
low,st; but in quality
IDEAL PORTRAITS
are the standard which
all aim to arrive at.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits.)
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent Bromide or i
Opal. Any styleorpose. Noextrasj
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS. ' 9
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Hbr Majesty’s “ The Gay Parisienne.”
J IVOIII Rickards’ Variety Co.
® OYAL “The Brand of Cain.”
Criterion Professor Bristol’s Edu-
cated Horses and Mules.
Town Hale Hambourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “The Sign of the Cross.”
“ IJOtr “ Charley’s Aunt.”
*“ OYAL The Flying Jordans.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “A Brother’s Sin.”
With the exception of the Brand, there is
no change in Sydney play-bills. The Parisienne
is still Gay, and looks likely to long continue so.
Further study strengthens the conviction that this
is one of the best amusement-shows Sydney has
had for some time. At the Tivoli the Haytors
and the Kentucky piccaninnies play to mono-
tonously crowded houses, and a sister of the great
Lottie Collins—Lizzie, to wit—arrives on Satur-
day next, with another new star, Albert Athas.
The educated horse still sits down hard at the
Criterion ; and the Polytechnic cinematographe is
first in the field with pictures of the Jubilee pro-
cession, and shows George Reid and “the lady”
as large as life, and nearly as enthusiastic.
** * *
Coming Sydney shows include the Ham-
bourgs and John Lemmone, who open a six-night
series of concerts at the Town Hall on 14th Aug.
A week later Harry Rickards starts the Palace
Theatre anew with the Biographe co.—nearly
everything that starts anew ends with “graphe”
nowadays.
** * *
An interesting Sunday-school problem for
senior classes is “ Where was Cain branded?”
The average boy is apt to pass this crucial ques-
tion unnoticed, but when it is suggested to him
by an ingenious parson who wants to make school
happy he develops wonderful enthusiasm in sug-
gesting all sorts of unlikely places where the brand
might be concealed. Then the parson sums up
judgmatically and passes all the modest sugges-
tions in review, and decides that there is not
sufficient evidence to settle the matter—which is
very unsatisfactory. Unluckily Maggie Moore’s
new play at Sydney Royal doesn’t help one bit.
It her Cam is branded he has hidden the
brand under his clothes, and it wouldn’t be of the
least use to hinder anyone from killing him, as
originally intended. The mystery isn’t helped
towards elucidation by the fact that Maggie
Moore’s Cain is really Abel until the last act, and
Abel would be Cain if he could only be another
fellow without being the fellow he is although he
doesn’t seem to be, and between the two of them
and Maggie herself, who creates a diversion
at critical moments by smiling in Irish
and talking with a pre-Adamite brogue, the
Brand really gets no chance to disclose itself.
Apart from the Brand, Cain is a Whirl—in Spain,
to give Maggie (in unpre-Adamite intervals) a
chance to spout pure Spanish blarney which
brings down the house—and the audience simply
loses its sense of location for three hours, and sub-
mits to be stood on its head, and to swallow im-
possibilities, and to gloat over absurdities, with
the greatest good humor. There is no use in any-
one trying to be ill-humored where Maggie
Moore is.
** * *
F rank Thornton was barely able to appear
as Charley’s Aunt one or two nights last week,
and the young collegians had to moderate their
treatment of the lady from Brazil. The principal
trouble with Thornton is insomnia, and a weak-
ness for trying to soothe his nerves by means of a
lake. It is one of those cases in which half the
medical profession would advise him to restrict
himself to gentle walking exercise, and the other
half of the faculty would urge him to ride more
bike than before.
** * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” has already served a
month of her time at the Bijou, and the rush for
places is much the same as ever. The Aunt is not
a great moral lesson, but her intentions are strictly
honorable, and she commends herself to public
sympathy by letting off an occasional Dam. A
little bit of Dam is a refreshing thing after a sur-
feit of Scriptural quotations higher up the street.
It acts as a restorative to public interest in the
world, the flesh, and the devil, and awakens dear
old memories in man} 7 partly-converted citizens
who have of late been crying “Amen” or halle-
lujah when the spirit moved them to swear.
Sweet Lavender ” is ready to succeed “Charley’s
Aunt at short notice, but the cheerful comedy
will last for another week, or two, or three.
** * *
After considering the “ Chinatown ” girls
and Miss Elsie Adair, followed by the shapely
damsels who do nothing particular in the Flying
Jordans show, one can appreciate the remarks, as
follows, of a London Refekee writer on “anew
American soubrette, Miss Lottie Gibson by name
and ‘ The Little Magnet ’ by description. Miss
Lottie is a saucy, merry-faced decollete damsel of
plump proportions with plenty of black silk stock-
ing. She appears to have considerable vivacity
but her present songs do not afford her too much
scope for the exploitation thereof. They are
chiefly a reversion to the type of our old-time
seno songs. The Little Magnet must get
material fuller of dash and character, if she is to
fully act up to her description on our side.” This
agrees with the bulk of Australian opinion con-
cerning American girls in variety entertainment.
They have plenty of black-silk stocking, but not
enough “business”—the performance is dainty,
but tame.
** * *
“The Sign of the Cross” pegs placidly
along at Melb. Princess’s, whither cheap excur-
sion trains from distant cities bring many pas-
sengers whose tickets admit them to the stalls.
They carry buns and Bibles in their pockets, most
of these pilgrims, also they come prepared to hurl
plaudits at early Christianity in its various stage
developments. Up to now the persecuting Pagans
have not been stoushed all round by a grim fanatic
from up-country, but a case of inspired assault
and battery is likely to occur any evening. The
temptation to “go ” for Tigellinus is undoubtedly
great, on account of the said Tidgy’s cruel
treatment of his mother tongue, apart from
his deadly animosity to the true faith. No
reason can be discovered for Tidgy’s spurious
French accent, and strange, rolling stalk,
therefore The Bulletin exhorts that ancient
Roman to speak the cockney language, as
he spoke it in “Two Little Vagabonds,” and
behave like an ordinary mortal. At present, there
is a sad scarcity of plain talking among the com-
pany. One of the giddy Pagan ladies appears to
be mimicking—or trying to mimic—Mrs. Brown-
Potter ; another of them desires the Chwrristian
woman to dwrrink wine, and the one absolutely
unaffected member of Roman sassiety is the un-
sober patrician, with the vine leaves in his vanished
hair. A special matinee of “ The Sign ” will be
given next Wednesday, for the benefit, maybe, of
the Nonconformist conscience, which objects to
the usual Saturday matinee, because it comes too
near to the Sabbath.
** * *
The Firm ought, in pity, to reduce the
rent of the Princess’s bars during the “ Sign of
the Cross ” season. In ordinary times, of course,
big business at the theatre means a roaring bar-
trade between the acts, but these are not ordinary
times, and the consumption of whisky on the pre-
mises has fallen to a preposterously low average
about one nobbier to every 50 male visitors or
even worse than that. The people who will ’roll
up to Wilson Barrett’s “great play” have no
thirst worth mentioning—except for righteousness
and salvation. Instead of retiring for refresh-
ment when the curtain is down they sit coinmun-
ing together re the errors of Paganism, and the
sufferings of the “ poor little lad ” in the torture-
chamber. Many of them have never touched a
drop m their lives. They are dead to the world
as far as licensed victualling business is concerned,
neither do they wish to buy a smoke. Religious
melodrama comes very rough upon the lessee of
the bars, poor spinster ! and her present distress of
mind is the more sad because it could so easily
have been avoided. If the Firm had but warned
her m time to put away the wicked bottles and
start a respectable emporium for hymn-books and
serious literature she might have found cause for
blessing “ The Sign of the Cross.” Under the cir-
cumstances she—well, she would to Heaven it
were a comic opera.
** * *
. "4" first part, with a Federation march
in it, is the latest change at Melbourne Opera
.House, where the Allisons are going off duty this
week. Ihe Rickards show flourishes, whilst the
laying Jordans at the Royal gaze moodily down
upon a scattered population. Five Cherry Sisters
are coming to strengthen the ’Murkan crowd on
Saturday, and there is some talk of George Rignold
resuming practice at the big house a week later.
** * *
Howard Vernon is probably persuaded, by
trnstime, that melodrama is a hopeless cause at
the Alexandra. Business grew worse on Saturday
instead of better, and the long, dislocated story of
A brother s Sin ” didn’t promise to make any
difference. It was not the most unbearable pro-
duction on record, all the same. The hero gave
general satisfaction as a modern smuggler
in a pink striped nightcap, and after he had been
round guilty of manslaughtering a person who
wasn t dead the learned judge came down from
is perch and decided to adopt the prisoner’s wife
until the sentence had expired. Situations such
as this are strong enough to save ten ordinary
melodramas under favorable circumstances, but
the Haleck circumstances seem hopeless.
** * *
If Wilson Barrett comes out under engao’e-
ment to the Firm, will he be starred as an actor
or a showman? As an actor, he is merely fine
and large in a commonplace style-earnest and
robustious, but lacking distinction and magnetism.
As a showman Barrett has made a stir occasion-
al y, with Claudian ” and his own dramatised
version of The Manxman,” and later with that
clever melodramatic fakement, “The Sign of the
brass. It is on the strength of “The Sign’s”
success m Australia, no doubt, that Musgrove
has made' fresh overtures to the well-pre-
served veteran Among the Firm’s host of
new patrons who never (or hardly ever)
went to a theatre before in their lives” Wil-
son Barrett is reckoned a sort of high priest of
the British drama, and already one hears unso-
phisticated Christians breathing his name, as
though it were worth .£lOOO a night. All the
fnr m i’oo hat f ble Btor V f 1 a = eio ’ ooo engagement
for 100 performances looks “steep” to anyone
who has seen Barrett act, or has followed his
career at a distance through newspaper reports.
* * * *
Wilson Barrett was originally known to
fame as the husband of the late Miss Heath, an
old-time tragedienne, who preceded him into this
world by a good many years, judging from
stage appearances. A great actress when
e( f u P°n, but stilted in her quiet scenes—
like Helen Faucit and all the declamatory
people, down to Adelaide Neilson and Jimmy
Anderson. The said Miss Heath used to be a
dramatic reader to Her Gracious, or something of
that sort. She gave the Queen first lesson! in
elocution, or improved the elocution that was
already there. In fact, it was Mrs. Wilson-
Barrett who electroplated the Queen’s “silvery
voice, and put the ring into her final g’s, long
after a French dancing-master had coached Her
Majesty in regal bearing.” Little things like
these don’t come natural to reigning sovereigns.
They are acquired with difficulty, as a rule.
At Poverty Point .
Sydney daily papers :—“ At a meeting of the executive
of the Australian Legion of Honor, held at the office, 37
Park-street, on Thursday, the president (Mr. E. F. Keep)
was in the chair. It was unanimously decided to award
the special silver medal of the Legion to Master Raimund
Pechotsch, the young Australian violinist, who is only
10 years of age, and whose recent performances at the
Town Hall have won such high encomiums from all lovers
of music. The Legion of Honor is an organisation, con-
sisting of over 18,000 young Australians scattered through
all the colonies, having for its object the encouragement
of excellence in branches of study. The medal to be
awarded to Master Pechotsch is a handsome one.” The
Australian Legion of Honor ! Well, well! Tiie Bulletin
never heard of it before ; but no doubt it provides a billet
for some grown-up person.
Demise in Melbourne: “Sonny” Parlatto, comedian,
songster, and Dutch impersonator with the Lynch Bell-
ringers. He made his biggest hit as Deacon Skinner, in
“Struck Oil,” when played by a juvenile co. at Melb.
Princess’s. That part is looked on with fear by super-
stitious players, and many a mummer has refused to take
it because of the unnecessary and uncanny rapidity with
which Death has scythed so many players of it. Pneu-
monia quelled Sonny. R.I.P.
Paradis : “ Courtneidge was the levelest-headed and
most statesmanlike fun-maker ever known here. Before
leaving England for Australia, he set afloat the Actors’
Guild, and says he will never rest till he sees it all over
the wodd. Look at the theatre-musicians. Their Melb.
street meeting-place is opposite Poverty in two senses,
because they have such a thorough organisation.”
Timi : —lt is the fun of the world to hear Raphael, the
Sydney theatrical programme man, chaffing Ben Levison
about his Hebraic nasality whilst singing in “ Maritana.”
Raphael will say, “ Dow, Bed, you do sig “ Hear be, gedtle
Baritada! ” “ Well, what should I call her?” asks Ben.
‘Why, Baritar-da, of course,” says Raphael, with a con-
fidence born of superior powers of enunciation. “ Dow !
daddle do, daddle do,” says Levison, “ I call her Baritada,
a d I’ve played the Kig of Spaid for tweddy years, a’d I
dever sug it eddy other way but Baritada! ”
Prof. Marshall Hall, the musical oracle at Melb. Uni-
versity, suffers, many will regret to hear, from gout in
the throat. If his pupils bad gout in the throat, brought
on by a steady consumption of the Prof’s intoxicating
language, nobody would feel surprised.
Charles Godfrey, sad to relate, has left Westralia for
London partially paralysed.
Printed that Bland Holt cleared £12,000 over his Melb.
season.
i cinematographe views shown in Adelaide
lately had relation to a struggle between a person in bed
and an —insect. The latter is captured, and the sleeper
gets out, of bed and puts it-well, it was night-time, and
where else could he put it? Anyway, the picture cap-
tured the city of snuffle.
Dea,r Bulletin, When in a N.S.W. backblocks town
recently I came across the fragments of seven stranded
draniatic oo’s. Some were ancient history ; some recent,
(ne Thespian was boots at the hotel; another—a sou-
brette had turned palmist; a third earned a kind of
living as a piano-tuner; a fourth had boldly made up a
swag and was humping bluey along the track. People
who think there is a fortune in the backblocks stage are
hereby warned off.—B.
Australians lately returned from England speak en-
thusiastically of Frances Saville’s progress and future.
A big excursion from Bendigo to Melb. (100 miles) was
brought off last week by “ Billy ” M‘Mahon for the pur-
pose of taking people to see “ The Sign of the Cross.”
At an Australian metropolitan theatre on a recent night
the orchestra struck suddenly in the middle of the drama
an " n ln *( he dead centre of a tune. The band wanted its
money handed down over the footlights, and, not getting
Ivuft.t \T lfs , implements and walked. The seene'-
shifteis followed suit, hut the play went on, the co. shift-
ing its own scenery as best it could, and coming out after-
wards winded, wet with perspiration, and covered with
dust, to wrestle with its parts. The curtain went up in a
solemn silence, and the heavy villain, and the proud, cold
evenn nr 7n he ‘ be . aut< *eous ” "widen, strode on, unaided
even by the strains of a jewsharp or a tinvvhistle, and
when 77 stru 2' £ rling music, and no voluptuous air
i n ruffian poured his ardent passion into the back
hair of the fair girl who was another’s. On the whole
0f the - slide - bu ?le and the giant fiddle on
these thrilling occasions was an agreeable novelty, but it
was a bit trying when the villain had to be excused for
ten minutes whilst he went behind to assist in building up
bbe ancestral hall, or to help the hero to tow a wide
stretch of country into line.
Haresfoot : “ I wrote that there were no conspicuous
Jewish names in the records of the English stage. 1 A cor-
- ln these columns gives Jewish performers who
i th £ lr °wn names. But these names were not
distinctly Hebrew, like Solomon or Disraeli. For in-
-lam c ri '- y thus infor med that Misses Gougenheim
[Miss Gougenheim was not Jewish.-Ed. 8.l and Wangen-
heun were Jewesses. On another point, about Shake-
speare making no reference to the fidelity of does a cor-
respondent properly retorts with a faint,'oblique"niention
by Adam in ‘As You Like It.’ Pardon me for adding
that such a rushlight makes the darkness visible. Strange
to remark, two eminent Shakespearians had a bet on the
of hay ” and the loSei ' overlooked tbis needle in the bottle
corned v'of tho difl J> CU, . t . to understand how musical
™ m ] Gay , PaMslen ne’ stamp, can get played
out. Why does opera bouffe vanish ? Why is even the
perfection of Gilbert and Sullivan a summer cloud ? Be-
Tocola ZTn 18 We - dd f d to 2 fantasy of taste, soon
rococo. But the musical comedy, with all its capacity
of picking up its melodic wealth (as Molibre said of his
ideas) wherever to be found, and mingling it with up-to
date fnvohties, wdl be like a garden annual. Thus* the
Gaiety Girl and In Town ’ began an era. Fastidious
as I am, of classic predilections, I have enjoyed almost
un udilSw C fh COniedy h i urel ; v ’ whereas it was ever a toss-
'fho m 6t 7 r 7 6 of on] y one composer would float
the libretto of a Girofla* or a < Pepita.* **
A benefit in London for Charley Ryley’s widow and
children, left in impecunious circumstances. Any Aus-
tralian girls or—er—married women who would like to
express their feelings towards Charley’s memory by con-
tnbuting to the widow’s fund,” are herewith requested
to communicate with Sir Arthur Sullivan, London.
Why didn’t Miss Florence Schmidt arrange to introduce
concerts ? Melbourne notice a * one of the Hambourg
Baldwin, the pioneer parachutist, who visited this part
some years ago, is now doing a “turn" at “ the halls ”
w £ 6d a ? a ljoal ' d,n Sf ‘house lady he gives a ludicrously
hysterical account of the shortcomings of imaginary
lodgers, and ends with a copious burst of real tears He
gift a ofw°eep e ing a at n will. rapid thr ° Ugh his exce P tional
rb7 a h n i k I h °f rnt r n had letters from London stating
that his Australian tour was generally reported to have
gone bung at the time the mail left, from which
wild rumour the little comedian may expect to draw a
jot) 1 Und ooosolation when his lawyers get upon the
.. Bernhardt wins London 6elat with Sardou’s play
“ Spiritisme. A wife decides to elope and sends hir
jewels to her husband by a confidante. This lady is
killed and incinerated by a railway collision. The jewels
are found, and the husband concludes the remains are
those of his wife. Thus, as it happens, the real wife sees
her own funeral procession pass under her window, a fine
effect in the play. Her lover won’t have her unless she
proclaims herself, gets a divorce, and thus secures a large
fortune of her own. She indignantly casts him off Then
comes reconciliation with the husband. A mutual friend
g®. t . s ? ‘uedmiri to fetch up for him his wife’s spirit, dla
Witch of Endor. Then follows a most pathetic scene
with explanation and forgiveness.
H.: “ The cross is a mysterious emblem. The Argus
shows there is no evidence that it became the Christian
emblem before Constantine—that is, three centuries after
Christ. I remember a paper in one of the orthodox
quarterlies proving that the cross was a religious emblem
ages before Christianity. Perhaps this was the reason
why the Christians were slow in adopting the cross as a
symbol. Anyhow, it is quite out of place under Nero and
Marcus Superbus would not have understood it at ali.”
A horse was sent along to Prof. Norton B. Smith the
tamer, as a ne’er-do-well, and the Prof, started the usual
Chinese concert to cause the nag to exhibit his vicious-
ness, but to no purpose. It stood as calm as a Stoic and
quietly switched off the flies with its tail. The steam-
whistle was then unavailingly tried, and, finally, crackers
were vainly exploded under it. It then dawned on
the Emperor of Horse-tamers that they had been “ pulling
his leg,” and the animal was ordered off. Its exit was
effected by about a dozen men pushing and shouldering
the weary and soulless veteran of the cab-rank out of the
ring, whilst it made snatches at the shavings on the
floor in its exit.
Copy of a suburban “ 3d. show’s ” poster“ To-night!!
To-night!! Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Latest songs and dances,
including Sankey’s and Moody’s.” Ye gods! What
next?
Howard Vernon’s father, Mr. Lett, was landlord of the
Cricketers’ Arms, Punt-road, Richmond, Melh., when
Griffiths, the “lion hitter” of the first All-Engl nd
Eleven, knocked a ball at practice out of the Richmond
ground over the road into the bar.
Bland Holt’s horse-plav. Horses in all his pieces—even
dragged into the *' Cotton King ’’ for luck. His five big
plays in this eight months’ Melb. season have necessitated
the employment of 27 horses, three mules and two
donkeys
Cat King Leoni Clark, when next he shows in Melb.‘
will have a troupe something like that he lost on the
Red Sea.
Playwright Sydney Grundy to a newspaper inter-
viewer: “Orthodox! My dear sir, no sane man is
orthodox except a parson or two, and they’re paid for
it. Humanity is my religion—that, and the sun, and the
stars, and the planets, and all that they mean. ‘ Reli-,
gion separates husband from wife, brother from sister,
father from son. No, lam not a ‘ religious’ man.”
Calls before the curtain were unknown in the days of
our grandsires, and emanated from France. Macready
notes, in his Diary, that he scrupled about taking a call
even at the finish of a play, as destroying the illusion, and
only yielded his better judgment to public clamor. As
for calls between the acts, why, the artistic taste even of
our elderly fathers would have revolted. Then comes the
actor abnegating his manhood by staggering off under the
nsulting tribute of bunches of flowers.
Rude Man : “One gets tired of these ‘ fallen women’
plays, in vvhich the bad young person with the obscurely-
acquired infant wails round the stage after being dis-
carded, or in which the wicked adventuress repents in
the last act, and goes into a nunnery or becomes a hos-
pital committee woman. Some day I intend, purely or
impurely for the sake of novelty, to write a piece which
will start with a heroine of the most arctic-ally frigid pru-
dery, who will ‘ fall ’ in the first act, and get worse and
worse every scene, and get more and more earthly joys the
worse she gets, and who will be apotheosised in the last
t a l* n u a , cl ? eerlnff crow d of joyous citizens and
Ms. L.A., headed by the bearer of the lost mace, as.
living picture of Phryne. Virtue has had a long enoug,
iinmngs, and it s time the other side had a show, anyway.'
1 Mrs - Langtry had been married about 25 years wht
fihe went in for an American divorce.
(“Poverty Point” continued on page 1//..)


CYANIDE
or POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN &. CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
0t
,• !
m
The KOEBSTZ
PATENT
<c tittle giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
„ 239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
i— i aw — h— BßKt. —na
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Boss, Boss & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on O.P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
* * * *
The odd thing about all the libel-actions and
other legal dust which has arisen in Melbourne out of the
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W. A.
THE VICTORIA contains 53 Single and Double Bedrooms,
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From 4s. to Bs. per Day.
CARRY A TON?
No. Half a ton easily; more than
three times its own weight. For
Strength, Lightness and Comfort there
is nothing within coo-ee of a
Simpson guckboard.
FACTORY : '
King Street, Newtown, Sydney.
Perth— Robt. Wolfe.
Geraldton— A. Meadowcroffc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. revenue for July, the first month
of the new financial year, was £820,632, which is £45,428
less than that for July, 1896. Also the expenditure was
£99,000 more than it was for July, 1896, and w’as £141,000
larger than the revenue, so the new year starts none too
well.
« * * *
The Victorian revenue for July was .£558,678,
being £16,745 better than that for July. 1896. Queens-
land revenue for July was £277,780, which was an increase
of £lB,OOO on last July’s figures.
• • * •
According to latest information, the straits of
the Westralian Treasury are even worse than was sup-
posed. The last million loan is all spent, and £765,000
have been already expended on account of the new loan,
not yet floated. This sum has been temporarilj' advanced
out of revenue, and the transaction has brought the W.A.
Government into so low a state that the available cash is
only £97,000. Obviously, it is impossible to advance much
out of £97,000 to keep the works now in hand going any
longer, so the new loan is an urgent matter. It is to be
for i 2,000,000, and, at the present rate of progress, it will
just about keep W.A. afloat till January. If the said loan
goes off all right, W.A. will have added £4,100,000 to its
debt in one year—saying nothing of some small trifles in
the way of Treasury bills. This means about £2B per head
of population, which (in proportion to population) is about
seven times more than Duncan Gillies’ biggest effort —and
Gillies was no slouch at the great art of borrowing.
• * * *
Melbourne Age alleges that the Victorian State
Land Bank recently lent £420 on 40 acres of farm land in
the Western district, which same land was sold in May of
this year for £3Bl. As the Land Bank is limited to two-
thirds of the value of the security at the outside, this
means that the people who run the show valued the pro-
perty at £630, which is widely' different from the 1 381
alleged purchase money. The bank officials give an ex-
planation which doesn’t touch at all on the alleged sale at
£3Bl, but they state that the shire valuation for tax pur-
poses is ( 840, and the quarrel stands there. The usual
Fat Man rises just here to mention that this proves State
banking to be a hopeless affair, which is just what it does
not prove. What it principally demonstrates is that the
sort of thing which the private bank can do without
arousing any suspicion till the final burst is at hand leaks
out immediately in the case of the State institution.
Nobody supervises the directors of the private bank, but
the eyes of the aggregate Fat Man and the press and the
advertising politician and the individual who is “ ag’in
the Guv’ment ” are on the State institution all the time.
* * * *
The little Royal Bank (Melbourne) is about the
only institution which struggles hard to attract deposits
these times. In Victoria, the Union Bank, the Australa-
sia, and the B.N.S.W. give 2J per cent, for 12 months
deposits. The other banks, barring the Royal, give 3 per
cent. The Royal fishes for the shy depositor by offering
3i( per cent, for 12 months deposits, and 2 per cent, on
current accounts provided the balance is over £lOO. The
custom of allowing interest on so lamentably precarious a
thing as a current account is almost unknown in Aus-
tralia. These rates look very high nowadays, though in
the garish times of 1883 the Sydney banks gave as much
as 6Vf> per cent, for 12 months deposits, and the late
lamented New Oriental gave 5J as recently as 1891.
• * • *
The Commercial Building and Investment xjo.
(Sydney) reports a loss for the year ended June, ’97, of
£3144, which, with £8935 of previous losses, makes £12,079
accumulated deficiency. As the reserve fund is only
£19,750, this means that the co. is beginning to eat into
its capital. Moreover, the co’s land-tax, not being yet
adjusted, doesn’t appear among the expenditure or the
liabilities, and next year it expects to have to pay the
tax for 1896, 1897 and 1898, which should make next
balance-sheet a lot worse than the present one. The
Commercial’s troubles apparently arose from reaching
out after too much property in the boom days. It has
£286,500 worth (in paper values, any'how) of land and
bricks and mortar, with £155,000 mortgage on them ; and,
against £7115 net rent, interest on borrowed money
swallows up £9262. The Commercial formerly’ had a very
large liability for deposits, but it has wiped this out, all
but £17,561, and has a huge mortgage instead, which
looks, if possible, a little less healthy than the deposits.
The directors report that they have been unable to sell
any property at all during the year, and when the public
is so beastly unanimous that it won’t buy a single item
out of £286,000 worth, it looks as if the discrepancy
between paper and real values was something remarkable.
* * * »
Damage by the big fire at Sydney Star office is
roughly £lO,OO0 —all covered by one insurance in the
City' Mutual. Possibly' a nasty little knock, for the Star
was a very fair -isk, and unlikely' to be too much re-in-
sured.
* * * *
The Queensland Deposit Bank’s third recon-
struction scheme, by which payment of the remaining
deposits was to be spread over 20 years, and the interest
reduced from 4£ to 3 per cent., the next 22 years’ interest
to be payable in a lump in 1919, didn’t come off. When
the Queensland Deposit came to grief for the first time in
1892, it owed its depositors £178,000 and had a bank over-
draft of £44,000, and in five years it has paid off £104,000
of the deposits and £39,000 of the overdraft. Also the
depositors have, so far, got 4£ per cent, interest, so they
have been a great deal more fortunate than the average
Australian depositor. What they propose doing now is
uncertain, but as the Q.D.B. has realised all its liquid
assets, and extracted nearly' everything it can from its
solvent shareholders, and has practically nothing left but
very unsaleable allotments, liquidation would probably
pari out about as badly as the 22-years instalment plan.
It might even pan out a little worse.
* » * »
The woollen industry in Victoria is at last
beginning to expand in accordance with practical busi-
ness principles. A mill started at Footscray (Melb.) a few
months ago has already established a demand for its
flannels, simply because it has not dabbled in any other
line of woollen manufacture. Like the Maoriland mills
dedicated to blankets, and the little Tasmanian mill that
grinds away steadily at plain serge production, this new
flannel-factory has flourished, in striking contrast to the
old original Vic. woollen mills which made many things,
and made all of them badly.
The new Victorian company law has brought to
light many weird balance-sheets which formerly lay low
in decent obscurity. One, which helps incidentally to
illustrate the joys of running a bush newspaper, is
that of a certain country newspaper publishing co. Lia-
bilities, £5331; assets: goods and cash, £lBlB ; accumu-
lated loss, £3138; goodwill, £375. The years loss is
J 8296, and the man who puts down the goodwill or a busi-
ness which loses nearly £3OO a year at £375 or any other
sum, is a tolerably steep financier. Capital is put down
at £3OOO “ less £92 unaccounted for,” so apparently this
sum has dropped through a crack into space. The direc-
tors set down the trouble in part to “strong and unprin-
cipled opposition.” The wail of Potts about the unprin-
cipled conduct of Slurk is a pathetic circumstance.
r • * * *
B.H. Water Supply Co. last half-year made a
profit for the half-year of £13,364, and paid two sixpenny
divs., making - the return equal to 10 per cent, per annum.
A balance of £12,187 is carried forward. An amount of
£4485 is also “written off” for depreciation, though the
transaction does not seem to have been carried out in the
orthodox way, which truly isn’t a good way. Perhaps
the strictly proper way with this co., whose works in a
given number of years become State property, would lie
to create a sinking fund, and out of this fund pay special
dividends. It is quite clear that not enough has been
written off hitherto, for the head works are in a silty
creek, and waters passing through the mains is mineral-
ised, and the depreciation is rapid ; while the cost in the
first place was excessive. The co. has a “ contingency
reserve fund” of £2500, which, however, will not provide
half the cost of the new filtration works which the co.
proposes to add, in order to meet the demands of the
Government; but the “ balance forward ”is over £12,000,
so that there should be no stoppage of divs. By the way,
there are few semi-investment shares now returning to
some holders better interest than these : for, though now
quoted at about 19s. (they are £1 actually paid), thousands
were bought up in the B.H. depression at half-a-crown
and thereabouts.
* * * *
Now announced that the big 5000-ton sulphide
concentrating-plant of the B.H. Prop, will start about the
end of October, by which time six of the nine new big
furnaces at Port Pirie will also be read}'. Shortly after
that, half, at least, of the furnaces at B.H will not be
needed, and the life of the balance will be extremely pre-
carious.
* * * *
Recently, in the B.H. Proprietary mine, a col-
lapse of stopes took place and four men were buried,
though fortunately they were able to creep and scramble
into safety. “At the end of the fortnight (writes a Bul-
letin correspondent) the Proprietary management docked
each of these four men his pay for half a shift, the time
lost by him after the collapse. How is that for—economy ?
The members of the rescue party, also, were each paid
13d. for their labors.”
* * * *
Barrass and Conley, owners of the well-adver-
tised Cobar mine, are now sensibly publishing their re-
turns. 223 tons of ore treated at Illawarra smelting
works gave 16,6310 z. silver and 2480 z. gold. Another 90
tons is being sent away. Only another evidence of the
potentialities of Cobar.
• * * *
Barney Barnato was largely interested in the
British Westralian Syndicate (the parent co. of the
Boulder Perseverance, and other W.A. mines) incubated
by Zeb. Lane with the assistance of Frank Gardiner, who
brought 8.8. into the camp. The syndicate is also
heavily in the Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., whose 109 head
stamp mill will probably start during this month ; within
the next two or three months the fate of that big mining
scheme will be known. It is the first attempt to deal
with the great auriferous low-grade ore-body of Cobar in
a big way, and Cobar will, for a while, be a poor place to
sell a dog in, much less a mine, if it faila
The long-standing and perfectly-understandable
bad blood between the directors and the tributors of the
Great Cobar copper-gold mine, has culminated in a
Napoleonic sort of stroke by the former. The tributors
took over the mine when the shares were selling at a shil-
ling, and, using their knowledge that the ore contained
gold, they have, without making any new discovery, and
without any sensational increase in the price of copper,
raised the mine’s market value over fifty-fold. The share-
holders have made much more by way of royalty than
they would have made by working the mine themselves
under the old order of things. The tributors
have, out of their colossal profits, bought up a very large
proportion of the shares, and, as they were shovelling in
sovereigns by the ton, it was only a question of a little
time when they, being closely organised and able, at a
pinch, to pay any price for -the controlling-balance of
scrip, would completely boss the show. Their tribute has
still some years to run, and they were determined to get a
renewal on the best terms—their own. The directorate
has now apparently cut the ground from beneath the
present tributors’ feet by giving to another party a long
and renewable tribute dating from the expiration of the
one now current. The present tributors are understood
to threaten law in their capacity as shareholders; the
point to be fought out being whether directors can make
any contract so far ahead. If four or five years ahead, it
is asked, why not 40 or 50?
* * * *
Public sympathy is strongly with the Lucknow,
N.S.W., gold-miners in their mutiny against the big Eng-
lish co. which seeks to reduce their wages to two guineas
a week. Money and the want of money can accomplish
most things, but the co. now trying to relieve Lucknow
will have a lot of trouble to replace its present fine staff
with other competent men at the lower wage. In fact, it
may safely be predicted that the miners now out will not
be supplanted by other serviceable gold-miners in a
month of Sundays. The Bulletin knows of no instance
in which gold-miners have “ ratted.”
* * * *
Another rich silver, gold, and copper find re-
ported from the Pambula district. “It is believed to be
immensely, rich.” Perhaps so, but it so happens that
some of the samples sent to Sydney have returned only
traces of gold, silver much too poor to pay, copper ditto,
a fact which won’t be obtruded on the notice of the papers.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek, N.S.W., 522 tons, 311 oz. “The
stopes were poor all round during the week.” A rather
bad look-out, then, for stopes that have been good all
round for years.
* * * *
The prospectus of the Bendoc Alluvial Gold
Mining Company is printed on page 28 of this issue. The
co. is being formed in 20,000 shares at £1 to acquire a
Vie. sluicing property between the Bendoc and Delegate
Rivers, in E. Gippsland. The vendors retain 15,000
shares, and offer 5000 to the public—putting the whole
proceeds (less flotation exes.) to development account.
There is no doubt the whole district is auriferous, and
there is good evidence that the sluicing of the co.’s 640
acres on a large scale will prove remunerative.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin,—l fear it would be an unpro-
fitable enterprise to seek to enlighten Mr. Griffith on the
subject of this patent, even if you were amiable enough
to grant the space for the purpose. I know exactly the
English and the N.S. Wales claims, and in what respect
they vary, but I am not concerned to go into legal
quibbles. I take the position that in common honesty
the inventors (or their representatives) of a process by
means of which, at a trivial outlay, hundreds of thou-
sands of ounces of gold have already been saved which
would otherwise have been lost, are entitled to the usual
reward and protection afforded by a perfect patent. The
contention that, because they improperly described the
process in their original patent, they have forfeited all
right to rectify their blunder, may appeal to the legal
mind, but it cannot be t olerated by any man with a sense
of right and wrong. The mining community reap rich
benefits from the process they have “ taken advantage ”
of; then let them pay for it.—J.
A Bingara (N.S.W.) diamond-miner wants to
knowhow is it that camp can’t get foreign capital to
work mines there which yield as high as 30 carats of dia-
monds of a very superior quality to the load, while there
are mines working’ in South Africa which wash up not
quite one carat. Probably because the foreign capitalist
objects to being stricken suddenly rich. What Bingara
badly wants is bigger diamonds and less carats. Diamonds
that are too small to cut are worth little, which is the great
trouble with the Bingara camp.
* * * *
A big and powerful Melbourne coterie is itching
over the British-Columbia gold-finds, up in the vicinity
of the polar bear, and has bought its travelling expert a
wallaby-suit and some black-’possum rugs. The latest
from the gruesome goldfield is that the temperature has
been 52 degrees below zero, and that flour is Bs. per lb., and
dogs for hauling sledges sell by weight—from Bs. to 20s. per
lb. of live dog. That Melbourne crowd had better buy
their man two more ’possum-rugs.
* * • »
Vic. Leg. Council wiped out the clause in the
Govt. Mines Bill aiming at the abolition of royalties, and
compelling miners to compensate land-owners for surface
damages. What else could be expected from the house
of land-owners, where it is held that the landlord owns
the earth and all it contains right down to the centre of
Tophet ? The wonder is they have not collected ground
rents from Sheol.
* » * *
Returns of tailings (Queensland) for first six
months of this year :
Tailings (tons) Gold (ozs.)
Oh. Towers 73,073 35,582
Croydon 10,105 8,252
Etheridge 2,516 1,715
85,694 48,549
A return of more than’half an ounce a ton—decidedly
handsome. For July, 24,422 tons gave 11,1660 z. Big
operations in this line will soon take place on the Towers.
• * • •
Charters Towers notes. Towers crushings for
week ended 29th July included Victory 106 tons for
484j0z. ; Day Dawn P.C. (old shaft), 503 tons for 671 joz. ;
Brilliant Freeholds, 270 tons for 140 oz. ; Brilliant Ex-
tended, 1190 tons for 6670 z. ; Kelly’s Queen Block, 434
tons for 6790 z. Bull’s Phoebe, Charters Towers, paid a
4d. div. on 27th July. Brilliant Block shareholders at
last half-yearly meeting authorised directors to pay a
div.; this notwithstanding that co. had borrowed 1 10,000
on its new mill. The Stockholm has made a call ; the
first since ’93; money needed for prospecting deep
ground. A big influx of Bull money for investment in
Victory shares caused a run on that stock lately, and
values reached 9s. lOd. contributing and 10s. paid-ups
locally. A week later, orders having been filled, scrip re-
ceded to 95., 9s. 6d.
On July 30 the Brilliant cleaned up for the month,
37880 z. 16dwt. 12grs. from 3088 tons : Brilliant and St.
George for fortnight, 13680 z. 13dwt. from 864 tons. The
Brilliant has 3Jft. of ore in the sink and looks well all over.
Divs. as usual. Mr. John Hunter, of Sydney, has
bought the “ Hope to Prosper ” mine at Mount Success,
near Charters Towers. Price said to be about 1600. Tom
Craven laid the purchaser on to this alleged good thing
and will, as co-owner, supervise operations at the mine,
upon which improved machinery will be placed.
Bill Davies, an old N.Q. identity, miner, mine-
manager, shareholder and member of local Stock Ex-
change, passed over, at the Towers recently. Poor old
Bill was honesty and straightforwardness personified.
Legal “smartness” lost him a huge slice of one of the
biggest mines, and left him a poor man to the end. The
Gy inpie Bill Davis, who struck it rich in the N. Phoenix,
still holds his end up.
* * » *
The encroachment of selectors on goldfields re-
serves is a biting grievance of Q. miners. At Mount
Wheeler (C.Q.), a selector got hold of a part of a gold-
fields reserve, found a reef on it, and sold it for £4OOO.
It is now in the hands of a Glasgow syndicate, and—lying
idle !
* * * *
Mount Morgan mine has now paid .£4,425,000
in divs. Among the chief shareholders are the brothers
Hall—who, curiously enough, don’t spell their name Haul.
* * * *
General Gordon (W.A.) crushing, 41 tons, 31oz.
—not so bad as first reported, but bad enough to send the
shares down again and to continue shareholders’ indigna-
tion. What has become of all the wonderfully rich ore
said to have been bagged? The public, and not ore,
seems to have been bagged. The tipsters remain dis-
creetly silent! Also bagged !
* * * *
The strong-backed, stubborn Coolgardie warden
Finnerty lately ruled that managers were responsible for
miners’ wages, and, as on many other occasions, the
Mines Minister has ruled otherwise. But a little thing
like that does not stop Finnerty. Says W.A. Mines-
Minister Wittenoorn : “ A miner should be engaged by the
co. through its agent, the manager, and, under these cir-
cumstances, as the last-named acts purely as an agent,
the law hardly contemplates his being held liable for
wages.” What a lovely time managers would have
throughout Australia if it were otherwise—and what a
nice time no-liability cos. would get 1
* * * »
Hannan’s Reward—first crushing with new bat-
tery—233 tons, 2450 z., “and the manager says he can
maintain this average.”
* * » •*
W.A. wire : —“From to-day all applications for
forfeiture of leases must be accompanied with £25. How
like Westralia to apply the remedy after the jumping
business has pretty well played itself out 1
* * • *
The Chinese merchants present at Quong Tart’s
banquet, at Sydney, last week, represented about £600,000
of trading capital.
A fat person startled a Melb. mining meeting
the other day by rising ponderously and yelling the chest-
nutty news that there were thieves present—he had just
lost ssovs. from his pocket. The chairman had the door
closed and the meeting made prisoner while a message
was sent to the detective office. After an hour or two, a
man of clues arrived and proceeded to search each business
man diligently! When this business was half over, the
man who made all the fuss found the missing money in
another pocket, and, murmuring a hasty apology, fled—
for fear somebody might ask him to take a drink.
* ♦ * »
N.S.W. Bull-owned mines practically unknown
in their own province (N.S.W.), anTnot because of their
richness: —Bathurst Gold Mines, capital, £60,000; Glen
Elgin Gold Mines, £lOO,OOO ; Hawkins Hill Gold Mines,
£12,500 (very modest); Turon Gold Mines, £lOO,OOO-how
fond of registering them as “gold mines” !—Lagoon
Creek, £100,000; Mount Rea, £69,000; Nana Creek,
£40,000 ; Tamworth G.M. Co., £85,000 ; Moruya Gold and
Silver M. Co., £85,000; Tambaroora Creek G.M. Co.,
£50,000; Lyndhurst Goldfields Co., £400,000; Compagnie
des Mines d’Or (Brown’s Creek), £150,000. Want of
foreign capital! No—want of home mines.
C. (M.) : Allusions you quote from the
N.S.W. Deputy Mint-master’s report doubtless refer to
the establishment of the great Illawarra Metallurgical
Works under Mr. Howell; also to the big English-com-
pany operations at Adelong and Cobar.
* * * *
London flotation of the Liberty gold-mines (W.A.J
(originally the property of a Melb. French syndicate wh«
sought to upset the sale of the mine by their London
agent) is that no duels have happened up to now. Every
local Frenchman of importance in Melbourne suffers in-
sults to his honneur to pass unavenged, and about 58
quarts of blood that ought to flow at large are simply
boiling in the veins of a rampageous community. No
meetings at early dawn in Albert Park or the Fitzroy
Gardens, no mutual slaughters across a dining-room
table, no anything except writs, and gesticulation, and a
great snowball of costs which goes rolling, rolling on.
* * * *
The U.S. Banking Commission proposes, among
other things, to make the 10-dollar note the lowest one
in circulation, so as to forcibly shove the tremendous
accumulation of silver dollars into circulation. The ad-
vantages of giving the public abundance of silver money
may be very great, but the public won’t use the ponder-
ous thing unless it is absolutely driven to do so. The
U.S. Commission therefore proposes to make the cart-
wheel dollar compulsory.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent, “ Medi-
cus,” who writes about Ramornie meat-preserving works
in a recent issue, stops short of saying what becomes of
the carcases of the bullocks which are condemned. Your
readers are entitled to know. lam personally acquainted
with a cattle-man who had two bullocks condemned
out of a lot of 50. For these he received £1 per
head, less 20 per cent, discount for cash (a harsh
stipulation of the co. compels sellers to accept
these terms). No doubt when he bought these
cattle he paid from £2 to £3 per head, and bought,
unknowingly, their diseases with them. When the
carcase is “ cut down ” it is thrown aloft,
and, together with heaps of bones, etc., _ which
are tossed there from the boners’ tables, it goes
through the digesters. Putting it at a low estimate,
about 3cwts. of tallow should be the return from the
carcase of an ordinarily fat bullock. This at, say, 15s. per
cwt., means 455. The hide at 205., and another 20s. for
other little incidental etceteras, such as bone-dust and
meat manure—which is retailed at about 2s. 6d. or 3s.
per cwt. —suet and caul fat (not a small item in a fat
beast)'and the tongue, tail, etc., bring in to the co., on
the lowest estimate, the sum of £4 ss. As a set-off, in
conjunction with the £1 paid to the seller, put down ss.
for working expenses, and a £3 profit is the result.
“ Medicus” questions if there is another concern in N.S.
Wales which pays like the Ramornie Meat Works. Who
doubts it?—Yours, etc., Boris. P.S. —You published a
letter of mine about the end of last year dealing with
working-expenses and profit on healthy cattle. There is
no such thing as losses. —B.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —The Vic. Customs people,
having dropped upon a particular kind of foreign-made
pills which sell retail at 3s. per box, and are invoiced to
the importers at a very small figure, decided to get at
them under the Customs Act, and levy a charge of 25 per
cent, medicine-rate on half the selling-price of the pills.
But 12J4 per cent, on selling-price isn’t a protective duty,
anyway. The pill industry deserves at least as much
encouragement against foreign competition as the manu-
facture of boots, hats, or woollens, and the wonder is
that the Vic. Legislature hasn’t attended to this little
matter. Prohibition would commend itself to everybody
who has considered the true inwardness of the patent-
pill question. Why should weak-minded citizens be at
liberty to procure their stomach-aches from abroad when
exactly the same stomach-aches, or even better ones,
could be concocted by local chemists? Also, why isn’t
pill-making a State monopoly', with the Govt, analyst in
charge of the works ? —X.
* * * *
Melb. Mint publishes a return giving the silver
product for Australasia to end of 1896. N.S. Wales pro-
duced silver lead and ore to the weight of 1,452,247 tons,
value £21,209,906, beside 7,422,7830 z. of silver bullion.
The Q. output is given in sections; to end of ’9l the yield
is given as 22,842 tons of silver lead and ore, value
£498,590. For ’92-96 the amount is expressed in ounces
of silver, viz., 1,209,4160 z. Tasmania’s lead and ore
amount to nearly £1,000,000, in addition to 392,2420 z.
silver bullion. The gross product for Australasia is :
Silver lead and ore, 1,553,091 tons, value £22,620,178 ; silver
bullion, 10,643,2610 z. It is a pity that the statisticians
cannot furnish the result in a less vague and clumsy
classification.
* * • *
Lawyer Purves, Q.C., appeared sadly in Melb.
city court the other day as the confiding victim of an
alleged wild-cat miner of Gippsland. According to the
Q.C’s touching story, prisoner had induced him by means
of ingenious letters to provide money to prospect a
fabulously rich lode—and all the time the gay deceiver
was revelling in unaccustomed ease and luxury at a bush
pub. True it is that, however sharp the man, he may meet
a “sharper.”
* * * *
London mining papers are beginning to talk
querulously to Zeb. Lane about other Westralian mines
taken on his reports that have not turned out Great
Boulders.
* * * »
Brisbane (Q.) tailoresses are in the second class
of luck if they get 6s. a week; many a girl gets less out
of her clothier-sweater. Girl apprentices to the trade get
nil for 12 months, 2s. 6d. a week the second and some
following years, and, should they ask for a rise, the
“ sack,” to make room for more apprentices, who are
absolutely taught nothing but what they can pick up,
and are, from the start, valuable cheap labor to their
employers. Q. has a Shops and Factories Act, but the
Tozer Cabinet doesn’t seem co want to administer it. It
came into nominal operation on Ist Jan. last, and is still
(like the Inebriate Asylums Act) unhatched.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page Ilf.
Last Thursday night the monotony of
Federation talk in Vic. Assembly was relieved by
a Painful Scene, culminating in the suspension of
Prendergast, M.L.A., for the remainder of the
sitting. There was very little sitting left at the
time, and the Painful Scene, which didn’t hurt
anybody, is barely worth mentioning as an in-
stance of Tory dullness and official dissimulation.
Godfrey Carter, famous as the deplorable author
of a still-born Budget, managed to drag into the
debate a reference to the Melbourne labor troubles
of ’9l, when, said Carter, “we might have had
the banks looted in the darkness of the night,”
but for J. B. Patterson’s forethought in calling
out the military. Only aG. D. Carter, who
happens to be a bank-director himself, could be
guilty of such a remark as that. He was the one
man in the House who didn’t perceive the oppor-
tunity for a crushing reply. Labor - member
Prenclergast naturally arose and said : “ The
people who called for troops were engaged in a
bank-loot at the time,” or words to the same effect.
Whereupon F. C. Mason, Chairman of Commit-
tees, called upon Prendergast to retract the in-
sinuation that members of the honorable House
had been guilty of dishonorable conduct four
years ago; but Prendergast wouldn’t retract his
insinuation, and the Speaker was sent for, and
the blasphemous member was suspended—and
nobody laughed. There’s the point to consider.
Nobody smiled.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHK
The ORIENT CLOTHING is
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
in all textures, suitable for
RIDING
BUSH __
TRAVELLING -
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony,
■r urmshings excepted.
Ihe Make and 1 inish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.) ** "
G BOUGH and BAR BACK 8 TUB El’S, SYOiNHV.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OE THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-Gd. Each.
ET See the ,tame CORTO the and betoare of imUcdian*
E. CXJSE3VIER
et Cie
(IIIAM) SUPREME
brandy.
S^h^tti?Lily° S S’by e th! ff(t OLELY brandy
" *>* - P—? iVswJrt'ofcgrs Sftgßg: A
all FEVER CASES. * LAENZA and
Pviee *>*•> Higher thaw Other Lend,in,/ Itrands.
Society
Bonleston
COCMA[?]
The superstition of “the unlucky T” in
connection with Maoriland shipping receives a
further lease of life through the wreck of the s.s.
lasmania. The list of “ unlucky T’s ” now in-
cludes the Tasmanian Maid, the Taranaki, the
laupo, the Tararua, the Triumph, the Tauranga
the Taiaroa, and the Tasmania. With several of
these wrecks the unfortunate initial has had a
dual connection. The Tasmania has laid her
bones close to Table Cape; the Triumph was piled
up (despite a calm, clear night) on the rocks
within a hundred yards of Tiri-tiri lighthouse at
the entrance to Auckland Harbor, while Toitois is
the nearest settlement to the scene of the awful
Tararua disaster on the iron coast of Foveaux
Straits. Years ago, a jingle went the rounds of
the Australasian press somewhat to the following
Unlucky T !
So fraught to be
With danger, death and woe J
Tararua,
Taiaroa,
Tauranga and Taupo.
Capt. Fairchild, the fine old Nova Scotian sea-dog
who has been in the marine service of the M.L.
Govt, for almost 40 years and has never touched
bottom, apparently does not share in the dread of
kb® unlucky 1,” as the new Government yacht
under his command is named the Tutanekai—after
the lute-playing lover of the goddess Hinemoa.
* * * *
A.N.A. metropolitan committee is improv-
ing in blasphemy, possibly owing to the excellent
samples of same appearing of late in the Vic.
School Paper. One speaker, laying down some
curious obita dicta re the Functions of Art, referred
to the “chaos of God’s original handiwork.”
HARITY BEGINS AT HOME.
FARMER'S WIFE (to thirsty cyclists, begging drink of milk) : “Sorry, but I haven’t enough
for my own calves.”
There are some queer female characters
roaming about Kanakaland. One is a charming
lady of about fifty summers and winters, whose
mission on earth is to succour distressed dogs,
She can be seen travelling through the wilds of
JN.qj. (such as they are) accompanied by a score or
two of canine followers. At different times she
has been had up under the Vag. Act, but she
defends herself by Biblical quotations, and thereby
gains great sympathy from pious people. She
declares that her vows compel her to go about for
five years clothed in bagging, and for other five in
silk. At present she is in the bag period of her
vows, and her dress consists of a flour-bag with
four lmies for her arms and feet, tied around the
middle with a rope girdle.
”
Another remarkable Q. lady was formerly a
Govt, school-teacher, and is now over 70 years
ofage. Her sister is a titled person weIMrSS
in English society, and her other relations have
the bluest blood in England coursing through
their veins. For years this lady has studied the
blacks and their ways, and she wields big influ-
ence over what remains of a very powerful tribe.
She sleeps with the blacks on the beach, and her
only covering is a bag which she gets into—tieing
the opening around her neck and leaving only her
head exposed. She says she has no fear, and one
can well believe it, for when asleep her mouth is
wide open, displaying a beautiful set of teeth,
which, owing to the shrinkage of her gums, rattle
like castanets. This causes her to be viewed with
awe by the niggers.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Inspector-General of Police
has ordered his officers not to interfere with the
pigtails of Chows who may be under arrest.
Which recalls a recent U.S. case in which the
legality of cutting off pigtails was deci d ed. A statute
of California had committed to the’Frisco city the
power of making gaol regulations. The council
passed an ordinance directing that every male
imprisoned in the county gaol should, “imme-
diately on his arrival, have his hair clipped to a
uniform length of an inch from the scalp.” The
sheriff having under this ordinance cut off the
queue of Ho Ah Kow, was sued for damages by
Erisoner ; and the court holding that the ordinance
ad been passed with a special view to the injury
of the Chinese, with whom the preservation of the
pigtail is a matter of honor and religion, and that
it acted unequally and oppressively upon them, in
contravention of the 14th Amendment of the Con-
stitution, declared the ordinance invalid and gave
judgment against the sheriff. And so Ah Kow
got 500dols. and (it is presumed) specific restitution
of his tail.
* * • •
A Sydney church-paper tells how a man
who thought it a great pity that a certain young
woman should go missioning to China, “didn’t
know whether he was more moved by humanity
or by the girl’s good looks.” Lamb-to-the
slaughter does stir-up most men’s humanity a lot
more than antique ewe—especially when it’s the
kind of plump and pretty little lamb that too
often takes to the Chow-converting form of dissi
pation.
* * * *
The most disgusting spectacle seen in Aus-
tralia since a man ate a live snake for a wager
was the feeding of the allegedly Christian Chows
at a metropolitan church the other evening. A
hundred greasy Johns, in their store clothes, sat
in a big schoolroom, crushed up between scores of
white girl teachers with whom they chattered in
a manner of offensive familiarity, leering at them
over the eatables, and here and there necessarily
joggling knees with them under the trestles
Parsons and their hangers-on were there in plenty
but of ordinary, healthy-minded pagan whites’
there were none, or they would have swept the
whole hideous brood back into their dens and
the girls to some spot where red-blooded white
men congregate. At the end of the feed the
majority of the Chows strolled home to their
opium and their lawkhi, and, of those that re-
mained to endure the service, it was observed that
only a half-dozen had had faith enough to sacri-
fiee the pigtail which is said to be the ticket of
admission to the Confucian Heaven
* . „ ' ‘ ,
A Perth correspondent •
n P ar r.ttipttv , ‘ ~
Dear Bulletin, Some of our Ohinkies are specialists.
as, f°r instance—“ Sun Fat, Chinese laundry; ladies’
...f. 8, s P e . c l aht .V”— and then a charge-scale, including
f,,! 1 uJJV” of f ® n, ale u-nderwear. Don’t seem to be much
mZt
QUITE ENGLISH, YOU KNOW.
THE BOSS (watching buck-jumper): “Now, that’s one of our best colonial
riders."
NEW-CHUM : “ Ah! well, if it wasn’t for his abominable seat, I should have said
he learnt his riding in the old country, dontcherknow!”
isin or mesmerism on one side, or simply pure cussedness
on the other. There’s no get-away from the fact that
John fetches the white woman every time !
* * * *
At Hobart Criminal Sittings, the other
flay, a prisoner got three years for manslaughter.
Another, for being on premises with intent to
commit burglary, was sentenced to nine years.
Despite the hard times, property in Tasmania is
still three times as valuable as human life.
* • * *
A funeral passed through Melbourne one
day last week, with a large Newfoundland dog
following directly behind the hearse. The dog
had crape about his neck, and his expression of
profound grief left no room to doubt that he was
chief mourner.
The Solomons are not renowned among
Pacific Islands for high tone and culture. Yet a
Northern traveller tells how he found
there on the beach a number (if
coral blocks forming a wall, in
shape semicircular, open towards
the sea. These formed the bath-
ing places of the women.
Surely this is unique in Poly-
nesia.
* * *
Let the advanced woman
beware! This is what equal
legislation means for her. At
present, one of the rights of
woman is to be able to go to
law, in certain cases, without a
penny in her pocket; and, if she
loses, to allow the other side tc
pay the costs. Poxton, M.L.A.,
now introduces a bdl into Banana-
land Legislature to the effect
that, if a woman goes to law, any property sub-
sequently acquired shall be chargeable therefor
No! the New Woman’s path will not be aU
atrewn with roses.
A case heard the other day was a new de-
parture in Australian divorces, there being no co-
respondent, and no giddiness on either hand : on
the contrary, the husband obtained his rule nisi
because Madame was too monotonously holy for
an ordinary human being to live with and retain
his reason. She desired him to go to church twice
on Sundays and be a shining light at tea and
prayer-meetings and other melancholy church
festivities six nights a week. The stricken man
attended sermon once a week, under protest but
kicked at bun-struggles and handicap prayer-
meetings, and his wife preached at him, and bom-
barded him with texts, and hymns, and tracts
and prayed aloud far into the night when he was
perishing for the want of sleep. Finding, how-
ever, that she could not convert him to true holi-
ness and a passion for sacerdotal scones she packed
up and went home to Pa, and hubby started out
after a divorce. The fact that he got it tends to
increase one’s respect for the administration of
local justice.
There is a
delicate aroma of
romance about
a recent M.L.
case, in which a
damsel who ad-
mitted “inti-
macy ” with two
men made sure
of one of them as
accountable for
her illegitimate
offspring, be-
cause, as the in-
genuous young
thing calmly
pointed out to
the the
child had a irth-
mark, which was
also borne by all
the man’s law\ \1
progeny. Nt,
ture’s imprima-
tur was accepted,
and the “ man of
mark ” went to
trial for perjury.
* *
An American
novelty is an in-
dia-rubber figure
(life-size) with
movable joints.
It is supposed
that, when
dressed and
placed where its
shadow would
fall on the blind
while the family
are out, it would
act as a kind of
burglar-horror.
The idea might
be expanded to
meet the wants
of lone females
who like to have
a man about the
house, but who
either object to
the way the real
article throws his
boots about, or
fear to offend
Mrs. Grundv.
But any spinster, if so inclined, might buy an
india-rubber man with strict propriety.
**• ~ «
People passing near Fremantle gaol when
Cameron and Beck were being flogged for escap-
ing, describe the screams as “ the most fearful and
unearthly sounds ” they heard in their lives. If
flogging could ever be justified, it would be the
flogging of the officials who authorised this torture
for an offence which (the love of freedom being
a noble sentiment) it is every prisoner’s busi-
ness to commit at first opportunity. They are
“ the brutes ’ who “ want taming.” Some of
these days an embittered prisoner will “pot” his
tormentor when he comes out of gaol, and the
official zeal for the lash will die suddenly.
IN “ PUSH ” SOCIETY.-A SELECT
ASSEMBLY.
M.C.: “No good, Josser, you got ter git. This is
cr select darnce.”
JOSSER : “ Well, I like that! Yer jist outer quod
yerself.”
M.C.: "That's orl right; hut everyone knows I
on’y biffed a p'liceman! ”
Fine suggestion o f stock-yard about that
ecene at Mrs. Joe Chamberlain’s Jubilee-reception
when her Amurkan friends were so slavishly eager
to gape at Wales and wife that—while Joseph im-
potently semaphored from above, and an ADC
vaml - v strove to open a lane through
the gilded savages on the staircase-poor Tummy
te w^/ IOV r r , help]ess]y fron ‘ the doorstep until
he was fain to depart un-“ recepted ” and inwardly
Jasphemuig. The English word “crush” has
the worst meanings of the Australian “push.”


EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
OF THE
Liverpool & [ondon & Globe,
• UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS..
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates.
Head Office for Australasia : 02 Pitt Street, Sydney;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 . £9,703,495
Total Claims Paid ... ... ... 32,790,549
Total Claims Paid in Australasia ... ... 2,259,404
Income for Year 1895 2,339,022
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
Office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STUU’d
MaTTALASSK and other UNSHKINKABI.K SHIMM
sire highly recommended.
33/ per Hall'-dozen, /Vee »!/ pout throiif/hout
.1 as t' nil ill.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS. Brisbane Q’land.
‘M*
■DOSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
atlons, &c. Recommended l>y the Leading Sydney,
Oculists. If. A. It Chemist, 531 Geonre-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
London Daily Chronicle, of 23rd June,
in its account of the Jubilee procession spoke of
“ the pale, proud face ” of Sir Wilfred Laurier,
and his “quiet, imperturbable bearing, leaving the
impression of a great self-restraint and a reserve
of force which may yet stand our new empire in
good stead.” Then the Chronicle —cruel satirist!
—went on :
A vivid contrast to Sir Wilfred Laurier’s carriage was
that containing the Premiers of N.S.W. and Victoria.
Mrs. Reid’s acknowledgements of the cheers of the crowd
afforded pleasure to the spectators, not because the lady’s
acknowledgements themselves were ungraceful, but
because she herself was obviously in a state of sincere
and unaffected happiness. Mrs. Reid gave a touch of
nature to the carefully drilled procession of which it
stood in need.
“ A touch of nature !” Of course Mrs. Reid was
not there at all—the lady who was “natural”
was Mrs. Premier Turner : grass-widower Reid
and hubby Turner having been put into the same
vehicle by the authorities—no doubt with a view
to avoiding any precedence trouble. The English
scribe didn’t know to which potentate the lady
owed allegiance and calmly credited her to Georgey
Porgey—who still retains many of the taking
little ways which characterised him in days of
vore when he and Mr. (now Justice) G. B. Simp-
so.': gave the girls such treats on Sydney Block.
» ¥ * *
“ Twenty or thirty packing cases,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent, “ are now to be seen
lying about the Government Buildings, Welling-
ton, M.L. A number of almost-insolvent or par-
simonious road boards, town councils, school
boards, and lemonade societies conceived the
economic idea of forwarding addresses to Queen
Victoria through the Govt., in order to save
freight, and the Premier might present them in
London. The addresses were sent to the Govt,
in the said packing cases, addressed to ‘ Hon. R.
J. Seddon, Premier of N.Z., c/o Agent-General,
London,’ but no remittance for freight arrived
with them. The Govt., fearing that such a strain
on its finances would reduce the Treasury surplus,
has taken no steps to forward on the precious
documents, beyond initiating what will be a
voluminous correspondence between the Under-
secretary and the Audit Dept, as to what vote
the amount of freight might be charged to. The
AT THE WOMEN’S HOSPITAL.
PUFFICK LYDY : “’Ere, young woman, there’s a lydy with the ’orrors in that
there keb.”
result will be that the addresses will remain here,
and ultimately be destroyed, and their frames
used to adorn pictures of the Right Honorable
Richard John Seddon, in his P.C. costume or in
the robes of a Doctor of Laws. Thus, by a stingy
policy, does the N.Z. Govt, sap the would-be
loyalty of the inhabitants of this glorious country.”
* * * *
lie “Sunday” Brunkev’s recent perform-
ances. Maitland’s first residents are said to have
been 11 well-behaved convicts, who were granted
parcels of land around there for the God-fearing
example they had shown in the strict observance
of the Lord’s Day in barracks. That spirit
apparently survives in Maitland and thereabouts.
* « . * *
What is in a name, after all ? Cohen, and
Levy, and Nathan —and only about .£0 of plunder
between them, out of .£OOOO ! Father Abraham !
the Yankee Chosen had better have kept out of
that Butler-grab entirely than have made them-
selves a by-word in Israel like this.
A BOLT FROM THE BLUE.
Cabled that the British Medical Associa-
tion has struck the names of Drs. Napier and
Smith, the Adelaide Hospital medicos, off the
roll. According to the correspondence which
reached Adelaide some time ago, the charges are
that they “ acted contrary to the opinions of the
profession in S.A.” in accepting their present
positions—a totally inadequate reason for the
present high-handed proceedings. When Premier
Kingston became aware of this latest move of the
Adelaide medical “ strikers ” he instructed Lon-
don counsel, and the B.M.A. will probably be
defendant in an action for damages.' At the best
the Adelaide doctors have secured a poor revenge
for the licking they received when they walked
out of the hospital last year and left the patients
to a scratch staff.
* * * *
The most amorous Australian town —Cud-
dell. The most gossipy—Ondit.
A Queensland
house-agent in a
large way of busi-
ness is applying
for authority to
use women as
bailiffs, the idea
being to employ
them when “ the
sticks ” of a lone
female have to be
distrained upon.
His theory—a
very reasonable
one —i s that when
a woman lives
alone it is a dis-
reputable pro-
ceeding to put a
coarse male stran-
ger in possession
as compulsory so-
ciety for her, with
the possibility
that he might
want to hug her
in addition to his
other duties. Still
The Bulletin
knows of two
cases where a ro-
bust male bailiff
went to distrain
on a lone widdy
and barely es-
caped with his
life, and how a
weak wom a n
would have got
on in these cir-
cumstances is a
problem: Possi-
bly, ho a ever, she
would have got
on better than a
man. Whe n a
woman gets into
a rough-and-tum-
ble with one of
her own sex, she
knows by instinct
that her enemy’s
weak point is her
bonnet, and goes
for that. A man,
notknowingthat,
hits out wildly
and promiscuously and is routed.
Religious appearances are very deceptive-
The average “good ” man looks as though ho were
in a bad way.
Judging from his recent theological appor-
tionment of British New-Guinea, Gov. M‘Gregor
doesn’t seem to think it matters much which way
his black brother gets to Heaven; and if, as
alleged, “ a most friendly feeling exists between
the missionaries of the different churches,” —how'
The Bulletin does smile ! —things are all the
more likely to remain that way while their hunting-
grounds are thus officially divided. The Governor’s
impartiality, however, would have been more con-
vincing if he hadn’t given the London Missionary
Society the free run of the healthy coast district,
while he restricts the R.C. apostles to the un-
wholesome interior, where, in 10 years, they say,
they have lost 14 missionaries.
• * * *
lie the benefit of clergy and episcopal
benediction of the plant of Sydney Catholic
Press, to which The Bulletin was humorously
invited. Was the idea taken from Zola’s “ The
Ladies’ Paradise?” Mouret, the Mark Foy of
Paris, is shown as exasperated at having missed a
genial idea that occurred to his rival
“ who had artfully had his shop blessed by the vicar of
Madeleine, followed by all his clergy; an astonishing
ceremony, a religious pomp paraded from the silk depart-
ment to the glove department, and so on throughout the
establishment. This imposing ceremony had not, it is
true, prevented everything being destroyed (burnt down)
but had done as much good as a million francs’ worth of
advts., so great an impression had it produced on the
fashionable world. From that day Mouret dreamed of
having the archbishop.
It is to be hoped, by the way, that when the
Catholic Press was blessed, the printer’s devil
THAT WAS THE PROBLEM.
TERRIBLE INFANT: “ Uncle, where did you and auntie spend your honey-
moon?”
UNCLE: “In Tasmania, sonny.”
TERRIBLE INFANT: “Oh! did you; and, say, did you take the baby with
you! ”
was at the same time exorcised. And will the
ghost walk in such beautiful premises?
* * # *
The Port Jackson lifeboat arrangements
furnish a beautiful example of the organising
capacity of the doddering old Marine Board.
Every month, or every week, or every year, or just
when some more or less official person happens to
remember that there is a lifeboat, a temporary
crew is signalled for, and the casual salt-water
person—knowing there’s half-a-sov in the job—
supervenes in great numbers. But, as the same
s.p. Goesn’t roll-up every time, and as he isn’t
under any obligation to roll-up at all upon emer-
gency, Fort Jackson is clearly an excellent place
not to be wrecked at.
“ A shocking case of drowning occurred at
Castlemaine Brewery on Saturday, an elderly
man named Joseph Hartley being the victim. At
3 o’clock in the morning he was seen busying him-
self with his duties. An hour later he found
floating in a gigantic vat of beer, dead. The vat
contained beer valued at £l4O. During Saturday
afternoon the whole of the liquid was run off down
the street channels, under the supervision of »
Customs officer.” — (Melb. newspapers.J
New - chums,
noting the size of
Melbourne, are as-
tonished at the
petty personal
items and unwor-
thy free advts.
published by its
daily jiress. The
Argus, for in-
stance, treated an
accident to bookie
Alf. Joseph’s an-
kle as a national
calamity, and the
’Erald, the other
night, announced
that a medical
Madden in Lon-
don had sent cable
news of his eleva-
tion from the bil-
let of house-sur-
geon to that of
medical sujjerin-
tendent at a hos-
pital for sick chil-
dren. And then
the dreary floods
of small particu-
lars re the Vic.
rifle-team at Bis-
ley how Brown
and J ones had
captured £5 prizes
and Robinson had
won a couple of
sovereigns! Is this
“great journal-
ism ”?
• •
The importa-
tion of new third-
officer Spark from
England has occa-
sioned much
grumbling in Syd-
ney fire - brigade
circles. One or
two of the pre-
sent subordinate
officers are con-
sidered better able
to deal with local
conflagrations
than any new-
chum fireman will be for years. The three best
billets in the service are now filled by imported
officials.
• * * *
A new industry has been started in Sydney
by a firm, whose address is Box so-and-so, G.P.O.
The firm watches the birth-announcements in the
newspapers ? and next day the happy father
receives a circular, in French and English, recom-
mending certain means by which a recurrence of
his calamity may be prevented.
* * ♦ •
A neat example of judicious scissoring was
Sydney D.T.’s prompt use of New York Sun’s
cabled description of the London Jubilee-celebra-
tion, which reached Sydney, via 'Frisco, 10 days
ahead of the English accounts, and which, in
power, picturesqueness, and lucidity, absolutely
“lays over” every other description of the func-
tion which has reached Australia.
* • * •
Chamberlain’s proposed residental inter-
change of English and Australian warriors is an
artful move and will flutter the dovecotes of the
indigenous Naicest. The women will grow chirpy
over the possible revival of the traditionally lovely
times when giddy Colonel Bloomfield held high
carnival in Richmond Terrace, and the local
Johnny will simply rush the ranks of war, on the
off-chance of being sent to swashbuckle at 'Ome.
* * * *
M. L. Govt., by its representative, the
Sheriff, refused to let any press representatives
witness the hanging of Sheehan at Lyttleton gaol.
The precedent should be quashed at once, before
it gives murderous incompetence a chance to hide
from public criticism.
THE SEA.
Mother, why do the sad waves moan
Weirdly and mournfully?
By the jagged black rocks and the smooth brown sand,
That keep them back from the quiet land,
They are sorrowing ceaselessly.
Child, ’tis the ghosts of the men who died
(Drowned men) in the shifting tide ;
On the ever-moving waves they ride
Till the sea shall yield its dead.
Mother, why are the wan, green waves
Salt and bitter exceedingly ?
Though rivers and streamlets into it flow,
And the great sweet rains o’er its wide waste blow,
Yet they never can sweeten the sea.
Child, the sea is the sad world’s tears,
Welling and swelling through tidelcss years,
Till the God of mercy shall take men’s fears
And the sea shall pass away.
ZADIG.
THE MAN AND THE BEER.
For poor old Joseph Hartley
The poet sighs, or partly,
And likewise drops a tear.
But not for Joseph only,
In the graveyard lying lonely,
Doth the poet drop a tear,
So crystal, bright and clear ;
He is thinking, thinking, thinking
Of that liquor brewed for drinking
. In pewter-pots, whose clinking
Makes music sweet to hear ;
Of that liquor never tasted,
Which unhappily was wasted,
Whilst an officer stood near.
Not for Joseph, calmly sleeping,
Is he altogether weeping—
The Scythemari, ever reaping,
Reapeth millions year by year
Of husbands, fathers dear,
Here to-day, and gone to-morrow—
No, the bardlet’s burst of sorrow
Is partly for the beer ;
For the loss of Joseph Hartley,
In conjunction with the beer.
It gurgled, fresh and foaming,
Down the gutter in the gloaming
To the sewer-pipes below.
Perchance a vagrant kiddie
Lapt the stream till he was giddy,
Whilst brewruen, stout and slow,
Fascinated by the flow,
Lingered musing, musing, musing
On the joy the world was losing
In that mixture, made for boozing,
As it disappeared below ;
Lovely lotion, lately vatted
(Ah ! the frames it might have fatted !)
They cried a cry of woe,
Not for comrade Joseph merely',
Though the.y felt for him sincerely ;
They' were broken-hearted, nearly,
By the thought that he could go
And pollute good liquor so.
And the press reporters, frowning
When the cost of Joseph’s drowning
The “ papers” sent to know,
Vowed the value of the liquor
Far exceeded that of Joe.


&
u
dRRoWRP O !
Food L
you
eh
•w
&
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
TOR AUCTION A. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
► * Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Money is being collected in England for
the relief of Spanish anarchists in prison on sus-
picion of being concerned in bomb outrages. The
opanish Government has given solemn assurances
that torture is not being used, but letters from
various prisoners re stripping finger-nails, com-
pressing heads, screwing fingers and toes, &c.,
aren t pleasant reading nowadays, and mcst of
them bear the impress of truth. Which may have
some bearing on the rssassination of the Spanish
Premier, reported by cable.
AT u gh Macneil, from Briscoe & Co.’s,
New Zealand has come to Sydney as resident
partner with Mr. David Black, of the Melbourne
of°Br^ m^na^ r -i 2% S reat concern
of S D T dale , & Go - lsthe oldest-established
d in 4, ustrala sia, and, with the recent ad-
justments m its government, will be more pro-
gressive than ever. No firm could hope for uiore
lthan M is °"/ e ’ 7 hich is known through-
°ilv AuStralaSl f; Ne - Zealand , and the Islands as
stocking everything from a needle to an iron ship.*
WAHOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
v ~ A FARMER at blayney cured
The Manager, BLAYNEY > June', 1897.
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Chronic Constipation, im "am? and
forced myself to eat the consenne™ Petlte ’ an<l lf 1
I lost weight rapidly until ?Xced to s? te *!! ul
tors could do nothintr for n 7.nV 8 t Bt ? ne - Doc-
failed to relieve. I tried !? Atent "™ edlcineB
effect was magical. It acted on the A Ka°°’ i a ? d the
dlately, and then my other troiiM* bo "j e s imnie -
appeared. Since taking the flrst dose y di »
my weight has increased to 10 stone tL ai,o °,
too highly of Loasby’s “ Wahoo.”- Yours truly Bpeak
GEO. SEYMOUR.
WAHOOI
Loasbfs "Wahoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
™. , . . 171 Kent-street, SYDNEY
Wholesale from Merohanta and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 3, 1897.
My Deab Myee—
The St. Martha’s home ball, last week, was a
decided misfit in the Centennial Hall, which had
been good-naturedly hired by Mark Foy and
given to the charity for the occasion. The shivoo
might have been held in a room 30 feet square,
and yet not have been inconveniently crowded,
although it was both an infant and adult revel
and a go-as-you-please in costume. An inadequate
procession of 31 youngsters drifted round the
ball-room at intervals herded by a podgy babe in
blue gauze and spangles whose toddlings were
supported by a matron in black. Some costumes
had made their first-night appearance at the big
ball a few weeks ago. Two fair girls in black
velvet knickers as the “Princes in the Tower,”
and one long-limbed damsel in knee-breeches and
figured brocade, discarded skirts and danced with
all the more freedom. A girl in white with ink
splashes and newspaper titles written round her
meant “ The Press.” Only one full-grown person
sported a fancy gown of any sparkle—an Eastern
garment with stage-jewels. It wasn’t an entirely
slow ball, because occasionally it seemed to have
stopped altogether, and at other times it seemed
to have lost itself, and the floor was one vast
emptiness, until the music would again strike up
and bring out a few dancers who had been con-
cealed behind the pillars. And yet the galleries
had a sprinkling of spectators sitting apparently
interested in the invisible revelry.
A shrivelled attendance at the Amateur Orches-
tral Society’s conoert on Saturday night (which
mostly consisted of re-hashed items from the
Jubilee programme) meant, perhaps, that the
public is tired of Juhilee and all its tunes. The
audience rose protestingly at “God save” in
Weber’s overture and kindly, but firmly, refused
to encore the little thing of his own conducted by
Hazon. That joyous outburst of wild exultation
and bell-pealing was a bitter mockery to those
who remember the lanterns filled with rain and
the drowned fairy lamps and the message that
didn’t arrive and the blue light that failed and all
other troubles of our own Jubilee night. Fresh
items might have drawn a larger house, but to
throw back to the emotions of six weeks ago for a
sensation is as unstimulating as devouring last
week’s pastry. H. Weir offered “Beauty’s Eyes,”
a ditty that has stood some wear and tear, and
E. Strauss managed to put some amount of throb
into it with the ’cello. Miss Edith King wore a
Eallid frock, and made an impression to match in
er first song.
Vocalists have a tiresome habit of turning them*
selves into animated hurdy-gurdies and constantly
ringing the changes on the “ favorite ” tunes.
After the singer has made a success with an aria,
the same piece appears “by request” on every
subsequent occasion, and nothing that an ordinary
long-suffering audience is strong enough to do can
heave that world-famous but tedious ballad out of
the programme. Singers say that it pays to be
“groovy,” and that hearers expect to listen to the
same old airs, and consequently carry their bag of
vocal tricks all legibly labelled. Burns-Walker,
who has threatened lately to become a three-song
man, made a break at his recital at Y.M.C.A.
hall last week, and warbled some quite new selec-
tions. His method, largely a matter of intelli-
gence and expression, gives him a front rank
among local platform singers. Miss Henriette
Ridley’s tuneful soprano well backed up the
baritone, but Miss Ridley’s role is distinctly in
oratorio. Such passionate outbursts as the
Pagliacci duet, for example, seem incongruous
to her, and, sweetly as she sang the haughty
Vedda’s part, she did it with a gently protesting
air, as though she wished is oi'.early to be under-
stood that that wayward young woman had in
nowise her sympathies.
Mark Hambourg has sent on before him two
small couriers in the shape of an “Impromptu”
and a “Romance” recently composed for the
piano. Mark has adroitly arranged both of the
compositions so that they sound as if they be-
longed to the “ V.D.” section of piano-pieces, but
in fact they are not more difficult of execution
than “The Washington Post” and other such
Eieces sacred to the suburban piano. The sweet,
aunting melody of the “ Romance ” is bound to
become epidemic among Mark’s numerous girl-
adorers.
The Chinese merchants met at dinner at Quong
Tart’s rooms, last week, and arranged some sensa-
tional events for the Chinese Festival to be held
ton the Agricultural Show Grounds on the 28th of
his month. It is expected that the dwellers in
ower George-street will roll up (according to the
official programme) to the number of about 1000,
and join m the procession after being clad for the
show at Darlinghurst skating-rink. The dragon
is going to be a feature, with 80 Chinese in its in-
terior. There will be the Emperor’s alleged car-
riage, with a disguised Mongolian inside giving an
imitation of his Celestial Highness. On arriving
at the ground the prooession will march round the
ring, and members of it will then take part in a
football-match, bicycle race, and other diversions.
The indoor carnival to be opened in the Town
Hall, on 13th Sept., is announced as “ the most
gigantic undertaking attempted in N.S.W.” The
public will be enabled to go on a charitable spree
of the biggest kind for a shilling.
On Monday evening the Victoria Salonites, to
a very full house, discussed the latest fashionable
craze of mind-healing. A lady-member read a
paper in which she set forth the tenets of the new
doctrine with great force and directness, and
referred constantly to “mental therapeutics”—a
telling phrase, and quite as soothing as Mesopo-
tamia—also differentiated her system of cure alto-
gether from faith-healing. “ Plain living and high
thinking ” was the gist of the prescription recom-
mended —a prescription which many patients
would fight shy of, feeling themselves unequal to
the intellectual pressure of the conversation. • The
new cure, albeit one can trace the hall-mark of
Boston “culchaw ” on the creed, is an interesting
topic for intelligent discussion.
The mind-healers claim that not only are the
new philosophers able to endure the toothache
patiently, but they can even make patients smile
in the dentist’s chair. A speaker testified to that
effect. The lecturess is on the staff of a daily
paper, and another of the staff, also a convert,
supported her views, as did all the speakers.
Nobody arose and used any sledge-hammer argu-
ments on the other side. An M.P. and several
other interested men spoke. Lady members were
for the most part non-committal, though it was a
good representative gathering of local feminine
learning and scholarship.
Amy Sherwin, accompanied by Arthur Deane,
who had a part in a recent London show, “ La
Poupee,” and Barton M‘Guckin, a tenor with a
name, will be singing in Melbourne next month,
Despite a regrettable tendency to drop into ‘‘ Mari-
tana ” and other played-out works on the slightest
provocation, the sweet-voiced Tasmanian prima-
donna should be warmly welcomed back.
A certain popular artiste explains, apropos of
several things, that her marriage was “ only a
nominal one and contracted under hypnotic in-
fluence.” And she never even smiles when she
says it.
Edinburgh Scotsman, writing of the appearance
of the Australian Premiers in the Jubilee proces-
sion, notes that, “ as evidence of the unconven-
tionality of our colonial guests and their freedom
from the trammels of European etiquette, theladies
had the place of honor, their husbands being con-
tent to seat themselves with their backs to the
horses.”
The new M.L. Governor and Lady Ranfurly
made a brief stay in Sydney before going on to
their new sphere. The Nicest were anxious
to see the new society leader so enthusiastic-
ally boomed in an English magazine, by
which every belonging of Her Ex.’s, from her
“graceful and girlish figure” to her “glorious
jewels,” was duly chronicled and gushed over.
Lady R. is an ardent sportswoman, but “nervous
on horseback ” —the two statements don’t seem to
hang together. The two small daughters have
gone to Maoriland also, but the eldest hopeful, an
immensely, tall youth, has been left behind at
Eton. This is not Lord R.’s first visit to Aus-
tralia : as plain, untitled Uchter Knox he was a
resident of Mildura.
A new form of the surprise party has been
developed. The victim selected for torture in
that way is sent an anonymous letter, setting
forth that a “ surprise party ” will descend on his
or ner—it is usually her —family on a named
evening, and the limit is given, so”that it will not
find them unprepared. The family accordingly
spread themselves in the way of refreshments, and
array themselves in splendor on the appointed
night—and nobody turns up. That is where the
surprise comes in.
A ’Ome paper has cruelly put a pin into the
bladder and let out all the gas about the number
of British titles annexed by heiresses from the
U.S.A. It appears that by actual count of heads
young women from the benighted colonies have
outnumbered the dollar-dowered Americans. The
belles from the other side make the most sensa-
tional captures and are better advertised, but the
solid majority—of seven—belong to us. Since ’6O
the market has been almost stationary, only two
Americans having been made peeresses by mar-
riage in the time. In round numbers, about 70
titled Englishmen have been married to Uncle
Sam’s daughters, while seventy-seven have put
handles to the names of as many colonials. As
there are about 12,000 British titles— twelve
thousand/ —of all sorts, it must be hard to avoid a
proposal from a title in London upper succles, but
the British aristocrat prefers to marry at home in
spite of the indispensable dollars.
Britishers with name-handles who marry Aus-
tralians aren’t so much on the dollar hunt. In the
list quoted, beginning with Gen. Wolseley’s and
Lord Charles Scott’s, of Anglo-Australian
matches, many of the brides were practically
dowerless; the titles of Countesses of Hunting-
don and Donoughmore were annexed by Miss
Wilson, of Vic., and Miss Stephens, of Tas-
mania, both moneyed girls ; but the Hons.
Ivo Bligh (Miss Murphy, of Melb.), Mrs.
W. Cavendish (Miss Baillie, of Melb.), Mrs.
B. B. Moreton and her sister-in-law (of
Queensland) were none of them over-gilt. It
is pointed out, too, that, unlike the rapid-living
and excitement-hungering Americans, the colonial
girls’ names keep out of the divorce-court. But
that doesn’t shut out romance from their stories.
The printed list covers many uncommon phases,
and a side-light on the ups and downs of some of
the careers would be illuminating. The wife of
one of the barts., for instance, was a nice, pert
little woman who began life in a boot-factory, and
was afterwards known in Sydney beer-engine-
pulling circles, years ago, as Tommy.”
The Institute of Architects fraternised at
“Mona,” the residence of Col. Rowe, on Satur-
day night. The windy picture-gallery, plentifully
hung with old masters, was at their disposal, and
I am told that, under the genial influence of the
Colonel, many hitherto discordant spirits mixed
freely in the refreshment-room. “By half-past
nine,” says my informant, “ you could say ‘ hor-
buryhunt ’ without any serious disturbance, and
representative members of the two Art Societies
were splitting frequent sodas. Later on, every-
body shared umbrellas and guided each other’s
steps among the many puddles that lay between
them and the last tram to the city.”
A number of Sydney physicians have discarded
the traditional brougham and taken to the bike.
A wheeling medico visited our suburb last week.
My neighbour’s little girl had a swelling on the
cheek, and the doctor was summoned in hot haste.
He pedalled up to the gate “on a scorch,” and
was met there as he dismounted by the anxious
mother, who almost dragged him inside pouring
out her view of the symptoms by the way. He
took one look at the child, touched her cheek, and
then quoth he • “I shall want a drop of oil and a
hammer ” Maternity, terrified at the last dread-
ful remedy mentioned, hurried off almost in tears
for her bairn. When she returned the bike was
in the passage and the doctor on his knees. He
wanted the hammer to straighten a tyre ! P.S. —
It turns out that little Louisa has got a carbuncle.
A more or less beauteous actor, whose conversa-
tion is copiously larded with references to “ my
friend, His Excellency,'’ and “dear Lady ——
had an elaborate joke worked off on him during
his last season in an Australian city. The con-
spirators were a pressman and a fellow mummer,
and between them they forged a prettily-worded
note on aristocratic-looking paper, and despatched
it to the beauteous one on a V.R. command night.
At the end of the first act the note was delivered,
and the recipient, reading how anxious her lady-
ship was to have a chat with him in the box, tried
to pass to the front of the house to bask in public
in the presence of vice-royalty. However, the
management was in the know, and pointed to the
decree forbidding the passing of the door ; but the
actor was not to be denied, and, leaving per stage
door, paid his ss. at the box-office - and was stopped
from making a fool of himself just at the edge of
the Governor’s box. “Of course I knew it was a
joke all along.” he said to the conspirators as
they confessed
Rapturous .accounts received per last mail from
Australian jubileers re the favor which has been
shown them by dukes and earls and other bigwigs
are taken on this side with a very large grain of
salt by those who have been there before, and
know how different a triton among whales is from
a triton among minnows. Lady Blank playing
the role of Her temporary Excellency while her
husband is acting-Governor, and Lady Blank as
one of the throng at a Colonial Institute scramble,
differs from herself in glory, and nobody feels that
more than the lady herself, though when she and
hers come back on their dignity they flourish
about some big names convincingly. The papers
do their best to boost the pushers-up, too. Pedi-
gree-hunting is linking our millionaires more and
more in spirit with' 'Murkan .snobs. Every
moneyed family that goes ’Ome finds out the
“ family crest ”•—if they have to skip a generation
or two and leave but an inconvenient plebeian
grandfather to hitch on to the name appertaining
thereto, it is done in a twinkling, and the newly-
resuscitated ancestral memory is green only in
patches, like badly-manured soil.
A Sydney wa's badly left recently. By an
incoming mail-steamer he expected his bride—an
English heiress coming out in the captain’s charge
to be wedded to her waiting adorer on landing.
But, alas, the fascinations of the ship’s doctor, a
raw youth on his "first trip, proved too strong for
her fickle affections, and all the Sydney man got
of her or her money was a cable from Colombo not
to meet the-boat. She made the return trip per
same boat and married her doc. on arrival in Lon-
don. Most likely if it hadn’t been the doctor it
would have been some other man on board. Ship-
board flirtations are proverbial, and in this case
there was the money to clinch the match.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“The following circular is a curiosity :
Government House, Melbourne.
Juillet 28, 1897.
Mademoiselle, —
J’ai l'honneur de vous informer que des conferences
seront donn6es, en framjais, cette ann6e, a Government
House.
Ces conferences, au nombre de six, sont faites par
Mademoiselle Dreyfus et portent, entre autres auteurs,
sur Francois Coppee, le chansonnier B6ranger et
Moliere. La date de la premiere est fixtSe au Mardi, 17
Aout, a huit heures et demie. La subscription ala serie
est de £1 Is. ; et la moitie du montant total sera offerte a
la caisse de la biblioth6que de l’Alliance Frangaise.
J’espere vous compter parmi nos souscripteurs.
Agreez, Mademoiselle, l’assurance de ma consideration
distinguee.
S. de V. Brassey.
.PS.— Veuillez demander & Madame Freeman Thomas les
billets dont vous avez besoin.
“ Surely the foregoing evidences a curious mis-
use of vice-regal privilege and power. The Blind
Asylum appeal only disorganised the regular
course of philanthropic subscriptions ; but this is
worse, inasmuch as it means ill-judged, if well-
meant, favoritism. Surely nothing can justify the
Governor’s wife, who should hold the scales of
patronage fairly, in giving so terrific a back-
handed blow to a hundred poor struggling teachers
of French ! When before did the wife of the
Queen’s representative permit or invite a teacher
to give paid-for lessons (or lectures) within the
sacred precincts of Govt. House, and with her
own fair hands beckon in the willing pupils ?
“ Mrs. Charlie Armytage has put a shapely
shoulder to the wheel to swell the ‘ Jubilee Fund
of the Church of England.’ She proposed holding
a benefit garden fete in her grounds, ‘Como,’
Toorak, for the furtherance of which pious end all
the smartest souls in sassiety, piloted by Bishop
Goe, gathered at the Town Hall on Thursday to
discuss matters. His gaitered Nibs recalled the
chattering charitables to their episcopal element
by rapping on the table and closing his eyes
whereat, taking the signal from Mrs. Goe, the
‘butterflies’ flopped heavily on their knees, up-
setting chairs and treading on corns, to commend
their sordid souls to the Lord’s keeping. When
they regained their normal mental state they put
their wits together in planning out ‘Punch and
Judy, cigar and tie stalls,’ and ‘arranging,’ in the
words of his Lordship, ‘ such important matters ’
The fete is billed for October, and the Nicest are
rushing Mrs. Armytage with offers of assistance.
“Mr. and Mrs. Southey and Miss Box, the
English missionaries from India, are just now
feasted, questioned, and pestered by all the
mission-struck youth of Melbourne. It is said
that over 50 aspirants to the religious hobby have
nailed their colors to the mast, and leave Aus-
tralia for the India and Chiha missions this year.
Ihe Sign of the Cross has filled them with new
yearnings for the ‘ Master’s 5 work. Their desire
to supplement the blood of the saints with their
own vital fluid is quite dramatic in its intensity
and as the sexes seem to be pretty equally
assorted, every Mercia hopes to find a Marcusian
colleague.
“ Lady Brassey’s carriage-accident keeps up the
Melbourne tradition of vice-regal rnishaptitude
Lady Hopetoun s carriage was also run into in
Oollins-street, and on a subsequent occasion the
tall colleen injured her charming nose in the
hunting-field. Lady Barkly died in premature
confinement through a carriage-accident on
Princes Bridge. Notice, too, the ill-luck of the
Brassey household in many places: His Ex—
broken collar-bone,' through the fall of his horse
in Albert Park; Lady Brassey—broken ribs
through a carnage-accident; Lord Richard Neville
—broken collar-bone in the hunting-field ; Cant
Freeman Ihomas-seriqusiy ill in Sydney : not to
speak of Wallington’s bicycle-accident in tfioearlv
days. Next, please? What has Lord Shaftes-
damage ? 6 t 0 deSerVS hls stran £ e immunity from
w“ir ad ? B , rass ®y’ B carriage-accident recalls Capt.
Wallington s philosophical remark when Ladv
Honetoun s carriage was bashed by a Chow voge
table-oart in Collins-street. When people said
that they were glad that the consequences were
not any worse, Wallington put on his gravest look
and said ‘Yaas, but yer know —er—it weally
should not have happened; it is a most wrong
thing to run into the Guv’nah’s carriage, and —er
—suoh things ought not —er —to be allowed to
occur, doncherknow.’
“ Archbishop Carr, moved by the magnificence
oi the sum collected by the ladies of Melbourne
for St. Patrick’s Cathedral building fund, con-
cluded his burst of gratitude, the other Sunday,
with a promise that * the collecting-cards shall be
placed under the high altar, as a perpetual memo-
rial of their charity.’ How little the benign
bishop knows the female heart! Had the wishes
of the fair members been consulted, there might
have been an ornate decoration for the stained-
glass windows —the names of the zealous ones em-
blazoned there, around an arch-episcopal testi-
monial.
“ The Bendigonians are booming their old friend
Miss Charlotte Hemming this week (13th), and
will doubtless benefit her with more profit than
the whole gamut of admirers of her elocution in
Melb. After Bendigo, the beneficiary goes to
Kyneton, where an influential uncle runs the
show, and promises a bumper house. After that
and one or two minor concerts, Miss Hemming
goes ’Ome, where her friends in London assure her
of a great future in elocutionary circles ; for
dramatic reciters, it is said, are, at present, few
and mediocre.
“Julius Knight dispensed tea and ‘ trimmings ’
to a select gathering, at Menzies’, on Wednesday
afternoon last, in special honor of the musical
Hambourgs. Mrs. Freeman-Thomas figured airily
among the elect of Marcus, and Miss Elliott-Page
(why is she always top-heavy about the head-
gear?), with her stately ma, helped the heavenly
host to receive and make things pleasant for his
guests. Looking closely at the favored, they were
a mixed crowd, but mostly fair and fashionable.
Mr. Knight is nowadays beset with invitations
from the Nicest, and he occasionally sacrifices for
their honor.
“An out-and-out fuss caught on at the last of
the Hambourg recitals (Aug. 7), and refused to be
quenched until resourceful Scherek, after repeated
recalls and futile re appearances, persuaded the
youthful artists to once more step into the breach
in a sort of brotherly love tableau, hand grasped
in hand, ‘ as when they clasped their little hands
in love and roamed the daisied fields together.’
After this climax, enthusiasts calmed down,
damped by the conviction that riot as they would,
there was absolutely nothing more to be given
away—unless, indeed, they were prepared to
storm the platform and besiege the boys for part-
ing kisses, as N. York girls are said to have done
by magnetic Paderewski.
“ Somehow, concert patrons always do convey
their farewells to popular performers with far
more gush than the average philistine audience
ventures to display at the shrine of a departing
theatrical star. Of course, love of music, real or
counterfeit, ranks as a high-class, aesthetic emotion,
and the more wildly one sobs, jumps on chairs
and waves handkerchiefs in its name, the more
credit one gets for fine feelings. The very people
who carry on worst at a Halle or Hambourg wind-
up, are most scornful of the man who talks of
suicide when a Grace Palotta departs, and have
least sympathy with the girls whose family doctors
will be called in to prescribe for them Macedon
air as soon as Marcus Superbus Knight and his
spangled tunic shall have made their final Melb.
exit.
“Lots of the Victorian Nicest breathe more
easily now that the old coroner has shuffled safely
off the boards without writing his much-talked-of
book. Coming from the pen of a writer so versed
in local cupboards and their skeletons, the work,
had it ever seen the light, should have made spioy
reading—especially if studied in conjunction w ith
‘ Burke’s Colonial Gentry.’ But the Doctor found
little time for authorship. As a widower, he had
to bring up the junior end of his large family ‘ on
his own.’
. Theosophist-Pope Olcott has not caught on
m Melbourne this time. The hall in which the
colonel has lectured has been invariably almost as
empty as the inside of his initial letter, and he is
convinced that Melbourne, not being ready to
listen to him, is in a bad, bad way. The kernel is
(as Arnold might have said) a benevolent and
oleaginous mahatmuddler vainly wagging his
woolly beard in the luminous void. Only on the
last night, when admission was free, did people
come in any numbers, when he demonstrated how
to cure headaches and cramp-of-the-stomach, using
his chairman as the patient. Truly a new use to
which to put the wisdom-religion !
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited.
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera , £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera , £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. 4 s -
Catalogues Fhke.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 Grorge Street, SYDNEY;
260 Colons Street, MELBOURNE;
66 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
IPiJ! 1
Ilium
)»"ll
07
MiiilW
lilHiHli
iIHIfO
U'llllli
m
lIIMHI'IO
nr>
/s
ifiM
I
s
i!lll»"»
'"min
m
o
m
/tin
3»3bs
mU
3Hii.ll
u:i
•mi
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHTN, Ltd.. Agent. SYDNEY
Personal Items.
The Melb. Metropolitan Bard of Works—
E. G. Fitz Gibbon.
“Oh, to be Nothing, Nothing.”— Hymn
by the new Archbishop of Sydney.
One of Coroner Youl’s peculiarities was an
objection to false teeth. He would have none of
them, by gum !
Chinese names culled from the main street
of a Northern town : Sin On Wah, Sin On Jay,
Sin On Long! Quaint suggestion of eternal
iniquity.
A Sheffield (Eng.) paper lately awarded a
frize to a copy-thief who sent, as original, one of
[erbert Low’s clever “ Shifting Scene ” sketches,
first printed in S.M. Herald.
The late Coroner YOUL, who during his career
held 11,000 inquests.
Photo., Johnstone O’Shannessy.
Announced that Anglican Bishop Harmer
(an Englishman, of course) “ expects to return to
Adelaide early in 1898.” Mr. Harmer ostensibly
went to England to attend some conference or
other, and meanwhile receives full pay.
There is a Maoriland township whose
streets have been christened after the names of
the directors of a local company. One of the
directors is a Mr. Berkeley Hoare, but the street
named after him is called Berkeley-street.
Late M.L.A. George Ash left his wife a
house with a <£looo mortgage on it. A big S.A.
capitalist, says Kapunda Herald, paid off the
mortgage on the quiet, and Mrs. Ash now holds
her title clear without knowing whom to thank
for it.
W. C. Wentworth’s gift of a travelling
fellowship to Sydney University gathers bulk by
the passing of the years. In ’62 it amounted to
£445. In April, ’97, interest and compound
interest had worked it up to <£1936 13s. 9d. It
will be some time yet, however, before its original
purpose can be realised.
Writes a disgusted lawyer
to The Bulletin -
When a certain Australian Judge
was raised to the Bench, the local
twop?nn’orth of scissored clippings
announced that “ the regret shown
at the refusal of Mr. Dash to accept
the position was almost assuaged by
the acceptance of Mr. Blank.” It is
grievous to have to say that the latter
gentleman is now of about as much
authority and prestige as a newly-
articled clerk. He comes to his cham-
bers regularly—far more so than a
certain more brilliant and more lazy
fellow-judge. When he began his
labors in his new position, as much
work came before him as before the
others. But, when solicitors began
to find that it was necessary to ex-
plain their connection with their
cases to him after so short an in-
terval as the dinner-hour, they soon
came to the conclusion that, in
the words of one of them, “he was
only there to sign an odd summons.”
He’hasbeen known, in a short case,
to be more confused as to the respec-
tive identities of plaintiff and defend-
ant than even the foreman of a jury.
If a case comes before him without a
jury he invariably reserves his deci-
sion, and the cruel ones say that he
trots with his notes to one of the
ether Judges. He takes notes of
everything, including counsel’s argu-
ments, which his fellow-judges are
much inclined to iirnore. He invari-
ably “ concurs ” in a decision of the
Full Court, and says no more, and
the writer has known him to make
rude remarks to an excited barrister
who rose to his feet after the other
Judges had finished before the subject
of these lines had time to “concur.”
In almost any other position he
would be only ridiculous; being a
Judge, words fail to convey the feel-
ings of any true citizen. Of late years
his colleagues have not had even the
deoency to publicly disguise their
opinion ; for whenever the Full Court is sitting by no
chance do the other two men on the bench ever ask his
opinion on any disputed point that may arise. The C.J.
will lean over and discuss the matter with the other
Judge; the unfortunate subject of these remarks is
scarcely even honored with a look of enquiry. It is said
that he will always follow the 0.J., and that if you can
only convince the latter, you know you have the majority
of the Court with you. A list of minor cases that any or-
dinary lawyer would get through in a day his Honor takes
three days over.
One of Australia’s most scientific medicos,
whose name is a household word down South,
has, sad to relate, had his nervous system hope-
lessly shattered by a bicycle accident.
During the public reception of Card.
Moran, at Christchurch, M.L., the band irreve-
rently played the march, “ Oh ! where did you get
that hat ? Oh ! where did you get that tile ? ”
Rolf Boldrewood tells a Melb. friend that
he does most of his writing in the early morning
before breakfast. That explains much. The
writing in his recent books has been decidedly
empty-stomach stuff.
Although in business for 82 years, and
that in Auckland (M.L.), Mr. T. Thompson,
Minister for Justice in the Seddon Govt., has not
spent a £5-note on law in his life, having taken
but two cases into court.
Dr. J. E. Neild, the veteran Melbourne
medico, says that he has post-mortemed 4000
bodies. He claims to be the discoverer of the
fact (?) that in cases of death by drowning, water
is always found in the pleural cavity.
Ex-Sheriff Cowper, of N.S.W., once—in an
official report of a judicial man-killing, where the
head of the victim had been nearly dragged from
the trunk—mentioned, with grimly unconscious
humor, that “ the execution had been fairly suc-
cessful ! ”
According to a Sydney D.T. correspondent,
Premier Reid had quite a long chat with the
Prince of Wales at the Imperial Institute banquet.
The Prince gave the Premier a souvenir of the
occasion in the shape of his autograph on one of
the menu cards.
Professor Murray, son of old Terence
Aubrey Murray, Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly
in the Sixties, lately startled the Scottish Tories
with a hot Radical speech on the need and virtues
of Trades-Unionism. He teaches Greek in Glas-
gow University.
Harry Furniss has issued a book called
“ Pen and Pencil in Parliament,” containing some
remarkable pictures of Gladstone. One of the
best is Gladstone about to spring. A similar local
Series would not be complete without a picture of
Gladstone when he is sprung.
One of the new leaders of Melb. un-
employed is a tombstone-maker, who accompanies
deputations to Govt, and brings his long hat with
him. The particular work that he recommends
to be begun at once is the new metropolitan
cemetery, which would “give plenty of work.”
If old man Parkes hadn't been a good deal
built that way himself, in life, he would surely
turn in his grave over the surpassing fustian
lavished by the Sydney dailies upon everything
that concerns his progeny. S.M. Herald sets
forth in her choicest Sairey Gamp style all the
poor little nursery details of the youngest child’s
birthday tummifieation, and calls upon a breath-
less universe to observe that “ the two younger
boys attend the same school,” and that “little
Cobden has received a handsome book from his
godmother.” “ Great ” journalism !
Exit, at 76, Dr. Youl, Melbourne’s Tas-
manian-born “ variety ’’-coroner ; of whose quips
—which would fill a volume —here are a few.
“Sunstroke!” the present scribe heard him say.
“ In Melbourne, sir, it’s mostly brandystroke ! ”
Again, having hi nself witnessed the post-mortem,
he instructed the jury : “ Colonial beer, gentle-
men ! I saw his liver! ” And possibly his
greatest flight (over the corpse of a melancholiac
suicide): “ Many a man, gentlemen, has been
plucked from the arms of Beelzebub and put into
the bosom of Abraham by a blue pill and a black
draught I ” Peace to his flashes !
LAWYER SAM. GILLOTT.
Photo., Johnstone O'Shanneesy, Melbourne.
The coo] proposal of N.S.W. Art Gallery
trustees to spend 100 guineas on a bust of their
president for installation in the gallery goes to
show that they imagine not that they exist for
the Gallery, but that the Gallery exists for them.
Also, if Mr. Du Eaur is to be thus distinguished
at the public expense, why not Mr. James Fair-
fax, and Mr. Josiah Mullens, and all the rest of
the “ arbiters of public taste ” ?
THREE GREAT INSTRUMENTALISTS.
JAKOFF HAMBOURG. MARK HAMBOURG. JOHN LEMMONE
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
The appointment of Canon Stone Wigg as
Anglican Bishop of New Guinea is a sore knock
to Canon Taylor and his N.Q. friends. Canon
Taylor now holds a position in England, but for
years he officiated in Cooktown and the North
generally. He expressed his desire to take over
New Guinea, and reams of letters reached the
Primate in his interest.
Mr. Henry Austin, writing in a contem-
Sorary, claims the late W. B. Dailey as son of an
Inglishman, a native of Dorsetshire. If Mr.
Dailey’s father was English-born, he was certainly,
say those who knew the old gentleman well, of
Irish blood ; and, anyhow, he certainly failed to
transmit to his brilliant son any markedly Eng-
lish characteristic, either physical or mental.
Melb. Argus, in its London correspon-
dence, mentions that the chief proprietors of the
London Times and Standard were disappointed
at not being created Jubilee peers. It calls them
respectively, “ Walters ” and “ Whitford.” The
names should be Walter and Mudford. Probably
the Times and Standard would be equally igno-
rant about David Syme’s name—might call him
David Slime, or Grime.
The Bulletin smiled softly to itself when
it read in the letters of about fifteen London
“special correspondents” that M.L. Agent- (
General Reeves had been privately approached ‘
re a knighthood, but that he had felt compelled
to decline it on the “ground of principle.” Then
next week all the correspondents explained that
the previous information had not been supplied to
them by Agent-General Reeves, and that he
dreaded that it might be thought he had. Ain’t
it sickenin’ !
At a recent Chinese banquet in Sydney,
attended by about 50 Mongol storekeepers, some-
one asked a Chinese how many of those present
were opium-smokers. “ About half-a-dozen,” was
the reply ; “ you wait till 11 o’clock and you see.”
At 11 o’clock precisely six of the guests arose, and,
despite the endeavors of their compatriots to
detain them at the festivity, they made for the
door. The hour for “the smoke” had arrived,
and no power could keep the votaries of the drug
from their midnight whiff.
Premier Reid was not the only ‘ ‘ fun-
doctor” amongst the Diamond Jubilee junketers.
At one banquet, “ Dick ” Seddon, referring to the
heavy strain that the festivities had been upon his
iron constitution, remarked that he had read
in Macaulay about a New Zealander viewing the
wreck of London, but he thought that, in his case,
London would view the wreck of the New Zea-
lander. The present writer, who knows both
men, thinks that M.L. Agent - General Reeves
must have “ ghosted ” this jeu d’esprit for his
Premier.
Mr. Collins, the Eng. and M.L. bar-
rister, whose references to his poetry and
so on, in an affidavit in support of his
application for admission to the Vic. legal profes-
sion, caused some amusement lately, has been
duly admitted. This is the third case in which
a person applying on an interprovincial quali-
fication has succeeded since the amalgamation of
the Vic. professions in ’9l. The other fellows
were Von Haast, a brilliant young Maorilander,
who has since entered the English diplomatic
service, and Picken, a clever Tasmanian now in
practice.
That eminent attorney, Sam Gillott, seems
to be booked as Melbourne’s next Mayor. He is
quite a neophyte in the Corporation, having got
there with some sortof understanding that he would
have the reversion of the Mayoralty, not mightily
adorned by the very commonplace and conventi-
clish Strong. Mr. Gillott has been termed the
Purves of the attorneys. He has very much the
same court gifts. Intuitive apprehension, set off
with a fine, sharp manner and raspy razor voice,
and he is quite as cunning of fence as the brilliant
Purves, besides being a most excellent lawyer
which Purves, like Dick Ireland of yore, certainly
isn’t. However, law is not the most important
point. Gillott, who can never plead without con-
stantly re-arranging the things on the table before
him, is short, snappy, ashen-pale, and would be
termed corpse-like, but for being lively as a trout,
under the excitement of a case. He is the most
astoundingly consistent practitioner ever known
in Melb.—a magnificent legal dentist for wrench
ing criminals out of the magisterial jaw. He is
immensely wealthy in city property.
Agent-Generai
Saul Samuel will
be 77 yeara old
Oct. 2.
And such is
Fame ! Henry
Lawson lately re-
ceived from tlva
“Northern News-
paper Syndicate,"
Kendal, Eng., the
following _ speci-
men of British en-
terprise :
Kendal.
10th May, 1897.
Henry Lawson, Esq.
Dear Sir,—-Wa
should be pleased to
give you a commis-
sion to write for us
a short story (8560
words) for which our
remuneration wouM
be £3 3s.—cheque
on receipt of MS.
We should also bs
glad to see any other
MSS. (stories) you
may have by you,
with prices.
We are, Dear Sir,
Faithfully Yours,
N. Newspaper
Syndicate.
John Norton was allowed a week in which
to pay the fine of £lOO, with costs, imposed on
him for contempt of N.S.W. Supreme Court in
commenting on the pending Kitchen-Norton pro-
secution. This was a most amiable proceeding,
but the Court, in view of its amenity to “ gentle-
men in this position ” over the Butler-case trouble
with the “ respectable ” newspapers, could hardly
have the front to make flesh of one and fish of
another.
Here you see Ben Tillett, bom 1869,
married 1882, ready to die when God pleases and
he can find time- the boss agitator for half-a-
million dockers realiy wants eternity to die in.
Tillett in the flesh looks better than Tillett in _ the
photograph. In the photograph—with the braided
clothes, a.nd the peeping pocket-handkerchief, and
the touch of self-satisfied smirk, his conceit of
himself looks prodigious. In the flesh it doesn’t
look much more than the average man’s —and the
touch of smirk belongs to the camera—the camera
is professionally trained to smirk for everybody.
Tillett is a little fellow, with broad shoulders and
a deep chest where he keeps a musical voice
that has been heard by a hundred thousand
people at once. One of those weeks when he was
addressing his thousands of people and travelling
his thousands of miles the lid of the chest was
left open too long, and the fog of old England
settled on Tillett’s lungs. He has hired the
Australian sun to expel it —as quickly as possible,
for the half-million dockers are crying out for
their boss agitator, and the cause of the inter-
national comradeship of Labor doesn’t feel as well
BEN TILLETT , a British Labor-leader.
Photo., Burton Bros., Dunedin.
as it might in the absence of a top-notch comrade.
Tillett was born in Bristol—father Westcountry-
man, mother Irishwoman both now dead.
He started work at 7 —in a brickyard—eighteen-
pence a week ; at 74, struck for a rise to one-and-
nine; and has been more-or-less striking ever
since. Has been shoemaker, sailor, docker ; and,
as gen. sec. of the London Dockers’ Union, engi-
neered the ’B9 strike. Definitely, what has he
done ? He has been a leading figure in a labor
movement which has bettered the dockers’ organi-
sation, bettered their wages, bettered their condi-
tions of employment. That is, he says, 75 per
cent, of the dock-laborers are better off the
organised three-fourths; 25 per cent., the un-
organised, the casuals, are worse off—but the net»
result is a gain. Generally, the movement of
Tillett and Co.—or co. and Tillett —has introduced
the minimum-wage to 143 leading British local-
fovernment boards ; has established the British
iabor Dept. ; and has extended the operation of
beneficent factories legislation. And here you se«
Ben Tillett and remember that he looks an
honest, earnest chap (though his head does swell
rather alarmingly towards the top), and that the
smirk is in the camera.


SIB JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey,
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Australasian
Representatives:
PHILIPS & PIKE,'
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prioes.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny- Markwald , 11 Sydney r Er ’
178 Williain-st., Melbourne; 14 Ourrie-at., Adhlaidk
Assay Office Sc Chemical Laboratory,
“SSn 5 Moore-at., SYDNEY.
(Continued.)
Coincidence. In the text of “Peep o’ Day,” now acted
at Melb. Alexandra, but written 36 years ago, Father
O’Cleary asks Kavanagh, disguised as Capt. Peep O’Day,
“What is your name?” The reply is, “You may call
me Butler.”
The latest dog-story from a Bathurst, N.S.W. paper :
“ Prof. Musson, in his lecture last night, while speaking
of wool, introduced a fine picture of a flock of sheep in a
sylvan glade. The next moment a dog leaped on the
stage, and but for the lecturer would have made a rush
for the canvas. The dog (a sheep-dog) had followed the
chairman from the manse, and remained hidden till the
sight of the sheep was too much for him. It was cer-
tainly a glowing tribute to the realistic art of the photo-
grapher.’’
A Bulletin correspondent
relates how, when in the
bush, he once dropped across
a party who were burying
their mate (killed by a falling
tree). He was confidently
appealed to for something in
the way of a burial-service,
and fell back upon Shakes-
peare, solemnly delivering
over the grave Borneo’s apos-
trophe to the tomb : “ Thou
detestable maw,” &c. The
mourners were as satisfied as
if he had beeh an archbishop.
Sound plas’s as big a part in
the world as sense, after all.
Haresfoot: “Why didn’t
‘Joseph of Canaan’ take as
well as ‘ The Sign of the
Cross?’ Because we are a
lot of English snobs.”
Melb. : “ People are as-
tounded by the extreme slen-
derness of the wire on which
Miss Aragon performs, but
her feats of foot would be im-
possible on a thicker one.
With a tram cable she would
be helpless. As with Carl
Hertz, the most impossible-
looking thing is the indis-
pensable keynote of tbe
whole trick.”
The litho-machine is meet-
ing with opposition in stencil
and brush work. A Sydney
artist has turned out some
very creditable dramatic pos-
ters in this way. A Melb.
man did the Firm’s “ Gay
Parisienne” posters by hand.
In medium quantities the art-
ist can do cheaper work than
the machine. For very large
numbers the machine, of
course, whips hand-work hol-
low.
The rapproachment of
church and stage. Lennox-
street (Richmond, Melb.
Tabernacle is now occupied
periodically by a travelling
variety co. inside is the
high-kicker and the coster
singer, and outside a memo-
rial stone notifying that it
was placed there to the
glory of God, by Matthew
Davies.
The rivalry between Mel-
bourne’s two Conservatoires
of Music promises interesting
developments. Marshall Hall
threatens that if his Univer-
sity pupils get “fits” from
the critics, whilst students at the suburban establishment
get taffy, he—the terrible Professor—will publish cause
and reason for the “ injustice.” But from what The Bul-
letin hears, the Professor's unkindest critics are some of
his ex-pupils, who were not musical greenhorns when
they went to his Conservatorium.
At a suburban concert recently an amateur reciter, of
the water-melon-under-the-waistcoat type, was furious at
the giggling which accompanied his recitation of “ Bingen
on the Rhine.” When he went off he discovered the
cause. His item appeared on the programme as “ Bingies
on the Rhine.”
Daddy Hallewell rarely sings in Sydney now—he objects
to sing to beggarly crowds for nothing. Daddy says that
there are sufficient men in the city who will be only too
glad to do this. The Brisbane people, who swear by
the basso, and who pay decently when necessary, have
engaged old Dad, in company with Madame Spada and
Philip Newbury, for the forthcoming big musical festival.
On one of the last nights of Bland Holt’s season, at
Melb. Royal, the orchestra celebrated its eight months’
engagement by presenting a smart liqueur-stand and
biscuit-barrel to conductor Percy Kehoe. Warm brotherly
feeling is the rule with theatre bands. They follow the
conductor through good fortune, or evil. Look at the
beautiful unanimity with which they tto on strike when
the treasury fails 1
Regina “Ben Bolt” Nagel has recognised the error of
her ways, and is now a dutiful pupil of Madame Elise
Wiedermann, of Melb. Univ. Conservatorium of Music.
One Age correspondent enlivens the churoh-and-stage
discussion evoked by “ The Sign of the Cross ” with a
pious appeal to actors and actresses to “ sustain the noble
characters they portray, not only when before an audi-
ence, but on the great stage of life." An unreasonable
person this ; he will presently be asking parsons to live
up to their preaching.
Rev. Chas. Strong has given his views on “ The Sign of
the Cross” to a Melb. ’Erall interviewer. The unortho-
dox parson states that he went to the show as an ordinary
paying member of the public—in preference to passing
himself through the d.e. door on his white choker—and
“ thought the production to be anything but legitimate
art. To some extent the thing was tawdry and there was
much claptrap. Indeed, some parts were simply farcical.
The thunderclap and the lightning, together with a roar-
ing of lions (?) and the whirring of infernal-machines,
were too ridiculous. Some of the jokes appeared to him
to be rather vulgar, and the representation of Christianity
had nothing to recommend it.”
Dan Barry is touring with, among other plays, “ A
Gilded Sin,” which, the bills announce, was declared by
Bishop Moorhouse to be “ one of the two dramas of the
century.” “The Sign of the Cross” is mentioned as the
other.
Another Melbourne sky-pilot sees one defect in “ The
Sign”—viz., “the omission of the character of Seneca
teaching the high-sounding moral maxims of the Stoic
philosophy, and showing how Nero received and believed
them, and they left him the brute he was. How different
it would have been had Nero had the tutorship of Paul.”
Which reminds The Bullhtin that a drama showing how
Queen Mary believed the teachings of Christian priests,
and consequently become a gory bigot, would fill a
long-felt want. Also a play dealing with the early Sun-
day-school experiences of the late Mr. Butler, and showing
his moral inferiority to the average infidel.
In a German comic opera, the tenor and soprano sing a
love duet while the basso is put in by the snores of the
husband, from an adjoining apartment.
“N.”:“An acquaintance of a deservedly eminent
Australian basso tells me he underwent a surgical opera-
tion on the throat, in America, under advice that it would
make his voice as good as Santley’s, but the effect was
otherwise.”
Dear Bulletin, —What ghastly rot is being talked and
written in Melbourne about “ The Sign of the Cross,”
both by the extreme pietists, who regard all stage-plays
with horror, and the self-styled “liberal-minded” holy
Joe who goes to see the play, and gushes about its beauti-
ful moral teaching and its lofty Christian tone, &c. 1
think the latter kind of critic is the bigger ass. Really,
we have not had a drama displaying more purple tints for
quite a time, and that act in which Marous chases Mercia
about in the dim, irreligious light, and mauls the lily-
white Christian, would bring down the boiling wrath of
all the purists and social gimlets in the country on a
drama that had no cross in it and no hairy Christian
martyrs. The pagan girls’ pawing of Glabrio and Philo-
demus, and the bright-blue prattle of Dacia, repeated in a
Bland Holtian production, would set the W.O.T.U. shriek-
ing in the streets. But the spirit that inspires the Bible-
readers to howl at the works of Balzac, Maupassant, or
Zola, because of their impurity, moves the sanctified to
rejoice over “The Sign of the Cross” and curse “The
Seoond Mr*. Tanqueray.”—Your*, &c., S. Snell.
( Continued.)
No wild-cat. has so thoroughly disgusted J. Bull,
or so shaken his confidence in everything, as the (say)
“Bunkum” mine in (say) N.E. Australia. One chief
reason is that the promoter was Bull’s own familiar
friend, whom he was salarying largely. We will call this
gentleman “Mr. Psalter,” because he is a pillar of the
church and—for other reasons. While Mr. Psalter was in
London, with a bag of specimens, readying-up the Bun-
kum, he was waited on by Mr. Shark, a man just arrived
from the fields. Shark': “I see you are trying to float
the Bunkum, Mr. Psaiter.” Psalter : “ Trying, my good
sir! The float is an unqualified success. Sir Timothy
Grabmore has consented to be chairman ; Colonel M‘Fat
has been approached, with some prospect of success ;
Lord Boodle has given his promise ; and we are now in
final treaty with Lord Snapem. Such names as these,
with myself as consulting engineer, must guarantee suc-
cess. There will be a 200 per oent. over-application. The
secretary, Mr. De Snavelle, will show you the specimens,
if you are well introduced, and give you all particulars. I
fear, however, you are too late to be amongst the first.”
Shark : “ All very fine, Mr. Psalter, but where do I come
in ? ” Psalter : “ Sir 1 ” Shark : “ I want to know where 1
come in.” Psalter (with dignity) : “I do not understand
you, sir.” Shark : “ Well, you see, it’s this way. I have
just come from . I heard what you had come to
London about. I know the Bunkum well. Been over
every inch of it; and have thoroughly prospected it; and
now again I want to know where I come in.” Psalter :
“Oh !—ah !—hum !—I see. Well, Mr. Shark, will you
call to-morrow, say at midday, after I have consulted my
colleagues? Good morning.” Shark did call at midday,
and received an envelope and a warm shake of the hand
as Mr. Psalter saw him to the door. Shark, who seemed
modestly proud of his achievement, concludes his recital
thus : “ I stayed an additional two months in London ;
came back in much better style than I’d gone home in ;
have been in clover ever since ; and there’s a few sovs.
left. What’ll you have ? ”
• * * »
Daly, who wrote some pleasing articles on
Westralian mines for the Argus last year, and afterwards
accepted the management of the crowd of leases worked
for much more than they are worth by the Hannan’s Pro-
prietary 00., has resigned, and is off to London. Daly, it
is said, could not get along with George Gray ; also, it is
BEFORE CHIEF JUSTICE MADDEN—WHAT MAY
HAPPEN,
THE ASSOCIATE (to prisoner): “ You are found guilty of violent
assault. What have you to say? ”
PRISONER (ex pug): “This is my second appearance before your
Honor. The last time was when your Honor held the
watch and I put the Game Chicken in Stuffins’ Private
Hospital for six weeks, and your Honor spoke highly of
my manly conduct. I hope you will take the same
view now. ”
HIS HONER: “ A different thing altogether—five years!”
rumored, his idea is to publish in London a book on the
fields—a sort of analj-ais of the flotations of the boom,
showing how results coincide with promises of vendors,
and giving reports and names of experts. It ought to
create a sensation if he has the nerve to go through with
it. In the full light of the present the prospectuses of
the past are most fascinating literature. They are the
only thing the writer oan recommend to make W.A. ex-
perts and boomsters really squirm.
* * » *
Cabled that the Canadian Govt, proposes to
exact 10 per cent, and 20 per cent, royalties from alluvial
mining on the new field in British Columbia. It was
something less than this that created the Eureka Stockade
riots. Some three years ago the Westralian Govt, con-
templated putting an export duty on gold, but, after
sounding mining men from other countries, the idea was
dropped like a hot brick.
* • * *
There are only 85 Jews in Van Dobson Land,
A pawnbrokers’ lioense there oosts £2O. This, and the
faot that the Land of Sleep-a-Lot owes John Bullion
£8,000,000, and has less than £4,000,000 worth of railways
and telegraphs to show for the money, probably accounts.
The Shadows of the System don’t give the Shadows of the
Noses a shadow of a chance.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Why does N.S.W. Mines De-
partment refuse miners the benefit of the opinions of its
highly-paid experts ? Some time ago I applied for pros-
pecting aid, and was refused, the reason given being that
the reef was too small. As aid had been granted to a local
claim with a much smaller reef, I thought the reports had
got mixed, and asked the department for a copy of report
on my claim, but I was refused, the department stating
that experts’ reports were for the benefit of the depart-
ment only. I then wrote to an alleged Labor-member,
pointing out the unreasonableness of the department’s:
refusing miners the benefit of official expert opinion ; and
also asking him to try and get the Labor-party to force
the department to supply miners with copies of experts’
reports on their claims, and to make public, in the
Government Gazette, reports on claims to which aid bad
been granted. I considered that, if these two proposals
were carried out, they would let a lot of light in on that
star-chamber of the Mines Department—the prospecting
branch. The member promised to do something, and,
after humbugging me for two months, refused to do any-
thing—probably he did not like to embarrass the corpu-
lent respectability of the department. Seventy-five per
cent, of those who apply for aid don’t apply direct to
department, but through “their member” —which would
lead one to suppose that political influence has a lot to do
with getting aid, and, in that case, the publishing of
reports would give away the whole influence-plant.—
Miner, Glen Elgin, N.S.W.
• * * •
Editor Bulletin, — Re W.A. law and how it is
worked. When a man applies, under the Mining Regula-
tions, for a forfeited block of land, he has to pay the
survey-fee, although the block has been already surveyed
and paid for by the previous holder, and need not be
looked at again by the surveyor. And yet the justices
who administer this law will send to prison a man caught
stealing a watch or robbing a drunken man! Lately, a
friend of mine, having applied for a mining lease and paid
survey-fee and a year’s rent, thought better of it the very
next day, and applied to have the money refunded. The
Regulations provide for this being done, and, if the block
has not already been surveyed, both rent and survey-fee
may be returned, less 10s. for recording. Three days
afterwards, my friend called at the registrar’s and asked
if the refund was available. The clerk told him the
ground had already been surveyed, so he couldn't get that
money back, anyway. In civilised mining countries, they
don’t survey a block applied for until Govt, has made up
its mind to grant the lease ; and, if not granted, both
survey-fee and rent are returned. This is simple justice
—the W.A. plan is simply unalloyed thieving. Thirty
days are allowed here for objections to a lease-application
to be entered. Should no objections be lodged or sus-
tained, the application is then recommended by the
warden ; and then, and not before, should the survey be
made. I question whether the Regulation allowing survey
to be made before the expiration of the 30 days is not
ultra vires, as many of our Mining Regulations are. One
can get no redress from the wardens, in cases such as I
have quoted, for blackmailing, licensed and unlicensed, is
encouraged as a legitimate industry.— Dryblower, W.A.,
21st June, ’97.
a a *
Dear Bulletin, —My
mate and I, not caring to work
for starvation wages, recently
obtained miners’ rights and
went prospecting in the Tumut
(N.S.W.) district. We started
on a forest and Govt, mining
reserve (part of leased station
ground). The manager for the
bank owningthestation ordered
us off as trespassers, and
threatened to summon us. Then
he came round with the (appa-
rently) conditional purchase in-
spector at his heels. The C.P.I.
demanded sight of our miners’
rights, which we refused to
show, as he has no authority
to demand them. I am writing
this as I have seen in the Syd-
ney dailies the Govt, glorified
for bestowing such grand privi-
leges on miners.— Ergo.
* * *
The question of Sunday-
work at N.S.W. mining bat-
teries threatens to cause a
much-heated controversy at an
early date. To shut down a
battery from Saturday mid-
night until Sunday midnight
means a loss of over 20 per
cent, tonnage on the week’s
crushing. More trouble for
Brunker!
* * *
W. B. O’Connell, M.P,.
tells how he was an Irishman,
at Green Hills (Q.), “ shovel-
ling up slugs of gold” as his
ancestors probably “ shovelled
up spuds.” Oyez ! one can see
the jintleman of Grane Hills
“shovelling” thim “shlugs” !
O’Connell was elected chair-
man of the Mining Commis-
sion because he knew nothing
about mining. He still knows
as much.
« * «
According to a Gym pie
paper, a man residing about
100 miles from that city re-
cently dreamt that the Oriental
and Glanmire had struck it
rich. Accordingly the dreamer
at once despatched a cheque
to a friend in Gympie, request-
ing the latter to buy shares.
The venture turned out highly
successful—some of the stone
struck running 200 oz. to the
ton. A Towers man also dreamt
of a big find in New Guinea.
Full of faith he departed out
and is at present hugging
his find—in a little grave down
the Mambare.
* » *
“ Bowes Kelly, chairman of Mt. Lyell, holds
nearly 18,000 shares, and his dividend, paid on the Ist
inst., amounted to over £35,000.” The Bulletin is glad
to hear it. Taken all round, the Broken Hill crowd, not
the least of whom is Bowes Kelly aforesaid, are the ablest
and gamest set of mining capitalists that Australasia has
yet seen. This paper is sorry that it cannot include the
Mt. Morgan crowd in the compliment. Whatever they do
with their millions the world knows that mighty little
finds its way back into any Australian mines. They are
not built that way.
* • * *
A Westralian paper reprints an article appear-
ing in the S.M. Herald on the W.A. Premier’s remarks in
London about the fields and the share-market for W.A.
mining-stocks, heads it “ Converted Critios,” and says it
is “ specially interesting because of that journal having
been foremost amongst our hostile critics in the past.”
This is too bad, after the columns of wires the poor old
Herald has published, and continues t > publish, of the
richness of the W.A. mines. Fancy the B.M.H. being a
foremost hostile critic of anything I
* * * *
The emphatic declaration by Mr. Jaquet, N.S.
Wales Govt, geological surveyor, that there is nothing in
a Bingara mine he recently examined to suggest the pre-
sence of a volcanic pipe, has aroused the Bingaraites, who
mention that he was only 25 minutes on the mine. Not
muoh in that; some men can tell more about a mine in 25
minutes than others would find out in 25 years. The
Govt, geologist confirms this opinion, and the only way
to bowl Jaquet over is for the diamond men of Bingara to
find the pipe which they talk BO muoh about. Then they
can smoke it till Jaquet is blue.
• • • •
The name of Hooley caused a flutter in Bendigo
lately. It was given out that Hooley the Great had been
buying Bendigo Goldfields shares, and, for the first time,
many Bendigonians became sufficiently interested to find
out where the mine was. It is a long way from Bendigo.
It has since transpired that the co. happens to be in-
terested in some rubber business, and this had, no doubt,
attracted the attention of Hooley, who is mostly a rubber
millionaire. Bendigo is crushed again, for the name of
this mine is a libel on it. It is a common practice in Aus-
tralia for some of the great mining expert liars to des-
cribe themselves as the representatives of Rothschild. A
so-called Rothschild expert was knocked out recently by
a man who said, “Well, T represent Hooley.”
DIGNITY AND BEEF.
MISS POTTS POINT : “ Why do you object to my marrying Mr. de
Beef? ”
MRS. P. P.: “Marry, hindeed ! Why, 'e’s only the son of a retired
butcher wot used to buy cattle hoff your paw."
A W.A. syndicate was about to have a crushing
at an adjacent mill. The cartage contractor having been
informed where the “ paddock-at-grass ” was, directed
his draymen to the spot. But the draymen took the
wrong track, and loaded up from a different claim while
the owners were below. When the owners came up they
found that drays had been and carted two loads away.
Then they went for the police. The loads were duly
tracked, and the owners swore to the stone on account of
its richness (all stone is rich until crushed). The syndi-
cate people, after allowing for tellurides and magnetism
of the tailing-pits, offered them a pound a load for their
stone, which was accepted.
* * * *
Sydney D.T.’s Johannesburg correspondent
writes that the local “labor problem is not yet solved.
Thousands of niggers are leaving for their kraals, refusing
to accept the reduced rates of pay, and there is talk of
importing coolie labor to meet the demands. The present
high cost of living here renders it impossible to reduce
the wages of white laborers, and owing to the general
stagnation skilled artisans are leaving every day. At
Buluwayo, bricklayers’ wages were reduced from 30s. per
day to 245. ; a strike followed, and the men succeeded.
It costs about 15s. a day for a man to live in anything like
comfort, so the wage isn’t too much, all things considered.
But there are plenty of men for the work, and Australians
had better stay where they are for the present.”
* » * •
Dear Bulletin, — I have just been reading (S.M.
Herald) of a conference in butter and cheese. No
amount of conferences or resolutions can alter the fact
that butter from a cold country (and cheese) must be
better (all round) than from tropical or semi-tropical cul-
ture. The pomologists are on the same lay and the meat-
jobber* have been playing the same tune for years. The
brand “ Made in Australia ” at once signifies that a cheap,
not necessarily nasty or bad, article is being supplied in
the produce line. This does not, however, refer to wheat,
poultry or hides, and certainly not to wool. For the
reason that these things are ripened quickly and probably
improved by the speed, we can produce a first-class article.
No one who travels to Europe and back can conscien-
tiously state that a peach grown here has the flavor of
one ripened on a south-looking wall, or that a Victorian
strawberry is in the same street as an Aberdeen one. If
Mr. Hooley booms his scheme his co-bubblists know quite
well that there is no great bonanza in it except for the
promoters. Nevertheless, after the first snappers have
gone down or sold out, there is room for a 4 or 5 per cent
div.—with luck. Again I remark, “colonial” beef and
mutton are not bad, nor are some of the butters and very
few of the fruits. I might also state that knives made in
Germany are often good, fair, middling and bad. Matches
made in Austria, Italy and Denmark are safety lights in
as much as they won’t ignite. Of course, Scotch whisky
made in Timbuctoo is good, as is all whisky, although
some is worse than others. Returning to butter, the
Govt, brand will not improve the sale in London if the
retail purchaser sees it. - Scotty the Wrinklbr.
* * * •
“ Our Lady of the Snows ” shows an extremely
level head in reserving for the State Treasury every alter-
nate alluvial claim on the Yukon goldfield. “ Two birds”
—develop resources and swell revenue 1
* • * *
Talk about luck. Heron, down on his luck,
pegged out a patch of surfacing on the creek, and had
been at work ten minutes when a a ake attracted his
attention. He chased the reptile with the shovel, fell
over a rock and broke his leg. Hospital for a long spell.
Meanwhile, Fraser is busy on that patch of surfacing and
washes out over 200 oz. in five days. But there is no ’such
thing as luck.
• * < *
Cyanide work on three heaps of Towers tailings
the accumulation of years, estimated to contain a
million tons, will commence shortly.
• • • .
On the Burdekin delta (N.Q.), Japs are em-
ployed as builders, railway navvies, plate layers, and at all
sorts of work usually performed by white men, at the
wage of Is. per day per slave.


X
SoftCaQVaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO/- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE IiROTIIEItS ,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL. I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
QjiA
***
4iCWv ; /V 9 ‘tfu
•fU/vt
< fc&U. -Ki-CLO<
j|*^ /WWN /Uo fwwS
©UAO*
MjUULo^JC'
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. i/>, a/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO., LTD.,
16, Beyls Marks, London, England.
The Bai)k of Victoria Limited.
NINTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT.
Submitted to the Shareholders at the GENERAL MEETING, held at Noon on TUESDAY,
the 3rd AUGUST, 1897.
The board of management submit their ninth report to the shareholders of the bank, together with
the balance-sheet, for the half-year ending 30th June, 1897, duly certified by the auditors in the forms
prescribed by the Companies Act now in force: —
Balance of undivided profit on 31st December, 1896 ... ... ... £38,920 2 2
Net profit for the past half-year ... ... ... ... ... 17,877 7 1
Together... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... £56,797 9 3
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows :
To dividend on preference shares, at 5 per cent, per annum £10,419 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-year ... ... 46,378 9 3
£56,797 9 3
The board has continued to release the deferred deposits of the bank. At the date of the balance-
sheet four instalments, each of 10 per cent., had been paid off, and on the 12th July a fifth payment
at the rate of 20 per cent, was made.
The board has forfeited 21,580 shares on which the instalments of call were in arrear and not
recoverable from the shareholders.
Two directors will retire at this meeting, viz.: —Robert Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., and George
Shaw, Esq. These gentlemen are eligible for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly.
Two auditors will also require to be appointed. The present auditors, Messrs. Tho. Brentnall and
E. P. Hastings, are eligible, and offer themselves for re-election.
The dividend on preference shares will be payable in Melbourne on and after the 4th August, and
at the branches and in London on receipt of advices.
The transfer-books of the company will be closed from the 21st inst. to the 3rd August both days
inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
The Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, 15th July, 1897. J. D. LAW, General Manager.
STATEMENT OF THE BANKING COMPANY STYLED THE BANK OF VICTORIA
LIMITED, for the 30th day of JUNE, 1897.
I, James Donaldson Law, General Manager of The Bank of Victoria Limited, do solemnly and
sincerely declare —
That I am the General Manager of The Bank of Victoria Limited.
That the liability of the members of the company is limited.
That the capital of the company is .£3,240,000, divided into 340,000 shares of £lO each, of which
84,000 are preference shares and the remaining 240,000 are ordinary shares.
That the number of shares issued is 41,676 preference shares and 240,000 ordinary shares.
41,676 preference shares have been actually paid in money up to £lO ... £416,760 0 0
240,000 ordinary shares have been issued, paid up to £2 10s per share, repre-
senting the paid-up capital of the old Bank of Victoria . ... ... 600,000 0 0
That calls to the amount of £2 10s. per share have been made on the ordinary
shares amounting to £600,000, under which the sum of £459,040 Is. Id.
has been actually and bona-fide received in cash. The calls due and in
arrear amount to £54,507 os. 3d. The instalments not due are £120,000,
and the instalments paid in advance are £33,547 Is. 4d. That 21,580
ordinary shares have been forfeited, and £61,238 10s. 2d., the amount
paid up thereon, has been applied towards writing down book values of
assets of the company ... ... ... ... ... ... 397,801 10 11
The total capital paid up is thus ... ... ... ... ... ...£1,414,56110 11
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED BANK.
That the assets and liabilities of the bank on the 30th June, 1897 (including London office to
24th May, 1897), were as follows: —
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 30th June, 1897 (including London Branch to 24th May, 1897).
Dr. £ 8. d.
To Proprietors’ Capital, viz.
41,676 preference shares paid in cash to
£lO 416,760 0 0
240,000 ordinary shares paid up to
£2los £600,000 0 0
Calls on 240,000 ordi-
nary shares at £2
10s; £600,000 instal-
ments not yet due,
£120,000; calls in ar-
rear, £54,607 0s 3d—
£174,507 0s 3d. Calls
paid in advance,
£33,547 Is 4d
£140,959 18s lid.
Amount of calls actu-
ally paid in cash ... 459,040 1 1
£1,059,040 1 1
Less 21,680 shares for-
feited 61,238 10 2
997,801 10 11
To profit and loss
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation
To Government deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
To other deposits and interest accrued—
Rebate on bills current and other
1,414,561 10 11
56,797 9 3
129,626 0 0
486,402 6 8
21,169 17 1
284,173 15 0
moneys—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
To balances due to other banks
To contingent liabilities, as per contra ...
1,261,202 18 8
3,617,189 6 10
43,451 4 11
73,477 9 8
£7,388,051 19 0
£ 8. d
Cr.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal
By gold and silver in
bullion and bar
By cash at bankers
By gold coin in transitu
By Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks and funds and
other debentures
By bills and remittances
in transitu
By notes and bills of other
banks
By balances due from
other banks
By stamps
£761,230 3 1 '
66,817 12 3
94,330 6 8
176,000 0 0
235,721 1 0
260,152 16 11
52,276 2 2
33,667 11 3
1,920 4 8
■ £1,670,020 17 C
By real estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises at cost to bank
By other real estate at cost to bank, less
£26,761 15s 6d written off, as per last
balance sheet
By shares in other companies
By advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
By bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted, not included above,
exclusive of provision for bad or doubt-
ful debts
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra
239,390 11 8
238,778 5 b
4,211 13 2
4,784,187 7 6
377,986 14 6
73,477 9 8
£7,388,051 19 0
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To current expenses, head office and sixty
branches, and one sub-branch 34,101 7 10
To bank note tax 1,343 7 2
To balance 66,797 9 3
£92,242 4 3
Which the directors propose to apportion
as follows—
To dividend on preference shares at 6 per
cent, per annum 10,419 0 0
To balance carried forward to next half-year 46,378 9 3
£66,797 9 3
By balance from 31st December, 1896 ... 38,920 2 2
By gross profits for the half-year ending
30th June, 1897, after deducting all in-
terest paid or due to customers, and re-
bating bills current, and providing for
bad and doubtful debts ... 63,322 2 1
£92,242 4 3
By balance 66,797 9 9
£56,797 9 3
That there is no reserve-fund.
That the accumulated profits amount to £46,378 9s. 3d., and are used in the business.
There are no debentures or stock of the bank outstanding, or debts of the bank due on judgment
or otherwise secured.
The names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are directors of the company at th»
date hereof are :
The Honorable EDWARD MILLER, of Collins-street. Melbourne, M.L.C.
The Honorable GODFREY DOWNES CARTER, of uollins-street, Melbourne, M.L.A.
ROBERT MURRAY SMITH, of Collins-street, Melbourne, Esquire, C.M.G., M.L.A.
FREDERICK LLOYD, of Franklin-street, Melbourne, Doctor of Medicine.
GEORGE SHAW, of Collins-street, Melbourne, Merchant.
That the accompanying statement and balance-sheet of the bank is, to the best of my belief an'
knowledge, true in every particular, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing th
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of Parliament of Victoria rendering person
making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
J. D. LAW.
Declared at Melbourne, in the colony of Victoria, this fifteenth day of July, one thousand eigb
hundred and ninety-seven.
Before me—P. J. O’Kbekk, J.P.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no ease will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Ballarat Pioneer: The Bulletin’s consistent
denunciation of flogging is based, among other things, on
the unanswerable fact that the law, that is to say, the
administrators of the law (which is to say Good Society—
the Nicest People) never flogs, and never can flog, a man
with a black coat and a tall hat: a man with a mother in
silk attire, and with scented, Government-house sisters 1
Yet such men, if the existing law were dealt out fairly,
have often earned a flogging. There are also, it is true,
glaring inequalities in other directions; but in the ad-
ministration of the flogging-law the brutal fact sticks out
a mile that the Lash is for the Man in Workman’s Garb,
and for Him Only. Therefore—down with the lash.
Geo. W. : “Ode to Sleep” put to sleep K.D. :
Presently F.B. (Q.) : Not good enough Marc:
“ Frantic, meaningless, and maddening whirls.” Pre-
cisely G.P.B. : Can’t you change those initials in the
interests of heavenly harmony? F.W.H. : Possibly
Al. D. : Please call 11.C.C.: Last flat. Painting the
metrop. purple took all the energy out of you Tahune :
Verse not up. “His Last Prayer”: Verse poor; and
point in print already B.E. : Tea rhyme dull F.M.
(C.): Wants a little more force Ego : Worthless
Idrene Rather nicely done ; wants interest and force for
B. No. 10 : Unsuitable ; and little value anyway
Paul F. : Did you think when you wrote it of your own
funeral on a wet day, with the rain dropping off the par-
son’s umbrella on to your coffin, and everybody shivering
for brandy? G.B. (Hay): Neither suitable P.A. :
Couldn’t be worse if you were M.A Ethel: Very old,
tired little poem. (Now resting.) Dunciad : Valueless.
L.R.M. : Neither neatly turned R.S. : Feeble
almost beyond expression J.H.H.: Neither “ merit ”
nor “ originality.” D’A.: No visible promise whatever.
Every girl nowadays strings just such rhymes in the great
yearn-period. They while away the time, but they’re
quite unfit for publication R.R.R.: It would mean gaol.
Euchred (W.A.): You must first obtain a divorce
C. (Melb.) : Very vague and unsatisfactory. What debts
have certain men repudiated, and what motion for the
disqualification of defaulters has been carried ? Jimmie
Pannikin : Never prophesy ! Howlong : Which “Kelly
the cricketer ? ” Do you refer to the Victorian Kelly ?
Why not exactly formulate your query ? O.L.E. (Eng.) :
Like most of the men who do the bravest things, you
can’t tell your story in a way to impress the world
Bor : Must omit that part of your letter insinuating pos-
sible want of bona-fides on the part of the co. in dealing
with certain portions Coolgardie (“the Fields”):
You don’t send your name Alone : (No. 11) : Accept-
able L. : The first Leg. Council of N.S. Wales opened
“ Aug., 1824, and the first Act it passed was to validate a
certain class of promissory notes 0.8. : Why, .the
land-tax is now almost 20 years in operation in Victoria,
having come into force there in Oct., ’77 E.C.B. : Itall
amounts to this—Mr. Varney Parkes should not leave the
work of his Commission on the Carter-Gummow con-
tracts where it now is—a monumental bluebook. Didn’t
he promise to resign his seat if he failed to prove some-
thing? He should at least state what he has proved
C.M. : When The Bulletin first knew the eminent pol-
tical economist named he was selling dolls, wooden-
horses, woolly sheep, skin goats, dogs mit hair, monkeys
on sticks, squeaker balloons, Jews-harps and squirts—all
carrying a sneezing profit. So he needn’t talk about im-
porter’s profits on duty charged by Govt .... Reefer
(M.L.): Will print D. : Anyway, if an enemy got as far
as Altona it would be all up with any powder-magazine
for Melb. defence purposes A.M.B. : You sent us some
terse lines and we printed them; whereupon you at once
bombarded us with a “ dashed-off ” two cols, on a subject
which wouldn’t interest twopeople out of Jamberoo. Bulle-
tin has no space for long yarns. As a rule, when it prints
anything much over a column it kicks itself for a week
Congo: The world has no enduring interest in such
people. It has little enduring interest in most people.
No sensible man is ever vain enough to think the world
will stop chewing its cigar as his funeral passes by. . . .New
Arrival: Address Legislative Council, Brisbane, Q
M'Ginty: Down went Alex. A. : Can’t use “Murphy.”
Robert Hap.: Verse du11.,... Pica R.: Infantile concep-
tion, with christening-robe and comforter complete
Screw : Note official allegation that slippers supplied to
N.S.W. gaol-prisoners are really warm and comfortable.
Thanks re D., but libellous to print P.M. : Knowledge
unusable Disciple : Thanks J.R.W. : Considering.
J.D. : Worth par-space only Wildgoose : Aren’t
taking any “wild, untrained child of nature.” As for
troubles, a man who marries a widow with six, and adds
one to make seven, can’t expect much joy, can he?
And what about the widow’s troubles? J.B. : Yes
Stoker: Allegation that s.s. “Croydon” sprung a leak
“a few weeks ago,” and that the engineer—as brave as
Jim Bludso—“ grafted up to his chin in water before he
stopped the leak” is printed for verification or otherwise.
C.K. : Not up Adolphus (W.A.): Suggestion at
foot J.P.H. : Real duck of a poem—so flat-footed,
don’t you know Tindag : Swagman too curt and 01d....
H. A.C. : Possibly verse Old Possum : Too vague and
mixed—even Scotty mixes it occasionally, and none but
himself can be his parallel E.L. : Probably a million
people of exactly that type die every year, and a million
people of exactly your type bewail them in a million
poems which express exactly the same sentiments in
almost exactly the same way, and it seems to 999,999 of
those people that the combination is lovely and unique.
One knows better now Kelso : It is quite true, as here
stated, that one N.S.W. newspaper offers to suppress the
names of drunks charged at the police-court on payment
of a fee of 2s. —for the benefit of the local hospital ...Abo :
The models in question are poor, but respectable women
—with poor and therefore unrespectable figures.
Gov. Carington did not, as stated in several
dailies, originate the N.S.W. Lancers. 001. Mal-
colm Macdonald, a real soldier, originated (or, to
be more correct, helped to originate) “ The Sydney
Light Horse ” in the time of Gov. Loftus. On
Gen. Richardson’s return from the Soudan he
converted the Sydney troop into lancers, and,
later, Capt. M'Neil armed the whole regiment
with this weapon.
Here is a glittering chestnut. A poet
tells how he one day visited an “ old olo’ ” palace
to buy a coat. Proprietor (oleaginously) : “ Yell,
my frendt ? ” “ Coat ? ” “Yes, here’s a reg’lar
peauty ” (enveloping friend in its capacious folds
and smoothing out its all too numerous creases) ;
“ fits you like d’ paper on d’ vail.” Victim (snif-
fing suspiciously) : “ Beastly smell, hasn’t it ? ”
The fat proprietor : “ No, no, my tear ; not d’
ooat. It’s me / ” “ Peezness ” first 1
A well-informed Yic. official to The Bul-
letin from London :
How anyone could take Premier Forrest seriously is
more than I can understand. In London he has been in
a very back seat indeed—Reid is the person chiefly sought
after. They seem here to be perfectly sure of all the
others, even Kingston, and, in this respect, the N.S.W.
Premier was very wise to leave his sprightly and charm-
ing wife at home. As you know, I am. by no means an
important personage, yet I have been invited out every
day, say, for a fortnight ahead —for some days I have two
and three invitations, all from the bebaubled salt of the
earth. Heaven knows what it all means, but lam in the
happy position of being able to make a very choioe selec-
tion for my visiting list. There is a most determined
attempt to nobble ileid ; whether it will fail or not is
doubtful, but, for the present, Q. H. R. has one eye fixed
on Australia and has not lost his head. Most of the other
fellows are either playing the fool or allowing the most
outrageous things to be said before them without contra-
diction. Forrest went so far as to say that Aus-
tralia has treated the mother country with great
ingratitude by not imposing a system of differential
duties in her favor. There is not a bit of doubt that
Chamberlain is grossly insincere‘in his proposals. At
Birmingham the other day, at a dinner given by the
Mayor, at which Chamberlain spoke, our friend,
was told on all sides that the thing was not treated seri-
ously. Old Saul Samuel told that the inner circle
looked upon Chamberlain’s speeches in regard to Im-
perialism as playing to the gallery. The old man, by the
way, is feeble bodily, but his mind is very far from
lecayed. It is proposed, I am told, to appoint F. H.
pangar Acting-Agent-General until a permanent selection
e made. The story went that the official Statistician was
o get the post temporarily, but that is presumably "off.”
Old-man Samuel, on the Soudan Contingent, is highly
amusing. It appears that the Colonial Office, as well as
the War Office, was dead against accepting the offer, as
the latter had more men in the Soudan than it knew how
to employ ; so that old Saul had to sit on the doorstep of
the Colonial Office until the officials determined that a
refusal might sound badly in the ear of the constituencies,
when a grudging assent to the proposal was given.
No expense is being spared by the British Govern-
ment in entertaining the Premiers; the Government
has plenty of money, no doubt, but I think there will
be growling when the bill comes in. At the
Cecil you pay so much for rooms, a fixed sum for meals at
the table d’hdte, or a varying charge in the restaurant
attached. A Premier and his wife went to the restaurant.
The Premier had whisky and his wife water and lunch of
one course ; the bill was 48s. 1 Another Premier invited
his sister-in-law and brother-in-law to luncheon. There
were four at table—charge £5 18s., including two bottles
of wine. Everything goes down to John Bull. When G.
H. Reid was travelling in Belgium he met two Sydney
civil servants—and these two were fearful lest they should
not get hotel accommodation in London during Jubilee
week ; they therefore telegraphed to Cook and Co. asking
them to secure rooms, at the same time saying they were
travelling with the N.S.W. Premier. When they arrived
in London they were conducted to the Hotel Cecil, and
quartered on John Bull, and they remain there at
time of writing. Called at Gordon and Gotch to buy
Thb Bulletin, but could get no copies all sold
out. They tell me the paper goes off at once.
I forgot to tell you that Lady - was a huge success in the
Jubilee procession. She is a very good-natured, enthusi-
astic woman, and for fear her friends should fail to. re-
cognise her she stretched herself out of the State carriage
and waved her arm from the shoulder at everyone she
recognised among the crowd looking on. I saw the salt
of the earth at Chamberlain’s reception last night ; the
women were far from being handsome; as a rule, the
plainer they were the more diamonds they wore. The
wives of our Premiers were, as a whole, more substantial-
looking women than the aristocrats, but somehow, for the
credit of Australia, I wished most of them had stayed at
home. I have been to the House of Commons. The
ordinary M.P. is not above our own standard, save in
dress and “ mannahs.” I found John Burns very interest-
ing, but he is not a man from whom much Parliamentary
success can be expected. The place is filled with Austra-
lians. Heaven knows what they are all doing here.
“ HE’D BEEN THERE.”
“Yes, I know ’em—keep yer springing up
all night! ”
Mofussil: “Last night, by the Melb.
wharves, I met a starving Mahometan, who
pointed to his mouth—he knew hardly a word of
English. He did not know where to find any of
his creed. I took him to the other end of the city,
and walked into the first Mahometan shop we
encountered. All were perfect strangers to me as
well as to him. We found the proprietor ill, sit-
ting by the fire, reading a big Koran. My man
was right directly, both for food and lodging.
Suppose he had been a Christian, and we dropped
thus abruptly on a Btrange Christian man, reading
his Bible.”
Dear Bulletin, —About press associations
in N.S.W. and the wail of country newspapers
over the low prices they receive for advts. In one
Australian province few country papers will now
accept ads. from any so-called^Ms-agency, the
practice until recently having been (1) for the
press-agency to accept a ridiculously low rate from
the advertiser for space,in, say, 50 papers, to whom
it forwards a few shillings for an insertion or two,
then to collar the balance of cash and go insol-
vent, or (2) for the agent to supply multigraphed
copies of a weekly letter or leader at, say,
25._6d., such remuneration to be payable in adver-
tising spaces. This space the agent overloads on
credit and pays nobody at his end, finally going
insolvent also. One firm supplying country papers
with printing materials apportions the ads. it
obtains only among those sheets which owe it
money, and which have to take whatever price is
There is only one remedy— i.e., for the
countr y newspapers to combine and form a country
association with city canvassers working
directly m their interests.. This is done in Mel-
bourne and is possible also in Sydney.-Yours, Ex-
“RESS Agent.
£2O will obtain for an inventor, in any of the
Australian colonies, a Certificate of Provisional
Protection in Great Britain and the whole seven
colonies of Australasia. £2l will register a
Trade Mark in the whole of the Australasian
colonies. Arthur Griffith (M.L.A.), Patent Agent,
41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*


“MEN MAY LAUGH AND RIOT TILL THE LEAST IS O’ER,” etc.
“THE S TAY AT THE HOTE L CECOL.-THE COST TO GREAT BRITAIN.- London, Friday.—The stay of the colonial Premiers at the Hotel Cecil cost the Imperial Government over £7000.” —Cable
J. BULL: "Egad! this ere crimson thread o’ kinship do run into a pot o’ money!”


Subsequently, after
celebrating mass on Sunday
morning to a large congregation of worshippers,
Father O’Callaghan delivered a semi-political'
address from the altar in eulogy of Ml.
Cameron, whom he characterised as “an
upright, good man and an honest politician. ”
He appealed to “all his people” in Mr.
Cameron’s interest, and asked them to not only i
vofo solidly for Mr. Cameron*at the next elec-!
tion themselves, and give him their united sup-
port, but to get others they could influence tq
do tho same.
Fortunately Hall, .though cunning to
plot and ruthless to execute, was like;
most other murderers quick to bungle.!
Fie blundered naturally in not knowing
that medical science could differentiate
between suffocation by forcible
smothering and suffocation by a rush
of water into the air passages. He >
blundered In not lifting the body of bis ‘
victim from the tub.
He bluhdered again in forgetting that
a woman about to bathe would have.
soap and towel as well as water in thej
room, and would be unlikely to have
the ne<?k and wristbands of her night-)
dress fastened. Cf U S \
.A O'
A 1
S /
, y /
, 4 y a
4siy :
j/' ■/
* * rz
t y
4
lit*-
L f \{\s
ffBP V/f Vl;l£ ’ s .P^’P J c "' tL c a / ,Tu, ‘” !
TTje Sa.yf /uhnei- otclman ycru.
‘-eadjs ca/oTUped "?
SPORTING INTELLIGENCE.
an Irate father’s encounter 1
WITH TIN-KETTLEKS. <
ONE OF THE PARTY SERIOUSLY
WOUNDED.
. Jc\i
3T(» (I
. BALLARAT, Saturda;y/Xn
the / i e " 8at ‘ onal “<J tragic episode brought !
at IW “ of “ country wedding party
niehfao,? I 1 0 . 0” “ bru !i t ouclu fcwt<
charge of n tt>o ,ltTcst 00 a “Nous I
-j 6f the blide“ a:V<!lin ’ “ gcJ ? °' the fathar '
7>te arms ctte ??otas-
considered 7 'Ae 7nos‘/~
afi/i ' fycicttc zvectc?* 7 *<? r ~
ficose nTs 7>x 7Vj «
*a.tci2 cl/s~Tf-/c,/ m S„
)
u is
if!
g o Sjlv
iS < & i
O a. S's
#— -C £ J>
§ h -
« s|
# If
/;/
* &
_»4;
MELBOURNIAN A.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
"I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOM Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st,, Sydney
If you Cough take
GERAUDEL’S
PASTILLES.
These Pastilles, in tubes containing 72 each, to be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate on White Metal,
cut glass, 15/6.
Flowered Earthemware, 20/-
a
v/p
M
Tea Spoons and Sugar Tongs, 12/6.
fure.Silver on White Metal.
Other patterns, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-
A
Mimm
%
Sugar Scuttle and Spoon.
Pure Silver on Britannia Metal,
16/6.
Other styles, 20/-, 25/-
Butter Knife.
Pure Silver on White
Metal,
2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 6/-
Pure Silver on Hard White Metal.
Dinner Cruet—6-bottle, 32/6; 4-bottle, 21/-
Other styles, 38/6, 45/-, 50/-, 70/-
Entr4 Dishes (pair)—that is, 4 dishes —pure Silver
on Hard White Nickel Silver, 57/6. Exceptionally
cheap line.
m m
it i
9/-SYJ.
* \\
l r’X
I fl
*
r
Egg Cruet, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 32/6; Chased, 35/-
Splendid Value.
Bread Forks.
Pure Silver on
White Metal and
Pearl, 10/6. Other
style, 5/-, 7/6.
c.
Biscuit (Pure Silver on Hard
White Metal), 10/6. Colored
Floral Dalton Ware, 16/-, 20/-
Salad Bowl and Servers (Pure Silver on
White Metal), 32/6, 35/-, 40/-
Oak, with Servers, 18/6.
Handsome TEA and COFFEE SET (Pure Silver on White Britannia Metal, £5 ss. ; other styles, £2 10s., .£3 10s ,£4 10s
All the above Silver-plate ,we guarantee first quality English make, at half charged by other Jewellers or Ironmongers Call rt
" ». SnUNDERS, Jeweller & Silversmith
815 George-street (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY (ONLY).
School - inspector : “Explain the line,
' And eyes spake love to eyes which spake again.’ ’’
Smart boy: “ The men winked at the women,
and the women winked back at the men.”—Ex.
Years ago the scientists prophesied that
Carpentarian downs would never yield wool. The
fleece (it was asserted) would degenerate into hair.
The squatter came and transported bales of wool
of the best quality in tens of thousands. . . .
Again, when the artesian bores opened, the men
of “ lamin’” predicted a very limited sphere of
usefulness for the liquid output. It would be use-
less for farms, gardens, etc., on account of its
mineral constituents. Alack for the pundits !
Some of the Western towns are fast becoming a
mass of flowers and verdure under the benign in-
fluence of artesian irrigation. Also, sundry sun-
downers have been seen surreptitiously having a
wash—under cover of kindly nightfall.
The tragi-comedy of black-birding. On
one occasion, at nightfall, a recruiting agent and
his party of six went off to an island to “gather
’em in.” Natives proving numerous and some-
what inimical to kidnappers, a stray shot was
fired in their midst, bowling over a Kanaka.
Agent next day went ten miles further along the
coast. Knowing that the natives would desire
vengeance or compensation, he induced the cap-
tain to hand him over a spare nigger. On the
islanders demanding the body of yesterday’s mur-
derer, the spare Kanaka was surrendered, and
then “ They took him away into the bush, and I
don’t know what they did with him ! ” Probably
“long pig”ad. lib. was the order of the day for
some time after. And of such is the kingdom of
:he “ cheap and reliable ”
A Gippsland (Vic.) tri-weekly heads a
column :
Victorian Finances.
Gratifying Increase.
Triplets at Brutiien.
The Brisbane (Q.) reporters described a
police-court defendant as “being of a prepossess-
ing appearance.” He happened to be a barman,
and had the superintendence of a hotel slate,
dontcherknow.
“Whenever you look upon the face of a
typical Jew, you see the face of a sharper, a sage,
and a saviour. Whatever land you enter where
typical Jews reside, you will hear the phrases
‘ mean as a Jew,’ * rich as a Jew,’ ‘ wise as a Jew,’
‘ spiritual as a Jew.’ ” — Rabbi Krauskopf, Phila-
delphia, U.S.A.
Daniel O’Connell refused judicial office on
several occasions, and, in explaining his reasons
in a letter to a friend, significantly remarked :
I never knew a prerogative lawyer who, when promoted
to the bench, did not adhere to his former party. I never
knew a popular partisan at the bar who, upon the bench,
did not favor the party heretofore opposed by him.
He concludes the letter by roundly abusing both
the “partiality of party ” and the “partiality of
affected candor.”
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Dear Bulletin, — Be the “Humor of the
Scot. ” I hold that Scotch humorists are as rare
as Hebrew policemen. But Sandy sometimes does
joke unwittingly. For instance, years ago when
we lived up North, a certain single young lady
“made a mistake,” and for a while was the
theme of conversation in the town. We have
shifted to Sydney, and a few weeks back enter-
tained at dinner a Northern celebrity in the person
of—say Tonal MacParritch, who remarked that
the girl alluded to above had another baby.
Mother, who for the moment forgot the previous
adventure, observed that she didn’t know the
girl was married, and clinched it by asking “ to
whom ? ” Whereupon Tonal rubbed his hands,
looked round the table, and answered drily,
“ Oh, to naebody in particular.” Had Tonal’s
name been Moses Levy his answer would no
doubt have been “ Oh, to a shyndikit.”
‘ l l was staying recently at a little Tas-
manian town very near Hobart,” writes a Vic.
lady to The Bulletin, “ and went to the local
post-office to inquire when the mail left for Mel-
bourne. The young lady in charge looked at me
thoughtfully, and remarked ‘ Melbourne ! ’ in a
far-away tone, as if trying to remember when
or how she had heard of a place with that
name. Then she called a youth, and he said
‘ Melbourne ’ in the surprised tone of one who was
quite sure there was no such place. Finally, they
dug out the required information, and I went to the
letter-box to post my letters. There was a huge
cobweb spun across the slit of the box; apparently
no one had posted anything there for many a day.
I gave it up then, and sent my letters into Hobart.
They are at least partially awake in Hobart; at
my town they were dead and petrified.”
No suicide occurred in N.S. Wales during
the first fifteen years of convict settlement.
Several unsuccessful attempts were made in and
out of gaol. The first successful attempt occurred
in gaol.
Some signs in Sydney windows. “ A gold
child’s bangle.” Furniture shop had—“ lAM
bedstead ” (iron bedstead). A tailor— “ Sumer
sutings.” A fruit-dealer —“ Roiail Gioja Pieisi ”
(Royal George peaches). A pawnbroker—“Reall
Diamant Ladyes Ring.” A music-shop—“ Herdit
Gerdie” (hurdy-gurdy), “brass homes louder and
superior than wood.”


/
TRADE
MARK"
m
W'a
m
|
U M
mm.
SOAP
MONKEY BRAND.
1
fcra?
ALWAYS HEAD THE DIRECTIONS
Illlii
/• /
Observe Name &. Tr ade MARK
■
m
' ' 4
m
■XSmSsSmn
« WmMM.
mm
W/M/M
' ">
iliiiiiiiK
> -y
>, 'r ' + /
fc-aSsis
Wm
m
mm
y
yJo
m
z?®
-
Hi
36
m.
s>
%
Mtil
K©
85
1
wm.
s
ffi
si
5$
ss
a
■ I*
33%
%
iH
m
<v
<g
9>
l§s
Or'?
55:5:
%
■¥
SJSSS
SSS
:SS;SS
ssss
SS
*55
*§S
siWW:
$55
11
is
sss
isS§p
ss§
lllslsii
555*5555555;
li
m
m
5xS5
;Ss
sss
IiSS
SsfctSS
SJSSS
5555 S
m^S§sssss
It
555»
Miiitii hhw&mmm
H
s>§§&&&
WON’T WASH CLOTHES.
BROOKE’S
WON’T "W"-A-S
CLOTHES.
MONKEY BRAND SOAP
For Cleaning, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
FOR POLISHING
Metals , Marble, Paint , Cutlery, Crockery, Machinery, Baths, Stair- Bods.
For STEEL, IRON, BRASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS, MANTELS, cW
Removes Rust, Dirt, Stains, Tarnisk, etc.


Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth ,
Homah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And—there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
OUR CHIEF,”
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS
P-C.—Pledged to Chamberlain.
“ He will be known, through the ages, as
Albert the Good.”— Vic. State-school newspaper.
N.S.W. Leg. Council, it is averred, will
reject the land-tax-muddle-rectiflcation bill, unless
the Govt, agrees to abolish all land-tax exemp-
tions.
Howe, S.A. Convention delegate, says his
election expenses were £227. Trenwith, Vic.
delegate, had to “ part ” =£3 6s.— £2 2s. for a hall
and £1 4s. for six advts.
Nearly every speaker on Federation in
Tas. Assembly began his oration by expressing a
fervent hope that the question would be dealt
with as though members were really in earnest !
Discussing the Federal judiciary in Tas.
Assembly, Attorney-General Clark said it was
not by any means true that the strongest lawyers
were on the Bench. “At least,” he corrected,
not in all the colonies.”
Strange that a majority of N.S.W. Assem-
bly doesn’t perceive the incongruity, not to say
impropriety, of its Speaker being on the directorate
of a muchly-reconstructed bank. The Speakership
and bank-directorship should be things apart.
Melbourne’s Mayor, Strong, will run
against labor-member Bromley for Carlton, at
next election. But keener eyes than Strong’s
have spotted the same opening, and the labor
interest in Carlton will probably be captured by
a slap-dash radical when the canvass begins in
earnest.
Artful old Graves,
the funereal member for
Delatite (Vie.) will pro-
bably have to tight for
his seat at next election.
His only claim to it is a
tenancy of 20 years, dur-
ing which he has done
his best for Delatite and
his worst for the bleed-
ing country elsewhere.
Fitzroy and Mel-
bourne are planning a
consolidation which, if
it comes off, will make
one ridiculous “ city ”
the less, and be the first
sensible step towards
municipal federation.
Melbourne isn’t cut up
quite so badly as Syd-
ney—in the latter city
there are spots where
you can th row into about
six municipalities with-
out changing your sta-
tion— but still it has
eight times as much
mayor and alderman
and town-hall and sepa-
rate municipal dog-cat-
cher as any, place of its
size requires.
Wentworth once
drew the picture of a
Parliament, in which
the native-born B.A. of
Sydney University, in
rounded periods, shaped
a destiny for an Aus-
tralian nation. The only
g resent N.S.W. Assem-
ly University-man who
has made even an at-
tempt to come out of
the ruck is Tamworth
Piddington. His Feder-
ation speech had a cer-
tain academic virtue,
the result of weeks of
preparation, but as a
political utterance it
was without virility. If
the ex-professor is ever
to become a power in
the bear - garden, he
must be born again ; for
a Piddington minus the
schoolmaster’s cane and
the pedant’s exasperat-
ing cock-sureness there
are possibilities.
The miserable, futility of Sydney Marine
Board is well sampled by the discovery that two
of its members since the Public Service Board’s
enquiry commenced—have made haste to validate,
by purchase, the ship-owning “qualification ” which
they had theretofore based on the possession of
certain mere superannuated hulks. The Board it-
self is a rotten old hulk which should be scuttled
without delay.
A suburban “ rag ” state-
ment that Mat. Davies will
stand for Prahran at next
general election gets very little
credence in Melbourne. The
ex-chairman of the Daviesian
banks and companies may have
run in the paragraph as a
“feeler,” however, in which
case he is one more illustra-
tion of the blind impudence
which prevents busted Vic.
public men from realising their
shattered state. Like Tom
Bent, his worthy successor to
the Speakership, and Abigail,
lawyer Davies dreams, per-
haps, of re-entering Parlia-
ment with a brass band in front
of him, and a mob of admiring
citizens bringing up in the rear.
From the painful fact that he
hasn’t lost much caste among
the boom-time voters, he
makes the foolish deduction
that new voters who have
come upon 1 li■ ■ scene since the
Mercantile Bank scandal will
not object to him. It is to be
hoped Matthew will give the
young ’mis a chance of roasting
him on the platform.
Obstmate spirits in N.S.W. Parliament
are determined to test again the question of the
abolition of sugar-duties, Once before the sugar-
duties were abolished by vote, but, by a subse-
quent vote the resolution was rescinded. Will
history repeat itself?
Vic. Upper House thought better of the
Exported Products Bill, and it was re-introduced
and passed its second reading by a majority of
two. hat Man threw it out, at first in a
spasm of indignation because it interfered with
the liberty of the subject. Then it dawned on
him that it was, as much as anything else, an
interference in his own interest with the liberty
of the other subject, and he took a different view
of things. The liberty of the other subject doesn't
signify.
“ COME, LOVELY AND SOOTHING DEATH!"
Walt. Whitman.
RAGGED ONE (reading daily paper) : “ A Melbourne watchman drowned
in a vat of beer ”-
BOOZY ONE (dreamily): “ O, Death, where is thy sting!”
Why should not the Law of Gravitation
be recognised in the Constitution of Federated
Australia ? Surely this great island-continent will
not be so utterly unscientific, so uneducated, so
scornful of truth as to flout the Law of Gravita-
tion, and, by omitting it, deny it ?
There was consternation lately among the
Yellow Pup contingent of Vic. public service when
it leaked out, through departmental stupidity and
circumlocution that inquiries were being made
through the detective - office for a mysterious
minute-book alleged to have been left unguarded
r I'u g a absence on leave of a prominent official
of the Service lodge. A glance by the “ innimy ”
at its contents revealed a complete list of the Ser-
vice contingent, including many previously un-
suspected. Of course, when the detective came
the wanted book was not at home.
WASTE NOT, WANT NOT.
LITTLE IKEY : “Mamma, give me a penny; I want to buy some
ice-cream .”
MRS. ORNSTEIN : “Don’t be vasteful. Sit down and Ell read you
a story to make yer blood run cold!”
Significant that, while there is no conceal-
ment of the names of the Sydney citizens who
have helped with cash the Hyde Park-preservation
movement, publicity has been carefully shunned
by those who have poured out money like water
on the other side. Modesty—or Boodle ?
The native-newspaper trouble in India is
chronic—rising occasionally to acute. Then, a
few prosecutions—subsidence—gradual exacerba-
tion again to prosecuting-point and so on.
Significant that the most pen-valiant natives
against the British raj are the Bengalis—the most
cowardly race in India.
Salisbury, fresh from chuckling over the
whitewashing of Rhodes, Fife, Beit and Co., by a
packed Parliamentary committee, tells Belgium
that the result of the Lothaire trial has shaken
the confidence of Great Britain in the administra-
tion of justice in the Congo. What a companion
picture to “Satan Reproving Sin!”
Ihe best bit of luck which ever befell
N.S.W. Premier Reid was to go to England and
leave the public to take an unimpeded view of his
colleagues during his absence. The “ Reid Minis-
try recalls old Catalini 's description of his opera-
company—“My wife arid a few puppets.” Alas
for ‘ the coming Premiers ” of the Reid troupe !
South Australia has been living on its dead
for years. The surplus of 12,000 in S.A. revenue
this year was brought about by the executors of
estate paying the succession duty of
■ibo.OOO the day before the closing of the financial
year. And now another semi-millionaire is re-
ported to be in poor health ; he may come in
handy for 97-8, anyway.
The Bulletin bets that Premier Reid
won’t push the scheme to take part of Hyde Park,
ae y> j a ra, il wa y-station. The opposition is
red-hot and ever-growing; whereas the enthusi-
asm of the other side is confined to those pecuniarily
nterested, who have been spending the money
vvhteh produced the noise. Reid never tamps dy-
namite with a steel drill.
It isn’t hard to imagine the British Govt
smiling a little in its sleeve at N.S.W. Attorney!
Heneral Want’s consternation over that absurd
Butler extradition bill. According to all the rules
of red-tape, King Jack should have approached
the U.b. authorities through J. Bull. But lie
thought proper to tackle Uncle Sam “ on his own ”
—not forgetting to take press credit therefor—and
Bull no doubt is laughing.
Queensland immigration policy contem-
plates the introduction of Germans on a large
seale, no direct advances being made to the
neighboring nation of Austria. Is this explained
by the fact that the Austrian Reichsrath lately
passed a law whereunder all agents who promote
emigration to countries represented as affording
more advantages than they really afford will iw
subject to fine and imprisonment ?
? e °\/^ ddoch ’ fche wealtl W S.A. squatter
and ex-M.P., was last May defeated by two votes
by Peake, run in the Liberal interest. Riddoch an-
pealed and the election was upset, and the other
week Peake again beat him. Riddoch now has to
face the expenses of two contests and to pay the
costs of the enquiry Peake’s election strengthens
the Govt, in the Assembly, as he succeeds Ash
who invariably voted with the enemy. ’
An Australian Government lately ap-
pointed still another batch of the inevitable
Ifc u a il lege i d that amon g the new justices
is a man who has been several times in gaol for
drunk and disorderly, ’ an uncertificated insol-
vent, and an old person in depressed circum-
stances who receives rations from a public charity
Ihe Govt, has since written indignantly to the
elderly person m depressed circumstances demand-
mg his resignation; the former-drunk and the
uncertificated insolvent apparently remain.
The inquiry of Schey, M.L.A., whether
Acting-Premier and bull-dealer Brunker proposed
to enforce the Sunday-observance law in the case
of the S.M. Herald (which naturally works on
Sunday to publish Monday’s paper) evoked a
notable reply, as follows a a
• eßght to be the aim of every man and eime
cially of one occupying a public position to use eve P rv
instihZn!, 0 U p h r d the , fameand reputation of our free
institutions. Parliament is certainly our highest institu
turn; and, holding the opinion which I
pressed, I cannot assist in detracting from its honor and
ber’s'questions. there^ore feline to answer the bTLS
What the ponderous ox-merchant really wanted to
say was just “ Rats ! ” But Brunker is incapable
of anything so crisp and condensed as that.
Rev. Hume Robertson, of Castlemaine :
We say “ trade follows the flag,” but it is a prior postu-
late that commerce follows the cross. The life that now
is owes an enormous debt to the intrepid and devoted
teachers of the tilings concerning the life that is to come.
Quite so. The Book and the parson precede the
rum and the exploiter, and the rum bringeth the
life that is to come to the “pore benighted
’eathen. ” Amen !
“Eminent- Presbyterian ” - Harper fears
that “an active anti-religious policy would be
founded on the omission of God’s name from the
Constitution.” So much the better—if “anti-
religious” means “anti-sectarian”; but, if it
means-as Mr. Harper would doubtless protest—
‘‘anti-God,” will he stand by the implied assump-
tion that such a policy might prosper in spite of
God! Even the Deity sometimes wants saving
from its friends !
Law, M.P. for Balmain, lately asked that
renowned political economist, Quong Tart, of
Sydney, whether he was a Freetrader or a Pro-
tectionist. Quong replied that he was a little of
both. If a man went about with his pockets wide
open, then everybody could put their hands in
and he would have nothing. That was Freetrade.
But if a man.sewed up his pockets, no one could
“get at ’’him, and he couldn’t even “get at”
himself. That was Protection !
Up to date, according to a Parliamentary
return, N.S.W. landaninkum - tax has produced
>£486,150 at a cost of .£86,176, or nearly 18 per
cent. This is meant to be rough on B. R. Wise,
who alleged that .£l-’O,OOO of land-tax cost
or 93 per cent., to collect. Yet 18 per
per cent, is steep enough, in all conscience ; though
of course it isn’t fair to charge all the initial ex-
penses against one year, and when the machinery
is in working order the current exes will doubtless
be reduced.
A Freetrade paper credits to E. W. O’Sulli-
van, M.L.A. of N.S.W., some remarks made by
Sir Edward Sullivan, a well-known English pub-
heist, who has, all along, ventured to doubt the
wisdom of Freetrade. By the way, it is the
custom of some Cobdenites to quote “ Carey ” and
then confute his arguments. Now, there were
two Careys, Matthew the Irish rebel, who fled to
America and afterwards wrote on political
economy, and his more eminent son Henry, the
great influence of whose writings is gradually
spreading from his own United States.
H. : “Graham Berry’s most striking recol-
lection is of his interview with Disraeli, as
Premier, and it recurs to mind even as a corrective
of Jubilee rejoicings. Berry, as Vic. Premier,
went to England to persuade Disraeli, and even
Royalty, on the necessity of constitutional altera-
“ONE AND A HALF , PLEASE!”
t° n /* n h f,P, rovi P ce - Dizzy received him with a
out wit? ( Jr cHe ' ? 6rry COuld not well make
out whether this superb man knew there were two
three ’ indudin & the red drop
on the map at Vancouver. As to discuss the
work o f such unknowns as Higinbotham, M‘Cul-
about S tbe C Wl ßerrJ: “ Why ’ he m '»'t better talk
thfs tS USin,^i niySter,es - S,lch as
Ind >I,J recorded “ s of both Gladstone
and .Disraeli on the destiny of the colonies
generally out-vote the flash-up of a Jubilee the
very conferences of which, indeed, have disclosed
isrs x 'fer
before. g -Britain, than were known
Victorian Customs department is making
£s3r f ° r mam
makes the duty only Id Then he 'off a
retails the pills at Is m 2, 1 q af * erw ards
proves in the advt ihni- ih ' R ‘ P er and
deal more even than that 'v° rth a great
Tell us ! who will back
Old Gillies for Toorak?
King of railways and tramways
In the didn’t-care-a-dam days.
In the happy cake-and-ale days
Dost remember dapper Dunk
And the boodle that he sunk ’
In the old days ?
Who brought about a smash
On the strength of borrowed cash ?
Who piled up loads of debt?
Who fished ’em with a net?
Duncan ! on his shoulders
Long-lived anger smoulders
For the old days.


Ad Object of
Adnjiratioi)
is a Pretty Foot encased in a Pretty Shoe. No other cover
is worthy of such Association. Here is a Shoe that fulfils all
a woman’s heart or her husband’s pocket-book can desire.
Glace Kid Shoe, Pat. Gap and
Facing, American Forms,
5s- 6d.
My Shoes are made to fit, I do not make the Foot
Shoe. Try one pair, and it will be followed by
the same kind. You will be satisfied, I know it.
JOHN HUNTER,
to fit the
many of
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
84 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BY SELLING THROUGH
THE CO-OPERATIVE
Wool & Produce Co.,
PRODUCE BROKERS,
39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SALE! DAYS:
(Our Constituents are Guaranteed by Our
TRUST ACCOUNT)
HlDES—Fridays.
TALLOW —Fridays.
Sheepskins—Tuesdays and Fridays.
TOBACCO LEAF —Mondays.
MARSUPIAL SKINS, &c. —Wednesdays.
BARK—Tuesdays.
HORNS, BONES, HAIR, WAX, &c. Saturdays.
Largest & Best Warehouse it) Australia,
Central Wharf (near Circular Quay),
SYDNEY.
OSWALD Me MASTER, Hon. Sec.,
39 Hui.ter-street, Sydney.
LATCST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CijgliSb Hall-Marked (Sold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
le Value
JSI Post Free.
‘ONE PIECE’ Studs
and CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. * PATENTED. • Unbreakable.
r iew of
Stud.
W Enlarged
Collar
Bold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Pifece’ Studs.
x.—Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve, andst
3. Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease.
Section
Collar Stud
Section
Shirt Stud
The World’s Most Serviceable Studs
Solid Gold. 9-Carat. 15-Carat. 18-Carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6 6 9/- 10/- 10/6 12/- 15/- 14/6 16/- 18/6per Suite.
Collar Studs . 5/- 6 - 7 6 7/- 9/- 10 6 10/6 12 6 15/-each.
Cuff Buttons 10 - 13/- 15/- 16/- 17/6 20/- 20/- 22,6 25/-per pair.
POST FREE.
The Public are CAUTIONED against vamped-up
IMITATIONS of these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, sol-
dered together, but shaped to deceive,' and sold as the
“One Piece.”
cfcj.
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
NOTE
Ode Only Australian Address-
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING ;
Per Post, Is. 3d.
1111
VioIiDS-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto Harps.
These are simple little instruments, upon wMch any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
tyotitb HaripopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(StiitarS & Mapdolipcs-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStoQS & PolypSjoijS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
BaQd of all kiQds
By the best makers —Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music.
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
■HSBS
reros
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
i/M/r£t>
£STfl BUSHED /q Sj
338 George-street, Sydney.
Why
do
Dun mp Tyres
f give
| satisfaction ?
✓
O'
they are made of specially selected materials suitable
—' for the Australian roads and climate.
BccatlSQ they are manufactured by skilled workmen.
B€Ca6S3 they are easily detached and permanently repaired.
Bcca<iS3 they are guaranteed for 12 months.
{Kent-st., Sydney.
Franklin-st., Adelaide.
Kinpr-st., Perth.
T.it.nhfiuld st.. Christchurch, N.Z.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
riKTIII'i! KCDIICED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every J>l to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per montli for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,950,211 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares. Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JiisJiopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhali Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wrong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
zo-A/y&d
£ ea
•fch?i£> jM
jB
Lancet. j&wSx&Sm
tSHI
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Hotel,
South. risbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
UOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
* Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
«**v
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.Q,
BOOMS
OB BOAED
AT OPTION.
the cramp central,
opposite G.P.0.,
H. R. STOYTO,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Olients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith. Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
if!HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
A LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capita] Paid-up .. .. £1,700,426 15 11
Preferei ee Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capita] Called-up .. .. 49,573 4 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,786
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: lion. W. M'Millftn, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager;
A. W. Cunningham.
rtIHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
J- (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager
Auditors: William Bulcoek, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ; G. C.
Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers,
Meibourjae Ore Testing & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of* Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
Coi^paoy
United Australian
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
HEAD OFFICES : 79Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne )
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
ffclbotiriK.
X
Reginald A. F. fiOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
for
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
POR(LAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Perejfrinp, Saturday, Aiijr. 14, 2
■Leina, S mrila.y, AilifUsC 21; 2 p.
HubbucS, Tues., August 24, 5 p.
dB S
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug- 14, 2 p.m.
Hubbucfc, Tues., August 24, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Hubbuck, Tues., August 2 i, sp.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, August 14, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Aug. 17, 6 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian,' Saturday, August 14, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 21, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CITRIC ENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Font of King-street, Sydney.
GLAND VtA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey 7.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply- Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIME?-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
David graham g (jo.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
s :r E
Winter SCiitioss
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAYID MMAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 St., SydLney.
r
<arin>€ & Styitb,
Ladies * & Gents U(iivdresseYs t
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10,6
Best English Hair Tails from 5 6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden &, Company ,£
J annum by
98 Elizabeth St. * / T/ j
(The Block), PTOpTIOtSiTy Ltd.,
nCelbourue.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For LondQU.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
’Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £65. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker £ Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Boobed Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U- S. N. Coy. Ltd,
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE axd COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
S\ I)NEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE* and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE- Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH-D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, Tndia and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUP D'S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare I London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON '& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON (London)
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
, 9 I/O d.OI J-V/O. X UcX I 1 LB
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers.from Aus
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra, Tuesday, August
S.S. Bullarra, Friday August 20.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Wollowra, Tuesday,
August 17.
S.S. Bullarra Friday, August
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Rob Roy (from Adelaide) Satur-
day, August 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday, August
Best <0 Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. iTUILL And CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Mb. Justice Cooper.
In the matter of the WILL of JOHN
WILLIAMS late of Eidsvold in the
Colony of Queensland Licensed Vic-
tualler Deceased.
Between WILLIAM BARRY, Plaintiff,
and
HER MAJESTY’S ATTORNEY-GENERAL
OE QUEENSLAND, Defendant.
PURSUANT to a Decree of the Supreme
Court of Queensland made herein on the
Eighteenth day of June 1897 in the above action
ALL PERSONS claiming to be the next of kin
of JOHN WILLIAMS Licensed Victualler who
is variously described as having been born at Green
Swamp Bathurst in the Colony of New South
Wales about the year 1842, or in England prior to
that date, who prior to 1870 was goldmining in
New South Wales and New Zealand and from
1870 to 1885 was hawking from Maitland to the
New England districts New South Wales and who
then came to Eidsvold Queensland where he died
on the 6th of October 1896, ARE REQUIRED
to send proof of their relationship to the above-
named John Williams to Messrs. HAMILTON
& GRAHAM Solicitors 57 Queen-street Brisbane
Queensland on or before the 31st day of December
1897 otherwise they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said decree.
Dated the Twelfth day of July 1897.
(1.5.) WILLM. BELL,
Registrar, Supreme Court,
Brisbane, Queensland.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OFI
QUEENSLAND. Y
Mr. Justice Cooper. J
In the matter of JOHN WILLIAMS
late of Eidsvold in the Colony of
Queensland Licensed Victualler De-
ceased.
Between WILLIAM BARRY, Plaintiff,
and
HER MAJESTY’S ATTORNEY-GENERAL
OF QUEENSLAND, Defendant.
PURSUANT to a Decree of the Supreme
Court of Queensland made herein on 18th
of June 1897 in the above action THE
dav of June 1897 in the above action IHL
CREDITORS of JOHN WILLIAMS late of
Eidsvold deceased who died on 6th day of October
1896 are required to send in their claims to Messrs.
HAMILTON & GRAHAM Solicitors 57 Queen-
street Brisbane Queensland on or before 30th Sep-
tember 1897 or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
decree: THURSDAY 28th day of October 1897
at the hour of ten o’clock in the forenoon at the
Chambers of the Registrar of the Supreme Court
Brisbane is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this Twelfth day of July 1897.
(1.5.) WILLM. BELL,
Registrar, Supreme Court,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
HAIRDRESSERS ay i» wio makers
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inchesßestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 685} George Street, Sydney.
4 ©Hi?
SICVNELT>CIg^fTE§
'%© .
> /
r v_-—v
f\
</x
da
r
'Ofr.k'fl
'Soveko 'V p n^oHwk
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ Foil are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist: “ Zen vy ? You say schmolee signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco."
Publcations.
Geo. irtotoertson & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Reta.l Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Vhotoyraphs of Blaylish Colonial Celebviti''
va/nsfeutM/ri& Cgcpcl
Is Universally Accorded, une rreierence on account ox its
High Quality. Economy and Delicious Taste
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPJEJTITXOKT.
WINES Best my ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
wm
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Lateßt
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Haying been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a, stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE NO. 14.
£9 98. CASH. £lO 108. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine,
J. W. JOHNSTON &, CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
DOUrS fflarvellous OR RESTORER
I
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
SS
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir,— l want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price.
If yon will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers,
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
it is used up.—l remain, Yours faithfully, Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for Restorer, or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.— 9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORED.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Dottles, 6d„ i -, and 2- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TH.L.OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI. STREETS, SVDNEY.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in tlio World*
Bar IST one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivall
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPIISON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Ointo*
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eonal to .TOSEPHSONS
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of you*
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, jjB6. _
Baron Berzilius’=
Buclm Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chrorno
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find these l itters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. 1 therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint)
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street).
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
i,c cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
Ut fore meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
Uke ROW’S STEANE’F WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


Packets
*
LJCARS
e;xt«aa^
£2
/ww -
p/LD
'anutdclured
Payerne
Is.
An interesting announcement from Mr,
C. F. Parker, the celebrated Melb specialist in
rheumatism and kindred ailments, appears else-
where. Mr. Parker’s unvaried successes are at-
tested by the sworn affidavits of the numerous
patients who owe to his kindly and skilful aid
their renewed health and rekindled hopes in the
prospects of life. Mr. Parker is not a dealer in
quackery or legerdemain, but a methodical and
scientific student of the specialty which has made
him famous.*
The Changes of Time. —Revisiting Mil-
ler’s Point one is struck with the bold sign of
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd., over their spacious
and well-lighted wool stores, Windmill-street and
Central Wharf, till lately occupied by the
N.Z.L. and M.A. Co. Ltd. #
FRANZ JOSEF
FILSEIVER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R.
_ Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new' discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depot for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Over 3,000,000 Dunlop tyres have been used
throughout the world. Speed, strength, and facility of
repair place the Dunlop above any other tyre. Roadside
repairs can be quickly effected with the Dunlop Midget
outfit, costing Is. New additional Dunlop premises are
being fitted in Swanston-st., Melb.*
* • • •
The bicycle-man who feels a little out of sorts
or down in the dumps should carefully peruse the Brant-
ford Red Bird Truth. This Truth is given in the spiciest
form, and that “tired feeling,” which is often the result
of listening to “ the Truth,” is never incurred bj* reading
the Brantford matter. In fact, it would do Australia
itself good were it to become saturated with the Brant-
ford Truth’s up-to-dateness. As for the cyclist, he can
rest assured that the Brantford Truth is alright; all the
cyclist needs is the brains to comprehend it.*
RED BIRD
Published in the Interests of the Gould Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch— 64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
LAPS TO THE MILE.
She stood up in a King-street car
And tried to hold the strap,
But every time the cable jerked
She sat in a young man’s lap.
At Pitt-street she caroused about,
And finally gasped with a smile :
“ Will anyone kindly tell me, please,
How many laps to the mile ? ”
Suppose each wheel made to be the “ best ”
(as most dealers claim). Suppose each sold at
the same price, 'twould then be easy to choose ;
but suppose several of these wheels sold at the
same price and cost much less to build than
others (such is the case): then how will you
choose ?
Better test Red Bird quality, and, if you
cannot afford the price, see a Ruby Rim. They
are both cycles with a past, and have been on
the market for 20 years. The. past tells you
something. Red Birds have proved themseives
the fastest and strongest bicycles on earth.
Red Bird bicycles experience 20 years of it.
We have made better and stronger bicycles
than anybody else.
Red Bird riders ride on the certainty of ex-
perience.
Their price is right for quality, safety, surety
—the trinity of Red Bird excellence.
_ When you pay less, you get less —better in-
sist on Red Bird quality.
The young man who hath purchased a bicycle
on the instalment plan waileth with the poet.
In the midst of life we are in debt.
A wheel is known by the company which
makes it. Red Birds have been in the market
for 20 years, and are cycles with a past.
Ruby Rim cycles are equal to the best of all
other makes. They contain many Red Bird
improvements.
Happy is the man who rides a Red Bird
cycle. It never requires repairs.
NOW READY.
J. J. MILLER’S . . .
ANNUAL SPORTING PAMPHLET . .
Contains Entries, Weights, Performances of all Horses
engaged in Caulfield and Melbburne Cups, and principal
w.f.a. races of the season. Winners of past principal
Australian races ; complete tables of bests on record in
all branches of sport, including Cycling. Price, ONE
SHlLLlNG—posted, Id. extra. Printed by J. J. Miller.
Wholesale Agents : Gordon & Gotcii, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle
1
For LADIES and GENTS.
T7MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired bv the
rider in a few; minutes without the use of tools." The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, L2U.
Tbc iQtercbafygeable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry's Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are iny selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
“ DOWRIDUE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
FREE-ALBERT'S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s (id,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 21s, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s; Autoharps, 12s (id, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and9os ;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 75s and 00s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vain piny Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON , 118 King-st., Sydney.
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
o
65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
6RCVILLC
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Radded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
TGrijcr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
The ACME,
Sole Agent: J. M. Mautl
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries, Repairs a Speciality.
Established 1883. Telephone 1920.
Those about to SELECT a BICYCLE should
Call and See the
‘Pljiz’ Hoj Cycles.
No matter how much you pay, it is impossible
to obtain a more perfect Wheel than the
“ Phiz ” at £22 10s.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO ORDER.
The ‘‘Phiz” No. 2, at £l2 10s. The most
wonderful value ever offered to the world of wheels.
EVERY BICYCLE GUARANTEED.
' Phiz ” Cycle Works,
Next Town Hal], Druitt St., Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there i
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at
SYDNEY. One is ‘THE CitEStE.VI',” situated (
GEORGE STREE T handy to Railway); and the othei
“Ells’ Kina-sir,,. <>,.«»■ Palace,” situated
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - . . GEO W. ELLIS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• . York Street, SYDNEY .
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Australia, thus far, is in need of rich turf prizes
to determine the absolute champion racer, writes a Bul-
letin correspondent, who forgets, seemingly, that the
V.R.C. Champion Stakes—a weight-for-age race, open to
all horses of three years old and upwards—was at one
time a £2OOO event. But the Champion Stakes, any way,
is not a fair test of speed-cum-endurance. A respectable
stayer like Malua found the three miles too far for him
when the race was fast, and, although Carbine won two
Champions, he didn’t get within half a minute of the
times recorded by Port-sea and Quiver, who were certainly
not supremely brilliant over a Derby course. No, the
Champion Stakes can never be a great classic race, such
as the Eclipse and Jubilee Stakes, in England, for which
every “crack” has a fair go, if health and training
permit. Australia wants a £5OOO stake for a
race, weight-for-age, and no penalties. Good. And
what “ cracks ” could Australia put into competition for
such a fat price? The race would be run in January, say
about 10 weeks after the V.R.C. Derby. Suppose there
had been an Eclipse stakes last January—where were the
“cracks” to compete for it? Derby-winner Newhaven
was still in racing order, but not one old horse of classic
distinction would have been sound enough to stand a
preparation for the race. At the present time there isn’t
a Derby or Cup winner (Newhaven has gone to England)
on the Australian Turf, and if 3-year-old Aurum should
run for the big handicap in November, he will, quite
probably, carry top weight in the field. Until Australia
learns how to keep “ crack ” horses from breaking down
through overwork, a great weight-for-age race would
merely be a gift for the Derby-winner of the year—if he
hadn’t gone to pieces immediately after securing the
blue ribbon.
* * * *
On the morning after the declaration of second
acceptances, there were three horses, and no more,
scratched for the Caulfield Cup-Steward, Staffa, and
Sayles. Yet, out of the 104 horses remaining in the race,
before these scratchings there were only 10 whose names
began with S. Find the odds against three S’s, in three
different stables, being thus sr. etched on the same morn-
ing.
• • * *
The four-mile hurdle-race at Caulfield fell,
naturally enough, to a horse that “couldn’t stay.” Touts
and prophets, for no particular reason, had a particular
“ down ” upon the stamina of His Grace, and among the
fourteen starters for this tedious journey Bob Batty’s
candidate was selected by the cognoscenti as the one
which would run well up to a certain point, and most
probably prove wanting at the finish. The prejudice
against His Grace’s stamina took root previous to Flem-
ington meeting, and couldn’t be eradicated from the
horsey mind until he had won the long-drawn-out event
in a canter. The newspapers said he couldn’t stay, and
the public, for the most part, believed. So His Grace,
with some capital recent form to his credit, went out at
10 to 1.
It was an unsatisfactory struggle. After the
race, jockey Hoystead found himself called upon to ex-
Slain why Blitz, the favorite, had been held back when
e should have gone to the front, if possible. Blitz, like
Nora Creina, put in an abortive spurt a hundred yards
from home, and, the “ carpeted ” jockey admitting that
his mount was not ridden out, stated that he thought
there was another round of track to be covered. In support
of which feasible explanation G. Pi Brewer, the rider of the
second horse, volunteered a confession that he had made,
the same awful mistake. The stewards were bound to
accept Hoystead’s statement, with Brewer’s testimony at
the back of it. This was the first year of running a four-
mile hurdle-race at Caulfield, and a misconception as to
the number of “ laps ” was not very unlikely to occur
under the circs. Next year it will be as well to'avoid the
risk of unpleasantness by getting a steward to ring a
muffin-bell, as at bike races, and call out “ last lap ! ”
when the field is passing the judge’s box for the final run
round.
The slaughter of the innocents continues. Buzzi
broke his honest neck on Saturday, being the third
classic winner to perish ignominiously within the past
year. Buzzi, Dungan, and Larrikin between them won
the G.N. Hurdle and Steeple at Flemington (’96), the
G.N. Steeple at Caulfield ('96), and the G.N. Hurdle at
Flemington last month, and now each of them has gone
to rest with a broken neck.
Last week The Bulletin had an idea that
Hayseed was “no good” for the Caulfield G.N. Steeple-
chase, to be run on Saturday. It seems advisable to
cancel that idea. Hayseed, at time of writing, is pretty
Bure to run, and his chance looks equal to those of most
of them.
* * » *
The appearance of weights for Epsom and
Metrop. has livened up the betting-market, in which the
two “ Cups” have been the only events operated on. On
paper, nothing looks better in the Epsom than The Chief,
who will, perhaps, find his most dangerous opponents in
Time Blue, Aurea, Blue Cup, and Robin Hood. The
Metrop. reads well for Fucile, whilst Valiant, Hindoo,
Woodford, and Akarini should all render a good account
of themselves.
* * * *
Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) authorities intend
giving £lOO to a mile and three-quarters race to be run
Oct. 2. This is intended for a full-dress rehearsal for the
two Cups, and some owners will patronise it, for a trial
against other horses with the colors up is worth half-a-
dozen gallops against the oft-deceiving watch.
* * * *
First acceptances for Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups have cleared the way for a little intending specu-
lators. The fact of Resolute being scratched for Melb.
and left in Caulfield Cup, points to his great chance for
the latter event. Burleigh and Wahine will well repre-
sent N.S.W. in this race, and Dreamland is expected by
the Ballarat division to run a great horse. True Blue
reads like being the best representative of N.S.W. in
Melb. Cup, but he will find a tough customer in Wait-a-
Bit, who undoubtedly is the pick of the handicap. Aurum,
who, after all, is but a galloway, is well backed by the
general public, but he has to carry the thumping weight
of Bst. 61b.
* *
Solely through Newhaven’s many victories, the
deceased Newminster heads the list of winning sires last
season with 19181 to his credit, whilst Trenton (£7336)
and Lochiel (£7122) come next. That considerably
neglected sire, Trident, is well up with £3OOO, and if he
were given a chance with good mares his stock would be
much higher in the list.
» * * *
The top-weight in the Melbourne Cup is now
asked to carry more than a stone below the impost
awarded to Carbine, and many good judges think that
there is more than two stone difference between the re-
spective entries taken all through. Too much racing has
evidently not improved the breed of our horses.
* » * »
Warwick Farm Racing Club has instituted a
flat race for jumpers, which is reversing the usual order
of things. As a rule, horses begin on the flat, and when
unsuccessful are sent to the timber-topping game. But
in England there are two exceptions. Lowlander, one of
the greediest sprinters ever seen, and Hampton, as
fashionable at the stud as on the racecourse, first dis-
played their merit as hurdle-racers, and were then tried
on the flat.
• * * •
Stoddart’s selection of Wainwright and Hirst
to join the coming team is quite justified by the details of
a Yorkshire v. Middlesex match, played in 'June. Wain-
wright scored an innings of 171 and took a couple of
wickets. Hirst also captured two wickets (out of 14 lost
by Middlesex) and caught four men.
» • « *
Attewell has shown some brilliant rapid batting
this season, and would be a useful extra hand for the
Stoddart crowd (which is not too strong in bowling, any-
how) if he came. Seemingly he was asked to come, but
didn’t jump at the chance.
* * * *
Lilley being unable to come, Board, of Glouces-
tershire, has been invited to join Stoddart’s team as
wicket-keeper ; Storer having first claim. Many good
judges still think M’Gregor, on his day', superior to any
of the three mentioned, but his day only comes at in-
tervals, and a man, less brilliant and more consistent
would be better suited for the wear and tear of an Aus-
tralian tour.
* * * *
A. C. M'Laren, who holds the record for the
highest, score in England (424), and who is coming out
with Stoddart’s team, made 244 on Saturday week, playing
for Lancashire. Rumor has it that M’Laren has accepted
a mastership at King's School, Parramatta, and will stay
in Australia.
* * » »
Like Spofforth with the ball, Murdoch’s recent
batting has lately shown what a tough lot the earlier
Australian Eleven must have been.
* * * *
A Melb. paper is understood to be feeling
qualmish over the publication of a cable statement re
Harry Musgrove and an alleged deficiency in the accounts
of the ill-fated baseball team. In cricketing and theatri-
cal circles the probability of Harry Musgrove having “dis-
appeared ’ with any moneys to which he had no claim is
treated with absolute derision. The baseball expedition
was an utter financial failure, and in the light of the
manager’s business reputation, the “ deficiency ” of 'llO
looks very like a legitimate personal payment on account
of a large sum due to him.
* * * *
The letters of the Australian baseballers speak
bitterly of the commercial spirit with which the Yankee
players regard the game, and they once more raise the
old, old wail about the unfairness of the local umpires.
In fact, it would seem that the inherent baseness of base-
ball is not properly apparent until it is encountered on its
native heath.
♦ * * *
The opening of the League of Vic. Wheelmen’s
new club-rooms (late Y.M.C. A. building) in Russell-st. is
to be put back three weeks or a month because Gov.
Brassey happens to have gone yachting. Which means
that the subscribers are to have about a twelfth of their
privileges docked in order that a few of the advertising
bosses of the League may be afforded a chance of grovel-
ling in the presence of vice-royaltv.
« * '» »
The final match for the Sydney Cricket Ground
football trophies was played by' the Randwick and Pirate
Clubs, on Saturday last, in heavy rain-squalls and mud.
Randwick evidently played on M.L. lines, following the
ball in packs, and showing good combination and passing.
Pirates had the worst of the luck, and the game ended in
a win for Randwick by six points to three.
* * V. * *
When the money-grabbing Vic. Football League
was formed to enable the big clubs to swamp all the pro-
fits of the game, an exception was made in the cases of
Carlton and St. Kilda, the former being admitted to the
League ostensibly on the ground of “ historical associa-
tions,” and the latter for no reason at all, except that it
commanded a clientele of aristocratic barraekers. Now
that the season is three-fourths done, the farcical action
of including these two clubs is fully apparent. Fourteen
matches have been played by each club, and of these
Carlton has won two and the Nice St. Kilda none—scoring
no points out of a possible 56 ! According to present in-
dications, St. Kilda will complete the season with the
unique record of losing every match, while it lords its
superiority in belonging to the League over Port Melb.,
North Melb., Footscray, and other clubs with twice as
good teams and twice as good records. After the defeat
of Essendon by Melb. on Saturday, that club no longer
heads the premiership-list, Geelong being equal in points.
* * * *
It is surmised that the temperature of the water
in England, which rarely rises above 64deg., may. have
been a big factor in Percy Cavill’s defeat in the half-mile
championship, won by Derbyshire. Certain it is that
Cavill had his first experience of cramp in the five-miles
championship, on which occasion he undoubtedly had
luck in the attack passing away in time to allow him to
go on and win. The cold water is not, however, likely to
interfere with Jack Hellirigs in his short dashes.
Now, ye scalping liars —give ear ! Thomas Gay,
of Lannnermoor (N.Q.), recently shot a kangaroo Oft. 6in.
from nose to tail-tip, 40in. round the chest, and standing
about Bft. high when erect. And Gay, of Lammermoor,
claims that his “ old man ” beats the record.
* * * *
Unique sight in the backblocks. The brothers
Blake, four in number, all shearers, swag on back, mounted
each on his bike, careering from station to station during
the season.


Rheumatic Gout—A Master
Mariner’s Escape.
(Shields Daily News.)
Case of Capt. Holland, master mariner, Dock-
n-ray Bank, East Holborn, South Shields. Ex-
posure to the weather had so crippled him that he
was totally incapacitated for active exertion by
rheumatism and rheumatic gout, from which he
had suffered for nearly nine years. Three doctors
had treated him without effect. He suffered daily
the most agonising pains in limbs and body.
There was considerable swelling of the joints, and
altogether he had a most miserable time. Hap-
pening to come across an article in a newspaper
describing the cure of a similar case by Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, he resorted to the same means
as a last hope of recovery. Asked the result of
his proceeding, he said, “ I took one box of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills and felt great relief ; I per-
severed, taking three pills after each meal, and
now lam healthy and strong again. I have only
been visited with the pain once since taking the
pills, and this was a slight attack which a few
pills very speedily dispelled, I feel myself a
young man again.”*
Pian?oi)d JObilc?
Charity Carpi Val.
13th to 25th SEPT.,
DAY & NIGHT.
TOWN HALT
SYDNEY.
PATRONS:
His Excellency the Governor and Viscountess Hampden.
PRESIDENT : His Worship the Mayor.
PRESIDENT LADIES’ COMMITTEE :
The Lady Mayoress.
Doll Show.
A Long List of VALUABLE PRIZES.
Juvenile Exhibition.
Medals and Certificates for Mechanical, Educational, and
Fancy Work.
Photographic Exhibition.
Numerous Prizes.
Prize Schedules for the above now ready.
Continental Market and Jumble Fair.
Managed by the Ladies of Sydney.
The MOST STUPENDOUS UNDERTAKING ever
attempted in New South Wales.
Every available part of the Building has been engaged.
A PLETHORA OF AMUSEMENTS.
Only one Charge for Admission—ls.; Children, 6d. No
extra charge for Concerts, Novel Side-Shows, &c.
Proceeds in aid of the BENEVOLENT and LADIES’
AID SOCIETIES of Sydney, and the QUEEN VIC-
TORIA HOMES FOR CONSUMPTIVES.
Prize Schedules and other particulars sent on applica-
tion. COMMITTEE ROOMS: TEMPERANCE HALL
(Ground Floor), 305 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Biggest Show ever given in the Southern Hemisphere.
AGRICULTURAL SHOW GROUND,
SATURDAY, August 28th.
Ai) UoparalUM Show !
MONSTER CHINESE PROCESSION,
In National Costume. A Magnificent Pageant. Chinese
Bicycle Races, Sports, Chinese Musical Competitions.
The Emperor’s Carriage, Monster Dragon 150 ft. long, etc.
RACES BY MEMBERS OF THE LEAGUE OF
WHEELMEN.
GRAND MILITARY DISPLAY AND SPORTS
By the Members of the Permanent Military Force.
The Permanent Artillery Band will render Selections.
Numerous other events. See future announcements.
A. STAINES MANDERS,
Temperance Hall, Manager.
305 Pitt-st., Sydney.
USB
Spoolers.
iRQYAL NAVY DRESSING
FOR
j: BROVUN LEM HER
;i BOOTS 8t SHOES
:: of mu descriptions
i DIREC HONS FOR USE
tis
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
Uoritfalkd
Erpbrocatiofy,
Universal Cream,
Maori G-loss,
LIQUID BLACKING-,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &e.
F.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Tbe Nanjbotirg Coocerts
Under the Direction of John Lemmone.
MARK HA MBOURG,
The Greatest Pianist of the Day.
JAKOFF HAMBOURG,
The Phenomenal Violinist; Wilhelm j’s
Great Pupil.
JOHN EEMMONE,
The Australian Flautist.
TOWN HALL, Sydney, August 14, 18, 19, 21, 24 and 26.
VICTORIA THEATRE, Newcastle, August 17.
CENTENNIAL HALL Brisbane, September 7, 9 and 11.
For further Particulars, apply to
W. H. PALING & CO. Ld., Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane.
Amusements.
NITED
AUSTRALASIAN
ASSOCIATION.
AXEMEN'S
u
Seventh Grand Exhibition of Bushmen’s Shill,
To be held in
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
About
NOVEMBER 1 AND 3, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
1. CHAMPION CHOP (2ft.) of £75; entry, 80s.
2. CHAMPION CHOP (18in.) of £3O; entry, 15s.
3. CHAMPION CHOP, underhand (2ft. logs), of £5O,
4. CHAMPION IRON BAKE CHOP, underhand, of £4O;
5. CHAMPION SAWING MATCH (2ft.) of £3O; entry,lss.
6. HANDICAP CHOP of £2OO, in heats (18m.): nom.,
7. HANDICAP WdERHAND CHOP of £lOO (18in.);
nom., 15s ; accept., 15s.
8. MAIDEN CHOP of £10; entry, Bs.
9. MAIDEN HANDICAP CHOP (4ft. girth) of £lO,
entry, 6s.
10. AMATEUR CHOP; entry, 6s.
11. HANDICAP SAWING MATCH of £6O; nom., 155.;
accept., 10s.
12. MAIDEN SAWING MATCH of £l5; entry, 7s.
13. DOUBLE-HANDED HANDICAP SAWING MATCH
of i 35 ; entry, £l. ,
14. BICYCLE HANDICAP of £25; nom., 3s. ; accept., 2s
Registered with V.A.L.
15. MILE HANDICAP FOOT RACE of £l5 ; entry, ss.
16. 440yds. RACE of £10; entry, ss. .
17 i THREE HIGHLAND EVENTS, of £lO each, m-
-18 V eluded by request of the Clarence River Cale-
-19.) donian Society, N.S.W. Dancing and Piping.
ENTRIES ALL EVENTS, with fees, close SEPTEMBER
25. Acceptances, October 16.
Entries for the Chopping and Sawing Matches must he
made on printed forms of entry obtainable from the
Secretary.
All competitors from outside Victoria allowed to enter
at half-price.
For full particulars and conditions apply to the Manager.
H. A. NICHOLS, Ulverstone, TASMANIA.
jgXHIBITION BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
FOB SHORT SEASON.
ANOTHER GRAND SUCCESS !
Prof. NORTON B. SMITH,
THE EMPEROR OF ALL HORSE EDUCATORS,
And Australia’s favorite Horse-trainer, will demonstrate
his Scientific Humane System of Horse Education for
a SHORT SEASON.
For full particulars, see Daily Paper,
T
H E
LAST
O F
SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
COPIP HAS FOLPEP
... HIS WINGS,
but he flies around just the same as of old —only more so. He has dis-
carded his wings in favour of the
“ROYAL PROGRESS,”
because he finds it faster, more graceful, and decidedly more “fetching.”
The Price is <£2s ; Ladies’, ,£26. We also have INVINCIBLES and
other High-grade Wheels to select from. Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Tbe ENGLISH & AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (two doors from STRAND ARCADE);
And at 52 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. SATURDAY MATINEE at 2.
“Tbc (Say Parisi€oo€,”
By Geo. Dance and Ivan Caryll, a most Delightful Enter-
tainment and Splendidly Interpreted by an exceptionally
Powerful Coterie of Comedians.
Plan, Nicholson’s. UST* PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
gAL O N CINEMATOGRAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE COUPON SYSTEM A SPLENDID SUCCESS,
and the old original Salon flourishing like a green Bay Tree.
Every person receives a Coupon giving Free Admission
at any time when accompanied by one paying patron.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 Onward.
J. MAC MAHON, Director.
f|l HEATEE ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
((
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock,
TN€ BRAND OF CAIN.
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
I VOLT T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success op
Mr. Harry ]tickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
GO High-Class Performers GO
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
QTHE OPERA HO L JE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards,
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
B
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of L. J. Lohr.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING UNTIL
FURTHER NOTICE.
“CHARLCY’S : RUNT.”
Revived by
FRANK THORNTON and his New English Comedy Co.
POPULAR PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls,
3s; Stalls, 2s; Family Circle and Gallery, Is. NO
EARLY DOORS. Box Plan at Glen’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
Wilson Barrett’s Remarkable Play,
“Tb€ Sigo of tbc Cross.”
Last Matinee (but one) Wednesday, August 18, at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
W
N
cc
lO
ul
'S'
tCJSTUtE
r/ J/iOE
**
.9^**
1897
AN €XC€PTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a First-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “ Raleigh ” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent; Toolbar, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies' Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Tree
The Justral Cycle Hgency [ti,
Raleich
Pc pot, 393 6corg€-St., Sydney.
Branches At :
M ki.BOURNE— 229 Elizabtitli-st.
Adelaide- 33 Rundle-st.
Perth— Hay-st.
B RIBBANE — Adelaide-ufc.
Charters Towers—Gill-sfc.
W A l< RNAMBOOL — Kf>J >ler-st).
Goui.burn
Ch kj stc h u rcjh—Lioh field-st.
Dunkihn—l23 George-aft.
Hobari’, &c.


■v
Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
Lose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “ A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦♦. ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World’s
Chief Expositions.
A NOVELTY! V ,
%
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
1 Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
' Obtainable of Chemists, S?
k yi Stores, Perfumers, X*
or direct from
FOR SA W-G OLLE L'lN G, FLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRIND TNG,
Tlxe Tanit© Co.’3
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
EKTaiKTEERS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled” INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
El izabet h - street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
*
lime-Frtflt
Juice, it is
found, forms
Ja. most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
' Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as i6ty, in a treatise on Scurvy: —“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAGES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jutes Renard
&Co., Elliott Bros,. Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen c l Co., & The Australian Drug Co,
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
The horrors of marriage : S.A. Adver-
tiser advt.
A RUMOR is in circulation concerning me to the
effect that lam married. I trust this will be
accepted as an indubitable refutation of such falla-
cious calumniation.—L. W. PEAKE, Jun., Adelaide.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SORUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
VINOIAI
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
wmm
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
6 f B inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Bound and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor Is True to Name—RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
ALL
CLASSES
OF
ACCOMMODATION
—FOR—
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE.
FedcralX
Palace
Hotel.
MELBOURNE
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS.
HOOK OF NATUKE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/8 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete , ~it,ion, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free, Is 3d.
komance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
New Rea istic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her-
Decoyed; His Last Pa sion ;is 3d each, post free. ’
Short Storms ok Love and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries ok the Court ok Napoleon 111 illus-
trated, pst free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
v® 0111 ? ,' N French : - L’Assassin.t ;Le Bonnet
Vert , Andre Giibiner ; Is 6(1 each post free, or 3 for 4s
liiE VV Oman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d, pose free
Dr - " iu ' iroted
,)y , Dr , - Car Y er > a uew work, eontaiu-
• S , « \ e t . rlck , s an<t deceptions with cards explained
free? Is3d. 116 a ' ,d PUbli ° amuseme «t. lV; post
" 1?"” •<■ Female
s ,“*se; jsx jr « Fm - d ~’.
Po*™r^ F ?s S 2d ANDBOOK ’ illustrated > lateBt information.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLI ED
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.'
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cllea P Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Pood is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal,
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Dear Bulletin, — Where did that Westra-
lian correspondent get the notion that it is Hinglish
to “use the expression ‘up south’ and ‘down
north ’?” As a Londoner myself, I can remember
going up for the Leger, race week, and doivn to
Devonshire for a summer holiday. Never heard
of anyone, going up to Devonshire, unless he was
starting from the tail-end of Cornwall. —E.
Butler’s “earnest words” to the gaol
chaplain—“ Tell your Sunday-school scholars I
was once a Sunday-school boy in a little English
village, and drink has brought me to this.”
He was once a Sunday-school boy in a harmless Hinglish
village,
But the cussed liquor led him into deeds of blood and
pillage.
Which clearly proves that drinkers ought to sign the
pledge, and stop,
For you cannot hang a person if he doesn’t tons i a drop.
This looks too good to be true. Of seven
phthisical cases sent up to Roma (Q.) Hospital—
the ward for consumptives there has only been
open a few weeks—Dr. L’Estrange reports that
two, who were in the initial stages only, have
been discharged as cured ; three have improved in
a marked degree ; and the remaining two present
favorable symptoms. . The recent lament-
able death of one of Acting-Premier Tozer’s sons
from consumption is a circumstance that may
have accentuated the extraordinary interest Tozer
takes in hospitals for phthisical patients.
The great Queensland land-grant- private
enterprise syndicate railway gridiron scheme is
not quite dead even yet. Though the huge device
for giving away all the State lands of the province
to British railway speculators has dropped out of
sight, the Act authorising that mighty swindle is
not wholly dec-ased. A British syndicate, consist-
ing mostly of Coats, a “ Paisley body ’’.whomakes
thread, now desires to take advantage of it to
build a private line from Normanton to Cloncurry,
280 miles, and grab all the land and minerals en
route, but the Government is unfriendly so far.
MTlwraith is gone, and the boodlers of to-day
lack the courage to boodle on the tremendous scale
of past times. Also the Tozer regime at its worst
is a lot more honest than the old Coalition Govern-
ment of Tomuel MTlgriffilwraith.
By a flaw in the Yic. Vermin Destruction
Act which escaped the notice of the anti-closed-
roads men, it is now possible with the connivance
of sympathetic shire councillors to erect swing
gates across roads for indefinite periods in all
vermin-infested districts, without the consent of
the Governor-in-Council. This should be remedied
immediately, for the right to a practically per-
manent swing-gate means ultimately the owner-
ship of the road ; and, besides, it is against express
provisions in the interests of the public in the
Local Government Act.
The latest feat of operative surgery is the
healing of a wound in the heart—not sentimental,
but actual. Herr Reiin, of Erankfort-on-Main
didn’t see why a wounded heart shouldn't be
treated like a wounded arm. A man was brought
into the hospital dying from a stab in the heart.
He laid bare the organ, and succeeded in checking
the hemorrhage by means of a suture — i.e., in plain
English, by sewing the edges of the wound
together as a shoemaker sews two bits of leather.
The patient made a capital recovery.


13 :err rassmussen,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrEORGrE STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his IIEMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness arid nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
(Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends; who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCRHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R«ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. HJTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. leker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Butt.in writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few' of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
sneaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A I»ady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
lisl
' '*
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL A.ND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Kasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ggp“ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 G-eorge Street*
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMiTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Here Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using youi
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom 1
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to he, yours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swauston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmossen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new' man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra.
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors —all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal-Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The follow ing address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEX’S ALEALIXE REMEDIES.
AWARDED
ftKSSVWSS
iflWO GOLD
ALS
*
W
ALFA LINE PILLS?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD v NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a ROOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
la. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery- 30s:'
„ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HFRR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS'MXJSSEN is the Original arid Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons-should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERK. RAsSMUSSEN S
REM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his II ad Office or Pranehes.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers —Royal Arcade.
N.Z. —91 Lambtou Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Terrible Accident at Hobart .
fHE PATIENT SENT OYER TO SYDNEY
HOSPITAL.
Advices to hand convey the news of a terrible
Accident having befallen a well known and highly-
esteemed resident of Hobart. The unfortunate
sufferer has, as the result of her mishap, been
afflicted with locomotor ataxia, an affliction that
has in the past baffled the skill of the ablest physi-
cians, and been pronounced by them as incurable.
Mrs. Nelhe Denver, who now resides at Countess
Cottage, Double Bay (Sydney), was kind enough
to grant an interview to a reporter, who called to
investigate her case, and narrated her experience
as follows:
“ About six years ago, when residing in Hobart,
Tasmania, I had the misfortune to meet with a
serious accident, which I subsequently discovered
had seriously injured my spine, although, strange
to say, I felt no ill-effects for about two years
after. I then commenced to suffer from great
weakness, and dizziness and an intolerable feeling
of exhaustion. I did not seek medical attendance
at first, but when I at last became aware of my
serious condition I was persuaded by my friends
to go to the Sydney Hospital, where I remained
two months without receiving any permanent
benefit. On leaving the hospital I again rather
neglected.my state of health, and on applying for
re-admission Was informed that my case was hope-
less. I obtained admission to the Newington
Asylum, where I remained seven months; yet still
I got no better, being unable to swallow any
nourishing food. I then took two courses of electric
baths, for which I paid six guineas, and with the
exception of some alleviation of my suffering I can-
not say that they did me much good; in fact I
could not even walk, so I imagined that there was
no cure in store for me. One day on reading the
daily paper, I noticed an account of a marvellous
recovery effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and considering that this (the one of
Boilermaker Jarvis, suffering from locomotor
ataxia), closely resembled mine, I determined to
make a trial of them. I experienced relief after
the first box, and have steadily improved ever
since ; my appetite returned, and I ceased to suffer
from that terrible feeling of nervousness. I am
now in my seventh box, and can confidently assert
that I am most decidedly improved in health.
My friends also noticed a marked improvement in
my condition, and this I entirely attribute to the
health-giving properties of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills ; in fact, it must be solely due to them, for I
have tried no other remedy. The proprietors of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are at perfect liberty to
make whatever use they may think fit of this
statement, for I feel deeply grateful for the bene-
fit I have derived from them.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure rheumatism,
neuralgia, locomotor ataxy, St. Vitus’ dance,
nervous headache, and prostration, diseases of the
blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas, &c.,
restore pale and sallow complexions to the glow
of health, are a specific for all the troubles peculiar
to the female sex, and in men cure all cases arising
from worry, overwork or excesses. They are sold
by all chemists and storekeepers generally, or the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Syd-
ney, will forward, on receipt of stamps or P.O.
order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 14s. 9d.,
postage paid. Dr. Williams’ Pink for Pale People
are only genuine when put up in round wood
boxes (about the size of a shilling), with name in
full. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People is
on the wrapper. They are never sold in bulk or
by the hundred.*
PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Allodial Cold
MiOiOS Conjpaoy,
REDBANK,
JBendoc, East Gippsland.
To be Registered as a No-Liability Company.
Capital: £20,000, in 20,000 Shares of £1 each.
15,000 Shares, fully paid up, will be retained by
the Vendors.
5000 are offered to the public. Terms : ss. per
Share on application, 5s on allotment, and
the balance by instalments of Is. per Month.
The whole of the proceeds (less flotation ex-
penses) will be placed to the credit of the Com-
pany.
Directors : To be elected at first meeting.
Bankers : English, Scottish, and Australian Bank
Limited.
Brokers: G. W. Smith & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market-street, Melbourne.
Solicitor: William Robb, Collins-st., Melbourne.
Legal Manager : J. P. Crosbie, Leadenhall,
Market-street, Melbourne.
THIS COMPANY is being formed to acquire
and develop six hundred and forty (640)
acres of alluvial country close to and between the
Bendoe and Delegate Rivers, in East Gippsland,
near the border of New South Wales.
Reports by the Rev. W. B. Clarke (1852) to the
N.S.W. Government, by A. W. Howitt, Esq.,
F.G.S., Jas. Stirling, Esq., E.G.S., Government
Geologist (1889), and O. A. L. Whitelaw, Esq.,
Assistant Government Surveyor, to that of Vic-
toria, furnish a remarkable series of testimonies
to the gold-bearing character of the Bendoe dis-
trict ; and being compiled by men of proved
ability solely for general information, and with-
out the bias of any personal interest in the matter,
these documents may be accepted as absolutely
impartial and reliable.
The fact that the opinions expressed are unani-
mously adopted by all four of these gentlemen,
and that Mr. Stirling has felt justified in quoting
officially records which show that they have been
borne out by rich yields obtained in many places,
both by European and Chinese miners, leaves no
room for doubt that, systematically worked on an
extensive scale by hydraulic sluicing, the alluvial
deposits of this district will pay handsomely.
On Redbank, the area to be worked by this
Company, the promoters have for nearly twelve
months conducted an exhaustive series of pros-
pecting operations.
The results have been most satisfactory, as
shown by Mr. H. B. Evans (one of the prospec-
tors) in the remarks supplied by him for the pri-
vate information of the parties interested, and
more than fully confirmed by Mr. O. A. la White-
law in his report to the Mines Department (vide
Argus and Age, as below, April 20th, 1897).
These enable the promoters to state that—(l)
payable gold is found all over the property; (2)
that the average yield cannot.be worth less than
3s. per load.
A race has been cut from the Bendoe River ;
but in order to obtain a better supply of water
with greater fall, it is proposed to tap the Dele-
gate at a level 200 feet higher, with a new race
miles long, at a cost not exceeding .£lOOO.
Tliis race will command the entire area of the
Company’s ground with such supply and fall of
water that the wash can be treated at a minimum
cost—not more, and probably less, than sd. per
load.
The avoid any chance of exaggeration in the
estimate of anticipated profit, the cost of treat-
ment has been set down at a higher figure, and
expected yield at a lower, than those given by ex-
perts who have examined and tested the ground.
The Rev. W B Clarke, who is recognised as
the first geological authority ever known in Aus-
tralia, states (Southern Goldfields, p. 207, 1852
and 1860): —“The whole region is auriferous.”
. ; “In every spot in which a spade has
been inserted over a very considerable portion of
this region gold has been produced.” . . . “In
other localities it (gold) is found from 6 to 10 feet
below the surface, but (here) I have myself found
it is surface drift in accumulated alluvial earth
. . in rotten slate under gravel, in the laminse
of slate not rotten,” &c., &c.
Mr. A. W. Howitt, F.G.S., ex-Secreiary for
Mines, endorses, in Brough Smyth’s “ Goldfields
of Victoria,” Mr. Clarke’s opinion as to the
auriferous character of this district.
Mr. James Stirling, F.G.S,, Government
Geologist, not only bears testimony to the same
effect, but points out the remarkable manner in
which Mr. Clarke’s early prophecies have been
fulfilled, and his predictions verified by actual re-
sults obtained (in the localities indicated by him),
beginning with the first alluvial claim opened in
1873 on the site of Bendoc township. “Payable
gold,” he tells us, “ was found in the Bendoc,
Queensberry, and Delegate Rivers, and in all
streams flowing northerly from the Coast Range.”
. . . “ Yields were obtained up to .£l5 per
week per man.
Mr. O. A. L. Whitelaw, Assistant Government
Surveyor, in the most recent official report on the
Bendoc alluvial field, says : —“The miners of old
days, by dollying boulders from the bed of the
Bendoc River, made as much as .£2O per week per
man ”; and adds, “ within my own experience,
<£s per week per man was made by turning over
old ground near the river.” He goes on to state,
with reference to the ground in the Redbank area
itself, “The wash is found to average 10 feet in
depth, with fine gold disseminated through the
material.” “ To obtain a general average, I washed
20 dishes, carefully selected at even distances from
the surface, and the product was 8 grains of gold.
Estimating a load at 112 dishes, this would give a
yield worth 7s. 6d. per load.”
Mr. H. B. Evans reports:—“ The country con-
tains gold from the grass roots to the bottom of
deposit, which is from sto 30 feet in depth. With
Mr. Gathercole, I prospected the whole of your
ground, examining it carefully, and wherever I
washed a dish from the surface I found color, and
as I sunk the yield improved.” . . . “A great
portion of your property carries fully 3dwt. to
the load, while many places prospected gave sdwt.
—equal to 205.” . . . “ The information received
by you that the wash as a whole will give an
average value of 3s. per load is, I consider, well
under a true estimate of its carrying capacity.”
. . . There is not the slightest doubt that you
have a splendid property, which can be worked at
small expense, and will pay handsomely.”
Extended report and further information
can he obtained at the Company’s Office,
28 Market-street.
N.B.—Over two thousand Shares have al-
ready been applied for.
Mr. O. A. h. Whitelaw’s Report on Bendoc.
“ Argus,” 21st April, 1897.
The alluvial auriferous terraces of the Bendoc
district are the subject of an interesting report to
the Mines Department by Mr. O. A. L. White-
law, the assistant geological surveyor. He points
out that in the old days miners used to extract
the quartz boulders from the bed of the Bendoc
River, which were found to contain gold, and by
dollying they made as much as <£2o a week each
as a common thing. In his own experience miners
had made as much as £5 a week turning over the
old ground in the neighborhood of the river. He
states that there is a wide extent of auriferous
washes in the district immediately stretching from
a few miles south of Bendoc, which constitutes the
southerly platform of the Maneroo Plateau. Over
an area of 600 square chains, auriferous loam,
shingle, and wash are to be found, averaging 10
feet in depth, and fine gold is disseminated
throughout this material, the best prospects occur-
ing sometimes in broad bands of wash lying
between the surface and the bed rock, but gener-
ally lying on the bed rock. To obtain a general
average of the value of this stuff, he washed
20 dishes of the material, carefully selected at even
distances from the surface, and "the product was
8 grains of gold. Estimating a load of wash to
contain 112 dishes, this would give a return equal to
about 7s. 6d. a load. Whilst this was an unusually
high value to put upon the results of washing
alluvial in this district, his experience of ground-
sluicing in this district was that fully 50 per cent,
of the gold saved by dish-washing was lost in
ground-sluicing. A party of miners who are now
testing some of the ground within the area men-
tioned, working with a very limited supply of
water, manage to make “tucker,” their return
appearing to be equal to about 3s. 6d. a load. But
as an indication of the gold lost by this party, Mr.
Whitelaw states that he has seen gold with the
naked eye several chains down the race below
their workings. He recommends the following
localities as likely to prove remunerative for sluic-
ing operations:—The west side of the Bendoc
River, the Delegate River, and Back Creek. He
considers it probable that auriferous reefs will be
exposed when the bed rock is laid bare by
hydraulic sluicing.
“ Age,” 21st April, 1897.
Some alluvial gold bearing country in the neigh-
bourhood of Bendoc, Eastern Gippsland, has been
inspected by Mr. O. A. L. Whitelaw, an assistant
surveyor of the Mines Department. In his report
this officer states that, years ago, quartz impreg-
nated with gold was taken out of the bed of the
Bendoc River, and the metal dollied out realised
commonly .£2O per week per man. Mr. White-
law adds that in his own experience men have
made £5 per week by working old ground on the
banks of the stream. However, the principal
attraction for miners there now is the auriferous
alluvial terraces sloping down from the Maneroo
Plateau. In an area of 600 square chains, loam,
shingle, and wash containing gold are to be found,
of an average of 10 feet deep, in great bands
between the surface and the bed rock. A compu-
tation made on the results of washing 20 dishes of
this material has led him to believe that it will
yield uniformly about 7s. worth of gold per load if
washed by the dish. By sluicing, probably not
more than half of that value of the precious metal
would be obtainable. Mr. Whitelaw nevertheless
recommends the west side of the Bendoc River,
the banks of the Delegate River, and Back Creek
as localities where sluicing may be carried on
remuneratively, remarking that it is probable
auriferous reefs will be exposed there when the
bed rock is laid bare by hydraulic operations.
DFOTsiK
X fi > HEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUM-
LV BAGO, &c., CAN be COM-
PLETEY CURED
By Mr. C. F. PARKER,
145 VICTORIA-PARADE, FITZROY, MEL-
BOURNE.
EXTRACTS from SWORN AFFIDAVITS DE-
CLARED before a Justice ot Peace.
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced incur-
able, failing to obtain any relief from others, was
completely cured by me 15 months ago, and has
kept in better health since.
Miss M. Carney, 78 Palmer-street, Fitzroy, was
cured by me over two years ago of rheumatic
gout, and has been in better health since.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria Streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected of my son, Hugh, in June last, after
he had been suffering from a severe attack of
Rheumatic Gout. Your remedy gave him prompt
relief from pain, and completely cured him in a
couple of months. lam thankful to say that he
has enjoyed splendid health since.—William Shed-
den, grocer. Corner of Nicholson and Macpher-
son streets, North Carlton, 3rd September, 1896.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have done. I was a sufferer from lumbago and
sciatica, having experienced the most excruciating
pain for some considerable time. lam thankful
to say that from the first week I went under your
remedy I obtained relief, and am now completly
cured.—Yours very gratefully, Walter S. Smith,
High-street, Ararat, sth January, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have made. Having had a severe attack of rheu-
matic gout last April, with swellings of the joints,
and suffering great pain, I was cured by you after
two weeks’ treatment, and am pleased to say that
I have been keeping well since.—Samuel F.
Wiber, 72 Hotham-street, Colling wood. 15th
April, 1897.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered from severe attacks
of biliousness (two or three times a week), also
sciatica, and tried several remedies, without
relief, I consulted you, and got relief with the first
supply, and was cured in eight weeks’ treatment.
I consider your remedy a real genuine one, and
will recommend it to all I know.—Yours, grate-
fully, A. Campbell, miner. Mount Clear, Bal-
larat, 26th June, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of lumbago and double sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors, elec-
tric baths, patent medicines, &c., without deriving
any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896, I was
very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I con-
sulted you, and obtained relief from the first sup-
ply of your antidote, and am thankful to say,
after five supplies, I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exsteom, M'Cracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne. 26th July, 1897.
Dear Sir,—ln grateful testimony to you for
curing me of a very severe attack of Sciatica. In
June, 1896, I was very bad, suffering great pain,
which prevented me from doing any work. I con-
sulted you, and after 10 weeks’ treatment I was
cured. Being 52 years of age, I think that the
cure was wonderful, especially after I had tried
other remedies previously, without any effect. It
is now 12 months ago since I was cured, and I feel
very grateful to you.—William Wintle, 111
Holden-street, North Fitzroy, 28th July, 1897.
John Moreland, 1 Lithgow-street, Collingwood,
aged 59 years, rheumatic fever, rheumatic gout,
and rheumatism, 14 months in hospital, 5 years on
crutches, helpless, pronounced incurable, appli-
cant for Austin Hospital for Incurable. After 3
months use of antidote all joints completely cured ;
can work now, and is in perfect health. Miss
Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-street, West
Brunswick : Rheumatism 10 years ; years on
crutches, and for two years had not walked at all;
all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly use-
less ; life made miserable ; case pronounced hope-
less by leading Melbourne doctors; tried every-
body and everything without relief. Under my
Remedy, Contractions come out, can walk without
aid of crutch or stick ; can visit her friends, and
is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, &e.). It cured the above cases,
and many hundred others in this colony, and will
relieve in a short period, and completely cure the
most obstinate case with a fair trial. I have used
it with the most successful results over 13 years in
the East, and in Victoria. This secret remedy is
not known to anyone else in the colonies. Con-
sultation free Remedy forwarded by post to any
colony, Sl.*
N.S.W. Government Railways.
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION
5 to and from
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
TICKETS AT SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations to
all Main Line Stations, Menangle to Albury in-
clusive, by the undermentioned Special Train,
available for return up to and including THURS-
DAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER, 1897, but passengers
can only travel by the trains specified, viz.
From all Stations beyond Goulburn by Up Mail
Train ; Passengers from Stations Harden to Yarra
inclusive, may also travel by the 4.20 a.m. Mixed
Train from Harden, on Mondays, Wednesdays,
Fridays, and Saturdays. From all Stations Goul-
burn to Menangle inclusive, by any train except
the Up Mail and Up Melbourne Express Trains.
THURSDAY, 19th AUGUST, 1897.
Return Tickets at Specially Low'Fares will all o
be issued TO SYDNEY from All Main Lii.e
Stations, Albury to Demodrille Junction inclu-
sive, by Special Train leaving Albury at 5.35 a.m.,
and from Stations Murrumburrah to Menangle in-
clusive by Special Train leaving Murrumburrah at
10.50 a.m. on FRIDAY, 20th AUGUST.
RETURN TICKETS at 2d. per mile first-class
(minimum 10s.) and Id. per mile second-class
(minimum 55.) will be issued from Stations on the
Main Southern Line to Stations Goulburn to
Mittagong inclusive by the above Special Trains.
These tickets will be available for return up to
and including FRIDAY, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
1897, but Passengers can only travel by the trains
specified, viz. : —To Stations Menangle to Goul-
burn inclusive, by any train except the Melbourne
Express and 9.0 p.m. Mail. To Stations south of
Goulburn, by Special Train leaving Sydney at 8.50
p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays only.
Passengers for Stations between Goulburn and
Harden may also travel by the 9.30 a.m. train
from Sydney on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays,
and Saturdays.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. MoLACHLAN, Secretary.
Music, &c.
OWARD’S for Musical instruments of every
description, cash,&o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
H
H
H
H
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from fid.
to 1 guinea, great variety. Qpeen-st,, W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
M
a
a
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
_variety, from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOW ARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes l
©
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET.
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoq’s Noted AccordeoQS,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
». F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 6 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Publications.
“ /CHILDBIRTH WITHOUT PAIN a Code of
V/ Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse : to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
N.B.—Up-to-date Catalogue post free on application.
Browning & Shakespeare. Love Lyrics. Music by
Arthur Chanter, Mus. Bac. Paling’s, all Musio-sellera


FINNEY, ISLES & CO
» . FIRST SHIPMENTS . .
comprising
303 OASES & BALES 303
. . OP . .
New SpriQg <aood£,
Bought direct from the Leading Manufacturers
of the World, now Ready for Inspection in all
Departments,
Finney, Isles & do.
We offer not only EXCEPTIONAL VALUES,
but the LATEST and MOST FASHIONABLE
GOODS that are produced.
Compare Styles and Prices.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
in#
SAHITfIS
Hi
&' SANITAS S|
4fe» JE.,
‘SANITAS" "SANITAS
OUR TWO R f ciSTf RIDTRADE MARKS
"SAN ITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN-
DISINFECTANT; ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANTcombihid.
'A PtOPLC S HEALTH IS A NATIONS WE AITH-
TKt SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
JD BETHNAL CRF.EN, LONDON.E-
FLUID
th I
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphur
(Fumigating)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OF
DISINFECTANTS.
• The list of' Sanitas • preparations is now so great
“as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
•'armamentarium The composition of most of these
“ is based on ' Sanitas, a deservedly popular, pleasant,
“and moreover active compound."
Lancet, August 24th, 1896, p. 6*l.
“ How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on application,
OF ALL CHEMISTS , AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHHAI. GRHHN, LONDON.
Tbe Leading Pipe
GBD
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
It is not the hungry man who finds the
emu’s nest.
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos your excellent
cab-aphorism—
When engaging a cab, especially at night, always
speak to the driver to see whether he’s sober. But don’t
ask him if he’s sober.
I was stranded in a lonely part of Coburg, Melb.
(no matter why), one flood-night, and Was con-
sidering whether I would wait 90 mih. for a tram
or walk into Melb., when a hansom showed its
light through the raito. The horse was walking
aimlessly, and the cabby took no notice of mjr
hail. I stopped the horse and woke up its owner.
“ How much to Melbourne ? ” I shouted through
wind and rain. “ Three bob,” Said cabby, obviously
drunk. I thought it was cheap. “ All right,” I
said, “ Get inside Out Of the Wet and I’ll drive
you.” With my assistance he managed to fall out
of his high seat, and I dragged him round the
wheel and shoved him inside and slammed the
door ? first borrowing his excellent oilskin. Then
I climbed into the driver’s perch, where the
beginner feels like a cork on the ocean—or the
froth on a long beer. The rain whipped my face,
and the lightning blinded me, and the rest of the
elements helped towards the worst flood Melb.
ever had. By the time I got to Melb. I had
learned to steer that horse like a genius or a
lunatic. I stopped at Prince’s Bridge and col-
lected the fare from the cabby (he had it ready in
sixpences and threepenny-bits). I gave him back
his oilskin and caught my train.— C.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
He was a Maoriland ‘ ‘ commercial ” of the
ordinary type, neither better nor worse, and his
name was Johnson. He was always ready to
sacrifice his own comfort for the sake of business,
and when, after dining with a customer one Sun-
day in Bull’s, the host suggested that they should
go to church together, he put on a saintly expres-
sion and said he had only missed one service in
nine years. He was taken to the local Presby-
terian church, and in the porch way was introduced
to the parson, who welcomed him effusively. The
customer was a member of the choir, and marched
Johnson right up to the singers’ seats. The
sample-man got on fairly well during the evening,
only making one or two breaks, such as starting
“For he’s a jolly good fellow” when he should
have rung on to the Doxology, and chipping in a
few “ Amens ” in the wrong places, but his friend’s
strong basso drowned most of his little slips, and
towards the close of the service he began to hold
his chin up and thought how he would “lay over ”
the other boys on the road by referring to the time
“ when he was at church.” But a prayer meeting
was held after the ordinary service, and as the
customer stopped Johnson also had to stay. Pro-
ceedings started with a prayer by the parson, after
which the rev. gentleman said they would all join
in a hymn and then Mr. M’Tavish would give a
prayer. The hymn was sung and then Mr.
M'Tavish, one of the congregation, did his little
bit; the parson once more arose, said they would
sing another hymn, and then (looking straight in
the visitor’s direction) Mr. Johnson would oblige
with a prayer. Johnson, who by this time was
nearly asleep, opened his eyes and mouth very
widely, but before he had made up his mind what
to do or say, away went the hymn. Then he put
in a bad time. At one moment he felt so hot that
he would not have objected to a fire engine playing
on him ; the next he felt as though he were a
member of Nansen’s Polar expedition. He looked
piteously at his friend, but that gentleman was
wrestling with a deep, sad C. and seemed to think
that everything was 'going right enough. Johnson
thought of making a bolt for it, but he could not
find his hat: besides, he did not feel strong enough
to get to the door at the other end of the church.
He tried to remember a verse of a hymn, a collect,
or something of the sort, but all he could think of
was men’s balmorals at Bs. 6d. (he was in the boot
line) and one or two little anecdotes that he dimly
suspected could not be fittingly worked up into
prayer form. A + last the hymn stopped, all eyes
were turned in nis direction, and just as he had
finally made up his mind to tell them that he could
not pray and that he’d be hanged if he’d try, a |
drawling Scotch voice from immediately behind
him began an address of the orthodox fashion.
Johnston looked at his friend’s face, a quiet smile
was on it, and he tumbled to the fact that he had
suffered in vain—that the man behind him, a
church deacon, bore the same name as himself.
He does not “ lay over” the boys as he intended ;
neither goeth he to church any more.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no soheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A. #
Q.R.X. : You print a case of a slut suck-
ling a young pig. Writer had a cat that was very
friendly with a cattle-slut, and whenever the latter
had a litter, the cat took her share. She accepted
the friendship with great apparent satisfaction,
licking and nuzzling the cat as though it were one
of her own offspring.
GrO TO HELL-
* IGOLAND for Prelty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
MELBOURNE.
Kiffi?
«*ry POST FREE y©-»
watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
WeddiNg z CHRisTEi\lirJG Presents
H'NEWMAfJ- 1755177-FIIZARFTrf Si*
OPPOSITE C:RQ.-
MELBOURNE.
Afstles
w
-FOR—
INFAITTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet iii
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros-, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
SVofi.VJ.IW/
- Jo
J>l Solo) iU9(\<o
SqU(\om Swivsyr
n d
SlNf^S
f
n
e
B
MELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
... ......... u. ; ai.stk.alia.v Drug Co. ;
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
Ifydiao Art MaoCifactCirtS-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6£yds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas ~
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Rates j Retail Prices are 6 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutch Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G. G. WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Prick Warung : Is. 3d. posted.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution, —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS* COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears oh
the Government Stamp thfe name
bf the InVcritbt—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
itHE iLtUSTftATED LONDt>N NEWS of
Sept. 28; 1895, says: , . , , ,
“If X were tlskecl which single tii^dicihe j shouict
prefer to lake abroad with me; as likely pfc> pe
most geiierally useful, to the .exclusion of. all
others, I s,houid say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its' general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing-demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most Sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQIIOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk*
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
DrOi)keoo?ss
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriaoy and Alcoholism (ih an.v
form, CURED by EUCRASV. Can be giveh secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of te&, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it doi s
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease.
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy 00., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking 1
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide.
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
Wefbam’s
t*T£;
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON,
ELLIOTT
GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne ;
BROS., Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioij
for Outs, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €fi)brocatioi).


The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
ItS
:■ •
. PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . .
Gold, Silver, Lead Copper Qres $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under, direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of'the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtiriiHng cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of A ssays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The Champion Cyclist
OF AUSTRALASIA
“KEN” LEWIS, ADVISES THE USE OP
Warner’s Safe Cure.
¥
mu
ivfcix LEWIS, CHAMPION CYCLIST OF AUSTRALASIA, tells Wheel
men to use WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
His experience is similar to that of
thousands of others. As the bicycle sea-
son opens, many a young person, and
hundreds of older people who have taken
up cycling for its higienic value, find them-
selves lacking “staying power.” They
have the inclination, but their bodily con-
dition prevents trying exercise. They are
run down by a winter of indoor life and
work. To make a success of cycling the
heart and liver must be sound. An in-
active torpid liver means shortness of breath.
To be “ long winded ” one’s liver must be
in the best of condition.
Ken Lewis is truly one of Australia’s
phenomenal riders in professional ranks
He is the winner of the J mile champion-
ship of N.S.W.: i mile blue ribbon cham-
pionship of Victoria: 5 mile championship
of Australasia: x mile blue ribbon Derby :
(on Melbourne cricket ground): 50 mile
championship of New Zealand: 100 mile
championship of New Zealand: twelve
hour contest of New Zealand : winner of
all championships of New Zealand: also
medals for inter-club championships; and
despite the enormous amount of work he
has gone through, he is doubtless ready to
again meet all comers.
He has made cycling a study, and his
advice to racing men, to wheeimen, and
athletes in general is worthy serious
thought.
He writes:—
ROBERT LASCELLES & CO., Little Collins St.
To WARNER’S SAFE CURE CO., Melbourne, 6/7/97.
Gentlemen, —For the benefit of all cyclists, path or road racers—and
the cycling public generally—l desire to bear testimony to the splendid
hygienic aid Warner’s Safe Cure is to all who use the wheel.
Probably I have fought as many stubborn contests in cycling com-
petition as most cyclists, and have achieved a large measure of success.
I can truthfully state that some of my victories would have been
turned into defeat had It not been for the use of Warner’s Safe Cure
whilst training.
I can confidently recommend it to all cyclists, and trust you will
publish this for their benefit. K EN l EW is
Forbes’s PHOSFERRIKE.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleas ance,
HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
It is an old, and to some extent true, saying that “ every man has his price." Most of ua
CLAIM
that we are above being bribed, but when sufficient inducement is put forward we have a
propensity for seeing a tempting proposal in a favorable or flattering light. It is not always
for monetary considerations that we bend our principles desire
FO
fame, glory, and popularity ; eagerness for revenge ; jealousy and dislike may get the better
of our higher prudence ana cause us to ignore the scruples of conscience and take the oppor-
tunity offered. But greed of wealth is the greatest factor in blinding our
MORAL
sense; not only, sometimes, closing our eyes to duty and self-respect, but too frequently
causing us to neglect our vital and physical well-being. For, after all, what is wealth without
health 1 While we join in the rush and bustle of this busy world, over-taxing our energies
AM
racking our systems, many of us are morally culpable of reckless disregard of bodily strength
and fitness. Then, perhaps, the health breaks down, and we seem doomed to long periods
of pain and depression. Our very moral and
INTELLECTUAL
natures are under a cloud. Our whole life is darkened. Yet there is a remedy at hand.
Hundreds of thousands of ailing men and women have found that B E ECH AM ’S PI LLS
verily “make life worth living.” They purify the blood, set right the disordered stomach,
arouse the sluggish liver, dispel sick headaches, build up the nervous system, and repair the
DAMAGE
caused by overwork and brain worry. Their genuine worth and never-failing efficacy have
been fully proved during a period of upwards of fifty years, and they are still recognised as
the best safeguard against all bilious and nervous attacks. The most satisfactory evidence
of the universal esteem in which BEECHAM’S PILLS are held is found in the fact
that the number of boxes sold annually now exceeds
6,000,000.
SIX GRAND AGENCIES
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs. |jicholson and (Jo.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
PIAKTOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MLUSIC.
BKCHBTKIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCIITPDMAYSR PIANOS
WtLMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and France.
]NriCHOLso]\r & compa-kty,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Adanjs Tattnall Hotel,
PITT ST., SYXDTnTEPT.
Adati)S Cafe, (Seorgc Street.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
, AAAA
WWWW ff '
VIS I TOES CAN DIN E IN HOTEL OE CAFE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
WKITEi DIRECT to the Chief Australasian DepAt, 484 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, tnchord,in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will'effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \compared with'buying them from dealers.
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made bv the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are. covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are'extra,
long and plated. All
baas wires oopper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and'accu-
rath workmanship.
Wires are two sites
thicker than are Ordi-
narily used, lienee
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.-
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. .The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos xcan
be had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold .engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch 'is qasy, elastic, and
responsive. The a. full sonorous. volume, in tho hass ;'a rich, round, singing quality
m the middle compass; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the-treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss v in "transit. The price includes
freight to port, of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world wide celebrity. Governors of
Xilonies, churches, schools, convents, ;ind -public institutions. BEALE & CO* LTD.* 484 Geoore
Street, Sydney, end throughout 2Jew i'jwiU Wales.


LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers,
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr, Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says :
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months, I
can recommend it to all.”
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
MRRK FOVS,
FIXED HARP aod FAST ii>
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
“Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER EAIR,” which is now
. . IN FULL SWIN6! . .
COUGHS, COLDS ON TH3 CHEST,
BBON.'HITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY C.RED BiT . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
M HOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
-1 ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Couirh, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. 1 write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“ Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure ? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“ Mr. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. lam trulj' grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a hottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known :
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G.' JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M'BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“ Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doin"
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Age of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. Aftertaking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne's Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong', Victoria. Small size, 2s. 6d.; large, 4s. (id. Sold bv Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally. i
Ladies’
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long-, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBTNGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell. lIP WilHiim-st. Only, Sydney.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : YVashington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily-
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Wagons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the-
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian,
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“Triumph..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as-
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and,
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from'
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
Tms Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Atpcricao Import Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale I'rniii All the l.cud.ng Warehouses.-
"That it Might be Fulfilled . ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two years only they had been married,
but a quarter of that time had been enough to
show the woman her mistake. And the man—
reading disillusionment in her altered manner—
made the best of things, as he thought, by drinking
more persistently than ever. Then she—herself
no saint by nature —took to illicit philanderings,
mild enough in their way, but enough to move the
husband, when he came to know, to the only
retaliation possible to his liquor-sodden view of
the situation. The money was hers —a decent,
regular income; he’d squander in dissipation every
shilling he could screw out of her.
But no screw was needed, for, from looking upon
liquor as her deadliest foe, the woman was coming
to understand that it might do her the inestimable
service of unlocking her chain. More freely than
ever, therefore, she disbursed, and longer and
stronger grew the husband’s sprees. Expectantly
the woman watched and waited ; but the man was
no weed —his constitution wrestled stoutly with
the enemy, and the deterioration she looked for
came by inches. This kind of thing, she told her-
self impatiently, might go on for years. She’d
stock the poison for him at home —ready to his
hand ; that would surely accelerate matters. But
she hadn’t reckoned on the fact that drinking is
seldom altogether for drinking’s sake. The hus-
band—away from her—was a jocund soul ; he
wanted his accustomed compotators. So he stuck
to the public-house and to them —and they stuck
to him and his money.
Still, she might have held hopefully on —acci-
dents lie in wait for topers as well as diseases—had
not the “ other fellow ” come into the game just
when, in her disgust and anger, she was most ripe
for reciprocation. The new element in the situa-
tion spurred her impatience, first to eagerness,
then almost to frenzy. Bitterly in her heart she
cursed the sot who stood between her and what
she thought' would be—what, comparatively, must
be—happiness. What was this wretch’s existence
to himself or to anybody else ? In her fierce long-
. ing for his death she thought dark thoughts—
spoke dark words, even. Not so dark, though,
but that through the man’s cronies came hints to
him of how things stood ; sneers, too, and not very
indirect references to his wife’s new-found con-
solation. This, generally, when his purse was
empty and when the question of its replenish-
ment blotted out for him, for the time, every other
consideration. And refilled it would be, without
demur, by the woman—hoping still that every
subsidy would see the end. But obstinately his
stamina held out.
Then she took to the card-reader and the “clair-
voyante,” but got little comfort from glib, mechani-
cal assurances of wish-fulfilment, until from one
charlatan a more specific deli veratice raised more
specific hopes. -“A separation,” declared the
prophetess, everything pointed to a separation at
no very distant date. “And what can that mean,”
asked the woman of herself, ‘ ‘ but death— his
death ? At last I shall be free ! ”
Again she sought the seeress, and again ; till
one day she was assured that the end was im-
minent. The separation might come at any
moment. “ Might as well tell the poor fool that
as not, ” the mystery-monger said to herself as she
pocketed the last substantial fee. * I needn’t ex-
pect to get much more out of her in any case—
unless chance should bring the ‘ prediction ’ off
right.”
* • • *
Home from the township the husband-
drunk as usual —was being driven, in the dusk, by
the wife—still horribly hopeful, though the
prophecy was now three days old. “ Eor this
night we’ll merry merry be ! ” hummed the whisky-
solaced man, and the woman, in a sudden, joyful
rush of conviction that she would soon be free,
was actually taking up the refrain —“To-morrow,
we’ll grow ” crash !—the off-wheel took a stump,
and with a strong, upward jerk the buggy pitched
its occupants violently from their seats. The
horse plunged a little, then stood still; and for
more than a minute there was silence before the
man, little hurt and half-sobered, recovered him-
self enough to see to the woman. It was nearly
dark, but a short examination was enough for
him.
“ Dam lucky I wasn’t driving ! ” was the epitaph
of the woman for whom prophecy had been thus
literally fulfilled. She had got a “ separation ” !
A.M. AFTER J. F. DWYER.
L. A. Wells, finder of the bodies of the
two perished explorers, relates that natives in the
great sandy desert in summer wear a kind of bark
sandal, without which walking over the sand at
its hottest would be almost impossible. Said san-
dals are made out of the bark of the parrot-bush—
a bea,n-bearing shrub, the flower of which bears a
striking resemblance to a small green parrot.
Wells secured specimens of this aboriginal foot-
gear.
A Melbourne gentleman advertises in the
Akgus “ In Memoriam ” column:—
In hallowed remembrance of my beloved , who
passed into her rest .
Dieu-donn6e mine, thy husband’s aching heart
Sighs for the solace of the tender love
That made thy perfect wife’s ennobled part
Show most thy larger troth to Christ above ;
In whom our bridal is a hridal still.
Parted—rejoined, perfect we thus His will.
If this is original doesn’t it suggest that bards in
the future will be discovered by their domestic
bereavements ?
“F.” : “Re the Keely ‘costless-force
motor mentioned in the ‘ patents ’ wrangle, I have
before me a cutting from the New Yoke Sun. It
says—
That many intelligent men have full faith in the ulti-
mate success of Mr. Keely and his system there can be no
doubt.
Then it gives the account of a correspondent who
visited the works, and actually prints a vague
diagram of the alleged invention which is to turn
ethereal vibrations into nieohanical force. ‘ Boyd
Elliott, the eminent mechanical engineer,’ saw
Keely’s etheric liberator,tand said Keely had six
times the value in his ;shops that Edison had.
Then ‘ Prof. Koreig, of the University of Pennsyl-
vania,’ gives his favorable opinion, etc., etc.
Shortly put, Keely claims to have invented, and
to be about to demonstrate, a machine which is
worked without fire, electricity, or mechanical
energy of any sort. It is simply run by ether _
vibrations, which can be got anywhere by anyone
who knows how to take them. But all this is two
years ago. ”
The Widow’s Might .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So many hints had come to the vicar that he began
to think at last that there must be something
questionable in the past of the handsome widow,
who had lately been such a fervid worshipper at
his church. Yet to each suggestion he had fired
off his ancient chestnut about the sinner that
repenteth, and he trusted to it to carry him
through to the end.
But it was the bazaar that did it. The sassiety
dames who frequented the front pews made no
open objection to the new-comer sitting in the back
ones, but when she boldly turned up at the
meeting and offered to take the flower-stall,
something happened which Baxter afterwards
described as a shorter catechism. Baxter is the
Sunday-school superintendent; he reads decadent
literature and considers himself smart,
And there was an indignation meeting, and a
deputation, out of which another deputation was
formed consisting of the vicar and one of the
trustees. This smaller deputation made its way
towards the neat little villa where the widow
resided.
“I say, old man,” said the trustee. (As a
trustee he was privileged to call the vicar “old
man.”) “ I think you’d better go inside yourself.
It’s too rough the two of us, you know.”
“ As you please, brother, though I would fain
have a companion in this most distressing duty,”
responded the vicar.
“No, I’ll do no good. You can see it through
better; I’ll wait here.” And the trustee clinched
the matter by biting off the end of his cigar and
striking a match on a tree-guard.
When he shifted his weight from his right foot
to his left the trustee consulted his watch and
found that the vicar had been absent just a
quarter of an hour. When he returned to the
right foot again he saw that 25 minutes had
elapsed. His third cigar was commenced just
three-quarters of an hour after the deputation
divided, and it was half an hour after that that
the trustee began to make remarks of a kind
foreign to his usual character.
His eyes were closing as the click of the widow’s
gate brought him to his senses. “ I trust your
information is of a promising nature, brother?”
he said to the approaching vicar.
“ More than promising,” replied the black-
coated one.
“ And are you satisfied she is of unquestion-
able antecedents ? ”
“ More than satisfied.”
“ Then, brother,” observed the trustee, “ put
your tie straight and plaster down your hair a bit
and we’ll go home.”
M‘G.
Australian law is an unaccountable animal.
In Sydney, the other day, a man who fractured
his wife’s jaw with his fist was rightly and de-
servedly sentenced to three years’ penal servi-
tude. And a week or two ago a white savage,
for a much more murderous assault on an aged
swagsman, was let off by the Bench at Bellingen
(N.S.W.) with—what do you think ?—<£s fine!
The Big Bird of the Jingeras.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tommy and Johnny Clarke, the Braidwood bush-
rangers (afterwards hanged for murder), were
camping near the Jingeras with their cousin,
Pat Connell, when the police surprised them,
and shot Connell dead. The other two despera-
does escaped.
That night there was a party at Mick Connell’s
house, which lay between the scene of the fight
and Braidwood. While the festivity was at its
height—Mick was noted for the excellence of his
dances—a party of police dismounted in front of
the house, leaving their horses, and a pack-horse
which they had with them, tied up to the fence.
In response to an invitation from Mick they had
some refreshment, and then some of them joined
in the dancing. The party left towards morning,
after having thoroughly enjoyed themselves. As
they were riding away, one of the troopers called
out, “Goodbye, Mick; we expect to shoot a big
bird before we get to Braidwood.”
The constables had not been gone half-an-hour
whena neighbor dashedinto the dancing-room with
the information that Pat Connell had been shot
the evening before, and that his body was being
taken into Braidwood. Suspecting the truth,
Connell got in his horses, and, galloping after the
police, overtook them near the town, just after
daylight. He saw hanging across the pack-horse
the body of a man tied on with rope and covered
with a great-coat. Soon afterwards he caught a
glimpse of the features. The “ big bird of the
Jingeras ” was his own brother, and the police
had allowed the dead body to remain outside on
the pack-horse while they enjoyed themselves at
Mick Connell’s party !
Farmer W. Loft, of Shepparton, Vic., the
other day slaughtered a pig which gave a dressed
carcase weighing 6161 b., and measured 7ft. 6in. in
length. This two-year-old (Tainworth breed)
took up as much room as an ordinary bullock’s
carcase.
Nat Gould writes from London to an ex-
press colleague in Sydney :
The market here is much overstocked, and I’m afraid
some of the rumors circulated as to prices obtained are a
bit over the mark. The 6s. novel is, I believe, bound to
have a fall, except for the very best authors. The popu-
lar price will be, for cloth, 3s. 6d., I fancy. All 6s. novels
can be bought at 4s. 6d. in London on the day of publica-
tion, 2s. ones at Is. 6d., and so on. Smith’s railway book-
stalls get full price, and, I am glad to say, sell mapy
thousands of mine. I have four out this year—two
already published. In your title do not localise, but
have it as wide as possible ; it catches more readers. Kout-
jedge’s is, I think, a very good house for yellowbacks.


Influenza, Liver Trouble, Indigestion, Headache,
Constipation, Piles, etc., etc.
Are positively Cured Py tlxe great American Specific.
A Newcastle Case,
LIVER TROUBLE AND INFLUENZA.
He came to the colonies 40 years ago, says the
Newcastle Times, in speaking of Mr. Thomas
Rowe, of 130 Darby-street, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
and was healthy until a few years ago, when liver
and kidney trouble attacked him. The gentle-
man in question received a call from a Times re-
porter, to find out if the reports concerning him
were true, and in answer to the scribe’s query told
the following story : —“ I have been a terrible
sufferer for many years from liver trouble and
gravel, as many people in this road can tell you.
I had awful pains in the back and side, and the
doctors apparently could not get at the root of the
disease. To make matters worse, I at about the
same time contracted influenza. I got very low,
and the doctors told me that my complaint
was incurable. I suffered for a number of years,
first trying one thing and then another, until one
day I made up my mind to try Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills. Taking the Pills for a short
time, I noticed a decided change in my condition.
Continuing, the same, I am glad to state that
Gould’s Pills have done what the doctors failed to
do, and I state positively that Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills have cured me, and there can be no
mistake about it, for I took nothing else. Messrs.
Hart and Firkin, my chemists, can substantiate
my statements, for they know as well as anyone
how I suffered. No, sir, there is no doubt what-
ever about it —it was Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills that did what those doctors failed to do. I
am not given to making misstatement. I tell this
story for the benefit of others who may be sufferers
from similar complaints. There is no gainsaying
the fact that mine was an extremely bad case, for
it was; but, as I said before, lam a different man
now, and I tell everyone what this wonderful
medicine has done for me.
“ I am 75 years of age next October, and I have
lived about 34 years of that time on this road, and
certainly I am well known.”
In conclusion, we would add that this must be a
great preparation to cure a man 75 years of age,
who states positively and clearly that he had
suffered years of pain and agony, all the doctors
whom he tried having failed to effect anything
like a cure. This is not an isolated case, but it is
valuable because there cannot be the least doubt
as to the authenticity of the statements made by
this well-known old gentleman. As Influenza is
so prevalent just now, Mr. Rowe’s recovery from
that dread ailment should be a good hint for some
of our afflicted ones.
A MIRACULOUS SYDNEY CURE.
“Some time ago,” said Mrs. John Gilbert, pro-
prietress of a snug little grocery business in Chip-
pendale, a suburb of Sydney, “I began to have
some very distressing symptoms of ill-health ; my
stomach would become distended, and a sour,
bitter stuff would keep coming up in my mouth ; I
had terrible pains in my right side and back, and
at times I suffered from terrible bursting head-
aches. After a while my circulation became very
bad and my limbs would become numb and life-
less. Sometimes my kidneys would act involun-
tarily, and again the pains in my back would be-
come so unbearable that I could not sleep. The
coldness and loss of life in my legs continued to
get worse, and at times I would lose all power to
move them until they were thoroughly rubbed and
the circulation restored. Sometimes I would be
standing at the edge of a table and start to walk
away, and my legs would utterly refuse to act.
Again, I would wake up at night, and would have
to call someone to rub my body before I could
move. My digestion at this time was in a terrible
state, and I was continually vomiting up some
bitter stuff and belching wind. My heart would
flutter, and a cold feeling would come over me like
death. I have consulted some of the best physi-
cians in Sydney and at home, but only to get ease
for a time. Patent medicines and everything I
have tried with the same results, until a few weeks
ago Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills were brought
to my notice, and I tried them, following the
directions very closely, with the result that I have
derived such benefit from them that I feel ener-
getic, full of life, and have lost all that drowsy,
listless feeling—in fact, I feel years younger, my
appetite has increased, and I fully enjoy my meals,
and I may say that I feel like a new woman
through and through.”
An Attractive Woman <
ARE YOU ONE ?
YOU CAN BE IF YOU WISH.
If a woman is not attractive there is something
wrong. Any woman can be attractive if she will
make the effort. It isn’t altogether a question of
beauty. It’s largely a matter of health. The
bloom and glow of health go far toward bringing
beauty. A clear skin, bright eyes, red lips, and
the vivacity which bodily good feeling brings will
make even a homely woman handsome.
The satisfaction of attracting the attention of
men is no more to most women than the gratifica-
tion afforded by feeling equal to other women.
Leaving out all considerations of comfort, and
looking at the matter only on the side of beauty,
woman’s health should be the object of the great-
est care and thought.
Half of the women one meets are semi-invalids.
Carelessness and ignorance and neglect have made
them so. Failure to heed the warnings of out-
raged nature—failure to give the help needed by
the most sensitive and delicate organs —little
troubles ignored until they have become dominant
—disease allowed every chance to spread and gain
a settled seat —these things bring about the
sunken, circled eyes, the hollow cheeks, the pale
and sallow skin, the flabby, strengthless flesh,
which characterise the appearance of the woman
who suffers from “ female weakness.”
There is no reason, save that of carelessness,
why the human female should not be as strongly
healthy as the human male. There is no reason
in nature for it—there is no excuse in the world
for “ female weakness.” If proper care be taken
it need never exist. If proper care be taken, its
existence can be stopped. Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills, on account of their mild action and
smallness, recommend themselves to weak and
suffering women. They have been used a number
of years in the United States by doctors and in
hospitals. They renew the digestion and assist
nature to expel foul waste matter from the system.
They cause the skin to become clear, and give the
glow of health to white faces. Liver troubles,
constipation, piles, fulness after eating, &c., will
also, after Gould’s Pills have been used, become a
thing of the past.
Influenza Again
Few people escape this terrible pestilence of the
nineteenth century, which sweeps over Australia
periodically. Some escape, but they are usually
the people who escape everything, because they
are healthy. It is within the power of most every-
one to become the same. If you do become a
victim, we would advise the following course:—
QUID
IK
ONI
VE
Pit
For ordinary cases take
some Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills as directed, and
at the same time bathe the
feet well in hot water on
going to bed. If the case is
very bad, the patient should
remain in bed, eating only
light food, and sleeping as
much as possible, taking at
the same time small doses of
Gould’s Pills to keep the
bowels open.
Gould’s Pills for Influenza
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Ful-
ness after Eating, Sour Sto-
mach, Heart Palpitation,
Troubles, Constipation,
Piles, Loss of Appetite, and
Kidney Complaints, are an
undoubted specific. Pale
and sallow faces, pimples
and face sores, female irre-
gularities, general weakness,
lameback, lack of energy
I and ambition, &c., &c., wiil
I also become things of the
past after they are used.
To obtain Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills go to
your nearest Chemist or Storekeeper, or apply to
the Australian Branch of the E. A. Gould, Sons,
and Co., Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney, who will for-
ward, post paid, on receipt of price in stamps or
Post Order, one bottle for 2s. 6d. or half-a-dozen
for 13s. 6d. When you purchase Gould’s Pills see
that every bottle bears the signature of the Pro*
prietors, E. A. Gould, Sous, and Co.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
To You .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Orient grape, enchanted, bled
This drowsy tropic wine,
That stains a deep and dewy red
Thy ripe lip’s own carmine.
I bless its trellised vines that gleam
On some far-sloped hillside,
Their green leaves dozing while I dream
Fair fancies by thy side.
The angry noon-sun may not tease
Our kind seclusion here ;
The blue wave glitters through the trees
Deep as thine eyes, my dear;
In this quaint cave cool mosses be,
Rare orchids at its eaves,
And I have weaved a crown for thee
Of twining heart-shaped leaves.
The speckled lizard pants, in thrall —
His eyes dark legends in—
Bewitched by wayward notes that f.dl
Soft from thy mandolin.
The fire-flow’r, at thy bosom throws
A warm, reflected glow,
As on white damask burns the rose,
Or lighted torch on snow.
A petalled myrtle loads the air
With virgin fragrancies,
And wild rock-lilies wanton dare
The court of roving bees—
Here dwells Romance ! White wine we’ll pour
Through its bright beads to see
The brave, fond knights who canter o’er
Fair fields of Arcadie.
Beloved, touch the waiting strings !
All-eloquent to tell
Of minstrel days, of courtly things,
Of deeds that once befel;
And down these clear rock cups, in theme,
The filtered drops will play ;
While mimic rainbows fade and beam —
Arcaded on their spray.
Oh, lovers, ’neath the shadowed walls
I hear your faint guitars !
Oh, strange white moon, how still it falls
On silks and scimitars !
See, where the castled Rhine rolls by,
The Lorelei sings again,
And drops from Rhenish wine-cups dye
The beard of Charlemagne.
A fair white hand o’er casement droops
Languid from silken sleeve,
The red rose falls, our minstrel stoops
Rich payment to receive.
Dim shadows o’er the moat amain
Loom fast and lengthily
Till gallant walks the sun again
In fields of Jleur-de-lys.
Red Muscat pour ! Its bouquet hints
Some Persian bard’s love-song,
While through my brimming glass there glints
The Ganges’ tide along.
The, poppy and the lotos shake
From out their hearts the dew,
And dreamily dark eyes awake
To close and dream anew.
Red wine ! In sooth the vine hath drawn
Red magic from the Sun
And charmed sunset, mystic dawn,
Hath blended, twain in one.
Lo, in my veins its hot fires rove,
And I must kiss, I vow,
Thy whiteness sweet . . . O dearest Love,
It stains thy bosom now !
E. J. BEADY.
Q. sugar-planters look leniently on the
tribal fights cf their kanaka slaves. A little
bloodshed proves them Abel to raise Cain.
The Otarama, which left the Bluff a few
days back, takes Britainwards the record ship-
ment of Maoriland rabbits, viz., 306,000. Up to
date there have gone this year over a million and
a quarter bunnies, and about a million are waiting
shipment in the various freezing stores.
Proposed in Bananaland Parliament to
give women power to sit on boards, municipal
councils, &e. Argued that their presence would
ameliorate aldermanie asperities. Members, how-
ever, who had enjoyed municipal experience
argued vigorously against it.- “ Pooh ! D’ye
think our aldermen would pull up just because
there was a petticoat among ’em? Why, it would
only make ’em mad.”
Tom Price, M.P. (S.A.), says that in re-
gard to Federation he feels like a man who has
been sliding down a rope in a dark well and has
come to the end of the rope. “I have to let go
something I have got,” he says, “and I don’t
know how far I shall drop.’’ Under these pain-
ful circumstances he certainly must drop. If pro-
vincialism consists in hanging at the end of a rope
in a dark well, it is such a bad state of things that
the sooner everybody drops the better.
An octopus lately cast ashore on the At-
lantic coast of U.S.A. had a body 21ft. long and.
7ft. across. The stump of an arm or tentacle still
attached to the body was 36ft. long, and even then
lOin. in diameter at the break, which means that
the spread from tip to tip of opposite arms must
have been a good deal over 100 ft. ; and, as the frag-
mentary mass weighed six tons, the living beast
must have weighed at least 12 tons. Evidently
the old Norse kraken was a very real beast. Also
a beast like this with spread arms would make an
excellent sea-serpent.
Dear Bulletin, —Re a “pacer being”
employed at Darling Harbor to keep the slow men
up to their work. The game is being played on
every railway or other big contract where it can
be worked. On the railway “pacers” are called
“ tunnel-tigers ” by the other bricklayers, who
never get the same amount of wages unless they
can keep up to the pace of a wire-muscled
machine. Consequently they get about 2s. a day
less than the pacer. In the subletting business,
sometimes a “ tiger ” gets the job after passing
through a couple of other hands, and then it goes
from start to finish—for he will generally offer a
good wage to anyone who will keep up with him,
and, as that rarely happens, he lets them choose
between low wages and the sack. Most of the big
contractors have their own special “tiger.” In
one of the largest foundation contracts lately done
in Sydney, “ pacing ” was rampant.—J.F.D.
On Our Selection .
DAD AND YOUNG DONOVAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was after supper, and we were all husking corn
in the barn. Old Anderson and young Tom
Anderson and Mrs. Maloney were helping us.
We were to assist them the following week. The
barn was illuminated by fat-lamps which made
the spiders in the rafters uneasy and disturbed the
slumbers of a few fowls that for months had in-
sisted on roosting on the cross-beam.
Mrs. Maloney was arguing with Anderson. She
was claiming to have husked two cobs to his one,
when the dogs started barking savagely. Dad
crawled from beneath a heap of husks and went
out. The night was dark. He bade the dogs
“lie down.” They barked louder. “Damn you—
lie down! ”he roared. They shut up. Then a
voice from the darkness said:
“ Is that you, Mr. Ross ? ”
Dad failed to recognise it, and went to the fence
where the visitor was. He remained there talking
for fully half-an-hour. Then he returned, and
said it was young Donovan.
“Donovan? Mick Donovan?” exclaimed An-
derson. And Mother and Mrs. Maloney and Joe
echoed “ Mick Donovan ?” They were surprised.
“ A very unwelcome visitor,” said Anderson,
thinking of his horses and cows. Mother agreed
with him, while Mrs. Maloney repeated over and
over again that she was always under the im-
pression that Mick Donovan was in gaol along
with his bad old father. Dad was uncommunica-
tive. There was something on his mind. He
waited till the company had gone, then consulted
with Dave.
They were outside, in the dark, and leant on the
dray. Dad said in a low voice: “ He’s come a
hundred mile to-day, ’n’ his horse is dead-beat, ’n’
he wants one t’ take him t’ Back Creek t’-morrer
’n’ leave this one in his place. . . . Wot d’ y’
think ? ” Dave seemed to think a great deal, for he
said nothing.
“Now,”continued Dad, “it’s me opinion the
horse isn’t his; it’s one he’s shook—an’ I’ve an
idea. ” Then he proceeded to instruct Dave in the
idea. A while later he called Joe and drilled him
in the idea.
That night, young Donovan stayed at Shingle
Hut. In the morning, Dad was very affable. He
asked Donovan to come and show him his horse,
as he must see it before thinking of exchanging.
They proceeded to the paddock together. The
horse was standing under a tree, tired-looking.
Dad stood and looked at Donovan for fully half-a-
minute without speaking.
“ Why, damn it ! ” he exclaimed, at last, “ that’s
my own horse! . . . You don’t mean . . .
S’help me ! Old Bess’s foal! ’’ Donovan told him
he was making a mistake.
“ Mistake be hanged ! ” replied Dad, walking
round the animal. “ Not much of a mistake about
him! ”
Just here Dave appeared, as was proper.
“Do you know this horse?” Dad asked him.
“ Yes, of course,” he answered, surprisedly, with
his eyes open wide, “ Bess’s foal ! —of course it is.”
“ There you are ! ” said Dad, grinning trium-
phantly.
Donovan seemed uneasy.
Joe in his turn appeared. Dad put the same
question to him. Of course Joe knew Bess’s foal
—“ the one that got stole.”
There was a silence.
“Now,” said Dad, looking very grave, “what
have y’ got t’ say ? Who’d y’ get him off, and
show’s y’r receipt.”
Donovan had nothing to say, he preferred to be
silent.
“Then,” Dad went on, “clear out of this as
fast as you can go, an’ think y’self lucky.”
He cleared, but on foot.
Dad gazed after him, and, as he left the pad-
dock, said :
“ One too many f ’ y' that time, Mick Donovan ! ”
Then to Dave, who was still looking at the horse :
“ He’s a stolen one right enough, but he’s a
beauty, and we’ll keep him ; and if the owner ever
comes for him, well—if he is the owner—he can
have him, that’s all.”
We had the horse for 18 months and more. One
day Dad rode him to town. He was no sooner
there than a man came up and claimed him. Dad
objected. The man went off and brought a police-
man. “ Orright Dad said—“ take him.” The
policeman took him. He took Dad too.
Q.
STEELE KUDD.
Although, from the gold standpoint, New
Guinea may so far be a disappointment, it has,
nevertheless, within itself huge potentialities. A
Towers man describes a Southern district of
Papua: “Flat country with splendid pasture.
Would grow almost any kind of tropical produce—
yams, mangoes, bananas, maize ; and it possesses
25 varieties of sugar-cane. ”
“ It is a curious fact, which I have noticed
constantly during my ample experience of painters,
that they are utterly insensible to beauty, except
from its commercial aspect. They just screw up
their eyes when they see a pretty woman or an
exquisite view, they hold out a thumb (metaphori-
cally, of course), and start thinking about ‘ tones’
and ‘ values.’ Then, see how badly they dress
themselves, and how untidy they are.” — Marie
Corelli.
A few instances of how Australian litera-
ture re-appears in its native land, as exotic. A
self-important Sydney weekly not long ago re-
printed from an English magazine an Australian
writer’s short story, which said weekly had itself
previously refused, on the ground of want of
space ; though, when the story could be thus ob-
tained gratis, at second-hand, the necessary space
was forthcoming. Again, Sydney Sun recently
and inadvertently reprinted Louise Mack’s Bul-
letin story, “Dirt-Cheap” taken, under an
altered title, from the Weekly Scotsman, which
had in turn reprinted from Sheffield Weekly
Telegraph. Also, a recent Sydney Sunday
Times repeated, from London Evening News, a
story about Premier Kingston, which the latter
hardened and hopeless thief-paper had stolen from
The Bulletin without acknowledgment. “Thus
do go about, about! ”
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydnev.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


A WELL-KNOWN CYCLIST
Regains Health and Strength by the Use of the Great
Blood-Purifier and Tonic, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. He
Sends his Portrait, and Writes as Follows:
Jk
Gentlemen- : Being a racing cyclist and consequently having to
go through a severe bodily test in way of training I was, after a long term
of constant practice, entirely run down, and had decided to abandon the
track for awhile, but having heard a great deal as to the blood-purifying
and strengthening qualities of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I determined to give
it a trial. I am glad to say that I have been greatly benefited by the
medicine, so much so that I am again able to go on the bicycle track,
and can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone suffering from loss of
strength and weakness of the system.
Yours respectfully,
Frank Watts, Sydney, New So. Wales, Dec. 29,1896.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Strength-Giver and Blood-Purifier.
See that the name-Ayee’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrap-
per, and blown in the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A HOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSE at BEDiIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
jQmgftnic.
. “Your LurgTonic was recommended tome some years ago, and I have used
it with the most satisfactory results ever since. I keep it in the house, and
upon the first symptoms of a cold or cough, commence taking it, and invari-
ably find they disappear.’’—A. J, SMITH, 29 Calderon Road. Levtonstone.
Try it for Consumption,
i ry it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWbR DGE, Chemist, Hull.
■Sold in Bottles, Is. I'jd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d
•nd 11s., by all Chemists and Pate> t
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London mul
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE
MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET. SYDNEY
I
JMElcls. SJ iximons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
IA7IAEKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIOARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy ©cods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCO
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
RE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIOH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash Time-Payment
tfgf Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEIiET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Sydney. — Don't be waylaid by Impostors who are Trying to Infringe the Rights
of the Misfit Parlour, Registered. Please take notice that
NATHAN HERMAN
HAS THE SOLE EIGHT OF HIS KEG IST Bit KD Bit AND, THE
MISFIT PARLOUR.
Criminal Proceedings will be Instituted Against Those Who Are Deluding the Public !
NATHAN HERMAN’S MISFIT PARLOUR is situated in WYN YARD-STREET ONLY,
AND WHERE THE BUSINESS FIRST ORIGIN AT ED.
NATHAN HERMAN has taken an Extended Lease of his OLD-ESTABLISHED PREMISES, Wynyard-street, and
has decided, in consequence of heavy -hipments coming to hand, to clear out the following Lines, regardless of cost;
BREECH-LOADING GUNS, Top Actions, 12 bore, 555. ; BRITISH BULL DOG REVOLVERS; 6 Chambers, 6s. 6d. ;
WATCHES and CHAINS, Perfect Timekeepers, ss. lid. ; Genuine BRUSSELS CARPETS, Splendid Designs, Is. 6d.,
Making and Laving Free ; BEST QUALITY FLOORCLOTHS, Thick as a Beard, Is. 6d. ; No Finer Quality TEA in
Sydney, ss. a "Box of 101 b. CHESTERS! CHESTERS! CHESTERS ! MISFITS FROM MELBOURNE,'in Blue,
Brown, or Fawn ; Heavy Vicunas, cost £7 made to order, 375. 6d. is the Sale Price. Come and see them ; even if you
don’t want to'-buv. WATERPROOF COATS, with Capes, Velvet Collars, Guaranteed Sewn, 17s. 6d. BLANKETS,
THE CHEAPEST IN THE LAND, BOOT’S and SHOES for MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN at Prices Thar, Will
Stupefy You. MEN’S SUITS, TAILOR-MADE, 17s. 6d. MOSELEYS 78 E.P. TABLE and DESSERT KNIVES,
Balanced Handles, 7fd. each. AUSTRIAN CLAIRS, put .together, 4s 6d. REAL HAVANA CIGARS, 12s. per
Hundred. And Many Thousands of Other Lines that would take a whole newspaper to describe.
NATHAN HERMAN, the Misfit Parlour (Registered),
9 Wynyard. Street, Sydney.
|£2 BALE. MY WONIV RFI'L ,-32 38A138.
£2.
Comprisin'? One Complete SUIT OF CLOTHES out. of 11 1 •• B st, Material, any size.
Two OUTER SHIRTS (White or Colored!, Two UNDER; L j RTS (Flannel or’otherwise).
Six Pairs MEN’S SOCKS, Two NL :K :TES, Two COLLARS, Six HANDKERCHIEFS.
One Set of STUDS, One HAT (eillr r Soft or Haiti Felt).
One Pair BRACES or BE I T, One Pair BOOTS or SHOES.
A GENTLEMAN’S RIG-OUT FROM HEAD TO FOOT FOR TWO (2) POUNDS.
£2.
£l. MY WOiXIiKIU'UL £1 BALKS £l.
NO. I.—MY DRESS BALE contains THREE DRESSES and LININGS as follows 2 Dress Lengths of New
Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-wool Serge-and Nun’s Veiling, 12 yards of Good Print, 8 yards Silesia, •> y;, yards
Body Lining, and 6 yards White Calico, 20s. the lot.
NO. 2. —MY WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL, c mtaining f> ! 4 yards White Twill Sheeting 80in. wide •
1 dozen yards Good Household Calico, 1 yard wide : 6 yank splendid quality' of Flannelette, wide width, soft finish ;
2£ yards Cream Linen Damask ; A dozen White Turkish Towe.s . 0 yards Linen Apron Dowlas ; a grand 20s. worth.
NO. 3.—MY MARVELLOUS LADIES' UNDERCLOTHING BALE, comprising a Complete Outfit of Really Nice
Garments, Two Chemises, Two Nightdresses, Two Pairs Knickers, ail pure longcloth, beautifully trimmed with'Swiss
Embroidery ; All-wool Singlets (summer weight.). One Pair Corsets (state size), One Large Holland Apron, One Fancy
Apron, Two Pairs Cashmere Hose, or Four Pairs Stainless Black Cotton Hose ; the lot for 20s.'
No.. 4 BALE ECLIPSES EVERYTHING, BEING MY EYE-OPENING DRESS PARCEL—Contains 7 yards
double-width of any of the following fashionable materials : New Alpaca Effect. ,V -wool Tweed, Hopsacs, Sei-o-e
or Cashmere, Figured Lustres; also very elegant patterns in All-wool Nun's g. In fact, from materials
costing over 2s. fid. per yard double-width. Together with sufficient of any Fuel. mile Trimming desired, and
all Linings, Buttons, and extras required for making a really suptri >r dress. The h:>, IRE BALE FOIi £l.
No. 6 BALE FORTH, WORTH 4.3 AT LEAST, comprising Table Cut.cry, Spoons, Forks, etc., etc. Read
Mark, and Inwardly Digest :—(> Balance handled Table Knives, pinned ; 6 Balance handled Dessert Knives pinned’-
6 E.P. Page’s Best Table Spoons ; 0 E.P. Page's Best Dessert Spoons; (i E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Forks - 6Ep’
Page’s Best Table Forks ; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Teaspoons ; 1 Mustard .' peon ; 1 Salt Spoon ; 1 Pair Best Carvers.
No. 7 BALE A SMOKER’S OUTFIT, comprising 1 Box, containing 130■ splendid Cigars; lib. Best, Tobacco
12 plugs; 1 Meerschaum Pipe (in case); 1 India-rubber Tobacco Pouch; 1 Plated Match Box; 1 Briar Pipe-
-1 Pocket Knife, two blades ; 1 splendid Razor; 1 Shaving Brush ; 1 Razor Strop. THIS LOT, WORTH £3 FOR i i ’
With Amazement I Read On. No. 8 SERVICEABLE BALE contains-1 Oak-frame Clock, S clav, strikes
J4-hour and hour, Cathedral Gong, visible pendulum, worth 30s. ; I Clothes Brush ; 1 Hair Brush : 1 Conn -; 1 Tooth
Comb; 1 Tooth Brush; 1 Purse; 1 Adelaide Corkscrew; 3 Packs No. 4 Jumbo Playing Cards ; 1 Box Grid Paint-
-1 Alarm Clock. Purchasers not requiring a second clock can have in its place 6 Boxes Assorted PerlunK-u Soau each
containing 3 Tablets. THIS MARVELLOUS LOT, WORTH £3 FOR £l.
S 3?" CARRIAGE FREE BY RAIL OR STEAMER THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WALES.
Nathan Herman,
Universal . .
. . Provider
9 WYNYARD STREET (Half-way between George and York Streets), SYDNEY.


t-I
■54
it
Dfsbcc
33
‘gubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Olubs of Australia.
-THE- 1
Ballet 6irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trationa, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free X/-»
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confession*
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) Ptinjpiijg Ei>gii>e Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOn BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE- MARiU
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGrTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock..
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
0T- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grandmedicineshave not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
Spurious.
N OTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be v/nable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who umdd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles.
Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
c Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King - Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET —THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION
Everywhere. H . PATESON, MANAGER.
3
manufacturers & Importers
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates’ Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking
m
Knowles’ Vertical Sinking
Knowles Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Roots’ Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Powder.
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions) ... ... 20 ~ ~ „
One Year „ (52 insertions) ... ... 25 „ ~ ~
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for oash in advance.
Boi)OiQgtoi)’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
"VATILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
ft is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
