

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout*
The Bulletin
Yol. 18.—No. 905. j
(Saturday, June 19, 1897.
Beg stered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
XE£. Cfr. WATKINS «SC- GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, '
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Twining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
k
%I»T*
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
o
O ''
<RAc\as6cK>
£
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE &. Co.,
85 Pitt-st, SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Tluasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor <st Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating- Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbknt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
"MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mahier
& Platt, IM., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by 'le Cm orii>k Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wipe & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A. Bplemd.ici Lunch for Is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence 10/-per day.
Before vfyrhnj the Gty wrirero (he Manager for
(? p d«f Tariff. (Orrcjpondence promptly amended to.
Xioimon’s Hotel,
iQiE^iirkjim.auxriES.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Propriktor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
TZE3ZDE - -
£ros\leoor Hotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDISTEY.
For TERMS, please audress the Manager.
■RED BIRD
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions!''
THE
E
est
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch s
G 4 King- Street,
Sydney.
Depots
f MELBOURNE.
{ ADELAIDE.
I WELLINGTON, N.l
Agents Everywhere.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
durable, odorless,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
XOdl., llcl., Is.
Large Stoebs of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
Visitors to -
—Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Tempsrance Hotel,
Corner LONST) \LE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
HCiStraliai? !4oyslty
. . SotrodftciQg Co.
A PERFECT PICTUR.K. -New Method, without
chemicals, lenses, baths, sunlight, or Hash - powders.
Carried in vest-pocket ready for instant use day or night.
A beautifully finished Picture every minute. Complete
Apparatus, with impression slips, One Shilling (post-paid),
13 Imperial Arcade, SIDNEY.
Poverty IPoiiiters!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
- m
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
post" - '!.
Established over 20 Years.
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to all
parts of the World.
The CHEQUE BANK
System is the most
practicable and con-
v- nient method for
conveying and dis-
bursing money in
any sums, however
large or small.
Ladies travelling alone will find the CHEQUE BANK
an almost invaluable aid in solving the vexed
qiffstion of how to take care of money in travelling. It
saves time and the various annovances which the changing
of money -n foreign countries naturally brings up.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than ordinarv
Money Orders for remittance of money to all parts of the
world. Cheques posted to any part of Australasia.
Handbooks and all information on application.
James Malcolm,
GENERAL AGENT.
Sydney Agency :
135 PITr STREET (near G.P.0.).
FROSSARP’S CAVQUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR l 5 .


THE BED PAGE OF AUSTRALASIAN NOTES AND QUERIES.
20. —Aboriginal Rock Carvings.
In the ‘ Voyage of Governor Phillip to Botany
Bay,’ pub. 1789 (pp. 106-107), it is stated that—
In ail the excursions of Governor Phillip in the neigh-
bourhood of Botany Bay and Port Jackson the figures of
animals, of shields and weapons, and even of men, have
been found carved upon the rooks. Fish were often re-
presented, and in one place the form of a large lizard was
sketched out with tolerable accuracy.
For some years past I have been endeavouring
to copy and describe in detail as many as possible
of these specimens of pictorial art, showing the
imitative faculties of a primitive people. The
annexed drawing accurately reproduces (with some
minor omissions) certain rock carvings found near
Port Jackson and on the Hawkesbury River.
The following method appears to have been
pursued by the natives in executing these carvings.
A number of holes were first made close together
along the outline of the intended figure, and these
were afterwards connected by cutting out the
intervening spaces, thus making a continuous
groove of the required width and depth. Judging
by the punctured indentations, the aboriginal artist
had a hard stone or pebble chipped or ground to a
point, and used as a chisel. There does not ap-
pear to be reason for assigning a remote date of
execution to any of the carvings. Some of the
best preserved have no doubt been done since the
first occupation of the country by the white race.
I met a blackfellow in the Hunter River district
who told me he had seen one of his countrymen
engaged in cutting on a large rock the figure of a
man, which he subsequently pointed out to me.
In the annexed plate Fig. 1 represents a man
15ft. 2in. tall. Fig. 2 is a woman lift. 3ir,. tall,
with an ahnormally long body and short legs like
Fig. 1. Fig. 3 and 4 are tolerable representations
of kangaroos—the latter having a shield attached
to his hind leg. Fig. 5 represents the incomplete
drawing of a man 16ft. tall. Fig. 6 is an immense
fish 33ft. lOin. long, and 21ft. 9in. from tip to tip
of the opposite fins. Fig. 7 is a peculiar drawing
of a Bmall fish, and Fig. 8 is a man somewhat less
than life-size. Remembering that the aboriginal
sculptors had only a piece of sharp stone with
whioh to carve these colossal figures on the hard
rook, it oan be readily understood that the task
necessitated immense labor, and occupied a con-
siderable time.
The large rook on which Fig. 1 is carved is situ-
ated about half-a-mile on the eastern side of the
main road from Wiseman’s Ferry towards Parra-
matta, and about four miles from the former
place, in the Parish of Frederick. Figs. 2,3, 5 and
8 are all on one rock on a bridle path or trail
leading from Creek to Hawkesbury
River, in the Parish of Spencer. Fig. 4. is cut on
a flat rook on the old road from Sydney to Peat’s
Ferry, about four miles from the railway station
at Hawkesbury River, in the Parish of Cowan.
Fig. 6 is found on a large rock on the western side
of Bantry Bay, in the Parish of Manly Gove.
Fig. 7 is carved on a mass of rock a few chains on
the eastern side of the Peat’s Ferry road, about
half or three-quarters of a-mile northerly from
Fig. 4.
Some of the carvings shown on this plate were
described by me in 1895 in the ‘Journal of the
Anthropological Institute,’ London, vol. xxv.,
pp. 145—163, plate xxi. Fig. 1 was also pub-
lished in plate iii. of the ‘Proceedings of the
Geographical Society ’ at Brisbane, vol. x. —R.
H. Mathews.
1 .—Red Hair.— l7/4/97.
I lost vhe chance of winning a foot-race through
my red hair. I was about to start in the final
when a spectator, a market-gardener, sang out
to a friend across the track (also in the vegetable
line): ‘ Wotcher backing this time, Ned?’ ‘Oh,*
replied Ned, ‘1 put my beans on the scarlet
runner ’ —meaning me. The reply put me out so
muoh that I got a bad starb and lost the raoe.—
Rufus.
According to my experience red-heads have
bad eyesight. Is this a statistical fact, or is my
experience (principally in Queensland) excep-
tional? My son ‘Ginger’s’ sight unfortunately
bears me out, thougn excellent on both sides of
immediate origin.— Narupi.
The antipathy to red hair is peculiar to the Eng-
lish-speaking people's, and dates from the time
when the English coast was constantly raided by
the Danes and Scandinavians, who were, and are
at the present day, a conspicuously red-haired
race. Amongst the Germans this prejudice does
not exist, and by nearly all races but the Anglo-
Saxon red hair is particularly admired.—R.
‘ X.Z.’ (22/5/97) errs. The name Rothsohild
means a ‘red shield,’ and has no relation to
‘child’ or ‘children.’ The name was chosbu
when the Austrian Govb. made it compulsory for
the Jews to have a surname, and was taken from
the sign or emblem hung over the doorway of their
place of business— viz., a red shield.—D.
3. Whistling Spears. —l7/6/97.
W.R. quotes A. Meston as saying that the term
* whistling spears ’ is only used by persons igno-
rant of the flight of projectiles. Has Meston
never heard the ‘ swish ’ of a rifle bullet, or heard
it, after ricocheting, hum like a swarm of bees?
The writer has often made and used woomera
spears, and they invariably emitted a slight
•wishing sound, certainly not a whistle, but still
» hiss audible to most ears. Feathered arrows
also ‘swish.’ The straighter a spear, the less
noise it will make. Anyone may experiment for
himself, as a woomera and spear are easily made.
The boomerang makes a sound like the flight of a
bronze-wing. —Lignum.
About spears I can’t say ; but a feathered
arrow certainly makes a faint ‘ swish,’ and the
ABORIGINAL ROCK CARVINGS.
deadly little sumpitan-dart cries ‘ wheep ! ’ past
your ear. Besides, there’s nothing in ‘ the ordin-
ary laws governing the flight of projectiles ’ to
necessitate the silence of that flight. Isn’t a
bullet a projeotile ?—Macassar.
Most missiles strike something, if not the thing
aimed at —very often glancing off a tree or stone —
and at onee begin to hum. Hence the repeated re-
ferences to ‘whistling bullets,’ &c., in stories
generally told by parties attacked, who, as a rule,
would be under cover, off w.iich many cn the
missiles would glance. I myself have often heard
the sharp ‘ping’ of bullets when kangaroo-
shooting, but only after they have touched some-
thing solid. They make no noise when unim-
peded.—E.S. 0.
I have seen two aboriginal tribes engaged in
battle with spears, and have distinctly heard a
sound which resembled the noise of a bullet pass-
ing through the air ; and everybody knows that
bullets do ‘whistle.’ An old guerrilla captain
has described to me an important engagement
whioh took place between Apaches and Iroquois
Indians in 1862. He laid particular stress on the
‘whizzing’ (i.e., whistling) of the arrows.—A.
Lavioski.
I have had muoh experience in this matter—l 3
years in the South Seas, and 10 in N.Q.—and my
strong impression is that spears make a noise,
when thrown, like that of wild ducks when
flying—especially on first leaving the hand. When
flight is nearly finished, of oourse, the noise is
very slight.—J.G.
Many years ago, in fe. A., I received my baptism
of fire on a frontier station, in what was then
called a ‘ scrimmage ’ with the wild blacks. Recol-
lection of the whiz of the spears within a few
inches of my head is still very vivid. A spear at
the commencement of its flight may be nearly
noiseless. Ido not know whether it is or not, but
I can aver that they begin to talk in a very few
yards from their starting-point. The verb whiz
is defined in ‘Nuttall’s Dictionary’—‘to make a
humming or whistling sound like an arrow or ball
flying through the air.’ Probably *A. Meston ’is
deaf.—A. Riijmer.
6.— First Australian Theatre. —l7/4/97.
The first theatrical performance in Australia
was of Farquhar’s comedy, ‘ The Recruiting
Officer,’ given in honor of King George’s birth-
day by convicts at Sydney on June 4th, 1789.
The first theatre was built in Sydney and opened
on Jan. 16, 1796. The play was Dr. Young’s
tragedy, ‘The Revenge,’ and a farce called ‘The
Hotel.’ The manager’s name was Sparrow, and
the actors were Hawkes, Green, Hughes, Chap-
man, and Mrs. Davis. It was on this occasion
that the prologue ascribed to George Barrington—
author and pickpocket—was given. Admission to
the gallery was a shilling’s-worth of spirits, flour,
meat or similar articles. In 1798 the theatre
was destroyed by order of the Governor, because
its existence encouraged thieving among the con-
victs. One man killed a pedigree greyhound
belonging to an officer, skinned it, and sold the
flesh for 9d. a lb. as “ prime kangaroo ” —which
was in request among the anti-vegetarians of the
epoch, lacking beef. And with the proceeds the
abandoned villain became a Patron of the Drama.
—P.M.
Heaton's ‘ Aust. Diet, of Dates ’ (Sydney,
1879) says Governor Bourke, of N.S.W. (1831-37)
granted a license for dramatic performances to
Barnett Levy, owner of the Royal Hotel, Sydney.
Levy fitted up his hotel ‘saloon ’ as a theatre, and
also built in 1833 a theatre called ‘ the Theatre
Royal ’ —first manager, Meredith. Further—
Victoria Theatre, Sydney, opened March 17 (?26), 1838.
The Olympic, a temporary thoatre, opened in Hunter-
st„ Sydney, by Signor Dalle Oaa., Jan. 2f, 1842.
City Theatre, Market-st., Sydney, opened by Simmons
and Belmore, May 20, 1843.
Queen's Theatre, Queen-st., Melbourne, opened with
‘The Honeymoon,’ May 1, 1845.
Princess’s Theatre, Melb., opened 1854.
And so on. The lists are in part ii., pp. 87, 270,
and are obviously imperfect.—T.W.W.
[H.P.S., G. W,M., and others write to similar effect]
7. — Dengue Fever.— 22/5/97.
Dengue, in ‘dengue’ fever, derived by ‘Medi-
cus ’ from Bengali thangue, appears in Power and
Sedgwick’s ‘English Sydenham Society’s Lexicon ’
(the English medical standard, London, 1882) as
‘ probably a Spanish reproduction of the English
synonym “ dandy ” fever.’ Rudolph Matas, M.D.
of New Orleans, U.S.A., where ‘dengue’ is as
common and epidemio as measles, avers (Keating’s
‘ Cyclopedia of Diseases of Children,’ Lond., 1889,
v. 1., p. 878), that ‘ dandy ’ fever was a term
first used by the negroes of St. Thomas, West
Indies, in 1827, because the intense stiffening
rheumatoid pains make the sufferer walk stiffly
and pompously like a dandy. In Spanish there
are words dunga and dengue, and a later adjective
denguero, meaning ‘coquettish,’ ‘foppish,’ and
‘dude’ respectively. These are quite as likely
origins as ‘ Medieus’s ’ thangue. The title dengue
was first officially adopted by physicians in the
London Colleges’ ‘System of Nosological Classifi-
cation ’ in 1869, and has dominated all other names
for the disease. In the Sandwich islands it is
called bou-hou (wailing fever), from the cries
(boo-hoo!) of sufferers. This nasty fever has, to
my knowledge, no less than 43 names.—X.Z.
A medical veteran tells me ‘ dengue ’ is a con-
densation of ‘ Aden ague ’ —by which name the
malady was first known to the faculty. Omitting
initial letters, the united remains give the word as
now spelt.—Tahune Linah.
The Century Dictionary, vol. 2, page 1533,
gives the following ‘Dengue (deng-ga), a West
Indian use of Spanish dengue—prudery, fasti-
diousness, lit. : a refusing (the same as Italian
diniego, refusal, denial); Spanish denegar, the
same as Italian denegare, refuse, deny ; Latin,
denegare, deny. This disease, when it first ap-
peared in the British West Indian Islands, was
called the dandy fever, from the stiffness and
constraint wnich it gave to the limbs and body.
The Spaniards of the neighboring islands mistook
the word for their word dengue, denoting pru-
dery, what might also well express stiffness, and
hence the term dengue became at last the name
of the disease.’ —H. W.
8. - The She Oak. -22/5/97.
The She Oak derives its botanical name
Casuarina (Linnaeus) from the resemblance of
the long, weeping, leafless branches to the droop-
ing feathers of the cassowary. The common
name She Oak, Shiok, or Sheaoak is said to
spring from an early N.S.W. colonist, one Shea;
and although this theory is not very generally
accepted, we find Australian scientists using the
term Sheaoak— including the late Dr. Schomburgk
for many years director of Adelaide Bot. Gardens
(in his Catalogue of Plants, and in various papers
given by him before various societies). It is used
also by the Rev. J. E. Woods in his ‘Geological
Observations in South Australia,’ page 30—
‘ Casuarina cequcefolia (the Shea Oak of colonists) ’
—but most writers spell it Sheoak or She Oak
wlnlst some use the hyphenated She-Oak. I think
the correct spelling is She Oak, and that it is so
called to distinguish it from the male or He Oak
there being both male and female varieties. The
She Oak is found in all the Australian provinces,
.hollowing are some of the varieties—
Lasuarinci tortulosa , found in Westralia in 1772.
Caxuarina stricta , found in New South Wales in 1775
audT'mt? eciuUetifola ' fouud * n Northern Australia
Casuarina quad.rivaj.vis, found inSouih Australia 1809
Casuarina glauca, found in (Port Phillip) Vic 1809 ’
Casuarina distyla, found in Tasmania, 1812. ’’
vernacular games of ’the Casuarina
0 : I k!, n't She-oak, Sheaoak, Shea
Oak, He Oak, Bull Oak, Beefwood Oak, Shingle
Oak, Coast She Oak, River Oak, Billa, or Bull
ri a i k ’ -^ reGt Swamp Oak, Stunted She
Oak, 1 orest Gate, Desert She Oak, Botany Oak
and River Black Oak. The Casuarina w»*
frequently met with by Flinders, Leichhardt,
Sturt, and other explorers, in their journeys
throughout Australia. In addition to those men-
tionod above, the following authors have been eon-
suited, viz., Robert Brown, Lond., 1814; Henry
Windowson, Lond., 1829 ; G. F. Moore, Lond.,
1842; J. F. Bennett, Adelaide, 1843; M. Moor-
house, Adelaide, 1846; G. B. Wilkinson, Lond.,
1848; D. Bunce, Geelong, 1859 ; Rev. J. E. T.
Woods, Adelaide, 1864; W. Westgarth, Lond.,
1868; Rev. W. Ridley, Sydney, 1875; Wright
and Dewar, Lond., 1884 ; J. H. Maiden, Sydney,
1889.— G. Gerrard.
The she oak grows in Vie. and S.A.—in fact,
there is, or was, a town called ‘ She Oak Log.*
Years ago the derivation was said to be taken from
the native name of the tree —at that time spelt (at
nearly as I can remember) chui oque ; that being u
near the native sound as could be written. There
is a similar tree called bull oak; but the real wild
oak, whose timber is nearest in appearance to Eng-
lish oak, is the river oak, very plentiful in N.Q,
creeks —whence all the Oaky or Oakey Creeks.—
Native.
Sheoak means female oak; the male tree ia
called by bushmen bullosk. The correot
name of the tree is not shiok, but sheoak.
It is a species of belar, and grows on all the
N.S.W. mountain ranges west and south-
west as far as Dubbo, but I do not know that it
extends to Bourke. South as far as the Border—
about Albury and away up towards Tumbarumba
and Kiandra. It grows on the South Coast line
too —about Dapto, for instance, where there is a
B°rub of wildoak or sheoak alluded to in Kendall’s
poems. The whispering or sighing of the wild-
oaks is mentioned—and it certainly is a peouliar
rustling, whispering, sighing, mournful sound,
which tends to give one the hearfc-ache. The she-
oak tree does not grow to a large size, and it is
recognised by the sour green nuts it bears. They
are really small cones, and bush boys chew them
because they are/sour. The bulloak ia a larger,
coarser tree, and its cones are hard and tastless.—
M.C.
Was it the name originally given to the oak
which produced acorns—the fertile or ‘she-oak?*
This tree is found on N.S.W. coast and on north-
ern tableland, as well as ‘ beyond Bathurst.’—
Plover.
What are the Australian aboriginal names
for the she oak tree —specifying name of tribe and
locality ?—W. A. S.
9. — Ants in Aboriginal Camps. —22/5/97.
I should say that ‘6xB’ is generalising on in-
sufficient data when asserting that ‘ ants shift
when blacks pitch camp in their neighborhood.’
I oan vouch for the presence of ants in at least
one blacks’ camp. This may be the exception,
but I doubt it.— Plover.
13. — Vegetable Caterpillars.
In Bulletin of April 24, page 19, F;C. men-
tion.-, having seen petrified caterpillars with small
trees growing out of them. In ‘The English
Illustrated Magazine for JaD., 1897, there is an
illustrated description of the vegetable caterpillar
(cordyceps Robertsii), by Jas. Buckland, whioh
might interest ‘F.O.’ and others. —G.W.M.
14. The Bell-Bird.
T. G. Aflalo, in his lately-published ‘Natural
History of Australia’ (p. 120), makes the aston-
ishing statement that the bell-bird ‘is found only
in the scrub of New South Wales, where its bell-
like note often breaks the silence with startling
suddenness.’ As a matter of fact, the betl-bird is
so plentiful in the neighborhood of the Gippsland
lakes that its note b comes almost irritating.—
S.B.
QUERIES.
15. What is the origin of the name *Blaek
Maria,’ applied to a prison van? —V.
16. What is derivation of ‘ waltzing Matilda’
—carrying a swag? Can the first user and dateof
first use be traced ?—V.
17. Why do .those lost in the bush throw off
their clothes, and then keep going round in a
circle to the right ? Do they always do so, or
under what circumstances, and with what differ-
ences and exceptions ?•—V.
18. What is origin of phrase ‘Putthe M‘Ginms
on him ’ —applied in the bush to putting a stock-
whip underneath a horse’s belly and then drawing
it taut to make the animal buck ?—V.
19. What is origin of phrase ‘ The real Mackay’
— i-<’-, good liquor? Does it, as some say, derive
from good rum formerly made at Mackay, Q. ? If
so, who started distillery, and when ?—V.
Gi EORGE ROBERTSON & 00.,
T George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from Thk BULL*
tin) ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Ths
Bulletin), by Price Warung ; price, 25.; oost-free,
2«. Bd. '
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio Quinn ; prioe, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
a7~H STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic.
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE COMMONWEALTH
.... OF AUSTRALIA
is a myth of the future ; v and, although the Federal min- r
be the distant future. We may even ‘some day have ”°n’ W w Pf?^ 7
of our own, for history, they say, repeats itself. However “suffieWt 6 ? ® v ®° l ¥ e ashington
>r the Dresent we will rml™- none — i~<_. n ’ , umcient unto the day is the evil
fhe choicest thing we can re-
.l r„ ? 7 ~ J .f’ xiowever, “
thereof, for the present we will only contemplate the nood
commend a smoker is a packet of s
CIGARETTES
They are not mythical but pleasant realities


Medical.
Dr. FREEMAN.
yoGog
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
. . . ■i — , - - pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living’ away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Comer Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney,
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee. 10/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
LADIES!
Don't Fret or Worry, but remember that H>**.
Sjpeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Medicine SentTFrecT^
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
case. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than .£1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
10S R I CORDS
cE °V U | F E--
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
aU the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Ills, or four quantities in one for H6s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <t Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“ABoro PljySiciai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with wjsak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price JB2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
ennchmg the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I 1 JOHN -QUWAHTIJ
•» ENCLOSEOfj
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
TI)C Calory of tyai) I
STRENGTH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BLOOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering- gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries,
to an unsympathising physician, who does not study and,
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who now find the penalties following their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver-
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
MARRIED MEN and those about to marry, who-
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,,
should consult DR. WALSH without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without operation..
Write for particulars.
“The Bright Side,” a valuable Illustrated Medical'
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,.
L.R.C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician,
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great.
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has.
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long-
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous!
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in person free and invited..
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you.
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment,
is desired, send complete history of case and £l.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83. EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE..
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
WEAK MAN
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “ cure alls ”
snecifics. &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
. “ . . . * satirl ¥-Tiiiliilir
■ EQiNNINQ ]mq wcFK SPCCIOCS, (SC.j WllvJll 1 Will OCIIVA .
“mopathiciTrlatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness and *ailins;
in voiini? and old ni6o> All letters sent sealed.
S r Addreas--Dr. IRVING CO., corner Hunter ajTd^ligh_Streets I _Sydney i
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
13 r. GIBBON'S,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
| under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of thebreast-
| bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
i mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
i so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
i book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE EOTJND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out)
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBB ON S
will then write you a candid and straightforward
•opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your ease, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
■description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY EIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
.-secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised, as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Madloax.
PERFECT DIIiIHOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
Ha Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Ouinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that 1
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITOHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“ Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was-recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.


9
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
•• TATTERSALLcare Geo. Adams, Hobart.
GRAND NATIONAL H
July 3.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
£
Address,
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers a»/fc 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name '
‘Addi •ess
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
10,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
£
Name.
Address
*
SPRING IT. 14th August.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name _
Address
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Su-Dacrilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ' shares in the above.
N ame.
Address
MELBOURNE C.—100,000 at 20; and 100,000 at 5.
NOW OPEN.
Tattersairs Great Distribution
—OF THE—
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF—
City ar>d Slibtirbai?
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize. Terrace Houses* Glenmore
Road, and large Dwelling-llouse, Value
Woollahra ... ... ... ... £8,500
2nd Prize. H ouse and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Clevelaiid-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full? particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SCiited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. W4ll, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you Would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
i Has a record of nearly 60 years
l in curing affections of the Throat
? and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
\ ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
0o Hot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See.
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
C08, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
IVLadaine Rodney,
rrHEcelebrated Scientific y
I may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONAL
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
a
The “Korting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
L.
MANUFACTURED BY
SHUTTE & CO.
sar» te-sw
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
THE AUSTRAL “LIGHT !”
We were standing by the fireside at the pub. one
wintry night,.
Drinking grog and “pitching fairies” while the
lengthening hours took flight,
And a stranger there was present, one who seemed
quite city-bred—
There was little showed about him to denote him
“mulgafed.”
For he wore a four-inch collar, tucked-up pants,
and boots of tan —
You might take him for a new-chum or a Sydney-
city man—
But in spite of cuff and collar, Lord ! he gave
himself away
When he cut and rubbed a pipe-full, and had filled
his colored clay !
For he never asked for matches —although in that
boozing band
There was more than one man standing with a
match-box in his hand ;
And I knew him for a bushman ’spite his tailor-
made attire
As I saw him stoop and fossick for a fire-stick
from the fire
And that mode of weed ignition to my memory
brought back
The long nights when nags were hobbled on a far
North-Western track ;
Recalled camp fires in the timber, when the stars
shone big and bright,
And we learnt the matchless virtues of a glowing
gidgee light.
And I thought of piny sand-ridges ! —and some-
how I could swear
That this tailor-made young johnnie had at one
time been “ out there ” !
And as he blew the white ash from the tapering,
glowing coal—
Faith ! my heart went out towards him for a kin-
dred country soul !
The Breaker.
THE BULLFROG BELL.
Now the truce of night brings respite to the sordid
care of day,
And in listlessness I pace the river side,
Where the solitude is wounded by no lighted
window’s ray ;
But illicit fancy will not be denied— ;
For the darkening flat reiterates a freer life’s
farewell
In the long-familiar knocking of a bullfrog bell.
And in reverie I see the loaded wagons slowly
cree P
Far across the western plains of New bouth
Wales *
With “talking” spokes and felloes, with wool-ropes
biting deep, .
And the dust of two broad counties on the bales.
Till the stars take shape in patterns, and through
their dreamy spell
Comes the low, incessant knocking of the bullfrog
bell.
And the retrospection lingers, bringing spiritless
regret,
Though the northward track is open to me
still — ,
I may count the morning muster —I may track the
stragglers yet—
I may spell or battle onward, as 1 will
X may wake at night to listen, and know that all
is well
By the reassuring answer of the bullfrog bell.
But that virile life repeated would be wearisome
and trite,
Since the glamour of adventure cannot last,
When the Future, with its freshness, its pulsing
roseate light,
Has congealed into a lemon-colored Bast.
So an unreturning era owns its sympathetic knell
In the melancholy knocking of that bullfrog bell.
Vie.
TOM COLLINS.
A FAIR DREAM OF THE BUSH.
Stretched on a breezy spur ’mid ranges wild,
My mountain pony cropping the short grass,
Inhaling draughts of summer air so mild,
I had an hour to pass.
Down through the realms of thought to hazy
dreams
The stillness led me : crags to castles changed ;
The gully’s gurgling to the human streams
That through those castles ranged.
The bell-bird’s note slipped through my slumber,
slain: , .
Re-born, it rolls and clangs from tower to tower,
Summoning knights and squires to arm amain
’Gainst a fierce foreign power.
The magpie’s chatter enters where I sleep,
Transformed into a woman’s voice, soft, clear,
Vowing, with pride, that she will ever keep
A watch on him most dear.
The cattle bellowing half-a-mile away
Change like a flash into th’ advancing foe.
The dame’s leave, with what courtly grace 1 may,
I crave to strike a blow.
The cattle near me : cannon’s crash resounds :
We are to make a sortie ; hand to hand
The fierce fray surges; dead are heaped in mounds,
Rapt in a frenzy grand
I face a stalwart foeman, whose keen blade
Is lifted o’er me ; parry and cut!—thrust.
“Yield thee, thou fool, thou caitiff loon. I said,
Filled with war’s lurid lust
Toppled and fell the sturdy man of fight :
When crack ! a sound as of an earthquake rings.
Vanished my dream, and all the chivalrous sight
With fleetest wakening wings.
'“Catch your horse, man!”— crash! again the
“ Down**that long spur as hard as you can
crack !
Get to the lead ; if these give us the slip
All hell won’t get them back.”
J. JINGLE.
T ll Try TV
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (under cover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I'rlee, 10m. #(l.
Soi/R Agents :
The Remit.
Craig A Altken. 680-682 George-st.. Sydney
WaSbiQgtoi) H- SoCil & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars —that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO., M’sP.S.,
158 & ISO Pitt - street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Pitt -street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit la aold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcS&oq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments.
These are Superior to any Other Maker in the World.
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
ts- Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
_A_. P. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Rubber Manufacturers .
WATERPROOFS,
INVERNESS capes, driving coats, macintoshes, driving rugs, cape
IN V ERJN -cjOD , COATS, OILSKINS.
rubber hose.
n Aurcrisr HOSE SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
HogE , DIVING HOSE> FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works
270 George-street, Sydney.
Every V ariety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tw SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. “SH
VXTRITS; DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depflt, 4«4 George-street, Sydney, for photos and
W particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest ol
Upright Glands and Semi Granris-iron-frained, trichord, in walnut or ebony-direct from the maker*.
nnrM that will effect a saving of 60 per cent, as compared with'buying them froni dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremostfirms in Geisnany
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are n vetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints ft can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climatei and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
ba.B9 wires copper
covered. The clavia*
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.:
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.'
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos vcan
b ff had in walnut, or
ebony, with or without
gold .engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch “B^e’auajity
responsive. The tone possesses a lull sonorona. volume. m-tho:ba»; a nob, Kmnd. nnging q y
in the middle compass; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in theitreble. Si g« include*
sustaining and developing to the voice. We of lo» m par*
freight £ port of entry, insurance, and dnty._T>«i«oniaJ. from
chasers wilTbe submitted, inclndm* eminrat world-snd. Goj""*
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and pcW» rassiwrtW . B*AJUE * CO. UTV ,
Street, Sydney, aod throoghmjt New South Wsfre
Geocpre


Australia!) H[(it(ia\ p rftl#l juST o»ri»n#
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR I
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sj'dney.
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX VCSTAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for* Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTRALIAN BRANDT
(Joshua Bros, 66 Boomerang 99 Brand),
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
ts- Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. “SS
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUITCt & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
—aSIGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Loodoi) ai)d tyelbotirQc Tailoring Qo.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS at
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 255.
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BAUMARSHE Manager
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
hij;h, with Silver Dash Bail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
M)
ME
•s&SLm
m
w
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to mv obiection to
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN C&ST IN SYDNEY X B en
these have English Dunlop and M. and YV. Tyres. The bicycle season is iust coming in Im, , e " h ° ,e of
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money. " ’ *>°'esale and Retail
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
1
'-4
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
B odalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
B odalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
I—godalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYRNEY.
—THE—
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10 - per nicht TWO
DINING BOOMS. Boarders, 30, -go j£3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 05 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
rates lowest. security undoubted.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
/S' INSURERS sHA R E in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent.'on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smitii.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M ‘MillAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynb ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY
RQ TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■w_ C- IEXiioiRinDGKE] & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promvtlu
attended to.
DIXSON & SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yaokee Poodle.
if haS gamed SUch vast Popularity in so short
t me. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year. P
CoijqOeror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
PixSoo’s New CooqOcror.
a„°dXvor SmokerS an im P rovement on «*> old by reason of its aroma
Cl)an>pioi} Aromatic.
th^goM I !eaf^ Ut > B ' ended St ° Ck - can exceed
DARK TWISTS—HncIe Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG- —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATIOS— GoIden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OE P RICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists' Wares in Great and Newest Varieties,
CIGARETTES.
AGENTS FOR
Mooopolc Rotljscbilds, La RoSiija, Flor d« Visto Cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 905.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1897.
Price, (Jd.
A CELEBRATED HEADACHE REMEDY
“ Mary Jane, I’m going to town to see
the illuminations; would you care to
scorne ” '
\ -n rr ■ —* iSS/* r
AUSTRALIAN RECORD MUTTON IN
LONDON.
First East End Person : “ I say, Bill,
'ow long as the Queen been a-reignin’ 1 ”
Second Ditto: “Sixty year.”
First Ditto : “ Well, I shouldn’t
wonder if she 'ad this ’ere chop’s
grandson for her Coronation break- A
fast ”
/ /// *
r , M k ARY J ,^' E " 1 don>t really feel up to it,
I ,< | >l^e - What with the noise and the
tobacco-smoke, and ali the horrid men—
| besides, Iv 6 one of my headaches, and ”
George : “ I’m rather sorry. The club is
going to open its doors to ladies for once
in a way, and ”
T ) 1J ; “ ri) «° for your sake, George.
nTod 6 aIF Will d ° heada <*e
THE QUEEN'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
An imaginary picture drawn after reading articles in
the Record Editions ”of Australian papers.
This is my Lord Tomnoddy, who hired
a draper’s window near St. Paul’s Cathed-
ral for £lO,OOO. And much he got for
his money 1
This is a certain comic artist (who shall
be namelesri) who, anticipating a bur-
glarious raid upon the savings of a life-
time, did not go to Sydney to see the
illuminations.
t 18 A “g ustus Slipper (alias Vrander-
post Bill), who realised enough on the night of
the Record illuminations to buy out a comic
paper, and live happily ever after and die in his
bed.'
At a given signal, “ God Save the Queen ” was to be
sung simultaneously throughout the English-speaking world.
Everybody was so intent upon hearing the tremendous row, that
nobody sang excepting a deaf old lady in Goshen Flat.
-—A)ter Dr. Holmes.
The Little Boy at Manly
throws up his hat.
TOUCHING THE RECORD REIGN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. W ales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• R 2
Half-yearly
Quarterly 0 b b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
ShiUinas sterling—with postage added where required—
which "you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. r.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is heieby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing inth Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black aml White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
icill be paid for "same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—icill be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. _
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
d- Co., Cornhill.
South Africa — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— lC. M. Smith A- Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Alaoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside" N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Is. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
os. tid. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Dicing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
‘o The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
TTHe'^xzlleiz/Ti.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1897.
The Record Reign.
Next week, unless the chapter of accidents
intervenes at the last moment, all the British
empire will jubilate over the fact that Vic-
toria has sat for 60 years on the throne of her
fathers in placid and unobtrusive respecta-
bility. It is the longest reign in British his-
tory, barring that of a half-legendary King
of Kent away back in the olden time when
the casual hog used to step into the palace
out of the wet; and that bygone Kentish
jiotentate is too shadowy to be worth serious
consideration. Next week everybody, or
nearly everybody, will be loyal, for the
moment at all events. Loyalty in these
good times costs absolutely nothing ; in fact,
it often pays solid dividends in the shape of
victuals, and drink, and titles, and advt. in
the papers, and admission to Government
House, and other things, whereas disloyalty
pays no dividends worth mentioning. There-
fore large, bulky alderman and such-like
rave a great deal about their willingness to
die for their beloved Queen, or something
to that effect, being quite certain that there
is no earthly chance of an alderman being
called upon to die for his Queen just at pre-
sent. Loyalty is fashionable, therefore
every sheep-like person who lives in a groove
is loyal. It is respectable, therefore the
crowd which wears a black coat and a bell-
topper is loyal. It leads to a great expendi-
ture of money at Jubilee time, there-
fore every grocer and every plumber
and gasfitter, and publican, and dealer in
fireworks, and everybody who has a chance
to get his or her name in the Herald or
Argus, along with that of dear Lady Hamp-
den and dear Lady Brassey over some
Jubilee charity, and everybody who can get
a little notoriety over an illuminated address,
are all loyal—more or less. Loyalty offers
all sorts of small pleasures in the way of holi-
days and illuminations, and cheap harbor-
excursions and horse-races, and banquets
and speeches, and many other excitements,
including crackers and the blowing of tin
horns in the street. Therefore, it is easier
to be loyal than not, and a profound devotion
to the Throne and Person comes in as handy
as anything else.
* * • *
Whether the population of the empire is
really loyal or disloyal, or utterly indifferent,
no one can tell under the present circum-
stances. If there was an equal amount of
illumination and carnival, and free-feeding
and holiday, and Jubilee-title attached to the
other two things, then it might be possible
to form an opinion, but, when the public is
paid, even in a very small way, to be in one
state of mind, and has to be in the other
state of mind gratis, it naturally gets, or says
it has got, into the state of mind that it is
paid to be in. If the majority of the Austra-
lasian people w ere actively disloyal, then there
would be no Jubilee holidays, titles, banquets,
illuminations, races, cheap trips, brass bands,
and other howl and shriek and glare, and our
holiday-loving nation yearns after all these
things. But this yearning does nothing to
prove that there is any real enthusiasm be-
cause a lady whom it never saw has sat
down hard on a throne or on anything else
for an unusually long period. Much con-
tinuous sitting on the part of any complete
stranger is not in itself a subject for intense
gratification. In some other lands, which
are, perhaps, less enlightened than Australia,
it is possible to hang the general desire for a
holiday on to some defunct saint or apostle
or relic, or other casual circumstance ; but
there are so many sects in this country, and
they have so profound a contempt for each
other’s saints and relics, and so little faith in
their own, that this is practically impossible.
There is no great historical anniversary,
either, to furnish a general excuse for every-
body knocking-off work simultaneously, and
eating too much, and taking his girl to
Chowder Bay or Fern-Tree Gully, because
this country never yet put a head on the
foreign aggressor in battle. Therefore, Vic-
toria supplies as good an excuse as anybody
else.
* * * *
In its way, however, the Record Reign is
interesting. It will be a very long while
indeed before there is another such celebra-
tion, unless Victoria endures another ten
years and jubilates again in 1907. Even if
the British monarchy lasts for ten centuries
more, there may never be another Jubilee of
the present kind. The next monarch who
starts out to put up a record with Victoria’s
60 years to overtake is starting from scratch
with an immensely long race in front of him.
To give him a fair show’he will need to set out
very young—at the age of 10 or thereabouts,
if possible—and the German sovereigns who
have reigned in Britain for the past two cen-
turies are a long-lived race and seldom give
their descendants a chance to start young.
No less than three generations of heirs will
travel behind Queen Victoria in the great
procession—three generations, each waiting
for the one in front of it to die and let it
have a show at the crown and sceptre, and
each serving as a mute advertisement of the
stolid toughness of the Guelphs and the
Saxe-Cobubgs. Poor Wales, now well
past middle age and flying light in the matter
of hair, has no earthly chance in the race for
the next record. His son has comparatively
little ; his grandson’s opportunity depends
on his luck in getting to the throne earl}',
and no Guelph, barring Victoria and her
grandfather, George in., ever arrived there
before the age of 44. Probably, however, it
will be just as well for the monarchical tradi-
tion if there are no more records. Loyalty,
like everything else, wants change and ex-
citement to keep it up. It depends greatly
on the crowning and marrying and burying
of sovereigns, and the pomp and circum-
stance and holiday that attaches to these
functions ; and the dire monotony when the
coronations and marriages and burials are
too far apart is bad for it. Also, it depends
greatly on the sovereign’s portrait in the shop
•windows and the illustrated papers, and
the very old and stout and toothless variety
of monarch has his disadvantages. Further,
the loyal community likes its heir-apparent
young and romantic-looking, and with an
interesting male baby, and when the heir is
an almost hairless grandfather it is again bad
for the tradition.
* « » «
There was a time, not so very long ago,
when the age of a sovereign was a matter of
less importance. In these days the oldest
and plainest and baldest of potentates could
build a halo round himself by some brilliant
act of statesmanship or by gloriously wiping
out somebody on the battle-field. Old com-
monplace John of Bohemia is still remem-
bered as a man of might, because when he
was very, very ancient and bald and stone-
blind he died in battle with all his harness
on, pounding with his battle-axe at the
enemy he couldn’t see to the last. Charles
of France, the one who was called 4 ‘ the Vic-
torious,” was uncomely and aged, yet highly
respected as a brilliant statesman, as the
monarch who ended the English rule in
France, and as the possessor of the most
remarkable complaint then known, and one
which no physician could locate. But when
a sovereign doesn’t go to war, and isn’t
allowed to seriously interfere in State affairs,
and has no unique disease, and merely exists
because the hereditary principle saves the
trouble of periodically electing a president
or dictator, then his only active recom-
mendation can be that his photo, looks
interesting in the papers, and that his wife
is young and nicely-clothed, and has her frock
cut low in front, and is the mother of an in-
teresting baby. Record reigns, and bald
heirs with a passion for baccarat, and th«
spectacle of three tired generations wai inb
for the throne, don’t tend to keep - >
monarchical idea alive. Some day i W 1
necessary to fix a retiring age for monarch*,
or else to enact that the heir-apparent snan
drop out of the succession at 35.
..• . *
For many years past a painful strugg e
has been going on to keep up interest in
Victoria, but the heaviness of that e.u
lift has been only too apparent, A halo ot
crape and ashes has been constructed around
her. She has been advertised as “ pre-
eminent in grief.” The whole Empire as
been requested to be staggered and awe-
stricken at the fact of her widowhood, which,
as her late husband died in his bed of a veiy
ordinary complaint and left her well-pro-
vided for, seems even less remarkable than
the majority of widowhoods. Any number
of husbands die suddenly and horribly >y
means of a locomotive or a steam roller or
an exploded boiler, and leave their wives
with no provision at all. Great efforts have
been made to arouse enthusiasm about the
fact that she is a well-conducted old lady
who never did anything shocking, whic i
matter, as very few old ladies ever do any-
thing shocking, is not remarkable. Her
literary abilities were vastly advertised
until the publication of the deadly
commonplace “Journal in the High-
lands ” smothered that legend permanently.
Her political wisdom, which was nevei
proved by any single known act, and her
condescension to a stout, elderly Scotch ser-
vant named Brown, and the fact that her
secretary sends telegrams of inquiry when
any notable person breaks his leg, have also
been advertised to the last extreme of weari-
ness. And through it all there persistently
intrudes the vision of a brief, stout, rather
cross-looking old lady dressed in rusty black
and with a countenance that shows no
specially admirable characteristic whatever.
Probably Victoria is more popular just now
than usual, for the sporting soul of the
Anglo-Saxon race goes out to anyone who is
engaged in putting up a record—any kind < f
record. But this is the sort of interest which
isn’t likely to be aroused more than once ;
the next sovereign who starts on a 60 or 65
years’ sitting-match with a view to putting
up a record of his own will probably find
that the market is flat.
“The Depression” and Other Matters
The weakest feature of almost every Australian
Government, since Australia first began to have
full-blown Governments, has been its financial
administration. The tendency to live on booms
and borrowings, and to talk about the future of
“ this great and rich country,” and to disregard
the fact that Australia is only great in size and
is a very poor country in many respects, has
eaten into the public soul. Just now there is
no boom iu the Eastern provinces, and the
country has sunk into what is persistently
called a “ depression,” but which is quite as
probably only its normal state ; and everj'body
is waiting more or less for the “ return of pro-
sperity.” There is absolutely no evidence that
there will be any definite return of prosperity ;
in fact, there is no proof that, when Australia
is reduced to living mostly on its own resources,
the present state of things isn’t prosperity.
Nobody can exactly define prosperity ; the his-
tory of this country is so short that there is
very little data to go upon. The glorious con-
ditions of eight years ago certainly are not a
case in point, for the frantic pawning of Aus-
tralia at the rate of ten millions per annum,
which brought it about, can’t be repeated;
therefore, if that condition is what is meant
by prosperity, it isn’t going to return.
Neither are the sensational early gold-
yields or the stupendous land-sale revenue
capable of being repeated. In short, no one
can tell for certain whether the existing condi-
tion is or is not depression, because that term
means a falling below the normal level, and
Australia has never yet had a chauce to find
out, among its many land and gold and loan
booms, what is its normal level. Possibly the
present is only the fag-end of the last boom,
and an ordinary state of commonplace pro-
sperity, with the social and political machine in
its present state, is something even a little
worse than what exists just now,
* * * •
The Bulletin has no wish to be a pessimist,
but it desires to point out that there is no evi-
dence at all that things will get any better by
any automatic process of recovery. In other
words, if this country doesn’t inflate itself tem-
porarily with more big loaus, and thus prepare
the way for a much worse break-down a few
years hence than that of ’93—if it simply works
hard and pays its way honestly, then it is quite
possible that rents and laud-values are as high
as present circumstances—the load of debt
arising from past “ prosperity ” being one of
them—admit ; and that wool and ineat and
other produce are fetching as much as they are
likely to fetch ; ami that banking ami other
profits are as high as can reasonably be ex-
pected. In that case, the only hope is that
population will increase faster than debt, so as
to reduce the liability per inhabitant; that the
country, if it can’t realise more for its exports,
will learn to do with less imports by creating
new local industries ; that it will reduce its
needless outgoings by dealing remorselessly
with all kinds of absentees ; in short, if its
present circumstances don’t allow of its being
any more prosperous than it is, that it will set
itself to work to alter its circumstances as
much as possible. The grievous mistake, in this
paper s opinion, lies in assuming that there is
any depression ”at all. That misused word
implies that things are temporarily worse than
might naturally be expected under existiim
conditions, and that it may be anticipated
they will improve of themselves by an ordinary
process of finding their own level. And it is
quite as probable that things are better than
might reasonably be expected, and that their
natural tendency', if left to themselves, will be
to get worse by an ordinary process of finding
their own level. , ,
The moral of this exordium is that the various
Governments, at all events, shcm ld face the
possibility that their financial difficulties will
not be removed by any “ return of prosperity
and should act on the assumption that the
present sample is about all the prosperity we
are going to have, in the natural course of
events, if events are left to themselves, for a
long time to come. National finance, except in
the boom - land of Westralia, is certainly
much cleaner than it was a few years
ago, but it is still in a woeful state
of disrepair. One great reason is that
the meLhods of it offer a premium to trickery,,
and that a really honest financier, if there was
such a person, could hardly keep himself in
office more than a year. The test of a good
financier is that he doesn’t tax the people toe
heavily and that he produces a surplus. 'The
test of a bad one is that he either taxes the
people heavily or doesn’t produce a surplus.
There is practically no restriction on the
method of getting a surplus, and the handiest
way is to charge a great mass of liabilities to*
loan-funds instead of to ordinary expenditure,,
and assume that the extra load of interest,
won’t matter, on account of the near-approach-
ing restoration of prosperity. There is, and!
always has been, absolutely no definition of
what works should be debited to revenue and;
what it is allowable to charge to loans. It is not
necessary that works should be reproductive or
permanent, or even useful, to allow of their
being paid out of borrowings ; the matter rests
entirely with the Treasurer for the time being,,
and the easiest way for him to keep his billet
and his reputation is to charge as much as he
can to loans and say as little as possible about
it. This is a power w’hich should rest w ith no
single individual, and it does more than any-
thing else to make national finance the smellful
and thriftless thing it is.
» * * *
Two great changes are urgently required in
the national system of accountancy—that is to
say, they are more urgently required than a
number of other changes. One is that the
Legislature should declare by Act of Parlia-
ment what items of expenditure, and no others,
should be paid out of loan funds. This paper’s
opinion is that nothing whatever should be
charged to this elastic source, and that there
should be no loan funds whatever, but if the
country is not prepared to abandon the old,
handy method of shunting its griefs and obliga-
tions on to posterity, it should at least be laid
down by law that only works of a certain kind
shall be constructed with borrowed money, and
that everything outside the cast-iron limits
thus fixed shall be a charge upon revenue. This
would not only diminish the expenditure of
loan moneys—for many items are now charge
to them unobserved which no M.L.A. wc*ffd
dare to openly advocate putting into the cate-
gory of “ permanent and reproductive ” "
—but it would put the honest and dishonest ,
financier on something like a level. At, present
the honest one, who has scruples about leaving
anything or everything to be paid by posterity,
falls into disgrace for having a deficit or impos-
ing new taxation, while the dishonest one, who ,
has no scruples at all, is an ideal Treasurer who .
“ lightens the national burdens ” and “ reduces .
expenditure ” and has a handsome margin at*,
the end of the year besides.
• * * »
Another essential reform is that the Public-
Works expenditure should be kept altogether
apart from the other outlays ; that the Works
Department should have a financial statement
of its own ; and that the proceeds of certain
taxes should be set apart for its maintenance.
As matters stand, the economical Treasurer
gains applause for the smallness of his expendi-
ture, and the extravagant one receives execra-
tion for the vastness of his outgoings, simply
according to the size of the figures at the foot
of the column. Yet, as a rule, the only differ-
ence between the two—barring the difference
already alluded to —is simply that the one al-
lows the public roads and railways and other
works to fall into horrible disrepair, while the
other doesn’t. When Premier Reid came into
office as a notable economist he reduced the
average annual expenditure by £120,000 a year,
and the reduction was set down as greatly to
his credit. The fact that it was done by reduc-
ing the amount paid out of revenue for the
maintenance of roads and bridges by about
£200,000 a 3 7 ear, and making good the differ-
ence out of loans where necessary, passed quite
unnoticed. The cost of running the country
and finding billets for the Government’s friends
was apparently rather increased than dimin-
ished, but by judicious “ faking” of the public
works expenditure the balance was made right
■ and a little over. Legitimate economy should
come in by making the public service as
cheap and efficient as possible, by having no
useless offices or officers, by doing away w ith
ornamental inspectors, and hangers-on, and per- .
sons in gaudy livery. But through the systos>
of lumping the Public Works expenditure in the
same budget with the salary of the Usher of
the Black Rod and similar weird excrescences,
ordinary economy generally consists in a
Government finding billets for all its friends ,
and saving the amount and a little more out of
the road and bridges vote, and hard economy
consists in charging a lot of the road and bridge-
expenditure to loans besides. And the publico
which only sees the totals seldom knows the
difference.
• • • •
The advantage of defining by a cast-iron
enactment what is and what is not legitimate
loan expenditure is that it will not only tend to
diminish borrowing for unproductive purposes
but it will put all Treasurers on a fairly even
footing. The further advantage of keeping the
Public Works budget separate from the general
expenditure is that it will prevent Governments
making good their general extravagances by the
convenient process of letting the back-blocks
highways fall into wreck and disrepair,
and will thus tend to make the public
finance more easily comprehensible as well
as a good deal more honest. These are
concrete reforms which are comparatively easy
of accomplishment if any party is prepared to
take them up in real earnest. A third reform


—to eradicate the idea that present debts and
shortages really don’t matter, because the clear-
ing away of “the depression” will ultimately
put everything right, is much more hopeless
That comforting legend will possibly wear out
in course of years, like the belief in the resur-
rection of Mohammed or Barbarossa, neither
of whom are much deader than the boom, but
it seems to be incurable by any other process
thau the effluxion of time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gillies’ Resurrection.
Duncan Gillies announces that, he has “con-
sented” to contest Toorak at the approaching
Victorian election, and if he is returned he will
be leader of the Opposition almost to a certainty,
with the reversion of the Premiership in view
when the Turnek-Isaacs crowd goes out. Old
Talking Duncan’s qualifications for the office
are, briefly, that in five years as Premier and
Treasurer he increased the debt from <£28,000,000
to ,£41,000,000 ; he built 800 miles of new rail-
way, including practically all the non-paying
lines of the province ; he found the Victorian
railway system about the best-paying one in
Australia, and he left it about the worst; he
increased the annual expenditure inside five
years from £6,100,000 to £9,600,000; and
whereas he started with a half-million surplus
left him by Service he ended with a £200,000
deficit; and he was just choked off when he
was about to commit the province to another
thousand or two thousand miles of railway and
about 20 millions more borrowing. Yet Dun-
can Gillies —the most awful Duncan in Aus-
tralia—will most probably be the next Vic-
torian Premier, if he wins the Toorak election.
The party system brings such things about.
The Turner Government is strong and
popular, and as a natural consequence the
Opposition is weak in numbers and hasn’t
one really brainy man in its ranks. If
Gillies gets in he will be elected leader by a
very small minority of the most discredited
politicians in the province. And as time goes
on, and men fall away from the Government
because they have grown tired of seeing the
same old faces on the front seats, they will
gather round Gillies because there is iio one
else to gather round. Finally, he will be at
the head of a majority which hasn’t elected
him ; his election will depend all the time on
the little, broken-down squad which first
appointed him because it was so small and
broken-down that it could get nobodv better.
As a rule, the stronger and better a Govern-
ment is, the worse fool the Opposition has to
put up with as a leader, therefore having an
able Premier now' generally involves having an
awful failure as a Premier next time. Toorak,
the home of the insolvent boomer, is the one
place in Victoria which is really likely to send
Duncan G. into Parliament. And if he gets
there he will be the coming Premier, barring
accidents. The principal reason why he will
be the coming Premier is that he was the very
worst Premier on record seven years ago ; if he
hadn’t been so unspeakably bad his party
wouldn’t be such a very, very small wreck now ;
and if it wasn’t such a small wreck now
it wouldn’t be forced to appoint Gillies
its leader, because it would have more
and better men to choose from. So the
curse of Party Government goes round in
a circle, and Gillies has again a chance to be
the coming man in Victoria. Supposing the
new Ministry was elected by the whole House
when a new Parliament meets, then Turner’s
successor, when that politician’s day is over,
would be almost anybody in the Assembly bar
Gillies ; as matters are, it is just possible that
it will be Gillies as a matter of dire necessity
with no one else in the running. Duncan is a
wily old man, eminently fitted to lead a party
in the struggle to get back to the flesh-pots, and
the worst possible man to govern the country
wheu he arrives there. At present, however,
the question of governing the country is so far
off that it doesn’t enter into the calculation.
What the probable future Premiership hinges
on is the need for a man who can keep an aw k-
ward squad of about 20 together, and genially
button-hole possible recruits with lavish pro-
mises of grants (out of borrowed money) in aid
of the new hog-trough in each man’s electorate.
A Romance of Finance.
London financial newspapers of six weeks back
deal at great length with the story of Horatio
Bottomley’s rise, fall, and triumphant resur-
rection. Horatio aforesaid was the moving
spirit in the notorious Hansard Union, a vast,
unnecessary scheme which went bung early in
’9l. Nobody seems quite able to explain the
character of the Hansard Union. It was a
trust, a monopoly, or what not in the way of
Yankee-born devices for converting ordinary
profits into extraordinary dividends —a flimsy
structure, founded on a rock. The promoter
says of the deceased Hansard Union :
It was a combination of many, if not most, of the prin-
cipal firms in London engaged in the printing and pub-
lishing trades. It had upwards of a thousand machines
at work night and day ; it was producing every week be-
tween 200 and 300 of our principal newspapers and publi-
cations ; it printed the Blue Book, &c., and carried on a
tremendous business in all the various branches of the
publishing trade. The businesses which constituted the
Hansard Union are thriving, are paying handsomely at
this very moment. The bulk of those businesses are
now combined upon precisely similar lines to those which
constituted the Hansard Union, with this distinction,
that those who were then the debenture-holders are now
practically the directors and controllers. But the prin-
ciple stands, the businesses, and the profits are still
earned.
And there also stands the solemn fact that when
the Hansard Union (within a few months of
having paid a 12 per cent, dividend) went into
liquidation, the assets vanished like shadows,
the shareholders lost every penny, and the
trade creditors of the company had to write off
their claims as hopelessly bad debts. On the
surface of things the Union was a swindle, and
the public grumbled at the non-conviction of
Horatio Bottomley on a vague charge of
fraud. He came through his criminal trial
without any further disgrace, however. Then,
on the Ist January, 1894, this indomitable
person started the Stock Exchange Institute—
another union, the business of which was
mostly confined to the flotation of the more
respectable Weatralian gold-mines—and lo I
in three years Bottomley was a millionaire.
Whereupon he called together the share-
holders in his vanished Hansard scheme,
and announced that he was about to place
LgoOJHM) in the hands of trustees for their
benefit—to pay them, in fact, a dividend of
about 4s. in the £ upon their hitherto worthless
scrip. Before making this dazzling declaration
Horatio Bottom ley had managed to dump the
non?J lsil)i *' ty °* tlie Hansard Union failure
(1891) upon our old friend, Jabez Balfour. It
seems that Jabez at that time governed a
certain debenture corporation, which advanced
a loan to the Union under tricky Israelitish
conditions. The Baring crisis came, the Union
failed to float a new issue of shares, the money-
lending corporation got its debtor into a tight
corner—and over went the show. It was a
case of a rather incomprehensible concern
swallowing one of its blood relations. Balfour
bested Bottomley. But Balfour, the utterly
unprincipled robber, has gone to gaol; whilst
Bottomley, the sanguine, large-hearted specu-
lator, has proceeded from failure to success,
and reaped a crop of popularity where he had
sown misfortune. He will in due course be
returned to Parliament, no doubt, with flying
colors. J 6
♦
The Sunday Grog 1 Trouble.
1 uk usual deputation of black-coated, black-
hatted reverends and others, including Boyce,
Isitt, Ardill, Knapf, and all the other good
old stand-bys of the Cold Tea faith, waited
the other day on the N.S. YV. Minister for Jus-
tice to ask that the accursed drink should be
cr-r-r-ushed. Most of the deputation wisely
kept to generalities, but parson Boyce waded
into particulars, and, after the usual inaccurate
fashion of the long-tailed brigade, he made a
mess of things :
Rev. F. B. Boyce said the idea of opening public-houses
for a period on Sundays was futile, as experience had
shown that it merely led to indiscriminate drinking all
day and all night. Sunday being an idle day, and one
when men had the remains of Saturday’s wages in their
pockets, it was the one day above all others, apart from
its sacredness, on which public-houses should be closed,
and closed effectually. When the new Act of 1882 came
into force there was a reduction in the convictions for
drunkenness of 50 per cent.
A few months ago a similar deputation heaved
this same piece of imaginary evidence at the
public, and The Bulletin took the trouble to
point out that it was pure invention, and had
not one atom of truth to back it up. This
paper then set the mistake down to mere fool-
ishness and a reckless imagination inflamed by
ginger-beer ; but as the teetotal party continues
to put forward its busted tale just the same, it
seems that it isn’t foolishness but premeditated
inaccuracy. There was no reduction of 50 per
cent, in the convictions for drunkenness when
the Act of ’B2 came into force, therefore there
is no proof, at alleged, that Sunday closing
reduces drunkenness. In fact, there was no
reduction of any kind, 50 per cent, or other-
wise, as the immediate consequence of that
famous Act. The following are the convictions
for drunkenness in N.S.W. during 11 years as
shown in the Statistical Register :
1881 ... 20,748 1887 ... 20,696
1882 ... 18,593 1888 ... 18,907
1883 ... 20,991 1889 ... 16,496
1884 ... 21,957 1890 ... 17,022
1886 ... 23,782 1891 ... 20,323
1886 ... 23,758
These figures show that the Sunday Closing
Act of’B2 increased the convictions for drunken-
ness instead of diminishing them ; or, at all
events, they increased immediately after it was
passed. And as the latest returns—those for
’9s—show over 21,000 convictions per annum,
there has never been any decrease of 50 per
cent, even until now, or any permanent decrease
at all. The Bulletin, as a disgraceful red
rag which at least endeavors to tell the truth,
respectfully asks the Parson Boyce crowd if
this kind of manufactured evidence is in keep-
ing with its alleged “sacred calling,” and if it
isn’t darned well ashamed of itself?
Melbourne’s Milk.
The outbreak of diphtheria in Melbourne has
set the reporters nosing about suburban dairies
again, and it is made evident that the average
milk-emporium within ten miles of the city is
a hot-bed of pestilence, and is conducted in the
centre of a seething bog of mud and manure,
in which various invalid cows wade mournfully.
Every outbreak of disease leads to the same
discovery of scores of horrible dung - heaps
associated with putrid miasmatic pools, with a
sign hanging out to inform the passer-by that
the shuddersome conglomeration of disease,
filth and stinks is the Snowdrop Dairy, or the
Snowflake Dairy, or words to that effect.
Every time there is a howl raised, and red-hot
officials rush upand down, flourishing blue papers,
and two or three milk-mongers are dragged into
court, and violently fined 7s. 6d., with 21s.
costs ; and then things simmer down, and the
horror is forgotten, until another epidemic
breaks out, and starts the old fatuous business
over again. The milk-supply of Melbourne is
supervised by a system of scares ; if the scares
were only a little wider apart it is highly
probable that many suburban dairies would
presently disappear in their own accumulations
of beastliness, and the last customer visiting
the works of the Limpid Milk Supply would
find the manager’s hat floating on top of the
sloppy awfulness alongside a “busted” pail
and an upturned strawberry cow. Then the
local council would spread a layer of clean earth
over the dreadful spot, and all the undertakers
within five miles would put on three coats of
mourning, and humiliate for a week. On the whole,
this method of abolishing the sewer-pit dairy
would be preferable if the scares could only be
suppressed. The scare leads .to official hysteria
and wild cries, and the top-coating of mud and
slime is scraped off the dairy, and the milk is
shifted from under the beds of the hired men
for a day or two, and so the institution is kept
on top through the succeeding term of apathy,
till the next scare—then ditto repeato. Some
day expert officials will be appointed to super-
vise Melbourne dairies, and when they are com-
pelled to sleep in the same apartment with the
cows and take their meals in the back yard,
suburban milk will become almost as healthy a
drink as beer, there will be a miraculous fall in
the death-rate amongst infants in and about
marvellous Smellhourne, and the next genera-
tion of Melbfflurnites will be saved the necessity
of running a Consumptives’ Home about as ex-
pensive as 15 Exhibition Buildings.
Says Melb. ’Erald re the present discomfiture
of Ikey Mo :—“ Not that the bookie is alto-
gether wanting in good qualities. For such a
heterogeneous mixture as the class is composed
of instances of defaulting, &c., have been rare,
and in the way of charity no one over found
metalll icians wanting.” These old gags as to
Ikey’s “honesty” and readiness to “ put his
name down for ’arf a quid,” are very tiring.
Ihe man lives by meeting his engagements on
settling-day. “ Honesty ”is the only policy
by which he can make a sinful fortune. It’s
the best game to play, and he plays it as soon
as lie has got some capital together—up to
which time he has not infrequently been a
spieler, welsher, lumberer, or anything else in
the robbery line. The racecourse rascal of to-
day may be the “ respected metallician ” of 10
years hence. As for Ikey’s liberality, it is the
typical illustration of the old adage—“ Easy
come, easy go. ”
“ C.” to The Bulletin :
Brisbane (Q.) patent-agents are tilting, and not too
soon, at tiie Q. patent laws and their administration. The
mam feature of objection is found in the Amending Act of
86, which gives leave to examine as to the novelty of an
invention for which a patent has been applied. This is
costly and utterly impracticable, except “in countries
surrounded bv all the industries, and where books of all
classes are available.” The ‘' search for novelty ” is only
made in a very few countries, and then at huge expense.
The majority of patent laws grant the patent without this
“ search,” leaving the risk of a law-suit to the inventor ;
and, even with the “search,” the inventor is still liable to
a similar risk. A London patent-agent once said that the
'il- Registrar “seems to be one of the most arbitrary
heads of a patents department ever heard of. He will
sometimes reject applications on the most frivolous
grounds.” A Brisbane patent-agent cavils at the
methods of some of the examiners of patents : “ I remem-
ber a case in which one of the grounds of objection to the
invention (relating to fermented leavens) was that it had
been used by the Egyptians 3000 years ago.” With Her-
culean trouble, this was (supposedly) disproved. The use
of the terms “cyanogen,” “cyanide,” “cyanogen-yield-
ing substance,” in a well-known specification, has been
cited as destroying the “novelty” of many inventions
because one or more of those terms were used in their
specifications. A difficulty was raised against granting a
patent to a sheep-shearing machine, because another
sheep-shearing machine had already been patented. The
Brisbane patents officials make frequent changes of pro-
cedure without not ice, whereupon the Registrar insists on
a fresh application, causing delay and extra cost.
Obstacles are placed in the way of anyone desiring infor-
mation of applications filed, whereas in Great Britain an
official list of such is printed weekly. The delay in
issuing patents is great and vexatious ; patents due for
sealing four months ago, and, in one case, nearly eight
months ago, have not yet been issued. There is no reason
why they should not be in the hand of the patentee
or his agent, within a fortnight. Patentees abroad fight
shy of Queensland. The following practice of the Q. de-
partment is not authorised by the statutes : A specifica-
tion is approved by the examiner and is accepted by the
Registrar, and, nfterwavds, is sent to another person for
report; if this report is unfavorable, the applicant is
merely told that his patent is refused, no reasons being
given. That is to say, the department, after the appli-
cant has complied with the law, publishes his secret and
then refuses a patent. Lately a patent was refused on the
absurd ground that “ it would interfere with one of the
great industries of the country.” Hid not weaving-looms
interfere with a great English industry ? The cost of a
patent in Queensland is about £2O for the 14 years that it
is allowed to run ; the cost in England is £154. But
Queensland’s population is (roughly) only 450,000 ; Eng-
land's is something like 40,000,000. The cost of a N.S.W.
patent is £5 ; of a Victorian, £B.
A Sydney biscuit-making enterprise—that of
Aulsebrook, formerly of Christchurch (M.L.)
entertained sundry Freetrade politicians at a
glass of wine the other day, and the S.M.
Herald heads its report “ Freetrade and Local
Industry.”
Mr. Aulsebrook, in responding, said seven years ago
Protection drove him out of Maoriland. ... A Protec-
tionist policy was introduced to raise revenue. The im-
portations grew immensely, and biscuits were imported
very largely, an.i they agitated until they got 2d. per lb,
put on biscuits. There was a great increase in the demand
for local biscuits. His firm purchased a large piece of
land, built a great factory, and imported new' machinery,
everyone being pleased with the prospect. Six other bis-
cuit-makers did the same as they did. At the end of the
first year the production was considerably in excess of
the consumption. Competition set in, prices came down,
and also the quality. At the end of the second year wages
were reduced 10 per cent. At the end of the next year
they had to do the same thing. It was not long before
they had to dispense with man labor to a great extent,
and put on boys and girls. Most of the factories came
very low. His firm could make no progress. He and a
brother and father visited the various colonies, and finally
chose N.S. Wales, because it was nearest to Freetrade.
They did not fear competition. No better, more suitable
or cheaper flour could be found for biscuit-making than
that made in Sydney from N.S. Wales wheat. He had no
hesitation in saying that there was no country in the
w-orld able to compete with N.S. Wales. The removal of
the duties took quite £l5OO in special taxation off the
biscuit industry. They reduced their prices and in-
creased their wages by quite 20 per cent., besides employ-
ing a larger number of hands. These statements were
cordially applanded.
Without wishing to cast reflections on anybody
The Bulletin desires to call attention to some
glaring discrepancies in the above narrative.
Mr. Aulsebrook says Protection ruined him
by reducing prices, which gives the lie direct
to the S.M. Herald’s constant assertion that
Protection raises prices. He was driven out of
Maoriland by Protection in the shape of a duty
of 2d. per lb., and came to N.S.W. “ because
it was nearest to Freetrade.” But the duty on
biscuits in N.S.W. was also 2d. per lb.
at or about the time of his arrival. Queens-
land then charged the same duty ; Victoria,
Tasmania, S.A., and Westralia charged the
same rates on some varieties and less on others,
so Mr. Aulsebrook deliberately went to a pro-
vince where he could get a very large amount of
Protection and stayed there. He has been
protected ever since, and he is protected
to the extent of something like 20 or 25
per cent, now ; therefore, he hasn’t begun to
try the effect of Freetrade on his' industry.-
Moreover, he alleges that the duty of 2d. per
lb. in Maoriland reduced prices so heavily that
he was driven out, and that the reduction from
2d. to Id. in N.S.W. also reduced prices. Does
he mean that raising the duty and lowering the
duty both reduce prices? In any case, the.
spectacle of Aulsebrook, the heavily-protected
manufacturer, alleging or implying that his
prosperity under Protection is a proof of the
advantages of Freetrade is a little grotesque.
But perhaps what he meant was that he
believed in Freetrade for the other fellow. A
great many people believe in Freetrade for the
other fellow.
The bill to abolish the foolish practice of newly-
appointed Ministers vacating their seats and
going before their constituents for re-election
was lost in N.S.W. Assembly by 46 votes to
14. Yet there is absolutely nothing in this
time-worn custom. The constituency never
fails to re-elect the Minister ; if he was able to
persuade the electorate of Tin-Pot to return
him when he was a private member it isn’t
likely to reject him when he is in the Cabinet
and able to help it to railways and other
material blessings. The practice doesn’t enable
the country to say whether it wants him as a
ruler ; it only enables Tin-Pot to express its
opinions on that point. If the new Minister
had to go before the whole country voting as
one electorate there might be something in the
custom, as it is the whole country he is going to
govern ; as matters stand, the only result is lost
time and expense and needless talkee-talkee.
T-HE Bill introduced in N.S.W. Assembly by
Levien, M.L.A.—who has always been more
or less allied with the old cabbage-tree-hat
mob, of which Jack Robertson was King and
Jack Want Prince Imperial—providing that
Federation shall not be accomplished unless by
the affirmative vote of “ an absolute majority
of the electors of N’.S.W 7 ’.,” is about the best-
conceived scheme up to date for making Federa-
tion impossible. Does anybody seriously expect
that an absolute majority of the electors will
be persuaded to vote about anything that has
no fiscal issue, or roads and bridges expendi-
ture, or Yellow Pup and Holy Roman in it?
Levien’s scheme is foolishly described as one
intended to preserve the sacred principle of
government by majorities, but it doesn’t pre-
serve that sacred principle worth a cent. It
rather demolishes it utterly, and buries the
corpse in a lone place beside the sad, sad sea.
I he two issues to be put before the people are
Federation or Provincialism. Levien proposes
that Federation should be carried only if an
absolute majority, say 127,000, electors vote
for it. But if 110,000 electors vote distinctly
in favor of Federation and one elector votes
in favor of Provincialism, and 140,000 don’t
vote at all because they aren’t definitely in
favor of anything and only want to go out and
have a beer, Levien proposes that the one
voter should carry the election. And h» -’alls
that governing by the majority !
Another of N’.S.W. Premier Reid’s well-meant
efforts is likely to prove abortive. He promised
great results from the Food and Drink Adulter-
ation clauses of the Health Act; but, judging
by Col. Sec. Brunker’s reply to Dr. Ross in the
Assembly, the Act is to be enforced by the
people themselves, or by the local authority.
The latter proviso is an example of the folly of
copying English laws where the conditions of
life are different. The English Act is so en-
forced, but the local authority—the County
Councils—have command of the police, which
makes all the difference. Leaving it to the
people themselves is still worse. What is every-
body’s business is nobody’s. A merchant,
whose brands may be forged, would not like to
make an open crusade against his customers,
the retailers, because for the one detected he
may offend a hundred and ruin his own busi-
ness. The retailers, too, will be injured,
because when laws are administered by the
people themselves, instead of by public officers,
the result is a crop of spies and informers, with
corruption, perjury and blackmail. In Vic-
toria the law is enforced by the police and
other public officers, like any other passed for
the protection of life and property. When a
merchant’s store is burgled, or his name to a
cheque forged, the police step in. Why should
they not act in the same way when his labels
are forged, and his business reputation injured
by having inferior goods palmed off in his name ?
In N.S.W. Assembly, the other night, apropos
of nothing, a report was tabled showing how
greatly the number of cases of lead-poisoning at
the Broken Hill mines had lately declined,
thanks to the improved ventilation and the
quarrying or open-cut system. This conclusion
was based upon the figures contained in the
returns furnished by the managers of the mines.
But the managers of the mines don’t know. A
man who is lead-poisoned loses a good deal of
his energy, and accordingly is a favorite can-
didate for the sack as soon as fresh men
are available. Wherefore those who are
“leaded” adopt all sorts of devices to
keep the fact out of the knowledge of the
managers, whose returns (under the Lead
Poisoning Act) are therefore a good deal worse
than valueless. At the same time, there is less
lead- poisoning, both among the underground and
surface-men, but riot nearly as much less as the
Assembly-tabled figures would indicate. Lately,
by the way, there have been a good many cases
of poisoning from arsenic, of which the sul-
phides carry variable quantities. But the intro-
duction of the open-cut system, if it has reduced
the number of men poisoned by lead, has added
to the other risks of the workmen. Here is the
mines’ butcher’s bill of the one week following
the date upon which the Assembly was informed
of the improvement in the Broken Hill work-
men’s conditions : Two men killed by a prema-
ture blast at the Tarraivingee quarries; one
man killed at Harry’s open-cut, B.H. Prop. ;
one man killed at Block 10; two severely
injured at the B.H. Prop. ; one injured at the
Central.
Fitzroy (Vic.)- council is disgusted with the
Salvation Army for having established a mater-
nity home in that suburb. Cr. Minus pointed
out that “ there were far too many maternity
homes in the country. In fact, there were far
too many illegitimate children in the province.”
-Cr. Johnston w'as certain the home would
cause “a depreciation •of property in the
suburb.” Consequently, efforts are to be made
to shift the home, probably to some place where
there are no illegitimate children and where
property is unknown. Cr. Johnston is a gor-
geous sample of the kind of man who is born to
be a town councillor, and who holds an im-
perishable belief that all ethics and all morality
are based on property, and that the highest
good is that which sends up rents and raises the
value of corner lots, and villas, and brick shops.
And Cr. MILUS is evidently a confused gentle-
man who holds that illegitimacy is traceable to
maternity homes, just as hospitals are respon-
sible for broken legs and tram accidents, and
gaols for burglary, and arson, and common
assaults. Will the democracy never breed its
own aldermen ?


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion. - Brough Comedy Co.
Her Majesty’s. “The Sign of the Cross.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House “ Fatinitza.”
Royal “ Johanna.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “My Friend from India.”
Royal “ A Life of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Bijou “ The Gondoliers.”
Alexandra Howard Vernon Opera Co.
PuNCH-arfcist Harry Furniss, the Most-
Wandered Smythe’s latest big gun, opened his
brief season in Sydney Royal under reasonably
encouraging circumstances. Furniss is a podgy
little gentleman very like the Prince of Wales in
appearance, and has nothing at all of the Bohe-
mian about his aspect. He is sleek and well-
groomed, and wears the largest, stiffest expanse
of pallid shirt-front that a man of his size ever
appeared in. He is a steady-going speaker with
no startling powers of elocution, and he isn’t a
humorist to any extent worth mentioning. To
set against this, he knows his subject thoroughly,
and it is a perfectly new subject to the great ma-
jority of Australians ; also, his pictures, which
rush on and off in bewildering suc-
cession, are all good, and some of them
excellent. The British Parliament is
full of quaint old customs and regula-
tions, many of them wildly comic,
and Harry Fumiss plods conscienti-
ously through his recital of them
without contriving to make them
altogether dreary. Possibly there is
some speaker on this earth who could
bring the same subject down to a dead
level of plain wretchedness; any-
how, Furniss, though a painfully
ordinary orator, doesn’t contrive to
roll his topic out absolutely flat,
though he does flatten it considerably.
He is well worth hearing, more because
of the things he knows than by reason
of the very solemn frame of mind he
knows them in. And he is so small
and plump and speckless that the
present scribe longs to take him out
into the wilderness for a month, and
camp out with him in a tent, and
persuade him to take tree-grubbing
exercise, or to rush uphill under a
January sun in pursuit of the fero-
cious and deadly native bear.
** * *
As mentioned last week, the
ever-welcome Maggie Moore re-ap-
pears, on Saturday, at Sydney Royal.
‘‘Johanna,” a new comedy-drama, is
the first production, and the co.
includes Harry Roberts, and others
too numerous to mention. Apropos
of which matter, two members of the
new co. called down at The Bulletin
office last week, and seriously proposed
to disarrange the writer’s pretty hair.
The trouble didn’t actually come off,
neither did any very clear explana-
tion as to the grievance; anyhow,
the statement, whatever it was, is
hereby retracted in full. This indi-
vidual, at all events, would rather
take back the whole paper, and every-
thing that has been in it (barring the
nervous debility advts.) since it first
started, than have his hair interfered
with. He will even retract the receipt
for his salary, if necessary, and collect
it all over again. Further, if any
small sacrifice, such as making a
burnt offering of a compositor, will
heal the breach or make anybody feel
better, it is only necessary to men-
tion the matter, and the compositor
will be offered up immediately.
** * *
Things are moving in a hurry
at Sydney Criterion these closing
nights of the Brough season. For
the last week a rush of one-night
revivals has raged upon a kaleidoscopic
bill, and by the time this paper comes
to light there will be only a very small
scrap of the season left. To-night
(Thursday) the bill is a double one—
“ In Honour Bound ” and a “ Pair of
Spectacles.” “ Niobe ” follows on
Friday afternoon and evening, and
Saturday night; and on Monday the
co. shifts to the Lyceum for a one-
night benefit show tendered by the
people of Sydney to tho departing favorites.
Then on Tuesday, when the Jubilee blaze is
at its loudestj and the reconswindled bank
has hung its illuminated overdraft above the front
door, the co. will steal away to farewell some more
in Adelaide. It will be a long time before Aus-
tralia finds any 00. to adequately fill the places of
the departing mummers, and the good wishes of
everybody, save the dreadful “ Gustavus Thomp-
son,” who writes to Sydney Daily Telegraph,
will go with them.
** * *
“ Fatinitza,” which hasn’t been seen in
Sydney for a good while, and which was of not very
much account when it was seen, and is much the
same now, and is likely to remain that way in-
definitely, was staged at the Opera House on
Saturday. There is enough plot in “Fatinitza”
to make a good comedy, but as an opera it has
never been a dazzling success. The music is
respectable, but that is about all; and the dialogue
isn’t brilliant. A good deal of Pasha’s wife in
transparent gauze trousers helps to inspire respect,
and a lot of fierce military Russian in picturesque
uniform, combined with good scenery and a fine
orchestra, are also strong features. Farleys
Russian general, and Miss Lambert as a young
captain, and Miss Maud Lita as a princess in
attire that is a dream of loveliness, are all excel-
lent. But Percy Shannon doesn’t carry con-
viction to anybody in his capacity as a small,
chubby war-correspondent; and a clean-shaved
Pasha is an outrage upon the Koran, and is calcu-
lated to make all Bagdad take to drink. The
Pasha seemed to lose confidence in himself early,
and he presently degenerated into something like
a cheerful, boyish British footballer, and re-
mained that way until the obliging invader
arrested him and dragged him out of his invidious
position.
£|£
The “ Sign of the Cross ” ends its long
and deservedly-prosperous season at Her Majesty’s
next week, and everybody who hasn’t yet seen
that spectacle is hereby urged to avail himself of
this last opportunity before the lofty Roman dis-
appears over the edge of the page of history and
is lost to view. Also, it is hereby suggested that
if Williamson could get a really brilliant
dramatisation of Wilkie Collins’s “ Antonina,
and stage that at some future period, it would be
a fair thing. The “ Sign of the Cross ” shows
what the Christian was going to be when he
started how he was going to grind up an old,
beery, pimpled, decadent nation in the mill and
MK,VVfl N T ST/)Tl NG THt
| TO THE- OOf^-Y
tf\e (Xo^h
li Weller’s.
TWE.HO
4 (fl wl itlnE&S^
mFEpwho*
Counsel)
-Hvnofi
Chief Justicef)/j*Ley
THE.
J3ut/er JZ*o*s
JFTcifrrz steely Me
-na-teZo.* of Me WOW& **•■
NlJZtvomf/eiu
j,r2kpncefM
-
ef
V^-^CLC£-£> vw. CooPTJ
£H^7flNfr/}l?
(Wluj Coo f)ti
*****
THE BUTLER TRIAL,—SKETCHES IN COURT.
make it young and strong again; and it
reveals him as a hero every time, and the
pagan as a person about whom the less said
the better. The other story shows what he was
when he arrived—how he drank and gambled, and
bolted with his fellow-Christian’s daughter, and
came home on all-fours with the Roman milk in
the morning, and how the bishop kept a harem,
and the pious senator nearly broke his neck trying
to climb up to the window of another girl just like
the beautiful Mercia. And then a clean, respect-
able pagan came and hunted the Christian out,
and history decided that he was a failure, and he
became a species of bottle- washer and boot-cleaner
to the unbeliever. The Early Christian has had a
long run now, and it seems a fair thing to give the
Early Pagan a chance.
** * *
Phil Newbury leaves the Tivoli at the end
of this week, but as a large company remains and
some more people are shortly expected, Rickards
will probably get through the Jubilee week well
enough. About two dozen small, temporary
shows are dotted all over the city, but they are
too many to particularise, 80 of* them
will please accept this intimation,
are Jubilee concerts, and the rest are
bazaars, or Jubilee cat-shows, or Jubdee Jadpol
and pollywogs in aquariums. IS early every a v
able building in town has been seized up , n
dwarf or a tittlebat in a glass d,sh
called Jubilee. As a purely unofficial opinion,
this paper believes that the thing is ■ B
deal overdone, and that next Wednesday snnd y
disgusted exhibitions will close up, and the
Jubilee educated prawn will be thrown in
middle of the street for not paying expenses.
The revival of Offenbach s Grand
Duchess,” at Melbourne Alexandra, took place
in a vague, uncertain manner, as thoughi a
tating management were inclined to postpone
operations for another week. This was one of th
rare cases in which preliminary advts. grow
smaller as the fateful night draws nigh. Ihe
Alexandra advt. lost bulk, like aba oon punctured
by a brick, until there was very little left beyond
a reminder that the unfortunate house would
be found open to callers ; and this poor
little advt., in its last stage of consump-
tion, had retired to an out-of-the-way spot
where none thought to look for it. -r irst-
nivht results seemed almost encouraging under
the circumstances. A few hundred patrons sat
amidst the vasty emptiness, and greeted the ven-
ture of their old friend, Howard Vernon, with
considerable applause from start to finish. “The
Grand Duchess ” is not a gorgeous show ; the
scenery and dresses don’t run to splendour ; there
is no lavishment of limelight, or reckless expendi-
ture in the haunt of the tromboner, vet the per-
formance wins respect. The hall-mark of thea-
trical experience is upon it.
* * » *
The heroine, as most people know, is a
mythical minor potentate who dotes on the mili-
tary. When she spots an imposing soldier in the
ranks of her army, she creates him a majah-
general, or a commander-in-chief, and expects him
to reciprocate her dote. If he foolishly clings to
his former girl, instead of responding to the royal
suggestions, he loses his military billet, and
the duchess consoles herself by marrying a harm-
less prince. Miss Fanny Liddiard, who reappears
after a lapse of years, is a tuneful, scrumpti-
ous and high-spirited Grand Duchess, whilst
Howard Vernon is the large, unsophisticated
warrior of her affections, and it goes without say-
ing that the two principals are a success. Also,
Miss Millie Young is an interesting prince in satin
small clothes, and Frank Groman brings a thun-
derous voice to bear upon the character of General
Boom. One or two other parts are competently
filled and the chorus is described with much
truth, as “ late of W. and M.’s Opera Company/’
Vernon’s show doesn’t deserve to come to a
neglected decease, but it probably wul. rhe
Fates are unfavorable. They have their knife into
the Haleck.
** * *
“A Life of Pleasure,” at Melb. Royal, is
certainly superior to several previous Bland Holt
melodramas, as regards plain, straightforward bang.
The last five or ten minutes of the fourth act are
devoted solely to bang, and the curtain falls upon
a strange destruction of Dacoits, who arrive
irregularly from nowhere in particular, and strew
their bodies all over the stage. The British troops
have taken particular trouble not to shoot at these
pore heathen, so their downfall must be attributed
to moral collapse. The banging lays em out.
“ A Life of Pleasure ” is not warlike, except m the
fourth act, but the battle din is so furious whilst
it lasts that Bland Holt intends to have a Military
Command Night during Jubilee week, and will
appear, for that occasion only, in the character of
a Deed that Won the Empire.
** * *
The first of three consecutive assaults
upon “ The Gondoliers ” will happen at the Bijou
to-night (17th). The A.A. Opera Club insists
upon giving some more amateur performance in
aid of charity, and if society has recovered from
the effects of “ Lelamine,” this outbreak ought to
fill the house.
** * *
On Thursday (17th) and Saturday of the
present week Melbourne is to hear the Ovide
Musin trio of artists, in conjunction with organist
Wiegand, and Miss (harpist) Hatherly. The
Town Hall is engaged for these two concerts,
which, all things considered, should be fully equal
to the size of the Mayor’s bloated town residence.
Miss Regina Nagel will contribute couple of
ballads to the programme.
** * *
The Yankee device of having a chorister-
boy planted among the audience to warble the
refrain of a comic song after the lady “star” has
sung it once or twice, doesn’t promise to thrive in
this country. Knowles’s wife tried it at Melb.
Princess’s, when the Sydney Palace crowd was
appearing there. The boy, on that occasion,
popped up in a private box, and couldn’t
sing worth a cent, so he made the matter
worse. Mrs. K. couldn’t sing much either.
Now the boy who travels with the Elsie
Adair 00. has a very good voice, so the
effect of his striking up a chorus solo from
the amphitheatre at Melb. Bijou was damaging to
Elsie. People were inclined to wonder why the
boy wasn’t on the stage, and the manageress in
his place. His soprano rang out like a silver bell
“ My best girl’s a corker,” &c., &c. —exposing
all the stupidity of the words, as well as the com-
parative weakness of his predecessor’s vocalism.
** * *
The Jubilee Charity matinee at Melb.
Princess’s, though well attended, was very
lacking in the enthusiasm that marked the
Distressed Actors’ Fund benefit, a few weeks
previously. A prologue, written by little Syin-
inons, of the Argus, and recited for all it was
worth by Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, struck the audi-
ence gloomy at the outset. The lines —labored,
shapeless and insincere—didn’t fetch a sound,
barring an occasional cough, until the veteran
spokeswoman concluded with a despairing shout
of “ God Save the Queen,” whereupon six people
or so tried to seem excited, but found no sup-
porters. Then came a singing of “ Gorsave ”by
the whole strength of the co., and still the audi-
ence declined to jubilate. The performance had
set in for a dull afternoon. Mrs. Potter and Bel-
lew skilfully manipulated a series of feeble recalls
with the aid of the man who was working the
curtain, and, later on, the Rickards variety coi
turns warmed the house up considerably, but the
high temperature didn’t last long. Some scraps
from “Lelamine” were the final items on the bill.
The Earl of Shaftesbury, being the last of these
weary fragments, was able to get a fair notion,
from the stage, of how the Australian public can
turn tail and flee when it has had quite enough.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, the involved
lunacy of “ A Night Out ” is surpassed by the
raging madness of “My Friend from India,”
which started to rage on Saturday night. “My
Friend from India ” is a broad American farce, of
French extraction, probably. The joint authors
have French names, and their farce comes from
New York to this country, via London. On the
voyage out, or subsequent to arrival here, it
may have been touched in places by Paulton’s
rosy finger ; at any rate, the narrative stands still
on two occasions for several minutes at a stretch,
whilst Paulton and Miss Alma Stanley do some-
thing on their respective owns. Miss Stanley’s
contribution is a sort of drawing-room variety turn
with a rather alarming dance at the finish. Harry
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552,744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ..v ... 640,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
ftny other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. :
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
OP THE
Liverpool & London & globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at_the Lowest Rates.
Head Office for Australasia: 63 Pitt Street, Sydney;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ...
Total Claims Paid
Total Claims Paid in Australasia
Income for Year 1895
£9,708,495
32,796,549
2,259,404
2,339,62-2
OPnc O E P ro C R U l u C s a T n ßA b nAs?A b : ained °" application at Head
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
THE DIAMOND JUBILEE.
A High-class Portrait of Her Majesty the
Queen, specially taken for us in England,
will be given to every Sitter at our Studios
during this month of June, as a memento of
the Diamond Jubilee.
We take the opportunity of drawing your
attention to our really High-class Portraiture
at the Most Moderate Prices.
SIX Enamelled Cabinets with
a High-class OPAL or BRO-
MIDE Enlargement.
Only 7/ 0
Note the Address:
the IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.,
450 George Street, Sydney
(opposite Main Entrance to New Markets).


PaultoiTs monologue is a string of philosophical
speculations arranged in his well-known comio
lecture-style, concerning the illimitable possibili
ties of the Might Be, in the Bygone Was, when
King Solomon got married on such a large, scale.
Assisted by these extras, “My Friend from
India ” lasts three hours, and is not much too long
for its strength.
« * * «
The first idea suggests Boucicault’s “ Lon-
don Assurance.” Harry Paul ton (as Dredge, a
retired hairdresser and amateur theosophist) i 3
dragged into the bosom of George Lauri s family
by the son of that eccentric parent. The son,
when out on the burst, picks up Paulton and says
comomewimmeolefler, and when the awful stranger
has to be accounted for, the son compels him to
appear as a new Light of Asia, in a yellow dress-
ing-gown, and frequent state of trance. The exalted
barber takes kindly to his imposture, and the Lauri
family builds a brilliant conversazione around him,
or rather the conversazione would have happened
if Juliet Wray hadn’t forgotten to post the invita-
tions. There is no climax to “My Friend from
India.” The little man in the dressing-gown re-
turns to his true character; all the people who
have imagined a vain thing discover their mis-
takes, and the curtain comes down. Paulton’s
inflexible voice and countenance are received
this time without any question as to the
genuineness of his humour. He plays the
bulk of the farce, and the audience is always
laughing. The comedian who can talk an audi-
ence into shouts of laughter, and keep them there
for three hours, is undoubtedly funny. George
■Lauri scores a brisk success, and, among the crowd
of assistants, Ernest Shand, P. Bathurst, Mrs.
Bryer, Fred Cambourne, and Miss Louie Staf-
ford ought to be mentioned, if they haven’t been
{already alluded to.
** * *
A “Queen’s Diamond Fete,” organised by
‘the trade and friendly societies, will be held at
Melb. Exhibition Building on June 25 and 26.
'The Fete is to include many monster demonstra-
ttions and much value for the admission-fee, which
iis fixed at one shilling. Also, the entertainment
will have the peculiar virtue of not being attached
ito an “art-union” gamble.
Sydney Lyceum is advertised to let—particulars will be
found in another column.
Thirty-four liberally-paid variety artists appeared in
last week’s programme, Melb. Opera House. Much more
expensive, in salaries, than drama.
“East Lynne” still fetches the women. Mrs. Woods’
maudlin heroine drivelled through her lour acts at Kal-
goorlie the other evening, and every female for miles
around was there to weep.
Shifter: “ Melb. paper says Miss Alma Stanley is the
highest lady who has appeared on the stage. Same alti-
tude as Miss Edith Blande. Not quite up to the gay
Foote. Two inches below Miss Alice Barnett.”
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society will perform again
.on the 24th inst. An orchestral piece, written by Hazon
for the occasion, will be the piece de resistance. Miss
Edith King, the brilliant soprano, has been specially en-
gaged.
Elsie Adair, ’cute little ’Murkan lady, is her own “ press
representative.” She calls round at the newspaper offices
and beams upon the paragraph powers that be with sur-
prising results. More than surprising, in fact. Some of
the Melbourne notices were staggerers.
Caleb Porter, recommended thereto by Phil May, has
' been a constant worker at Julian Ashton’s studios in
King-street, Sydney, during the run of “ The Sign of the
i Cross.” Mr. Porter, unsatisfied with his histrionic suc-
i cesses, seeks to conquer other worlds of art.
i Madame Nellie “ Melba” Armstrong has at last reached
(the secure pinnacle of fame, for a big Yankee firm is
{■advertising world-wide the “Melba face powder” at
■6dois. (£1) a box, and the “Melba pocket combination
]powder-box.” Also, it is calbed that Melba is to star as
iLucia at a Jubilee Royal command-night; stalls, 20
{guineas apiece.
The Garner and Goatcher lawsuit, over the Sydney
iPalace Theatre, was decided the other day, when the
jjury awarded Garner a farthing damages for breach of
(contract. Seeing that the Palace has been an awful frost
mp to the present, the fact that Garner wanted damages
'because, apparently, he wasn’t allowed to revel in the per-
vading gloom—has a decidedly humorous aspect.
The funniest advt. seen in Sydney for ten years con-
cerns a Jubilee-night concert at Sydney Town Hall. The
first item on the bill is a “Grand Patriotic Oration, by
Major J. (C. Neild, M.P., commanding St. George’s
Rifles.” The deadly ingenuity of the thing) The Bul-
letin wants to .see a concert with Jawbone’s clatter the
last thing on the list. When that happens, the warrior
with the jaw that nothing f can humble will be able to
properly size himself up as l an ( 9R^ er t a ' ner '
A series of concerts of chamber music is to be given
next month in Sydney. A professional quartette, of
which Staell will be leader, will perform regularly.
Messrs. Carter, Alfred Hill and \Yollmar will figure as
second violin, viola and cellp .respectively. The pianists
will include Charbonnet Kqllerman, Jessie Middleton and
Sydney Moss. Vocalist? will also be engaged, and the
concerts will be conducted upon the same basis as the
“ Pleyel Concerts ” in Paris.”
Tvphoid, in Westralia, knocks them down with awful
pertinacity of late. “ Billy ” Jinkins, who had been tak-
ing a Rickards co. through the West, died at Fremantle
last week, of pleurisy, supervening on fever. A business-
like show-manager, with no theatrical frill about him,
little Jinkins took his ups and downs cheerfully. He was
with B. and B. for a while, when they started on their
own, in conjunction with Harwood, at Melb. Opera
House. Then he joined Pete Hughes in the lucrative
importation of some Tyrolean Yodellers. The MacMahons
had him in front of the house in the “ Evangeline days,
and subsequently he suffered a period of total eclipse,
owing to an ill-fated baby-show at Melb. Exhibition.
Poor little Jink. ! There are no baby-shows in the Better
Land. ,
Ross, Ross & Co., financiers, 352 CoHins-street,
Melbourne, notify that money at very low interest
iis now available on C.P. or Freehold Land.
(Owners writing to this firm can always rely on
prompt and straightforward business.*
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only .£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
■louse*.
Ny.Warkwald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The KOEIISTZ
PATENT
“[ittle Giant ”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crasher ever put upon the
market.
I'redk. Mason, Sole Aobnt,
239 SUSSEX-ST.. SYDNEY,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland is putting on the London market a
new 3 per cent, loan of £1,500,000 at a minimum of £95.
If it realises, say, £95 10s. that will probably mean, de-
ducting expenses and accrued interest, about £94 net.
This loan will make the Kanakaland debt about 34
millions, or a little over £72 per head. Australasia
m general has the biggest debt per head on this earth,
and Queensland has the biggest debt per head in Aus-
tralasia, and despite the great doings of Westralia it still
keeps well ahead. When the new loan is floated Queens-
land can do a whoop of honest pride as the first province
which has hoisted its debt definitely over the £7O per
head limit. Victoria pulled up short in horror when it
found itself across the £4O mark, but they don’t trouble
about trifles like that up North. The progress of Queens-
land towards the £BO limit will now be an interesting
study. The Northern province still preserves some out-
ward semblance of prosperity ; as long as money is plenti-
ful, no matter from what cause, in any country, rents
and interest and property values and trade and
traders’ profits keep up to some extent, and as
long as the Boodle Government can float another
loan it is evident that money will keep reasonably plenti-
ful up North. When the stoppage conies—and as no
country can owe an absolutely unlimited amount per
inhabitant it must come some time—even Melbourne
after the boom won’t be a circumstance compared to
Brisbane. Victoria, in ’93, set to work in a spasm of re-
pentance to pay the interest, out of its own earnings, on
£4O of debt per head, and the change from £1,800,000 of
interest going out and £4,000,000 of borrowed money per
annum coming in to £1,800,000 going out and nothing
coming in made a fearsome slump. When Queensland
sits down to face, out of its own resources, about twice as
large a liability, a comprehensive placard will be put up
on its capital: “ This City to Let Unfurnished,” and there
will be excellent grazing in Queen-street.
Supposing Federation doesn’t come off, and the
provinces are left to work out their own destinies, The
Bulletin, by way of a long shot, backs Queensland and
Westralia for the two first places on the list of defaulting
States. That the present system, if persisted in, must end
in somebody defaulting some day goes without saying.
When the event will happen depends on a multitude of
circumstances; but if the giddy loan and boom system
goes on at anything like the present rate the event itself
is as certain as sunrise. Should anybody feel inclined to
stake his little pile against the above prophecy, The Bul-
letin’s grandson will be round to collect the bet some
time in the first half of the coming century.
• * * •
A large and influential deputation waited, the
other day, on Acting-Premier Isaacs of Victoria to ask
that the Government should start a State Life Assurance
Department and a State Fire Insurance Office. Isaacs
promised his “earnest consideration”—and it is to be
hoped that he will give not only that but his support also.
Further, it is to be hoped that he will deal with the
matter himself instead of handing it over to the usual
Commission to gather evidence. Holding a Commission
only means that every insurance manager whose billet
would be endangered by the new departure would roll up
and tell tremendous lies about the impossibility of any
system, except the one which supplies him with his salary.
Every expert would be against the change because an
insurance expert is simply a man who gets his living out
of the private insurance system. And, as everyone knows
in advance what all the experts are bound to say, why
not take their remarks as read ?
* * • *
Some more fragments of information about the
A.J.S. Bank continue to arrive from London. Most of
the startling information about all the Australian banks
has come from London, and the difference between the
way the British depositor dug out facts, and the way the
Australian one let things slide and took them for
granted, is very conspicuous. According to this state-
ment the A.J.S., since 1893, has bought up £638,031
worth of its deposits at an average discount of 3s 2d. in
the £, so that from this source alone it has made over
£lOl,OOO. It has accepted £311,149 of its deposits at a
discount in payment of debts, and this should account
for at least another £40,000 of the profits, and a further
£21,000 was made by the sale at a premium of the bank’s
holding of British consols—making £162,000 in all. As
the total profits since the reconstruction are only £139,000
it thus appears that the actual banking business has been
a dead loss all through, and the alleged profits were
entirely created by the bank dealing in its own depre-
ciated deposits. ‘ According to London director. Hem-
inant, the A.J.S. Bank has about £4,000,000 of un-
realisable assets which yield less than 2 per cent, per
annum all round—a considerable proportion out of a
little over £7,000,000 of advances. Also, accord-
ing to the same authority, the greater part of
the capital is probably lost. The British de-
positors’ committees were mainly instrumental in
bringing these matters to light. The Australian deposi-
tors, not having sufficient coherence to form a committee,
only got what information the board felt inclined to part
with. Said board, by the way, deliberately, allowed it to
appear that these moneys were profits made in the ordi-
nary course of business, and permitted the public to
regard them as proof that the A.J.S. was a paying concern
which it wasn’t. Which is another evidence added to the
thousand which went before about the need for an in-
dependent State auditor, who can afford to tell the solid
truth about the situation.
• * * *
The acknowledgment that all the profit made
by the A.J.S. Bank since 1893 was realised by the pur-
chase of its depreciated deposits raises a question as to
how far other banks are living on the same device. There
is no possible objection to a bank buying its deposits in
this fashion ; if a holder wants to sell, the hank may as
well get the benefit of the deal as anybody else, and the
bank, by taking the deposits off the market, helps to keep
prices up for other sellers. But when the source of
profit is kept secret it makes a great difference in the
popular estimation of the institution. The general idea
is that, if a bank can pay 4)4 per cent, on its deposits and
still show a profit, it must boom greatly when it has
realised all these deposits and is only paying an
average of, say, 3)4- The release, however, means
that there will be no more profits to be made by
trading in deposit receipts, and the result may be, in
some cases, that the institution will be worse off after it
has got clear of its reconstruction than before. Out of
the “ reconstructs ” the Commercial of Sydney and the
North Queensland are obviously not living on this
expedient, as they have both released their deposits.
Neither are the National (Melbourne) or the Bank of Vic-
toria ; their deposits being at par there is no profit to be
made by the purchase. How about the others ? There
are deposits in the market purchaseahle as low as 11s. in
the £, and by spending £60,000 on them a bank which
had really lost £lO,OOO on its half-year’s operations could
show a profit of £30,000 and boom gloriously.
The position of the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., which, according to the directors, has been
placed by its latest reconstruction in an absolutely solid
position, seems to be just this : The annual interest pay-
able on debentures is now reduced to £104,000 a year.
The net earnings last year were £101,756, and the pre-
vious year they were £138,572. The co. is now working
m £138,000 of its own capital and about £3,000,000 of
Borrowed money. On last year’s earnings there was no
margin, and on the previous year’s a very small one to
pay dividends, accumulate a new reserve-fund, and work
off the stupendous burden of liabilities. If things improve
a great deal the Loan and Mercantile will be able to right
itself in the course of more years than anyone cares to
look forward to ; if they don’t improve it can only
struggle along by dint of periodical stoppages in the pay-
ment of interest on its “ B ” debentures, but with no pro-
spect at all for the shareholders—unless it calls up more
capital and puts itself on a better footing. The whole ques-
tion hinges on that other question : Is this a “ depression ”
which will eventually pass away, or is it simply that pro-
perty values have found their level after many years of
unhealthy boom ? When it is remembered that the rate-
able value of Melbourne, even in its present state of down-
fall, is almost exactly the same as that of the much more
populous city of Glasgow, where there has been no great
recent collapse, it is difficult to feel at all certain about
that impending revival.
* * * *
According to the cable, the 150th Australian re-
construction, or thereabouts, has just got through. The
English debenture-holders of the Land Mortgage Bank of
Victoria have agreed to reduce the rate of interest to 3)4
per cent., on condition that £200,000 of new capital is
called up within the next five years. The Land Mortgage
Bank has had a longer struggle with its British creditors
than any other institution in Australia ; presumably it
has to deal with a tougher crowd than the average. Its
trouble was that it ran its business with £250,000 of its
own money and £900,000 borrowed from J. Bull at 4)4
per cent.—but for this, it would be a moderately-
prosperous institution until now. Working on its own
funds, its £250,000 of capital would only have had to
stand the slump on £250,000 worth of assets; as matters
are, its £250,000 capital has to pay the slump on
£1,100,000 worth of assets, which is quite a differ-
ent thing. The reduction to 3)4 per cent, will
save £9OOO a year, hut, as the Land Mortgage lost
£9696 last half-year and £8847 the one before, and
£6616 for the six months ended June, 1895, and £6038
for the half previous to that, it is difficult to see how the
saving will do it much good. The institution has £1,000,000
of unpaid capital, so, on the face of things, the short way
out of its difficulties was to call this up and pay off the
British creditors in one act. But, apparently, the unpaid
capital is about as shadowy as such things usually are ;
for the most vigorous efforts of the board, up to last
December, only brought in £5lBl.
* • * *
The cost of floating Government loans locally
in Australia has been about Is. Bd. per cent, in N.S.W. ;
7|d. to Is. 3£d. per cent, in S.A. ; and 4s. 3d. per cent, in
Victoria. The cost of floating inscribed stock in London
has varied from 19s. Id. to £2 18s. Bd. per cent. This is
irrespective of the cost of “ management” in London and
the cost of remitting interest. The discrepancy is worth
thinking over.
* * * *
An excellent description of Illawarra smelting
works is given by the Sydney Daily Telegraph’s mining
specialist. It concludes—“ Everything is now practically
in readiness for the commencement of operations, but a
start will not be made until there is a large accumulation
of all classes of ore.” That is the sorrowful part of the
whole business. Where is the large accumulation ooming
from? The writer confesses that he doesn’t quite know.
Heaven forbid that so splendid an establishment should
stand still after completion.
• * • *
Some very ugly rumors have been current con-
cerning trouble at the Ashcroft sulphide works near New-
castle, indicative that, after all, flies have been found in
the ointment, and that the sulphide problem is not yet
altogether solved. However, Ashcroft (who ought to
know) says that everything is going well and smoothly.
* • * *
B.H. Consols, the English-owned mine which
has paid a few divs. out of phenomenally rich “pockets,”
has just got on to another little patch of high-class stuff.
Block 10 has made a sale of 10,000 tons of
“tailings” for the concentrating mill —valuable on
account of the very high percentage of zinc in them. But
zinc-distillation is a pretty “ close ” industry, and, besides,
is costly ; so the “ tailings” represent only a few shlilings
per ton to the company.
» * * *
Rain has fallen at Cobar, filling all the little
mining dams, and nearly filling the enormous one —
from 16ft. to over 20ft. deep—recently excavated for
the Cobar Gold Mines Co., whose 100-head stamp-
mill will be finished in five weeks from now. Com-
pared with the other plants of the camp, it is a boomer.
In the framing there is 250,000 ft. of timber. The ore-bin
will hold over 800 tons, and all else is in keeping with a
mill which will be called on to crush about 300 tons every
24 hours.
* • • •
The Royal Standand mine, Stewart’s Brook,
N.S.W., has paid its 23rd div. to the present co. and it paid
six or seven to the old —altogether, some £25,000 from a
consistently rich little vein.
• « « •
The writer has been accused of saying needlessly
■nasty things about the Bletchington mine, {Orange,
N.S.W. Well, he has never got over the shock of seeing
it three years ago. It has now given itself a bad knock-
“ A sample crushing of five tons only yielded sdwt. to the
ton. It is said that some of the specimens exhibited in
Orange contained more gold than the whole crushing.”
Then why not, as usual, throw the onus on the mill ?
* * * *
When are the confiding shareholders to expect
a crushing from the General Gordon ? £lB,OOO was placed
to this co.’s credit as working capital, and two calls of Is.
per share (equal to another £9500) have been made since.
£27,500 of public’s money.
• • • *
A few extracts from the General Gordon pro-
spectus, which still lives in cold print; “The directors
confidently believe the property to be the richest in
Western Australia.” (The Great Boulder was then yield-
ing as now). “There is an enormous quantity of ore
ready for milling, which will yield a very high average.”
Well, if there isn’t, and it doesn’t, can’t some action be
taken on so definite a statement as this ? From Fearby’s
report: “The ore is of great richness all the way down
the shaft. . . . Sample 2, I took every three feet
■down the shaft, and it gave the large return of 41oz.
17dwt. This is one of the richest ore-bodies I have
seen. ... I estimate there are 3900 z. of gold in the
ore bagged from this 30ft. shaft. . . . I am of opinion
that this will prove, when opened out, one of the very
richest properties in Western Australia.” From the ra
port of “Chas. Chewing's, geologist, Ph., D.F.G.S., &e.”i
“ From a carefully-selected bulk sample from the whole
of the lode matter, as exposed in the bottom of
the shaft, I obtained the splendid result of 4oz.
19dwt. sgrs. per ton, 22401 b. In selecting this sample
I carefully avoided, and threw out, all ore that I had any
suspicion would assay at all high, and this result may be
accepted as the value of the ordinary ore. From stone
that showed just a few colors, the somewhat startling re-
sult of 8490z5. 12dwts. lgr. was obtained. ... In my
opinion immense bodies of highly-payable ore will be
opened up in this mine, much of which will be phe
nomenally rich in gold.” From N. W. Harper’s report i
“ No 1 sample, taken as an average from rich vein 12in.
in width, yielded 148 oz. lbdwt. per ton. It is enormously
rich, and I see no reason why this phenomenal class of
stone should not exist elsewhere in the formation.” This,
and a lot more like it, was written over a year ago. The
mill was finished many months ago. Yet there is no
crushing, and the contributing shares are down to 2s.
Calls are still being made. Even the Sabbath tipster has
ceased tipping it as a second Great Boulder.
* • » •
From Coolgardie to The Bulletin: “Things
mining are very cronk here. One well-known mine,
which started with some good crushings, is indebted to
the extent of £2OOO in wages, and the men left in a body;
manager says he has resigned. And there is more of
this kind of thing to follow. The eyes have been picked
out of most of the shows, and the place begins to repre-
sent a huge graveyard of gone-bung mines, silent bat-
teries making appropriate tombstones.”
• * * *
Kalgoorlie wire : “ The shipment of ore from
the Associated Mines has been delayed owing to the want
of teams.” Another excuse : “ The output of ore from the
Associated Mines is being retarded by want of trucks on
the railway, several hundred tons being already bagged
on the mines.” Clarke and Co.’s June circular: '‘Asso-
ciated Gold Mines—Shares in this co. have had a good
advance on strong demand from London, due to good
smelting returns, but the quantities of ore treated have
not been large. Grossly exaggerated, and, no doubt,
highly inspired, statements have been appearing in news-
paper telegrams from the field almost daily of late as to
the immense quantities of ore bein_r shipped from these
mines. It is very problematical whether the mines are
opened up sufficiently to yield such outputs as these tele-
grams would have us expect.” When will the big Eastern
dailies awake to the fact that they are being played upon
for share-marketing purposes? For instance, what has
become of the marvellously rich strike in the Mt. Char-
lotte mine, at Hannan’s., of which the poor public heard
so much some weeks back? However, the market re-
sponded enough to enable some men to make s< me money
by first buying and afterwards selling and “ shorting ” the
stock, and the public who read, and still follow, the
newspapers for Westralian mining-news went down. It
has long been a public scandal, and the only credit the
papers can take is that they are blissfully jgporact of the
queer business they are performing,
* * » 0
Westralian producers Lake View, 1404 tons,
31400 z. ; Great Boulder, 1T22 tons, 33470 z. ; Boulder Per-
severance, 905 tons, 1817 oz. ; North Boulder, 166 tons,
10290 z. ; Lady Shenton, 449 tons, IBo4oz. ; Queensland
Menzies, 150 tons, 6330 z.
* * * p
Great game in “ goldfields homesteads ” at
Gympie. Some of the homesteaders pay- Is. an acre rent
to Govt., and sub-let to Chinese lettuce, leplosee man for
10s. an acre.
* * * p
Croydon Consols (Q,), 10 months’ work : 4906
tons, 24,693 oz.—average, soz. ; value, £56,327. Average
value per ton of ore, til 9s. 7Ad. Tailings vatne, £3 Bs.
per ton. Total output to date, 11,062 tons for 40,1280 z ;
value, £98,314. Divs. to date, £55,000. Crushing going
on and prospects good.
* * * *
Cleanings up at Charters Towors, June 6
Papuan, 1303)40z. from 500 tons ; result, add. div. Moon-
stone Consols, 4870 z. from 149 tons ; a div. (first) 3d. per
share. Brilliant and St. George, UB6oz, Bdwt. from 658
tons stone—result, 49th div. of 6d.
• * m *
East Mexican’s (Towers) first crushing—3B3oz,
sdwt. 12grs. from 316 tons stone: a trifle under expec-
tations.
• • • •
Brilliant (Towers) for April—249o tons for
31200 z., thus sustaining its reputation.
* * ¥ *
Prospects of Brilliant Freeholds (Ch. Towers)
improving. Last crushing topped an oz. to the ton. The
developments in a payable direction of this mine are
somewhat retarded by certain freeholds, which form a
lion in the path, owned by a certain medico who cannot
be forced to part his rights. Strange to say, these free-
holds are not even fairly represented on the goldfields
maps issued by brokers and others—strange, but true.
* * * *
Victory (Towers) cleaned up 3650 z. from 100-
ton crushing at beginning of month.
¥ * * •
Towers calls for May, ,£5020 ; dividends,
£17,070; excess of dividends over calls for the present
year to 30th May, £60,000.
* * * *
Joy for Bull. Day Dawn Block and Wyndham
(Towers) paid its 22nd div. on 10th inst. —9d. per share.
• * * *
■Clark’s Worcester is accumulating another crush-
ing. On June 6 there were 180 tons in paddock.
* • » •
Brilliant Extended (Towers) has crushed 4875
tons for 29260 z. during current year. Consistent, yet
poor. Bad look-out for the deep levels. The Extended
owes fqr advances about £7626.
.*.***
Charters Towers totals for May : —Crushing
returns, 17,263 tons for 18,8970 z. 3dwt. 21grs. ; cyanide
treatment, 16,408 tons for 74650 z, 4dwt. 21grs. ; chlorina-
tion, 590 tons for 8220 z. lldwt. 6grs. of bullion ; grand
total, 34,261 tons for 27,1850 z., valued at £83,000. Total
anticipated value of produce for the present year,
£1,000,000.
• • • •
Golden Gate (Tas.) latest return : 12490 z. from
1550 tons—not quite up to usual form. Div., 2s.
* * • •
In the Times of April 15 stands a two-column
advt. of a company called the Diamond Jubilee Contract
Co., with a capital of £30,000, paid up to £29,500. Object
of co.—to purchase and let places from which the public
may view the joyous pageant of H.M.’s Jubilee.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Long Tunnel (Vic.), month : 2239 tons, 18940 z.
—a little lower than the average. As soon as the offer of
£4O a share for the Extended L.T. mine was refused, the
shares receded to £2s—for which fact the result of the
Long Tunnel’s trespass-claim against the Extended can’t
possibly wholly account. The wholesale price of gold-
mining shares is always greater than the retail. Why ?
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney :
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Moonby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville.
Australasian T)TJTT TT>Q S-r PTYf
Representatives: X Xl.l-LjXX Q OS XXIYXjj
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
PH-
vWcMmitfi
Assay Office & Chemical Laboratory,
lelbphonbl
2444. I
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
The Simpson guckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth —W. B. Gordon & Go.
Gbraldton —W. Meadoweroft.
T. A. SHAFTO’S
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From, 4s. to Ss. per Day,


SOCIETY
God save it Kaween Wikitoria ! The
Queensland aborigines have no special reason to
rejoice in the year of Jubilee. Half-blankets are
still the order of the day, and often even this
miserly gratuity is curtailed by the authorities.
In one case 50 blankets were doled out to 200
niggers. The assumption is that the decrepit, the
young and the gins are provided for ; the fact is,
the stalwart bucks appropriate the shoddy, and
the others howl dismally in the nights of winter.
* * * *
Here is the Record circular, issued at
Wanganui, Maoriland :
DIAMOND JUBILEE.
At a public meeting held at the borough chambers on
Tuesday last Ist inst. it. was decided to comemerate
the Record Reign by a suitable demonstration. It was
proposed that on Tuesday the 22nd inst. a procession
consisting of the Volunteers (foot and Cavalry) school
children, college boy’s, and girls, and various other bodies
in the town, should proceed to the Hospital where an
arbour Of Trees should be planted and afterwards return
to town dispersing probably at the Drill shed where the
National Anthem u-ill be sung by the children assembled.
The Committee appointed are most anxious that the pro-
ceedings should be of such a nature as to be worthy of
the Great occassion and desire that the Union Boating
Club should attend to take part in the proceedings, the
hour of starting the procession has not yet been definately
settled upon but will be duly notified in the press. I
shall be •lad of an 'aril / reply in time for our next meet-
ing when all details will then be fixed. —, Mayor.
AT THE YARANGOBILLY RACES.
OWNER: “Now, Jerry, do your best with the mare."
JERRY: “ Ribuck ; but will I put me live quid ridin’ up ?"
“The ladies of Launceston ” (Tas.) have
decided to establish a maternity hospital as a
record reign memorial. But only elect and proper
babies are to be provided for—it is distinctly
stipulated that none but married women are to
have the benefit of the institution. The Bulle-
tin has not yet tried its hand on promoting and
taking under its special protection a new charitable
institution ; when it does, the institution will
probably take the form of a lying-in home and
foundling hospital on the French pattern.
* * * *
Rockhampton (C.Q.) Record Reign demon-
stration will be graced by Chinese, wearing
medals, whacking gongs, waving banners, chaw-
ing sucking-pig, letting off crackers, &e., and by a
Chinese band, provoking catcalls from instru-
ments of its own make. The Chinese choir will
halt in front of each public building in turn, and
sing the Unnatural Anathema :
Goll say ow glazee Quee,
Welly goo him oldee Quee,
Goll say him Quee,
Sendee him victollee us,
Allee same Chow lollee us,
Plentee sissetah follee us,
Goll say him Quee.
Dear Bulletin, —Be the Sydney recent
police assault-case, here’s the advice of an ex-
perienced police-court solicitor to a young man
wrongfully (so he averred) charged with “drunk
and dis.” “Plead guilty! That’ll only cost you
55., and be done with the matter ; whereas, if you
deny the charge there’ll be any required amount
of police evidence forthcoming in support of it ;
you’ll get a bigger fine, and run the chance, into
the bargain, of having it ‘ dealt-out ’ to you sooner
or later. The kind of trap who makes a case, late
at night, in this way is mostly a scoundrel with
whom your life wouldn’t be safe in a quiet spot at
midnight.”—A.M.
Judge Draco-Docker, summing-up in a
Sydney case where a constable charged a man
with stealing 6s. 6d. worth of powder and
fuse, remarked that if the jury acquitted accused
it would be tantamount to finding the constable
guilty of perjury. The jury did acquit accused.
Will the Attorney-General, if he concurs in Judge
Docker’s opinion, now prosecute the constable ;
and will he, also, make particular inquiry into the
backstairs influence which replaced this constable
in the police force after resigning, when convicted
of assault —his second conviction in eleven months?
* * *
J. H. M. Abbott’s recent Bulletin verses,
“Lord, think of the Lambs,” reminds a corres-
pondent of a humiliation prayer heard recently.
“ Our Scotch boss mustered us all in the woolshed,
and prayed—thus : ‘O Lord, Thou seest Thy ser-
vant humiliating himself in Thy sight, and also
the wide-spread disaster that the present drought
is causing. May it please Thee to moisten the
earth plenteously, and so relieve the sufferings of
the dumb animals in Thy servant’s charge, un-
derstanding, of course, as Thou wilt, that anything
under a two-inch shower would be of little avail.’
I am happy to state that a week later we got 3£in. ”
Torres Straits Pilot is so feebly anti-coolie
that it advocates that Japs, shall only be allowed
to work as domestic servants, because “ they make
good servants, but difficult competitors.” Then
why set them competing against the Bridgets and
Marys ? Sarah Ann Broomhandle rises to move,
as an amendment, “ That them Japanese ruffians
and sunburnt devils be restricted to newspaper
work only, because like consorts wid like.’ How
does that strike the Pilot ?
* * » •
Cairns is becoming indignant at its pro-
Chinese, or rather pro-alien reputation. Where-
fore the Chamber of Commerce of that town—
largely composed of employers of Chow and
kanaka labor—is collecting statistics to conclu-
sively disprove aforesaid libels. The 37 Japanese
females, nevertheless, continue to be well patron-
ised, and could, no doubt, supply the Chamber of
Commerce with a few very interesting figures.
A Brisbane paper
girds at the old-world,
sheepishly - imitative
nomenclature prevail-
ing in the piebald
province, instancing
the proposal to call
“Humpybong” by
the name of some
English royal palace,
and the vandalism
that converted the
mellifluous “Ten i n-
gering ” into “Mt.
Perry.” Which re-
calls that, on the Gil-
bert, when a' rush
took it and good gold
was being got all
along a serpentine
creek, a solitary
woman came and
pitched her tent in
the centre of a sharp
bend, thus naving,
across the river in
front of her, a notice-
able “ point ” of
land. For a long
time she was the only
“ D utch ” on the
field, and the diggers
named the point re-
ferred to “ One-Skirt
Point ” —only the
name wasn’t quite so
polite. Later, when
shanties and store-
keepers, with women-
folk, crowded in, the
unthinking ingenu-
ous diggers would un-
concernedly speak of
“One-Skirt Point” in
its more reprehensible
lingo. By-and-bye a
Government surveyor
came along. H e
heard much of the
curious name, and asked a digger working there
one day, “What’s the correct name of this
point?” “One-Skirt Point’’—with the usual
variation. “ Oh, damit ! I can t put down One-
Skirt Point ’ on the map ; I’ll call it ‘ Beacons-
field ’! ”
* * * *
Stated seriously in a correspondent’s letter
to Rockhampton Record that a female leper is
residing “in the very heart and centre, of the
town ; ” and that she is “ the wife of a gentle-
man . . . who has just made his escape from
the country in a highly advanced state of the
scaly disease. ” Also that another leper is
“ ruminating in the vicinity of Stan well, ’
* * * *
There will be about 50 vacancies in Yic.
police force during the next 18 months, and the
number of able-bodied applicants —chiefly Aus-
tralian natives from up-country —who submitted
themselves to the Melb. police board, the other
day, was 746. These are ghastly statistics to
brood over. For every single policeman one sees
figuring as a necessary evil there are at least 14
tall young fellows who would like to occupy his
regulation boots. A dyspeptic rhyme :
During the debate re Sunday opening of
Sydney Zoo, certain of the N.S.W. God-fearing
Ministers based their opposition on their regard
for the poor attendants’ day of rest. But it was
shown that when the Museum, the Art Gallery,
and the Public Library were first opened under
similar circumstances, the attendants scrambled to
get the additional employment and pay offered.
Garrard and Cook should in future speak for the
Little Bethels and the Orange Lodges—leaving the
poor attendants to take care of themselves.
* * * *
Commissioner of Police Parry-Okedeu lias
ukased that no Q. policeman shall appear in public
without his uniform, and that every bobby (not
otherwise on duty) must be in the bosom of his
family, or in barracks, by 10 p.m., and must stop
in. That is the big cockroach in the Q. peeler's
treacle just now.
• * * ,
A R.C. temperance missionary, holding
forth on drink and eternal blazes at a little taber’-
nacle in theMelb. south-eastern district, stated that
he had recently visited four dying sinners, and
not one of them had a drop of holy- water in the
house. But whisky !—there was plenty of it m
each establishment, said his riverence. The in-
valids, perhaps, had been mixing the two blessed
fluids.
* * * *
The unspeakable Calvert’s ignorance and
rage for advt. are morally responsible for the death
of George Jones and Charles Wells, whose bodies
were found last week in the Westralian desert
lhere was no need for the alleged “ exploration ”
since it was known that the traversed country ’is
1110I 110 ! 0 desert ; and the expedition seems to have
been undertaken without proper considera-
te 11 of the risks or sufficient provision for
retreat. So their water done, their camels
dead, dogged every day by the pitiless sun, the
men gasped out their lives on the burning sand -
quite uselessly, except to make their employer's
name live a little longer.
* * * .
A bride at a recent fashionable Northern
wedding received an eleventh-hour present not
enumerated in the published list. It consisted of
a basket of very erotic epistles sent by a dis-
carded flame of the bridegroom. He occasional fv
d , r Wy; mto poetry and had the cheek to palm
off Shelley s Love s Philosophy ”as original.
FOLLOW THE LEADER.
S HAREHOLDER: “ Why are you going to pull down the battery ? ”
MANAGER: “ The reef cleared out, and we are going to follow it up with
the machinery! ”
“R. ” writes from Broken Hill :
How boardinghouse-keepers are rooked here. A man
engages a room, says he has just arrived by train, and
that the journey has taken all his money ; however, lie
adds he has got work in, say, the “open cut,” and will
not get paid for a fortnight. Generous landlady agrees to
two weeks’ credit : man (probably a loafer, pure and
simple) has already “walked over” a boardinghouse-
keeper at the other end of the town. He gets his “ crib ”
cut just before (ostensibly) going on shift, leaves the
house, casts “crib” on a rubbish-heap, spends several
hours in a gambling school or knocking about generally,
visits a tailings-dump, smears his hands and face with sul-
phide dust, and returns to the house, professedly tired
and done up. A fortnight’s loafing on one house is
generally followed by the kick-out, and the young man
disappears, to put in an appearance at another hash-shop
in an adjacent street. That this is a fact has been proved
in the police-court. The “poor” boardinghouse-keepers
have now formed themselves into a protective association,
and payment in advance or a big “ black-hook ' is
threatened
A Vic. press-
man relates how
he had to be
carried out on
the occasion of
the first flogging
he reported. The
gaol doctor, a
most aristocra-
tic personage,
was at hand,end
after repeated
doses of neat
whisky the
scribe recovered
sufficiently to
lean limply
against the door
and listen to the
yelling of the
man under tor-
ture inside.
“You’re not
used to this sort
of thing?” in-
quired the medi-
cal officer, as
they made their
way to the go-
vernor’s quar-
ters for more
whisky on the
conclusion of the
flagellation.
“ No, I’m not,
thank God,”
hoarsely whis-
pered the trem-
bling pressman.
“Ah !” observed
the doctor,
s tro ki n g his
moustache and
flicking a bit of
man off his cuff,
“ you’d soon get
over that; why”
—and his eyes
glistened as his
voice rose high
—“I almost love
it.”
A DEGREE OF INTIMACY.
SHE : “I suppose you still see a
great deal of M iss Fallofit ? ”
HE: “ Yes ; but not so much as
when I was teaching her the
bicycle ! ”
“ Clancy ” to The Bulletin :
Re Sunday closing. lam much struck by the injustice
done to country publicans by the railway refreshment-
rooms in the larger towns. There is no “back-door”
trade with these refreshment-rooms. The doors are flung
wide-open, and throughout the Sabbath, and especially
in the evening after church-service, such of the towns-
people as want a “ wet” calmly and openly walk on to
the railway-platform and thence into the refreshment-room,
where they have their drinks undisturbed by the fear of
the man in blue. Nor is this all. The refreshment-rooms
are not (apparently) bound by any lived hours. Whether
it be week-day or Sabbath, drinks are obtainable either
after 11 at night or before fi a.in.
UNEQUAL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I never knew a mother’s love ; in slumber hot and
broken
Child-hand has clasped to aching heart a small remem-
bered token
Of her who died in infancy, her mother words unspoken.”
“ I, too, have never known that love ; fate worse than
any other,
Mocked by the colder courtesies of sister and of brother.”
‘‘Your lot is then as hard as mine.” “ Nay! worse ; I
have a mother.”
M.L.
C. CLYDE.
’Tis O ! to wear a “ juniper ” blue
And laze upon a beat,
With little honest work to do,
But lots of food to eat.
’Tis O ! to tax the harlot’s trade,
And take the tote-man’s tip,
And learn how perquisites are mad#
By letting duty rip.
’Tis () '. to act the dastard sneak,
Blackmailing when we may—
To shame our manhood, week by week,
Until our hair grows grey !
Let others graft and till the soil,
Whilst we preserve the peace ;
Our youthful vigor mocks at toil—
We want to be perleece.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHBUTOC.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
ALL TEXTURES, Sllita le for
RIDING
BUSH -
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 36/_
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIA Ij QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
J lie Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
E3?* e mum CORTO on tUt handx, and beware of iiuitatitme.


Writes “One Who Ought to Know ” :
The great grievance against the average woman doctor
in Melb. is, not that she is a woman, but that she travels
on her sex, that she cuts down prices to sweating rates
and that she persistently advertises, contrary to the
honorable ethics of the profession. One woman doctor is
taking patients well able to pay the usual rates at 7s 6d for
two visits, and confinements in well-to-do families at 50
per cent, under log prices. And yet the i 3 a week trades-
nniomst howls at the doctor who saves his life for him
and his family for less than a week’s pay, and takes his
h e as he can get it, and waits often with a brave face and
a hungry stomach, only in the end never to get it at all!
* * * »
A doctor who lately bought a suburban
practice which appeared to be yielding £9OO a year
found out, after taking possession, that most of the
fees were drawn from illegal operations. The
legitimate income was little more than half the
sum named. Not long ago, in response to a
friendly hint from the police, a qualified practi-
tioner who had been doing much over £5OOO a
year in abortion departed for other fields. His
luck (and daring) were poverbial in the profession
some of whose members were accustomed to say—
Oh, no, I don t do that kind of thing, thank you;
but you can go to Dr. and see what he
says.”
X-RAY SNAPSHOTS.—THE N.S.W.
PREMIER.
This sketch does not represent Premier Reid as
he has hitherto been known to the general public per
medium of prosaic photographs and irreverent
sketches, but is a not-ineffectnal effort to depict the
soft, silky and gammonful aspect of the Frce-
tectionist leader.
At a Southern Government House lunch
Mrs. (now Lady) Blank was asked to take some
fish which the Governor bluntly termed bastard
trumpeter. The lady was somewhat disconcerted,
and is even said to have blushed ; but the fish was
so good that she subsequently descanted to her
friends upon the excellence of His Excellency’s
illegitimate trumpeter !
* * • *
In Argentina after January 1, ’9B, all
bachelors between the ages of 20 and 80 years (!)
must pay a monthly tax until they get married.
Re the suggestion of “ Eastralia ”
as a new name for N.S.W. on the analogy
of “ WffiriSralia ” —“gradually condensed
from ‘Western Australiaa piteous
little pedant has arisen to protest against
“a murder of English and Latin which
would make any schoolboy sick.” “ Wes-
tralia ” wasn’t “gradually condensed”—
it was struck off as it stands by The
Bulletin, which, while well aware of
the etymological incongruity involved in
the word, didn’t see why any such peda-
gogic rubbish should be allowed to stand
in the way of convenience and practical
euphony.
* » » »
What has happened to our friend
the Rev. Ebenezer Praise-God ? Surely
the Lord hath performed a miracle in the
latter days, and hath made the river to
run in dry places, and hath brought forth
water from the rock, even as Moses did ;
and yet we hear no word of the Lord per-
forming miracles in answer to prayer.
Why not a day of thanksgiving and praise?
Verily, we are an ungrateful people and
an unbelieving.
* * » *
The Vic. Charities Commission of
1891 reported : “The wealthy city of Mel-
bourne is the only corporation in the
whole colony which does not contribute
in any way to the support of the charit-
able institutions within its boundaries.
But, then, its splendid “ loyalty ” must be
remembered. Some ten years ago, when
there was a bogus rumor that Albert Ed-
ward would visit Australia, the Mel
bourne Corporation contributed <£lo,ooo
towards the building of a portico for its
Town Hall.
A new industry has been started at Rook-
wood (N.S.W.) with much success. The paupers
in the local Asylum make a practice of at-
tending funerals at the adjoining general ceme-
tery and sending round the hat. At a Hebrew
funeral last week four old men attended and col-
lected a very respectable pool from amongst the
mourners.
Apropos of Parson Isitt
and a number of other well-
meaning people, one of the
stock arguments of the sensa-
tional teetotal lecturer, when he
really means business, is the
exhibition of a drunkard’s
stomach preserved in spirits.
His audience, of course, takes
the lecturer’s word for it that
it is a drunkard’s stomach, or
that it is a stomach at all, and,
as a rule, it is a very effective
exhibit. The public sees a
horrible, flabby, baggy thing
in a large glass jar—a thing
adorned with knots and knobs
and blobs and patches of dis-
coloration, and looking like the
unfortunate son of a tucker-bag
and a squid ; and it solemnly
resolves never to have a horrify-
ing stomach like that, and
swears off on the spot. What
it seldom considers is that the
stomach of a perfectly healthy
teetotaller is about equally
baggy and depressing, and
that anybody’s “innards,” pre-
served in spirits, are just as
horrible a nightmare. If the
pub l ic-house party cared to
send round a lecturer to exhibit
the stomach of a teetotal saint
preserved in spirits, half his
audience would probably rush
to drink on the spot, and keep
as drunk as possible for ever
afterwards, to avoid having an
organ like it. A Melbourne
pious organisation had an al-
leged drunkard’s kidneys on
view for a long time—this was
in the boom days when it could
afford kidneys —and they were
an affecting moral lesson. Yet
if the publican opposite had
put on exhibition the alleged
kidneys of a Rechabite he would have staggered the
community quite as violently until the Blue
Ribbon crowd sooled the police on to him.
• » * *
Ed. Bulletin, —Re the Church and the
Stage. The priestly order, more especially its
Protestant section (which is Bibliolatrous) has so
overlaid the Christ of the Gospels with thick en-
crustations of theologie interpretation, that He is
quite lost to the view of church-folks. The Christ
of the Gospels was a good fellow. A blame-
less Bohemian, innocent of starched frills and
aggressive pontificalia. A man who, were He
with us in the flesh to-day, would of a surety be
more at home with the piayer, the playwright and
the playgoer than with sour precisian parsons and
Pharisaic priests. He possessed dramatic in-
stincts, teste his “ short stories,” models of realistic
Fiction. He approved of mirth and jollity. He
had nought but denunciation for the censorious
and the hypocritical. Unfortunately, this good
fellow, the Christ of the Gospels, has become in
the teachings of the so-called Christian churches
a cold-blooded curmudgeon, who bids men seek to
win Heaven by stripping Life of nearly all that
makes it worth living—color, comfort, pleasure.
Voltaire was right—for the loveable Christ of the
Gospels, who hated ecclesiasticism, the power
THE LAW OF NECESSITY.
WESTRALIAN SCHOOLMASTER (re ferring to condenser)
“ Now, in places where water is not plentiful,
what do they have to do ?”
LITTLE BILLY SMITH ( whose father runs a shanty ):
“ They have to drink it nea ', sir !”
loving sacerdotalist (of every Christian church)
has substituted L’ In FAME -<ul majorem Diaboli
r/loriam ! —J.S., Parramatta.
A Rockhampton man, brought before the
local stipendiary re the maintenance of his natural
child, pleaded that he only got 10s. a week as
wages, and that his parents were dependent on
him for their very sustenance. The beak was
solus on the bench, but he asked three lawyers
who were present: *“ Should this man support his
child or his parents first?” “His child, cer-
tainly,” promptly answered the devil’s trio.
Ordered to pay ss. a week and £2 6s. 6d. costs.
Poor devil of a ten-bob-a-week oblique father !
BURIED IN THOUGHT.
Bush J.P.: “ Constable Malone, would ye kindly move? When ye
get in the light like that the Coort can’t hear itself think. ”
Vic. : “ Chief-Secretary Peacock, under
Herbert Booth's impulse, has set all the Pentridge
confinees agog with the idea that something is to
be done for them. Many years ago Chief-Secre-
tary Duffy did the same thing, and it cost the
governor and warders years of worry ere they
wiped out the impression, so that the very name
of Gavan Duffy is yet banned there. The ques-
tion is what, can be done beyond exciting the spirit
of rebellion. ”
* * * *
Arthur Lynch, Paris correspondent of the
Daily Mail, who telephoned his account of the
impromptu cremation held at the Rue Jean Gou-
jon bazaar direct to that office, the telegraph being
overwhelmed, says that a more ghastly, heart-
rending, ludicrously-pitiable phantasmagoria he
never saw. or heard of being approached (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent). “ Young
women of the best families in France made
their way out of that scalding, baleful hell
of writhing fashion-plates, mad with terror and
shredded of all but their closest garments.
The molten metal and fiery pitch bubbled and
spurted from the roof in a showery lava on the
half-suffocated, horror-palsied beauties and beaux
beneath. That a gathering of 2000 people should
have been allowed in such a death-trap is a loud-
crying disgrace on the municipal laws of Paris.”
Lynch is a Smythesdale (Vic.) boy, took his M.A.
and C.E. at Melbourne University, and is about
30 years of age.
* * • *
Callot : “I am getting vignettes at the
Salvation Army’s Melb. Workmen’s Metropole.
Last night, outside it, a bronzy boozer, with the
beer oozing out of every one of his hundred million
pores, wanted me to buy meal-tickets, at a dis-
count. A charitable man had donated them.
Going inside, I offered to shout soup for an old
sundowner. ‘Soup be ! Stand a beer.’ I
see four men at a table, counting up how much
they have for beer after squeezing out halfpenny
soups. How sharp the contrast between the nice,
clean Army officers and the customers, positively
the lowest Melbourne dredging and drag-netting !
The percentage of drunken men is as large as in
a Flinders-street wharf bar. The contempt and
sarcasm of all hands, as regards the Army, is most
amusing, but I suppose this is the penalty of doing
good. There is not an atom of snufflebusting
about the place.”
* * • •
Ed. Bulletin, —The Anglican parsons at
Norfolk Island have been blessing the whaling
season. Awkward for the whales—if the blessing
be worth what the “hero of Waterloo” used to
call a “ twopenny damn.” Should there beany
cetacean dignitaries equal to the job of cursing
the Norfolk Island parsons, who knows but we
may hear ere long of a vacancy or two on the
missionary clerical staff? To paraphrase Phse-
drus :
Videres parsonas dejectos ai pingere Balance scirent.
J.S.
ABOUT A FLOWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Bob, will you wear this rose for me ? M
“ I don’t wear flowers, Kate,” he said ;
The maiden raised her golden head
Her pride was ruffled —just a wee.
Oh ! . . . are you so superior then ?
Do you despise the rose or . . . me?”
He glanced at her amusedly
And with a smile he answered, “ Men
Should leave such things to women. I
Love flow’rs-and women—and the pair
Are made for one another. . . There,
I’ll place it where ’twill never die.
So let me pin it thus, and wear
The rose yourself, then, don’t you see,
Within my heart of hearts ’twill be
Because -the fact is—you are there.”
W. G. HENDERSON.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Amos : A good paragraph, bub not being of
mere topical interest it will keep awhile. And, as with
hundreds of other good things, it will have to be
kept awhile W.fl (Wag.) : Will print shortly.
Jordy : Drawing improved, but legend hopeless
A Summer Hill Girl : As Australia is at best only nega-
tively interested in Queen Victoria and Co., The Bulle-
tin leaves all the tedious commonplaces and conventional
hypocrisies concerning Her Majesty to the care of news-
papers which only strive to do what is dull, formal,
“right-thinking,” and proper Caesar: Thanks
Bollon : Its head - office is in Melbourne
Robinson Crusoe : Poem to the effect that you yearn for
home received Pak-a-Pu : Hardly good enough. Try
a gain T.H.J. : Thanks W.B. (Tamworth;: Can’t
lay our hands on the information just now Native:
Not a large enough fragment Tom Blunt : The weak
mining sketch which ends with the statement that Long
Bob or Thin Bill, or some other historic deadbeat is now
“ floating Westralian mines in London” is out of date.
You might as well say that Emaciated Joe is now floating
icebergs in Sierra Leone .P.P. : Is this meant for
philosophy ?
I’ve often heard it whispered in battlefield and Ball
That those who lead life merrily eventually do fall.
Don’t all other people “ eventually fall ” also ? And
aren’t you as likely to hear that sentiment whispered in a
fried-fish shop? Whisky : The whisky was so strong it
rotted your saddle. Is that all ! We have poured bush
whisky on a tombstone and the monument flew to pieces
inside five minutes .....Anathema : Two verses of enthu-
siastic mash and two more of plain grey grief. Doesn’t
appear whether the fellow died, or went away, or mashed
another girl, or whether there was an unauthorised in-
fant, or what Bridget Jubilee Smith : Item sup-
pressed. No paper can afford to declare war against the
whole Smith nation in one act Oom Paul : One ordin-
ary, plain farthing Mayor 1 Why worry about him ?
Diorite : Briefly, Simpson, Peter and Fogarty found
Price cheating at poker and walloped him. Whioh is
just as wildly original as if M‘Master and Hoolan had
pounded Jones John Horton : Letter at Albany P.O. .
Daisy Bell: Can’t publish a poem which “a gentleman
wrote about you when you were lost in the bush for tlv e
days without food or water.” Haven’t you any male
relative who will pound that gent with an a'xe-handle?.. ..
A.R.N. : There is joy in heaven over another mixed yarn
sent to perdition P. H. : Ryley, at his best, had a powerful
baritone voice—much superior to the man you name
Blank : Don’t propose to state that the other man got the
sub-editor’s billet because he was able to introduce the
fat manager to a nice plump actress. Even if it be true,
a nice plump actress is sufficient excuse for a lot of sin.
lshmaei : Where is the moral ? He tore himself away
from his immoral love and married a pure and beautiful
girl. But, when last he saw the immoral charmer, she
had a black eye, a dirty wrapper, a whisky breath, and a
torn stocking. Anyone could tear himself away under
these conditions The Long ’Un : !!! ( ! !!)
An Old Buffer : Some coarse remarks about a
“ pile of German fat ” received . Beulah: Received
G.J.8.: 1(4 columns of a bullocky swearing on one side of
a fence and a Scotchman saying “ Hech 1 ” on the other.
......Stubborn Fact : Stubborn through old age and decay-
ing intellect, presumably Rus William : You are the
39th person this week who wanted his poem treated apart
from its merits, on the ground that it was his “ first
attempt.” Supposing we made a pair of boots which
nobody could wear, would you pay standard price for
them because they were our first attempt at boot-
making, and we didn’t know anything about boots,
but insisted on making boots all the same? ... Naree :
Too bald—a mere synopsis of a yam H.J.8.: Topics
stale Florian : Not up W.R.: A two-year-old Bul-
letin par. Only, last time, the ant-eaten person dropped
his pants from a Q. railway-carriage .....Chromo: Gist
used ..Draxeo: The alligator didn’t bite us
D.M.: Add A.N., and you’ll have our sentiments
A. : There is no successful Australian strictly-Press
club. There never was, and The Bulletin doesn’t expect
that there ever will be. Why should there be ? No other
profession has a successful club of its own Nerna :
Yes, you should take lessons G.A. (Parkes) :We don’t
trouble to publicly controvert such assertions, which are
false on their face. Nobody dare say such things pub-
licly ~M.X. : Sad little wail stifled Recruit: Par-
value only Boz : Don’t care for belated Burns metres ;
and you aren’t a Burns, anyway Math. : Worthless.
B.M. :It goes in—at advertising rates Naida :
Send it to the Society of Artists M.K. : Don’t remem-
ber it G.W.M. : Unremarkable W. : P.B Vaga-
bond : Too mixed Weary W. : Worth par. only F.
something P. : Limps heavily 8.8. : May "do
F. J.R. : A dubious spark of the fire—and too many ashes
therewith H.A.C. : Boiled down, your Jubilee ode
asserts that Queen Vic. is a fruitful lady who has lived for
78 years and a bit. Apr&s? H.M. (All Nations): Fair
yarn, but too crude for print Jan Glen : A Grammar-
school girl loved a ’bus-driver, and was cured because he
ate potatoes from his knife. Likely enough, but no story.
Werrimee : Good, will use ; can’t stand dialect
W.E.C. : Thanks, but had already treated it W.H.E.
(M.L.): Thanks H.W. : Will print G.D. : Has that
verse been out all night and just come home with the
milk ? Neil : Metre too hilly ; never let your metre ex-
ceed a reasonable railway gradient Quillnibbler : Point
too trivial for space A.D. : Pointless L.R.M. : Un-
printable ; and don’t much like, anyhow L.O.A. : And
does the Echo editor, who, it is understood, was under-
study to a parson once, really believe in the rib fable ?
How many good and trustful folk are there in Aus-
tralia who believe, in this year 1897, that a
man actually has one rib less than a woman ?
S. : The stage appearance of a performer is the point that
concerns us, not her age A Slave for Seven Years :
The handwriting is apparently a man’s. Also, The Bul-
letin doesn’t propose to interfere in such matters
B. : Yes, the lying principle of monarchy, which
teaches that a man is to reign over a nation and be
regarded with superstitious awe simply because be is the
alleged son of his father. To reverence a man for such a
reason is often, as it were, to worship leprosy and take off
your hat to king’s evil Nozo : The clergy make a lot of
fuss over religious instruction in State schools, but it is,
after all, only fuss. The Protestant clergy enthusias-
tically supported the secularisation of the school system
in order to euchre the Catholics, but they find that in
doing so they were only cutting their own noses to spite
their faces. They don’t care for the trouble of teaching
religion in schools gratis T.K. : Ned Kelly admitted
that he “ potted” Kennedy, after the police-sergeant had
sent a bullet whistling through his (Kelly’s) beard A.
Robinson (Bathurst): Good for illustration Tom C. :
Bull will do S.H. (B. Town): Very ancient S. : Re-
port of police-court proceedings always required with
little things like that. Can’t take anything for granted.
rfIARRIN&TON*X"i|I
x/hotßquwjttlrs <•,
KING S^SYDNtr
•3MJ
JCa
A,:?.... \ /v . ——<
7>y^r/"//?/# / avyrtn***
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
EXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION
Use of Dark Rooms —FREE.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
-p-?OSK’S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
(1 rente st It iseo mi/
of Moilern Times.
For Sand' Blight, Sort' and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimnt ss of Siyht, Granu-
lations, &e. Recommended by the Leadin'; Sydney
Oculists. 11. t. ICO -E, Chemist, 531 Geory-e-street,
Sydney. Bv Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCAST-E k SONS, Bnsban*, Q’land.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free' or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager fleer.
PURE ANI) WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.


Rutler on Trial.
Butler to the eye is a mere type of the sailor or
laborer class. He is rendered ugly by his broken
nose; by his accident. Accidents shape destiny.
When the court opened, the crowd rushed the
gallery like animals rushing to be fed. The Chief
Justice having entered and seated himself, Butler
was put into the dock. He sat, folded his hands,
asked his solicitor for paper, began writing, and
while writing steadily chewed tobacco. His
demeanour was calm; calmer than yours would
Erobably be, dear reader, if you were about to
ave a tooth out.
“ How say you, Frank Butler —guilty or not
guilty?” “Not guilty!” “ Not guilty ? ” “Not
guilty ! ” Both times he answered “ guilty ”
louder than “ not.”
As the jurymen kissed the Bible the elder ones
looked solemn and troubled; the younger ones
smiled or simpered. Barristers Edmunds and
Want, the while, laughed silently over a whispered
joke and interchanged photographs. When Want
rose to open the case Butler crouched forward and
listened, all ears. And as Want, having done his
best to get the jurymen and himself on common
and equitable ground, proceeded to set forth the
substance of the prosecution, Butler with lighted
eyes watched Want, watched the Judge, the
Associate busily writing, the jury absorbed in
Want’s speech.
“ The life and death of a fellow-creature
is involved,” said the Attorney - General, and
towards the close he gave the Shakes-
pearean lines—“ Murder, though it hath no
tongue, will speak with most miraculous
organ.” Want’s case was presented in a clear
light, but it did not upset Butler. His air when
Want was strongest was that of a schoolboy who
somehow or other finds himself in a bad scrape
with the head master. Want quoted the alleged
words of Butler to the police—“l shall tell the
Judge to go to Hell; they’ll say I’m mad, and
they’ll put me in the Parramatta lunatic-asylum.”
Want’s address being rather long, at its finish
Butler leaned back and rested.
When Luckham, an important witness, was
swearing to the clothes found with Lee Weller’s
dead body, and identifying the clothes, jewel-
lery, books, and other alleged property of Lee
Weller, said to have been found with Butler,
the self-possessed prisoner complacently put
a fresh quid into his mouth, slowly fingered
his moustache, played with a pencil. His eyes,
however, were markedly alert; they caught every
movement of head, body, hand or foot within bis
range of vision ; they turned upon anyone enter-
ing or leaving the court, as if to spy any un-
detected player in the scene. Lee Weller’s
revolver was identified by Luckham, and handed
for inspection to Judge and counsel. That
moved Butler ; he leant far forward, but next
moment relapsed into composure, spat upon the
floor, rested his head upon his hands, and went on
munching his quid. The distressed faces were
outside the spikes, though one man in the gallery
was sleeping.
As the work or evidence dragged tediously on
and the clock pointed to half-past 12, Butler’s inter-
est in the case apparently waned. He seemed to
be thinking that it was near dinner-time, and that
a fair thing was a fair thing. After dinner Butler
seemed comfortable, so that when Edmunds,
chief barrister for the defence, was determinedly
fighting for a favoring point, Butler signified his
concern by carelessly rubbing his foot against the
railings. Detective M‘Lean, obeying the Judge,
got down on his hands and knees upon the floor
in front of the jurymen to illustrate the posture of
Lee Weller in the grave. “ Come forward, gentle-
men,” the Judge said to the jury, as he himself
stood up to view. Butler didn’t trouble himself ;
he seemed to be saying that he didn’t want any of
that monkey-show. Wood, the discoverer of Lee
Weller’s grave, related how a stick thrust into
the undisturbed mound and withdrawn “ had a
heavy smell on it,’’and howthebody was “crumpled
up.” Butler onlv kept rubbing his under-lip
with a pencil. When a photograph of the grave
was being passed round, however, Butler
asked for a look at it. As the flattened bullet
taken from Lee Weller’s head was being
handed to Judge and counsel, Butler quietly
chewed his quid ; he even closed his eyes, as
if about to doze. Furniss, the Punch artist,
studied Butler most attentively ; stood up now
and then to take note of Butler’s legs or feet. The
dozen women in the court watched Butler—
absorbed—fascinated. He moved, they moved;
they craned their necks, rose up in their seats,
observed his every action. What a great, good
show the alleged murderer was to them, and how
they will cackle about it for months to come !
There was one pretty woman, with a large
hat smothered in flowers ; every time Butler
moved she smiled with pleasure—such perfect
teeth she had. The women were so placed that
they could view only the back of Butler’s head.
It was well; otherwise they’d have stared him out
of countenance.
Dr. Paton, with the aid of a human skull and
£encil, showed the track of the bullet through
iee Weller’s head. The doctor’s evidence was
thundersome with anatomical technicalities;
Butler leaned back—bored. The doctor beat the
pencil upon the skull to emphasise himself;
Butler remained bored. Paton said, “I have no
doubt that the wound was not self-inflicted.”
Butler stroked his moustache leisurely, just as if
Paton were talking about the weather. Edmunds
wanted to know, “ From the nature of the wound
could it not be self-inflicted?” Want rose sar-
castic —“ From the nature of the wound couldn’t
the man afterwards bury himself and cover him-
self with loose sand ! ” The Chief Justice spoke
and frowned Want down into his chair.
Arthur Cooper, clerk at the Herald office,
called in evidence of Butler’s advertisement, did of
all witnesses kiss theßiblewith theloudest kiss—as
was due to his employers. Butler was not surprised.
John Farrell, abushman, wascharacteristic. Butler,
he said, had told him about a “ lot of clothes ”
and “a lot of tucker.” “Tucker?” interrogated
the Judge. “ Tucker ! ” replied the witness. The
Judge wrote down “ tucker.” Farrell swore that
Butler “drew the plan up agen the wall uv the
pub,” told him “ how fur it was to the cnk.
Farrell “reckoned it was five mile” from Emu
Plains to Butler’s alleged camp —“ I went across
country.” “Why across country”? snappishly
inquired Edmunds. “Becozit was shorter, an-
swered the bushman. The bushman threw in the
real colonial when he swore that Butler said,
“ Blanky the tent, blanky the shootin’, blanky
the whole concern ; I’m full of it.” The gallery
yelled; the Chief-Justice said, with gentle firm-
ness, “If there is another demonstration of that
sort I’ll clear the court.”
With the first sign of darkness the electric-
light began to shine, and the features of the trial
became more marked. The Chief - Justice
in scarlet and ermine; the sheriff in black
touched with white lace; the barristers with
the table lights shining horizontally in their
faces, the attention of the jury, _ and
sang-froid of the police, the apathy of the prisoner
—an apathy from which he sulkily roused himself
only to the “Stand up, please,” of a counsel, the
gallery crowd peering down hungrily, the tedious-
ness of the investigation resulting from the
minuteness of counsel and the Justice’s scrupulous-
ness in taking notes, the whisperings and smilmgs
of the women, the drowsy feeling which at times
stole over the whole court and caused even the
Chief Justice himself to yawn ; the loud, positive
voices of the polioe witnesses in contrast to the
irritating murmurings of most other witnesses ;
the frequent and sharp “Speak up, do!” from
counsel to these mumblers, and the general slow-
ness of every form of question and procedure;
seemed to impress “ the law’s delays ” upon
everybody except the impassive prisoner behind
the spikes.
S. A. MILLS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 15, 1897.
My Dear Myee—
That glaring crimson wig which Bessie Rignold
used to wear in “Sweet Lavender,” has been
shedding its lurid light on the Thornton season in
Queensland. The wig had been so guyed in
Sydney that Bessie flatly refused to wear it again,
and consequently—so goes the story —her part was
bestowed on Clara Manifield, one of the school-
girls in “Miss Brown,” who gladly accepted pro-
motion with the warm-colored hair. Miss Mani-
field, a daughter of Meta Pelham, has also suc-
ceeded to all the parts formerly taken by Noney
Seabrooke, who has left the co. with a loud bang.
The whole co. seems now to be squabbling.
The party which seemed to be getting most fun
out of the Jewish Education Fund ball in Pad-
dington Town Hall last Thursday evening com-
prised a girl in black, a girl in blue, two sisters in
white hung with dangling pearly net, and an
attendant contingent of clubmen. Every woman
in the room noted the blue dreSs, which was a
thrilling color and fit, trimmed with the latest
notion, blue velvet roses, and questioners were
stunned to find the garment hailed from Adelaide.
Also, the wearer’s hair-knob sat on the very top
of her head. The girl in black is a pro. who has
“ rested ” ever since her arrival here. The com-
pany came out strong in the way of diamonds,
brocade, and lace, and the supper was sumptuous,
though the familiar ham-sandwich was not there
to supply a long-felt thirst. Two of the Cross Co.
came on after the play ; they were early Christians
at the theatre and late Hebrews at the ball.
The band which supplies the music for all the
swagger dances has fallen a little out of date with
its Lancers. People get tired of jigging round
night after night to the stale, old “Gondoliers”
airs, and it’s not at all a bad imitation of the
treadmill to be perpetually “ grand-chain ” to the
tune of “ The Dashing Militaire.” De Groen can
give the Melb. Dan Godfrey (Plock) points in dash
and nerve, but sometimes he seems to have that
tired feeling in his tunes. But comparisons are
•odious, and they both conduct good bands. The
Bavarian band, which played at the Manly dance
last week, had the company facing the newest
music in Lancers —made up of a medley of “ Tab-
leaux Vivants,” “Her Golden Hair,” and other
lively ditties.
The little hall at Manly was crammed on the
night of the Cottage Hospital hop. Indeed, it
was so full that the decorations were quite in the
way. Chaperones had to back their chairs in
among the greenery and sit with fern-fronds tick-
ling their necks ; and long grasses stretched out
and got mixed up with the dancers’ hair and
•chained them by the collar. By the end of the
■evening the floor was strewn with foliage, as if
the Summer Hill tornado had paid the ball-room
a visit. The ball was most successful, the resi-
dential revellers being reinforced by a strong con-
tingent of visitors, who had to return to their
homes by taking ship for Sydney after midnight.
A man at supper-time underwent a trying ordeal:
he fell to on a duck and dissevered it hastily,
while all the folk near glared at him in hungry
silence. At last, when he had wrecked the bird
beyond recognition, he gave one nervous glance
round and fled. He said afterwards that he
thought at the time he was carving a rabbit and
was trying to find its forelegs.
Her Majesty’s matinde, in aid of the Consump-
tive Home Fund, was quite a brilliant society
show, as it was Lady Hampden’s last public
appearance before her departure by the Warrimoo
last Thursday. The vice-regal party displayed
showy hats, and the d.c. generally was a flower-
garden mingled with a fur store. In the stalls it
was a cheering sight to see the big hats come down
one after the other; one grumpy man was de-
claiming loudly before the rise of the curtain
about the size of a hat in front of him, and when
the wearer turned and said, with a polite smile,
that she would remove the offending tile at
•curtain-rise, he gasped, and evidently thought the
millennium had arrived. His sulks deepened
though, for nothing offends a railer at the sex
more than civility from a woman—it destroys his
grievance and all his most cherished theories.
There was a vast amount of sobbing in the stalls,
and there was the usual sound of revelry by
Knight when Marcus gave the party in Act 111.,
followed by the opportune
side a crowd was waiting with gre there
see the Govt. House equipage, which was all tne
for some time before the show closed and tne
suit© on horseback sat tight and p < y
game, as usual. . .
Florence Schmidt’s concert was a signal triumph,
and she deserved a triumph if only fo P
in working up the whole affair wit l which
pressive list of patrons and patronesses which
generally throws a cold blight of dentil y
first step in every artists career. ® j ,
tempting her first public carolling
influential committee to bow and smirk any
guished guest into any special an
hauling an audience on its feet to Godsa • •
totally irrevelant individual, was, in i•’ >,
refreshing novelty. The new soprano has m her
voice purity and freshness. A.t present, . , ,
chief charm. Her singing implies a spirit ot
youth in everything and forecasts a co ™ in ? j
tury. Miss Schmidt was encored and handed up
many large posies (not bought by herself) an
audience recognised that a girl who has,
four months, stepped from utter obscurity
parison with Melba and de Vere Sapio, has done a
big thing. Her support was good, with but on
exception.
A military wedding without red coats is shorn
of half its glory, and a bridegroom possessing any
sort of uniform ought to insist on displaying it on
his wedding-day, because it is man’s only chance
of playing peacock to his bride by following
Nature’s rule of dressing the male bird in the
gaudier plumage. At Miss E. Lawson s marriage
to Col. Babington, at St. Andrew’s Cathedral-
the swagger event of last week —there were no red
coats, except on the bridesmaids, who wore bright
velvet bodices and carried flame-like poinsettia
sprays to heighten the effect. The bride, one ot
the best-known of Sydney belles, walked up the
aisle with her brother minus the conventional
simper, and seemed to enjoy the proceedings. Ihe
bridegroom had a martial air and complexion
tanned by Indian sun. At the subsequent re-
fection at the bride’s house, the gifts were in-
spected in a dimly-lighted room which gave
critical guests no possibility for comparing each
other’s offerings in the fierce light which usually
beats upon a newly-married couple’s electro-plate.
Taking it all round, last week was the most
socially weepful of the season. The weather was
damp, and there were two tearful matinees—
“Mrs. Tanqueray” always moistens the matinee
cambric, which is chiefly "feminine —and on Thurs-
day Lady Hampden and her daughter took their
departure in the Warrimoo, and there was more
weeping and fluttering of moist pocket-linen. The
Hon. Alice was the most emotionally-inclined,
and the thousand or so bosom friends, assembled
by their own invitation on the wharf, sobbed
audibly. His Ex. said farewell as soon as he had
escorted his family on board, and then made for
the accompanying launch. Her Ex. also disap-
peared from deck, but the assembled hundreds
lingered till the last and mingled their tears on
the wharf, though half of them probably didn’t
know Lady Hampden by sight until they saw her
mount the steamer’s gangway.
Mayoress Ives presided at a ladies’ meeting at
the Town Hall on Monday. She sat at a table
while the meeting surged around her discussing a
forthcoming children’s fancy-dress ball on a
monster scale. At times the chairwoman put in
some remarks, but mostly the meeting got on top
and she was submerged in chat, all the women
having a brilliant idea to convey at exactly the
same moment. The ball was originally suggested
by the committee for the Consumptive Home
fund, and will be held in about a month’s time.
Price of admission was the chief squabble. A
speaker with assertive ribbons in her hat, backed
up by a lady lately returned from ’Ome, were the
chief supporters of a high-priced hop, and ulti-
mately routed the popular party.
Australia’s only millionairess, now at ’Ome for
the Record fuss, has done the handsome thing by
her friends, according to letters received. She has
hired a room on the line of march, and ordered a
luncheon for many invited guests, who will be all
“ gazed ” and fed at about =£lo a head.
All the clubs are to be thrown open to both sexes
on Monday night. The men’s institutions made
the gracious innovation first, and the Victoria
hen-convention, not to be outdone, has issued a
mandate throwing open its doors to friends with-
out regard to “number and gender.” The Vic-
toria has begun debates. On Monday night a dis-
cussion on Australian poetry was held. Several
women spoke and showed knowledge of the sub-
ject, and the discussion was gently but firmly kept
away from Gordon’s claims to be called an Aus-
tralian poet—into which every literary debate in
Australia generally drifts.
A very charming blonde society beauty, whose
matrimonial engagements in the past to more or
less distingue individuals, for unexplained reasons,
somehow never reached the orange-blossom stage,
has, it is said, been married at last to a young
gentleman with a very substantial banking-ac-
count.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The * Mental Science ’ measles has broken out
in Melb. This is a sort of healing philosophy
(some call it ‘ metaphysical Science ’) born of the
concubinage of occultism and faith-healing, which
has been gaining vogue among the half-educated
females of America. It runs several periodicals,
one of them, the Metaphysical Magazine, quite
a pretentious one. It’ll be a change, anyway,
from phrenology and spiritualism, its nearest re-
lations out here.
“Mrs. Mills, the ‘ Metaphysical ’ high priestess,
who has come all the way from Chicago, via Syd-
ney, to expound * Christian Science ’ (in a blue
coat and skirt and white lace front and ruffles)
speaks with ,a marked ’Murkan twang—which
always sounds clever to foreigners and when
she wants to be extra-impressive has a habit of
tiptoeing on her left foot like an angel about
to fly off. As showing the power of her sect in
America, she stated that in Chicago alone they
were wealthy enough (thanks to pig-massacres, no
doubt) to pay -£4O every Sunday morning for the
use of the biggest auditorium in the world where
the advisableness of shaking up one’s liver
with a good hard think is fervently preached.
It is, of course, an excellent treatment up to
a certain point. A mental impression may
leave a lasting effect on the body. Mrs. Mills
cited the case of a young English girl of 18 whose
betrothed was killed an hour before the time fixed
for her wedding. She went mad, as was proper
under the circumstances, and, though she lived (in
a lunatic asylum) to the age of 68, her appearance
stuck fast at sweet eighteen, owing to her fixed
delusion that she was that age only, and would be
married in an hour’s time. The beautiful pink
blush of bridal expectation never left her cheek
for a moment. We all know women who are
more or less deluded in the same way as this poor
girl, but their mental affection doesn’t seem to
benefit them in the matter of wrinkles and grey
hair.
The Australian Women’s Health Association
had another valiant attempt at a meeting in
the Australian Church Hall, the president being
once more divided between a wild desire to abdi-
cate her position and an equally unbridled incli-
nation to talk all night. A letter from the Aus-
tralian Health Society was read, in which that
body most politely refused to be in any way con-
nected with the A.W.H. A., but the meeting didn’t
seem to feel its position acutely. Somebody read
a string of platitudes re fresh air, and this raised
a warm and pleasant discussion as to whether bed-
room windows should be opened at night from the
top, the bottom, the middle, or both ends at once.
An elderly dame settled matters by stating that
she didn’t believe people ought to sleep with the
windows open at all, and the subject was suddenly
dropped. Then, just by way of proving that their
little society had come to fill a long-felt want,
several members stood up and stated that their
stern determination to break themselves of the
pernicious habit of breathing through the mouth
instead of the nostrils, had compelled them to go
to bed with their lips strapped up in sticking-
plaster. If the majority of them would attend the
meetings under the same conditions the society
might progress rapidly. Meanwhile, the hus-
bands of the plastered ones, if they have any, are
doubtless rejoicing in a good night’s rest.
“ The softgoods hop was a rather shoddy affair
this year. His Ex. stayed away, ditto the tail
end of sassiety which wags only at his august nod,
and even the boss rag-men failed to rally round
the trade standard, consequently it was difficult
to collect a really soft-goods set. Such champions
as did turn up—or rather their sons, who repre-
sented them —brought their favorite Flossies in
gorgeous array, and the prim Mrs. Middleclasses
spent the evening in vainly trying to squelch
these fair unknowns with a stony stare. The
dressing, as a rule, was not worthy of a drapery
function, but the decorations were immense. The
style of the M.C’s, recruited from the shop-
walkers, etc., varied considerably, the more
haughty Gussies from the—haw ! —leading estab-
lishments being quite A 1 in their method of
management and arranging sets, whilst some from
second and third-rate shops called out directions,
and ran things in the style of a shilling hop.
“ The fiery Celts pushed things with such vim
that the attendance at St. Vincent’s ball beat last
year’s record. His Ex., who had been carefully
secured for the occasion, distinguished himself by
coming punctually to time, together with all the
aides, his spouse and daughter. The present
limited ‘ sassiety ’ of Melb. naturally rushed at the
occasion, and the gap between the Nice crowd
around the dais end, and the vulgar herd stream-
ing towards the south, was not nearly so broad
as in previous years. Flossies were less in evi-
dence, and more of ‘England’s backbone, the
middle class,’ toddled round, looking emi-
nently prosy, middle-aged and married, with
a penchant for the refreshments. The V.R.
crowd stayed quite late for them, and were
fed behind a screen in the ordinary refresh-
ment-room. The gowning was-“ off.” Lady B.
flaunted some nondescript garb, white or cream,
with yellow top piece, Mrs. Freeman-Thomas was
in a custard shade, hooped round the bodice with
bands of lace and gold tinsel. The wife of a coun-
cillor, who is mentioned as the probable next
mayor, made an eye-achey effect m grey satin,
plastered with bright green, set off by turquoise
jewellery. The wife of Melbourne’s boss distiller
sported a wonderful and awful cloak, with sleeves
of portentous dimensions, in a brocade of dull
mustard, under-done beef tints intermixed. One
of the best gowns was white silk, with a Frenchy
wallpaper flowering, and bodice covering of some
pale-pink shade seen through cloudy white.
“ Mayoress Strong and a body of society dames
were billed to meet in the Council Chambers of
the Town Hall the other morning to receive
jubilee donations from the public towards the
Fever Hospital. Taken altogether, they were a
very swagger crowd, quite equal to receiving
£ 100,000 without turning a hairpin. In
the Council Chamber the imposing assemblage
sat for two solid hours, and at the end of that
period their total receipts, both from themselves
and outside sources, amounted to —five pounds !
Then the society portion of the sitting called for
its carriage and drove away, wondering why it had
gone there to be insulted.
“ A Maoriland correspondent tells me that, at
an amateur-theatrical show in the South Island,
the other day, an old and highly-respectable lady
was booked to pose as Queen Victoria, in some
Jubilee tableaux which preceded the comedy of
the evening. Before being enthroned, the old
lady had imbibed so freely that, when the cur-
tain rose on ‘ The Queen,’ her hiccupy Majesty
was seen lolling in a most unregal manner on the
throne. Not all the horror-stricken faces that
glowered upon her could set H.M. straight, and
the curtain fell in an ominous and profound
silence.
“The latest thing the haberdashery-fiend carts
round is crackers—special, strong Jubilee crackers.
Last week, the firework agent invaded Melb.
G.P.O. with his explosives, and because Mr.
Outtrim, or some other authority, believes in
giving expression to Loyalty with a loud bang,
the intruder was allowed to push his line among
all the wire-pullers and quill-drivers in the place.
But the G.P.0., it seems, is not taking any. Only
threepenny worth of crackers were sold, and these
to an old bachelor, whose small nephew commemo-
rates a birth-night presently.
“Mr. Zox, M.L.A., who has worked hard in
his easy-going style to get up a jubilee spree for
the poor of Melb., feels naturally wrathful that
two of the wealthiest clubs in that city have re-
fused to subscribe. Evidently the Collins-street
nabobs prefer to feed the famished Briton, and
let the hungry Victorian read of their generosity.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Callaghan’s Winter Boots . . .
Wear them this season, and
you’ll realise how much you
needed them in the past.
These Cold Days
a pair of Callaghan's Good Boots
keep the feet warm and comfortable.
Ladies’ Calf Boots, 13 6, 15 6, 17/ff
Gentlemen’s Calf Boots, 15 6> 17/6, 20/-, 21/-
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-stre*it, Sydney.
Make tl>€ FQr Fly!
That is what we are, figuratively and
almost literally speaking, doing just
now. How ? Well, the prices at which
we are offering Fur Trimmings of all
kinds are so tempting that folk cannot
help but buy. Fashionable Trimmings
from 2£d. a yard and up. Write for
patterns.
W. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
SoftCaQVaS £f)irts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong’, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIK K II HOTIIKRS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.


Personal Items.
David Syme—or was it The Age?—has
refused knighthood.
Reported that John Norton has taken a
five-years’ exclusive lease of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court buildings and Judges.
A Vic. man who has refused a title is
working the oracle hard to get one for an Austra-
lian astronomer of some note.
Samuel Tomkinson, the most recently-
elected member of S.A. Leg. Council, is the
patriarch of the chamber. He owns to 81 years.
Dr. “Plevna Ryan” has, with the aid of
“ Jack ” Sandes of the Argus, set out his reminis-
cences of the Russo-Turkish war for publisher
John Murray, of London.
Prof. Marshall-Hall’s new poem contains
one lovely line : 44 The soul of the world is the
soul of a sow and it takes the whole earth for a
sty.” Neo-Baconian philosophy.
It is interesting to recall that the late Vic.
baronet Clarke and—Oliver Wendell Holmes !
were made honorary Doctors of Law on the same
list issued from Cambridge University.
G. H. Reid is understood to have once
written and published a book of “ poems ” — 44 a
perfect yell; ” but up to now The Bulletin has
been unable to track those poems to their lair.
At one Australian National Gallery, which
contains three pictures from the nude, when the
Governor’s wife visits the show the pictures in
question are, by request, turned face to the wall.
Yes, just do fancy Premier Seddon as a
Doctor of Laws ! Whenever Richard of Kumara
is cornered ’e ’as a ’abit of laying ’is ’and upon ’is
’art, and, with great hearnestness, hexclaiming :
44 Hon my word as a Hinglishman ! ”
What is “Toby” Barton’s Jubilee “honor”
to be? If the Q.C. had £lO,OOO a year private
income he would probably become a baronet. As
to a K.0.M.G.-ship—well, all sorts of people hSte
been made K.C.M.G.’s. Is it to be G.C.M.G. ?
Tas. Parliament opens early in July. The
exact date will be fixed to fit the arrival of
Attorney - General Inglis Clark, whose health is
said to have been much improved by his American
trip. When he left Australia, Mr. Clark was very
ill indeed.
One feels rather glad that the Melb. Eight
Hours pedestal remains without its statue, when
statues to nonentities, like Sargood and Clarke,
are so much in vogue. People will soon begin to
reckon all statued individuals and movements as
equally worthless.
The Bulletin hears that when Premier
Seddon left Auckland the whole of the luggage
of himself and party was disfigured with labels of
about a foot square, UDon which was printed in
large type 44 Honorable R. J. Seddon (Premier
ob New Zealand).
The trachyte pedestal of W. B. Dailey’s
statue in Hyde Park, Sydney, was hewn from a
quarry at Bowral, alongside the residence which
the distinguished advocate took up when he retired
sick from Manly. Dailey surrendered Bowral for
Darling Point, but the trachyte has followed him !
H. : “An Ormond statue is just un-
swathed in Melb. next to the College- -as great an
absurdity as putting Wren in front of St. Paul’s,
or Angelo of St. Peter’s. But the statue seems
to have been on hand, and they did not know
what to do with it. I am too lazy to verify
whether it is the one I wrote of in these columns
as being neglected in a graveyard. If there be
two they are as like as two peas, and the other is
still available as the Prince of Wales—or King of
England.”
Chief Justice Griffith (Q.) will be
62 on June 21, and President Chaffey
Baker (S.A.) will be 55 on June 22
Record Reign Day.
It will be 27 years on Thursday,
June 24, since Adam Lindsay Gordon
shot himself. It is not generally known
that he once sat in the S.A. Assembly,
his colleague being John Riddoch, a
brother of George Riddoch, who was
defeated at Albert (part of Gordon’s
old district of Victoria) on May 22 last.
Millionaire Hooley, a young man
of 34 or so, now, it is cabled, seeks to
amalgamate all the Australian meat-
preserving co’s. Hooley’s “ghost” is said
to be A. M. Broadley (Broadley Pa,sha,
who defended Arabi the Egyptian).
Broadley, a most accomplished and
fascinating man, was formerly editor of
London World, and some years ago left
England in a hurry after certain un-
savory charges had been brought against
him. A brilliant financier, from the
obscurity of his dummy’s shadow he
now, it is averred, directs and advises
the mammoth coups that have made
“Bally” Hooley famous.
Dean Cowper, who administers the af-
fairs of the Anglican diocese of Sydney in the
absence of Primate Smith, will be 87 years of age
on July 3. His birth, which took place m Syd-
ney, actually preceded the naming of George,
Pitt, and other local main streets.
The Queen’s counsel in N.S. Wales have a
limited knowledge of Scripture, but this does not
prevent them from often clinching by an appo-
site Scriptural quotation an argument addressed
to a jury. Pilcher, Q.C., was last week engaged
in a libel-case in which the libel alleged contained
the words, “With apologies to Barabbas. 5 Ad-
dressing the jury, he said: “You know who
Barabbas was, gentlemen ; you know Barabbas
was a thief, who was crucified on a cross at the
side of Jesus Christ. ” Which recalls Jack Want s :
“The hands are the hands of Jacob, but the voice
is the voice of Esau.”
Ex - M.L.A. Fran..
Smith (N.S.W.), who fell
with Abigail and co., is
now at Jobannesburg,
where press-work engages
part of his attention. At
one time he ran a Balmain
weekly.
One day, years ago, a
shabby old chap was walk-
ing down King - street,
Sydney. He was in a
hurry, and did not seem
over-pleased whenaccosted
by a lank - looking indi-
vidual in a dirty suit of
fashionably - cut clothes.
“ Your pardon, sir, but I
want to ask you, as a par-
ticular favor, could you
help me to get something
to eat? I haven’t had a
bite since last night.” It
was then noon. A hand
went into a waistcoat
pocket, and a shilMng glis-
tened in the sun. ‘ 4 Thank
you very much, sir. Would
you ” but the donor
was several yards on his
way. Presently he turned.
A finger had touched his
sleeve. 44 Excuse me, sir.
You may think I am go-
ing to spend this in a pub-
lic ” 44 1 don’t care a
damn where you spend it;
good day.” 44 Pardon me
again, sir, but you’re a
white man, and I am go-
ing to ‘have one.’ Will
you do me the favor of
joining me? You see, sir,
I am a gentleman.” Sar-
castic merriment crawled
round the corners of the
old man’s mouth, as he
deliberately led the way
to a 6d. bar, and the drink
was drunk. Just as he
was hobbling off, the old
man turned — 44 You say
you’re a gentleman. You
are also a fool. lam
not a gentleman, and I
wanted some of my money
back. Goto .” Turn-
ing to the barman, with
an air of injured hauteur, the person so addressed
said : “ Can you tell me, please, who that vulgar
person is ? ” “ That, sir, is the Premier, and
the barman went on drying his glasses.
A Bulletin man knows a Melbourne
suburban boarding-house, with some pretensions
to “tone,” where the grace —only spoken over
Sunday’s dinner—ends devoutly with the words :
4 4 And God bless John Dow ! ” The landlady who
speaks the piece has forgotten the origin of the
custom, but the oldest boarder points out that
Dow deserves all the credit for the success of the
Vic. butter-factory system, and so is responsible
for the circumstance that really-bad butter is
now rarely found in Melbourne.
Vic. : “ Judge Quinlan’s best and only
story relates how, when a Chinese witness had to
be sworn, the interpreter seemed to be puzzled by
a strange dialeot. At last he told the court a
rooster’s head must be cut off. Crier M‘Anulty
yielded one on due indemnity. When this noisy
murder was over, the interpreter said it was no
good, and the witness must blow out a match. It
was lighted. Witness seemed gravelled for a
moment, then he pulled out a little black pipe, and
lighted it with ‘ Ha, ha ! welly good ’ 1 ”
“ BLIND CONFIDENCE. ”
Old Henry Ayers, who died last Friday at
Adelaide, was the most frequent Premier in Aus-
tralia. He was Premier in seven Ministries,
though the whole period of his supremacy only
extended over four years. His most enduring
Ministry lasted one year four months and 20
days ; his two shortest Ministries lasted 13 and 20
days respectively. In addition to this, he held
office in another casual Cabinet which lasted 11
days, and he was practically, though not nomin-
ally, boss in three Governments which lasted
years among them. Barring the fact that he ran
10 Governments, there is comparatively little to
his credit as a politician ; in those days the whole
time of a S.A. Ministry was occupied getting into
office and out again, and it had no leisure for any-
thing else. After he left off making Governments
Henry Ayers was President of the Leg. Council
for 12 years, and he died, a much-respected old
landmark, at a great age.
HE'S A DEAR, KIND DOCTOR.
MRS. BROWN-SMITH: “And what did the doctor say was the
matter with you? ”
MISS THOMPSON : " He said I had plumbago, and could not
domesticate my food."
The God-fearing N.S.W. Government
again. From a S.M. Herald news par it appears
that when Premier Reid, en route for England,
wired Papa Brunker enquiring how things were,
he asked whether N.S. Wales had yet been
“blessed with rain.” “Blessed!” They can’t
even keep the parson-lingo out of a cable.
The register of the Melb. City Court bears
the following remarkable inscription from an in-
dignant J aypee :
Heard all case but not conculted therefore Cook chair-
man as to decisons therefore preceding this day signed
J.P.
Is the hitherto vigilant Lormer now somnolent?
The 11 Premiers of the outlying empire
who have accepted Bull’s hospitality for June 21
split up into six “Sirs” and five “Misters.”
Australia sends four of the former and three of
the latter. Newfoundland sends Sir William
Whiteway; Cape Colony, Sir Gordon Sprigg;
while Canada sends Mr. Laurier ; and Natal, Mr.
Henry Escombe.
A Dan O’Connor story. In 1891, when
Dauiel went down like his countryman M'Ginty,
and had to be kicked upstairs to N.S. W. Leg. Coun-
cil after the general election, he thus apologetically
explained his inability to work off one of his
“grate spaiches ”in the Upper House. “You
know, Sir Henry, as was said of another great
orator, ‘an oak of the forest cannot be trans-
planted at fifty.’ ”
Ex-Captain Dreyfus transported to
French Guiana for alleged military-information-
selling—is withering away so fast that the ex-
pected new trial will probably be of little use to
him. It will be entirely due, if it takes place at
all, to the heroic efforts of his wife, who tackled
successively and successfully, on his behalf, the
German and Austrian Emperors, the Czar, and
the Pope. “Far above rubies ! ”
Premier Kingston has the bulge on all his
brother Premiers in England. Hardly any of the
banquets or festivities will be out of place to him.
In Scotland, the blood of his Cameronian ances-
tors will be stirred ; in Ireland, the Kingstonian ;
and, when he gets mixed up in a fight, the blood
of aDa Silva will pulsate through his veins. But
should the Da Silvas, the Camerons, and the
Kingstons start to pulsate simultaneously—whoop !
The late Richard Bingham Sheridan, who
died at Manly (N.S.W.) the other day, was a
martinet as a civil service chief, a poor politician,
and a very clever anonymous contributor to the
newspapers. He was a prospective Queenslander
when Q. was Moreton Bay, and in the old pre-
steamer days bravely did much tough coastal
exploratory work. As known to the latter-day
generation, he was a suave, refined, diplomatic
old gentleman, with an unfaltering memory, who
quoted the poets copiously. Mr. Sheridan had
many personal traits in common with Hori Grey
—among them his kindly consideration for and
success in dealing with the aborigines, who ever
warmly reciprocated his confidence. He was a
grandson of “ Galway ” Martin, author of the Act
for the prevention of cruelty to animals, known in
Great Britain and Ireland as “ Martin’s Act.”
Mr. Sheridan leaves two sons well-known in
N.S.W. banking circles.
One Australian Excellency (and suite) go
as deadheads to every theatrical show they
patronise. His Ex. never “parts.’'
George Baden-Powell—he pronounces it
“ Pool ” —wants Australia to celebrate the Jubilee
by bonfires “from Mount Macedon to the Blue
Mountains ’ —evidently thinking t his as compre-
hensive a geographical sweep as from Cape York
to Wilson’s Promontory. George was out here
as private secretary to Gov. Bowen in 1877, and
has always been a cross between a prig and a
showman. He is worshipped by the British public
as an indisputable authority on all things Aus-
tralian.
Journalist: “I regret the news of the
demise in Westralia from typhoid of a former col-
league, the good-hearted, plodding, business-like
Mr. H. Rhys-Jones, brother of barrister Jones, of
the Argus. His Melb. debut was on the Herald,
after which he partnered with Edgar in the
Ballarat Post. It has been stated in print that
he made ,£30,000 in Westralia.” Rhys-Jones was a
pocket Hercules, with health stamped on every
feature, when he was in Sydney the other day.
But Perth, filthy Perth, is a pest-house, a lazarette,
a fever-hell. At the present hour, there are over
100 fever-patients in the local hospital. .Death
lurks in the food, the water, the air.
“ Silvanus Thompson, the celebrated elec-
trician and professor of physics,” writes Thh
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ has invented
a submarine cable to double or treble the word-
capacity per minute of the ocean telegraphs. He
uses a double cable in place of an ‘ earth ’ return,
and gets rid of the superfluous current which
clogs the copper core after each signal by an in-
genious device. The two cables are connected
together in two or more places by a high resistance
metallic path. The current, which hangs about
like the smoke in a discharged rifle-barrel, gradu-
ally makes its way along these paths into the
‘return’ cable, though the main current travels
by and works the instrument. This at first seems
impossible to electricians, but cablegraphers know
a leaky cable always works best, and by the im-
provement they are warned of a fault on the line.”
“A collaborator” to The Bulletin
Editor Bulletin, — You ask who is Borchgrevink? I
will tell you. He is a young Norwegian who arrived in
Australia in 1888 with a half-crown in his pocket, a eertifi-
cate for surveying and forestry gained in Saxony, and a
big heart under his sailor’s jumper. He first worked as a
carpenter in the Queensland bush, then as an axeman to
a surveyor, finally rising to the slightly more lucrative
position of assistant-surveyor. Allured by promises from
the late Director-General of Forests, he determined to try
his fortune in N.S.W., and set out from Goondiwindi tc
Muswellbrook behind a mob of cattle. At that time hit-
whole possessions consisted of a blanket, a horse, and
saddle. He worked for two years in the Forest Depart-
ment here, chiefly at Gosford and the since abandoned
Jilliby-Jilliby plantation, near Wyong. There, clad it
moleskins and blucher boots, he and his comrades, of
whom the writer was one, trenched, grubbed, turned-off,
and worked up to their knees in water full of leeches
Retrenchment got him and his official head the sack
shortly afterwards. His next move was to the Walker
Convalescent Hospital, trenching and clearing the
grounds, and living in an unfinished stable, window-
less and cold. This was followed by a teachership
at the Cooerwull Acadamy, where he instilled modern
languages and science into rebellious Australians, who
called him “Buck.” For this he received £lOO per annum,
leaving with good credentials at the end of 18 months.
Through all this medley of occupations he preserved at.
unquenchable ambition for Antarctic work, and shipped
at the first opportunity before the mast. Subs- u-ntlj
he made known (in four languages) the result of h:s in-
vestigations to the leading scientific bodies of Europe.
He's been looking
for “ the progress. ”
including' the International Geographical Congress and
the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
finally marrying a poor girl—rumor being wrong in that
respect even. Borchgrevink is a Bohemian and a Socialist
—a staunch friend and a hard enemy ; but, above all, he
has a dogged perseverance that makes everything and
everybody bend before it. His sole aim is to make a name
for himself as an investigator of things South Polar. And
why should he not if he can ?
Ponce de Leon
searched in vain for the fountain of perpetual youth.
Had he been less ambitious he might have learned
that while there is no fountain of perpetual youth,
there is no fountain pure as “ the water of life, ”
which brings health, pleasure, and lengthened days
to all who drink thereof.
A New Zealand Chemist,
A. W. Parsons, M.P.S., Lyttleton, says : “About
three years ago I was a great sufferer from indi-
gestion, and being a chemist of twenty-five years’
standing naturally tried several therapeutic reme-
dies, but without success. Some of my customers
who had been cured with Warner’s ‘Safe’ Cure
persuaded me to give it a trial, which I did, and
am pleases to say that it had the desired effeot of
curing me, for which I am thankful and will always
recommend it in such cases.”*
BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. . .
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £8 Bs.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. l-s.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTO6RAPNK MATERIAL.
875 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE;
81 Queev Street, HR IS BA X R
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCH N, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.


A ROYAL HANDICAP.
AL. EDWARD: “O, Lord! I shall never beat that at my time of life. The man who puts up the next record needs to start young."


»1«0 suggested to the Premier that as
V?** £ England the question .of supply!
.tag the British army with remounts from
.Argentina instead of from Auatralia/had!
arisen he might inquire into the matter:
. E ' c “* ar 7. have an interview with I
the VVar Office as to purchasing horses for
cavalry purposes from these colonies, in-'
«ead of from South America.
s'
€Eecouhtry is safe, because it is
. we are not unprepared, and I
Kfc hare the more faith in the preservation ot,
■ peace because I know that the empire to;
I which we all belong, and of which we are 1
" so pxpud, cherishes no ambitious designs—,
' has no projects of aggrdsaion in any quarter
of the globe.*/ —75
- lltassey?
v . x " 'W'//y / /7 t
. y~ e Turned
•fC n ° a.ixc(h('>
v'/SUa-J w e jJ e5 / l oox a. ?o a l /ecx <2 /is'jox
urMhf
r ° /g/ / 23/-rTisk tirmyT
* mt ™* * -
ejjo do u-bt
-fester 7 '
- •// w°' " a-
• t.efec''
~/h eft ’ e A~ /
■ ltosenn an f)
7“T L %l >
ka. co^ r Y^ r
attvcka. oV j~
/7^ k °r,i
//1§ }iet-oe* r 7
sfcunr
Court Sac e dent
Ju dge(/ o ti/itness) don say
you fad eight pints eg
Qeer anal wedso/c r
ttooucy: Sm-e as Solar asyer
He Hear u'ould. /e
ye r self
THE DIPHTHERIA OUTBREAK.
OUR MILK SUPPLY.
The outbreak of diphtheria has assumed
such proportions that the public generally,
will feel interested in an attempt to dis-
cover its main cause.
'YO L IT \ C & <—
LOLL T S'Hci P
We mayday that in
standing as a private member Mr.
Gillies is Well within his rights. But
the leadership of a party is a very
diflereut matter. No man can ever
pose even as n possible leader until
the party Itself has been consulted,
aud -Mr. Gillies is too shrewd t<? be
guilty of any such offence.
‘ '/23/?//VAr jD>£MOA£
/n^/vje/bou.t ri G-,
'£<°~ Vl su«-*
<?&/-Atm.-*. /n/7T Me shc/}, ?
Ae at Ae. con'?cri.f~~wrtt v ** I°'°' /
/oi /}<" //e ’&G soTiumh/e-
-<^or£(~~ ~70~7%e. SzxreeTTof 6ff/c«~>
POWERS OP THE ifETRO-
. POUT AN BOARD. |
Cr. Walstnb pointed out that a., matters
stood a£ present if a rate were struok it
would apply alike to those places which had
been or were*to be -sewered, and to those
which were never likely to be sewered, as
well as to vacant land’ If the ratepayers
failed to pay the board had power to swoop
down on the municipality for any amount,
and put a bailiff in possession of the town
hall until the amount was paid.
He was afraid ratepayers had
not grasped the seriousness ot he
situation.
/Jh 'fJtArf-U l
i l fp' f *
Y**f La* **' r&
MELBOURNIANA.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Giaasey has been re-elected unanimously as
leaoer of Q. Parliamentary Labor-party.
H.3.W. Col. Secretary Brunker announces
his conversion to woman-suffrage principles. One
by one, youth and age are gathered in.
The way in which politicians rejected at
the Convention elections have since “ turned dog”
on Federation is reminiscent of the fable about
“ soar grapes.”
Lsyal persons are writing to Melb. papers
preposing “ the liberation of first offenders in
eennection with the Diamond Jubilee !” Un-
happily, the first offenders in this connection are
not m gaol.
One thing that Mongrelia needs badly is
special “lepei carriages ” with its railway trains —
said carriages to be compulsorily reserved for
Ch inese, Japs, coolies, Javanese, and the color-
streaks generally.
AT THE “AT HOME."
SHE: “ What nonsense — not hear my song, indeed! Why,
everything was perfectly quiet"
HE : “ My dear, you forget your costume .”
Rockhampton (C.Q.) Record : “ There is
no more reason for the insistence that the Attorney-
General shall be a lawyer than that the Minister
for Works or Railways shall be an engineer.”
Sounds plausible, but it’s all wrong, because the
making the Attorney-Generalship a political office
is bosh. It should be purely a legal office, and, as
such, should be filled by a lawyer. A proper com-
parison : There is no more reason for insisting
that the Attorney-Generalship should be a politi-
cal office, than there is that the Chief Medical
Officer should be a Cabinet Minister.
Sixty-two more Japanese landed at Thurs-
day Island by last Japanese boat. Yet, when Q.
Labor-member Sim alluded to this place as a
mere appanage of the Mikado he was vigorously
boo-hooed by Boodle wraith and Co.
“ It is a pleasant thing to behold the tame-
ness of animals. Our greatest delight is to see all
the varieties of domestication parade before us.
That it is which collects so many folks on the road
of royal processions.”— Victor Hugo.
Q. Govt, would like to appoint Chief-Jus-
tice Griffith a Federation delegate, but quite a
dozen Ministerialists and all the Labor members
would vote Griffith down, as they protest against
him descending from the judicial bench into the
political arena.
The parson is a good prospector on the
Great Mammon claim. Already the London
Missionary Society has panned out 21 land-grants
in New Guinea; the Sacred Heart mission has
bottomed on 11, and the Wesleyan Missionary
Society owns 9—all in the name of the Lord.
If, as some prophesy he will, Q. Acting-
Premier Tozer sticks to his chieftainship after
“Nevermind” Nelson returns to the Northern
province from his Jubilee grovel, he (Tozer) can
quote as a Ministerial precedent the action of
B. D. Morehead after a M'llwraithian absence.
Curious to note that the subject matter of
the Vie. Law Commission, the reform of procedure
and the law’s delays, was the cause of a Roman
plebeian insurrectionary agitation ; was treated of
m the quaintly-written “ Abusions of the Law ”
in Home’s Mirrour of Justices, dated God knows
when ; and was evidently familiar to the man who
says the soliloquy in Hamlet’s edition of Bacon’s
plays.
In Mongrelia, Kanakas are un-
disguisedly employed as grooms, horse-
drivers, wood-cutters, stokers, tram-
layers, machine - feeders, domestio
servants, and, in short, any and
every how, despite the fact that the
Act provides (under penalties) that
they must be confined to field-work.
The Polynesian inspectors are not
numerous enough to be able often to
descend on a planter unheralded; also,
they are mostly men of worldly sense,
and know the social boycotting and
the active persecution that will follow
any official action taken against a
planter. The case of Caulfield, the
vigilant Bundaberg inspector, to wit.
About the only thing which
hasn’t been suggested as a jubilee
celebration is that the calendar of
English kings should be corrected so
that Wales will come to the throne as
Edward t\he Tenth instead of Edward
the Seventh. For some unexplained
reason the English kings are all num-
bered from the Conquest, so three
previous Edwards are left out, and
England thus deliberately refuses to
recognise its old English monarchs in
order to date its history from the time
when it was jumped upon by a for-
eigner. This change is recommended
as a cheap celebration, and one that
won’t explode, or lead to escapes in
the gas-pipes, or cause crowds to get
in the streets and tread each other to
death while looking at it.
Dear Bulletin, — A recent par.
refers scornfully to the fact that there
was baa-ing from the Government
benches when an Irish member in the
Commons asked “ whether it was not
true that English soldiers wore roses
on St. George’s Day.” Of course the
Govt, benches baa-ed. English sol-
diers don't wear roses on St. George’s
Day. Irishmen and Scotchmen cling
to the pugnacious custom of celebrat-
ing their “national saint” days, but
Englishmen make no annual fuss over
the mythical person who slew the
dragon. Caring nothing for St.
George, they have forgotten the date
of his Day, and, as for the rose—well,
did you ever hear a Smith or a Brown
speak of the rose as his national em-
blem ?— Hinglish.
Q. Labor press shrieks that the
local Labor-members will outrage a
sacred principle if any of them con-
sent to become nominee delegates to
next Federation Convention. Bah !
Let the Labor-members, by all means,
try and obtain a vote for delegates
by popular election ; but, if they can’t
carry what they want, let them make
the most of possibilities as they are,
by using hands, feet and teeth to climb
by every projection to the top, where
they can at least have a square chance
of achieving something practical. The
hermit who buries himself in his
cave, on principle, achieves nothing
for his fellows, but simply soaks himself in the
commendation of his own conscience. The Labor-
party wants fighters —fighters ready to fight on any
lines that develop. Fight, not cant, should be
the watchword.
The Maoriland Cold Tea brigade declares
that henceforth it will go the complete ginger-beer
hog, and have absolute prohibition or nothing.
The weak half-measure of seeking a reduction in
the number of licenses is to be abandoned, and it
is to be a fight to the death between whisky on the
•one hand, and the insipid fluid with the tadpole in
it on the other.
The position of house-steward in N.S.W.
Parliament, vacant and filled last week, carries
with it board, residence, and £250 per year.
Several M’s.L.A. who have done a little waitering
in their time, say the billet is out of sight better
than that of representative of the people, and that
they would lie low for the next vacancy but that
applicants are obliged to have good characters.
“It is announced that 300,000 P er ®° '
will participate in the dinners for the poor of H
London slums, to be provided in commemoration
of the Queen’s record reign.”
Most Gracious Queen, before thy throne we kneel,
And thank thee for thy long, illustrious reign ;
Whilst cannons roar and church-bells gaily peal
Deep is the gratitude thy loyal subjects feel
That sixty years have not been reigned in vain.
Queen, had you died twelve months ago, like many hun
gry sinners,
Three hundred thousand poor this week would not be
getting dinners.
A QUESTION OF CIRCUMFERENCE.
Labor-in-politics in Q. is sensibly protec-
tionist, and not likely, as in N.S.W., to permit
shoddocracy to make a shibboleth of “ solidarity.
Dear Bulletin, —The other side of the
‘ go-on-the-land ’ question: One sees myriads of
empty artisans’ houses, and plenty of idle fac-
tories, but how many vacant farms, orchards, or
cabbage-gardens ? —F.C.
The Q. Federation delegates are to be
elected in caucus meetings first. Assembly Minis-
terialists will nominate five; the Labor-party,
three; and the Leg. Council, two. But if the
Assembly Ministerialists choose to act in concert
to “ pill ” the Labor-party’s triple, they can put in
eight men of their own. The Council selections
are foreshadowed to be Ministers Thynne and
Gregory.
George Meudell, the Melbourne stock-
broker, has leapt forward, in the character of
patriotic citizen, to denounce the bare notion of
Duncan Gillies proposing to re-enter Parliament.
The Age refers to this demonstration as a crusher
for Gillies, and so it is. When a man’s political
misdeeds have made him abhorrent in the sight of
a stockbroker, it is time that he gave himself up as
a bad job.
Admiral Bridge, at the Mayor of Sydney’s
quarterly feed, proclaimed himself “proud of
belonging to a service which at that moment was
doing so much for the peace of Europe and of the
world.” This of the navy which played chief
partin the “combined” silly-billy business that
brought about the Graeco-Turkish scrimmage !
There’s no unction too flattering to be self-applied
to the British soul.
The decisions of the Jay Pee benches
around Melb., in prosecutions for breaches of the
Factories Act, have become so shamelessly glaring
that one involuntarily glances round for another
Lormer to arise and denounce the business-men
who adjudicate. The historic rulings of Rapiport,
Baxter, and the rest of the honorarium magis-
tracy sink into insignificance beside some of the
decisions in recent Chinese and sweating cases.
Most of Tas. Treasurer Fysh’s enthusiasm
for Federation seems to have fizzled out at the
Convention, where he suffered a sad disillusion-
ment. As the Commonwealth doesn’t show signs
of badly wanting his financial services, the lengthy
one is hooking himself on to the Agency-General
of his province. If, as seems likely, he takes the
post, there will be a fresh shufHe of the cards, with
ex-Speaker Stafford Bird in the forefront of the
Opposition, and Dobson looking on.
In ’93 and ’96, when the S.A. Labor can-
didates swept the poll, the electors had to choose
between a Labor and a Tory candidate. But the
Ass-party learnt a thing or two and now runs
moderate candidates, thus capturing democratic
support. The time has arrived for the Labor
bosses to climb down and recognise the vast army
of democrats outside the “Labor ” ranks who are
at present debarred from contesting city constitu-
encies, save against a Labor nominee.
Q. Labor-leader Glassey declared himself
the other day at Maryborough after local-member
Annear had given him much grease and claimed
him, in a way, as a brand plucked from the burn-
ing. Glassey said he didn’t regret a single vote he
had ever given ; and that, in his opinion, the Nel-
son Ministry is “ the least progressive that is to
be found in the Australasian provinces.” How
milk-and-watery compared with the Glassey of five
years ago, or even two years ago ! Fancy Annear
welcoming Glassey then I And Annear hasn’t
changed.
Japan is complaining to England about
Australian talk. There will have to be, evidently,
a big barney between the Kangaroo and Bull «
the industrial invasion of the north of this
tinent by the cheeky little brown man. Thei b •
then will be seen the value of those silken bonds
which,” &c.
Q. Home Secretary
Tozer was a scoffing anti-
federationist; Acting-
Premier Tozer vows that
Q. must enter the federa-
tion at all hazards. Home
Secretary Tozer reviled
Labor-members as “ traf-
fickers in turmoil” ; Aot-
ing - Premier Tozer in-
cludes the alleged “ traf-
fickers” among his very
good friends. Home
Secretary Tozer styled
certain accused workers
as “ dupes ” of the afore-
mentioned “ traffickers,”
and caused the “ dupes”
to be thrown into gaol;
Acting - Premier Tozer
invited the “traffickers ”
aforecalled to a trip in the
Govt, picnic steamer, in
order that they might
visit their “dupes.”
People are watching
the pendulum curi-
ously.
“Joynt M‘Ginnis ”
writes to The Bulletin
remarking that while he
admits that the N.S.W.
Public Service Board has
done some good (“ just
as three homicidal ma-
niacs armed with a sword
a-piece and turned loose
upon a defenceless crowd
would do some good ”),
the fact that many unin-
fluential officers of long
service and good charac-
ter have not received
any answer to their
appeals, made, in
some cases, nearly a
year ago, is most disgrace-
ful.
Brisbane (Q.) Worker objects to Glassey
dropping the phrase “ Labor-party,” and substi-
tuting for it “ Reform-party.” Arguable. “Labor-
party ”is to many persons utterly misleading. It
sounds like a class distinction, against which poli-
tical habit the “Labor-party” itself inveighs at
intervals. The very name excludes from its regu-
lar ranks many “workers,” who, in the vulgarly
accepted sense of the word, are not “ laborers.”
Thus it breeds antipathy as well as misleads.
There is a decided and comprehensible ring in the
phrase “ Reform-party.”
DINING WITH QUEEN VICTORIA.
J.P.: “ You say you are out of work."
DAN DOSSOUT: “ Yes, yer’onor.”
J.P.: “Have you any prospective means of
support? ”
DAN DOSSOUT: “ Yes ; the coming Jubilee Feasts,
yer’onor!”
“Old Stony” writes from Uralla, N.S.W. :
Dear Bulletin,—The Bushy Park (N.Z.) affair is strong,
but N.S.W. rises to the occasion in the Salisbury land-
exchange. Years ago, some thousands of acres with a
large frontage to Salisbury Creek were reserved for no
apparent reason except that the whole of the land was
admirably adapted foi farming, and perhaps to ease the
strain off the station whilst acquiring other property.
Now it is proposed to exchange this reserve for very in-
different country at. the back of the run. It seems hardly
consistent with the “Closer Settlement Bill” that the
God-fearing Ministry should entertain the idea of such an
exchange, but it appears that the thing is to be done.
The Japs having come to Australia in
thousands, and come to stay, and thousands more
being expected, a Japanese consul has now reached
Sydney to watch over their interests, and put a
spoke in the wheel of restrictive legislation by
bribing Fatman with “ trade. ” Dawson, Q.
M.L.A., learnt, while up in Thursday Island
recently, that the Jap pearl-shellers boast they
know another passage through which Jap men-of-
war can get inside the Barrier reef, making the
Thursday Island fortifications quite useless. Mr.
Small-Brown Nakagawa will be able to assure
Fatman, upon his honor, that the Japs would
never dream of making use of such knowledge.
Granuma for Health,
Fodah aaveth Wealth,
Worn ah for the very best of Bread }
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
And— there's really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON S WHISKY
W ill >AM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to -derive —
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLE MI NG’S Reliable buggies
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, me., etc.
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.,
DONCASTER, ENG., aad MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents—
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter
Geelong; P. LEARMONTH & ~
Xlngfeton, a.A.; QUEENSLAND
jLES. AUSTIN <k CO
JOHN GRICE k CO
CO., Perth, W.A.


, Scandinavians in Australia celebrate
lication ip th the rB u anniver sary of the pub-
Ser S ) ° Urne ° f th c e Austral-Scandinavian
Lj ’ HE N°hden. Several attempts were
wnnlrl K rs ag ° establish such a paper, which
but the b y all Scandinavian entries,
In Sydney, a little while ago, a post-office
employe was arrested on a charge of stealing
stamps. In the evidence it transpired that he
neld a position of some trust, was 26 years of age.
had been 12 years in the Government service, was
a married man, and his salary was .£9O a year—
6d‘ a u’ ee , k - , And is proposed to save
=t200,000 a year by further retrenchment. In the
Westralian postal department clerks put in 75
P er week for salaries varying from
~V° £l5O Per annum. And in Melbourne, the
other day, a youth employed as collector to a big
softgoods firm, with =£7oo a week passing through
his hands, received—the fact came to light in the
course of the usual embezzlement proceedings—a
salary of =£6o a year.
It moves ! The Anglican and Presby-
terian parsons who lately helped “send-off” a
jovial R.C. priest from Bombala (N.S.W.), may
look out for very particular beans from their more
snufflesome brethren ; but, with the spirit of the
age behind them, they can afford to let bigotry
bark. The Bulletin will not now entirely despair
of finding any Christianity amongst Christians !
- “ Warner’s - ,
patent EXT6DSIOIIFEIIOER.
FENDER EXTENDED.
2 15
3 0
3 12
3 15
4 0
Prices :
Warner’s Patent Extension Kitchen Fender
without base ’ .
Bronze, Tinned or Enamelled, complete, 3ft. 6in. 2 12°"
” » » 3ft. 9in.
Best Nickel Plated...” gf[' gjjj -
» •> » 3ft.' 9in.
” ” t’Jt> "t j ~ 4ft. Oin.
■v Jracked in Case, 2s. extra.
BRANDT BROS., Agents
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE • *
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY ’
Obtainable from all Ironmongers.
“ rjHILDBmTH WITHOUT pIlN:” a Code of
rr. ? r escaping’ from the Primal Curse ■ to
which is added Golden Information for Females This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ho ! Sixty bulla are being
fhl P pj d f* Q Newcast ]® thls week for the land of
the Black Swan. They were bred by the A. A.
’’ Gloucester, and purchased at eight guineas
per head, through Pitt, Son and Badger/, Ltd,
by a prosperous Kimberley cattle-owner. This is
the second y ea r the A.A. Co.’s bulls have been
sold to go to Westralia, through the characteristic
outlet/* 6 ° f the ag6ntS in foll °wing up new
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
yya/nffloyXvnA Coowl
Is of Unequalled Value as a Household Beverage.
Easy to Make Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour.
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER TILLS.
All kinds of STORES use the
National Cash Register—
GROCERS, IRONMONGERS,
DRUGGISTS, BUTCHERS, STA-
TIONERS, BOOTS & SHOES,
CIGARS & TOBACCO, DRY
GOODS, RESTAURANTS, TEA
STORES, FLORISTS, and
HOTELS, etc. They save time,
work, worry, and money, and
systematize your business.
100,000 IN USE.
The N.C.R. stops the leaks by ex-
hibiting the amount of each
sale, preventing disputes in
accounts : Keeping a record of
Credit Sales, Moneys Paid Out,
Moneys received on account ;
showing the total amount of
Sales during the day, making
it impossible to open the Cash
Drawer without leaving a record.
Showing the amount of money
taken out of the Cash Drawer
and not entered.
We have all kinds of CASH REGISTERS—DetaiI-adding, Total-adding, Total-adding Check and
Detail-printing and Autographic, from =£s to ,£6O.
We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments, or a Discount of 5 per cent, for Cash.
. . SPECIAL TERMS FOR A NUMBER . .
We GUARANTEE every Register we sell for TWO YEARS—but it will last a business lifetime.
“ They perform everything- that is claimed for them.”—CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
“ It is a most excellent machine for our business.”—WlLLlAMS & GIBBONS.
“ They pay for themselves in a very short time.” —PATTINSON & CO.
“ No hotel should be without them.”—The AUSTRALIA.
“ Since August 29 we have used TWELVE of your National Cash Register machines. These have given us
every possible satisfaction. Nothing would induce us now to be without them. These machines were purchased to
replace the Lamson Cash Carriers. Your Registers reduce the possibility of fraud on the part of the salesmen, and
save the petty thefts of the cashier.”—F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd.
FISHER & LIN6NAM, Sole Importers for Australia.
Head Offices 1, 2 & 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES :
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN,
AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
OUR POPULAR BANGLE RINGS.
SINCE INTRODUCING THIS PRETTY NOVELTY WE HAVE SOLD THOUSANDS.
&3
EXPANDING.
FIT ANY SIZE
FINGER.
Bs. 6d. & 10s.
EACH.
-
EXPANDING
ANY INITIAL.
10s.
BAG H.
POST FREE.
a
PLAIN BAND
Extra Strong.
12s. 6d.
EACH.
State Size Re-
quired.
Solid Gold, with Amethyst, Topaz, Garnet, Opal, Moonstone, Oval and Heart Shape Hanging Pendants. When
Ordering, kindly state Shape of Pendant Bequired.
AET JEWELLEKS AND WATCH MANOTACTUKEBS,
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address
<#>
C=»
'J
L
I
m
sy
it
Tbe Show of Naods
is unanimously in favor of LIPP PIANOS, now the most popular Pianos in
Australia, because the quality is so good, and the price so moderate. On
our easy time-payment system within the reach of everybody.
We have other good Pianos besides the Lipp—to wit, the STEIN-
WAY, the BRINSMEAD, the FEURICH, the VICTOR, and many others.
Also, ORGANS and MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS of every description,
SHEET and BOOK MUSIC, &c., &c. Write to us for Catalogues.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, & BRISBANE.
FISHER & CO’S
MATRICARIA
(REGISTERED).
r
UNSURPASSED
/'or Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
DOSE.—Under six months, half a powder, dry on the
tongue, every three hours; above six months, one powder,
dry on the tongue, ever} 1 three hours. If the child is in
much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given every
one or two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage extra, Id.
THE PUREST AND MOST EFFECTIVE POWDER
KNOWN TO SCIENCE.
Wholesale from Elliott Bros., Aust. Drug
Compy., Hofknung’s, and any other Wholesale
House, s
also, ’
At tl>e Pbarrpacy,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNK V
(nearly opposite G.P.0.).
pos Speers *
Poif&op
TTCE!?
ra a
ok'
>
m
■ -
FfRST
W3Q
FOREMQST
Ever Jince
AR£frit


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (liimited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every ill to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over i!2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SroNKy Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
AmountofCapitalpayableby Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up . .. .. £9,950.311 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors; Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cuteheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJfice: 1 JHshops//ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhali Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES'.
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford with asrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland National gank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors :
o as. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages
arranged by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne.
(’able Address— ltiEMSElL. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moukino & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available'. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks.
our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TLJ/ f is noted for its Prompt
IQIb V.On7paQy and Liberal Settlements.
1116 United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, | Authorised Capital £500,000 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & 1 Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance, j Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60.000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
*T*HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
A LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,690,329 110
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 59,670 18 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. „ 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Viotoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Milian, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office— Queen Street, Brisbane.
CU’ITAL PAID-UP .. „ £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. „ 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
THE MTM STORE, DM.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
£3F Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
Windproof Incandescent
6aS Arc LaippS.
This Powerful
INCANDESCENT
LAMP,
fitted with our
PATENT
LIGHTING
TUBE,
SUPERSEDING PILOT
LIGHT,
consumes
4s. worth of Gas
per Month for 2
Burners, alight 5
hours per night.
Send for Catalogues.
For all kinds of
JUBILEE ILLU-
MINATIONS, ap-
ply Early.
'
Lighting
Tube.
BRANDT BROS.,
422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE; and
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Whitehead’s Z
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street. OQIUpclUy .
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Hotels.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
__ RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’B HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position—
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Toronto |otel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Shipping-
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Leura, Saturday, June 19, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 26, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT I’IRIE
Tyrian, Saturday, June 26, 2 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GER4LDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, June 29, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, June 19, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, June 22, 5 p.m.
BUNDA BERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Peregrine, Saturday, June 19, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 26. 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Si SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED )
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, June 26.
"S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesdaj', June 29.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Innaminoka (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, June 20.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, June 29.
ESPERANCE BAY }• Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
-S.S. Alinga, Friday, June 18.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields,
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & 00. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. A A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
Tons.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
3158
3158
4500
Leave
Sydney
at 4 p.m.
July 5
August 2
Leave
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
July 10
August 7
Arrive ab
San
Franoisoo,
July
August
August 30 Sept. 4|Sept.
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane. ’
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBAN Y
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID vvill be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows?
India,
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wines. K
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD KAiJiS -
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
j The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
i be despatched as follows : —
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £70.
Return, £65 to £105. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £41, £65. Cheap Pares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MIOHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S- N. Goy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MML LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BUBKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare I London, £40 : Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £16; Natal and Capetown.
£16.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
Ill William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS a CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
Mining Notices.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
BALLARAT.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SEC A REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Ladies’
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Willlam-st Only, Sydney.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triu.ra.pli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces'), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
lmport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses#
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT.
CAMPBELL’S
GOIiD MED All
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stlrrlng Hymn, the cheer-
S°ug. and the Merry Dance, can all be played on tbeie
farmingInstniments. No knowledge of Music pequired.
A Useful and Prety Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
“ Sydney Bulletin. ’
Campbell’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10/8
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/8
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, 'or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privlle e Price List for Musical SeasonlB97, now ready.
I ">O,OOO of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL A CO., Musical Instrument Makers.
11A Trongate, GLASGOW. Eat. BO Years, Agaat* Wanted.


MARVELLOUS
RESULTS
€L€CTRKITy
AS A
Curative Agent.
PUL VERM ACHEE’S
WORLD - FAMED
galvanic Belts.
The Only Genuine Ones made are recommended
by the most eminent Medical Men throughout the
world, and have received testimonials from—
OIR CHAS. LOCOCK, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
(SIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
C*IR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., Physician to HER
° MAJESTY.
(SIR E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H. the
° PRINCE OF WALES.
DR. J. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. the EMPEROR
OF AUSTRIA.
T-vR. ONIMUS, of the ACADEMY OF MEDICINE
M of PARIS.
DR. VALENTINE MOTT, of the ACADEMY OF MEDI-
CINE OF NEW YORK ; and the following Members
of the
COLLEGE of PHYSICIANS of LONDON :
DR. C. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, St. Mary’s
Hospital.
'PjR. GOLDING BIRD, Physician, Guy’s Hospital.
"TAR. JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, London Hos-
pital.
T. W. NUNN, Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital.
TAR. R. M. LAWRENCE, Physician, Great Northern
Hospital.
DR. J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, University
Hospital.
D R. R. yUAIN, Physician, Brompton Hospital.
TQR. H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, Leeds Hospital.
TAR. JAMES WILSON, Physician, Worcester Infirmary-,
- L ' and from hundreds of other well-known Physi-
cians, &c.
Pulvermacher’s
Galvanic Belts
Have rendered Electricity perfectly SELF-APPLICABLE
in a mild continuous form, and EXTREMELY
EFFICACIOUS without shock or un-
pleasant sensation.
They SPEEDILY SOOTHE agonising pains, reanimate
torpid limbs, revive the sluggish functions of life, and
impart renewed energy and vitality to constitutions en-
feebled by whatever causes. They are exceedingly effec-
tive without the aid of medicine, restriction of diet, or
the least derangement of the patient’s habits and daily
occupations, in the following maladies :
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
NEURALGIA
HEAD & TOOTHACHE
LIVER COMPLAINTS
TIC DOLOREUX
INDIGESTION
DEAFNESS
SPASMS
FEMALE COMPLAINTS
CONSTIPATION
CRAMP
URINARY DISORD I'. liS
SLUGGISH CIRCULA-
TION
PARALYSIS
EPILEPSY
DEBILITY
FUNCTIONAL DISOR-
DERS, &c., &c.
The effeots of the application of PULVERMACHER’S
CHAINS in any of the above disorders are immediately
perceptible— the relief of pain generally instantaneous.
H DOT) REDS of Testimonials are received
yearly speaking of their marvellous efficacy,
and we print here a few only to show what people
think of them. We are glad to send full descrip-
tive pamphlet to anyone wishing it, or to advise
or give any information necessary.
Teatimonialsi.
spinal Weakness and Nervous Exhaustion.
81 Brickfield Road, S., Everton, Liverpool.
Gkntlbmbn,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the
great value of your Combined Bands. For two years I
was affeoted with a weak back or spinal affection, and
was induced to try your remedy, and I am glad to say I
am completely restored to strength and vigor. Before I
tried your treatment I was unable to walk except by arti-
ficial aid. I have never experienced any irritation or dis-
comfort from wearing your appliance, and you are quite
at liberty to make use of this communication in any way
you think fit.
Yours gratefully, GEORGE YOUNG.
Gout and Sciatica.
Sudbury, Suffolk.
Dear Sir,—With grateful heart I write to inform you
chat I am now perfectly free from both Gout and Sciatica,
and I certainly never was better in my life. My neigh-
bors and friends are quite astonished to see me running
about, as before wearing your Belt I had for a long time
past been unable to walk without the aid of two sticks.
I consider your treatment a wonderful scientific invention,
and I will answer any inquiries.
Faithfully yours,
H. CAVE.
J. L. Pulvermacher, Esq.
Rheumatism.
8 Princes Street, Margate.
Dear Sir,—The benefit that I have derived from your
Galvanio Belt for Rheumatism is wonderful. My doctor
has examined the Belt and is much pleased with it, and
will be glad to recommend your treatment in obstinate
cases of Rheumatism.
Yours faithfully,
H. B. NEAME.
ri » T IT A '\TTC!I\/r . Nature’s Chief Restorer of
vT /Y Ij V.ixiN IoiVJL . impaired Vital Energy, an
interesting and instructive Booklet sent Post Free to any
address. All sufferers should read it.
Pulvermaclier's Galvanic Agency:
OSBORN & JERPAN
(Late FROST & SHIPHAM),
Medical and Household Electricians,
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents.
V
£rin)€ &Sn?itb,
Ladies’ <6 Gents' Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.),
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/0
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
E’S Hollow-ground RAZORS.
KRA S MM E dpu, I }? ’ 3 BizeS 10/_ and 12/6 Each.
6/ -> 6/6. 8/6, and 10/6 „
iviiUrP BRAND 6/ft ©nH 7/fi
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 ”
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 6/- upwards.
JpURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
R - ett c!"£, an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
out POST T pp^ T Ji STEI I in Saloon before it is sent
° t- am no rou rt° ut the Colonies from
ANDREW M‘GEE, Hairdresser, &c..
6 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract.
buy the best:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
_ O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
T N Leading Pipe.
(gbß)
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper Qres products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under, direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HUD’S Blarwellous H2SIR RESTORER
6
1
c/S
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
ex
&
WiMp.
vri
52
Bead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir,—l want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price.
If you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers,
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
it is used up. —I remain, Yours faithfully, Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle —35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
103 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE .
TH
1
D
BvSpecial
RovalWarrant ®W«ASrjrT
tdHerA\ajestvtheQoeeh. 3
6 / 30 Cold & Prize Mec/a/s Awarc/ed.
(thewhiskyof his forefathers.)
SiGNEt^CKSW*™
■t6aAS.S-d>.—/VfWIUiS TH^i
.Q«W?
a?
he
/^A^GE,L^G^(©&e&
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
’here."
German Tourist : “ Zen vy t You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco."
tyiSS E. Tweed k,
17 HANOVER STREET
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbs Up-to-dats FroskiSt.
X
Reginald A. F. MOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC Effective.
U PURIFIER BLO ° : ° SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Pubications. ”
GLeo. Rolbertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Qabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebritie
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
rapidly cored by .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Couch, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you thi3 acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your niedi-
oine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure.—J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it; he did so, and it was
lust as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known :
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.—Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
along back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultioes were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Sir, —Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M'BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it. —Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir,—Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so" weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Age of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
'o get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall reeorn-
tnend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill
Victoria.”
“ YVe, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist. Geelong, Victoria. Small size, 2s. fid. ; larpe, 4s. fid. Sold by Chemists and
Medioine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally,


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melbourne Cup entries fall a few short of last
year’s, but all the best horses figure among the entries, to
say nothing of the M.L. champion, Euroclydon. who is a
certain runner if well. N.S.W. furnishes a large con-
tingent, of which True Blue, Hopscotch, Positano,
Valiant, Reka, and Toreador are sure to be heard of
before the day of the race. Caulfield Cup shows an in-
crease of 14 over last year’s entries, and the mother pro-
vince will be well-represented by True Blue, Reka, Posi-
tano, Hopscotch, Sayles, Valiant, and Hindoo. Wallace
is entered for Melbourne Cup, and is sure to be
pounced on by premature punters, but it is doubtful
whether he will ever again stand a searching preparation
for a big event.
* « * »
The fact of Wallace not having been entered for
the big handicap at Caulfield suggests that there is little
ohance of his showing up, fit and well, for Melb. Cup.
Havoc, another of W. R. Wilson’s forlorn hopes, is
omitted from Caulfield Cup list.
» * » •
Rosehill Cup, run to-day (Saturday) promises a
good field of sprinters, as, in addition to the money-prize,
a handsome trophy goes to the winner with, perchance, a
good slice of the big “ sweep ” in connection with the
race. Precaution, Aurea, Moorefield, and Forrester’s
selected should supply the winner, and if everything goes
well with the first named she should take the prize. Of
the other races the Granville Stakes may fall to Strath-
glass, Duddingston, or The Brewer; whilst the Jubilee
Handicap looks a good thing for The Meddler if in form.
Trichord, Robin Hood, and Vigilance appear best in the
Victoria Mile.
* * * •
The Y.R.C. Grand National Hurdles will likely
fall to a N.S.W. representative, as Irish Stew, His Grace,
and Jack Hanwell—the latter in particular—are a trio of
well-qualified and well-prepared performers. In the
G.N. Steeplechase, N.S.W. will be unrepresented, as the
chasers in the mother province are far removed from
first-class form.
» • * *
Sweep-money considerations have induced
owners to freely enter their horses for Maitland Cup, run
on Monday next under the auspices of the Northern
Jockey Club, N.S.W. If old Newman were in a trying
mood he could about win with only Bst. 101 b., but
perhaps Mr. Kelso will depend on some other of his
formidable string. Toxteth, Braeburn and Mount Vic-
toria may also be expected to show prominently.
• * * *
TheQ.T.C. holds a jubilee meeting at Brisbane
on Tuesday next. The Diamond Jubilee Handicap looks
well for Freedom, Olivera or Tornado and Black Diamond ;
Bethel and Olive Branch have been given good chances in
Tatt.’s Jubilee Handicap. Taxonia and Brazenface are
in form just at present, and should run well in the races
they start for.
* * * *
Undeterred by the recent prosecutions, Tatt.’s
Club, Sydney, intends holding a Jubilee meeting at Rand-
wick next Tuesday, when 135 horses have been entered
for the five races. The Queen Stakes may be won by
Silverstone, Survivor, Mutineer, or Admonition ; w'hilst
the Diamond Handicap looks like lying between Giril,
Heritas, Influenza, and Holbrook. In the Victoria Han-
dicap, Duddingston, Gos, and Chesterina seeifi to have
good chances, and Hordern’s selected, Albicore or Glen-
dennon, should secure the Jubilee Cup. The Demonstra-
tion Handicap will likely fall to the improving Gozo
gelding, The Grafter, whose most dangerous opponents
appear to be Kelso, Vigilance, and Thespian.
* * * »
The N.S.W. cast-off Dora, now owned by
“Admiral” S. G. Cook, won two races at the V.R.C.
Flemington meeting last Saturday. In the Stand Handi-
cap (6 furlongs) she carried Bst. 71b., and, starting at 4—l,
won easily by two lengths, In the Welter Handicap (7
furlongs), with lOst. 71b. up, she dead-heated with Iron-
sides (9st. 81b.), and afterwards easily won the run-off.
* * * •
Zouroff, who ran very moderately in a steeple-
chase, the other day, is likely to bloom at V.R.C. Grand
Nat. meeting. A good horse over either sort of sticks
when he strikes form instead of striking the top-rail.
* * • *
“ They run in all shapes,” said the late “ Augur”
Chapman. The Queensland winner, Blucher, is said to be
the ugliest brute on record. Yet, to quote “ The Banjo,”
he is “ white when he’s wanted.”
* « • •
The A. J.C. must have a tough hide to stand the
universal press slangwhanging over the notorious Rand-
wick “ reversals of form ” without making any sign.
• * « •
Mr. Bartlett’s string of trotters and jumpers
duly arrived in England per Gulf of Bothnia. It seems
like taking coals to Newcastle for Mr. B. to take Era, fine
trotting stallion as he undoubtedly is, across “ the pond ; ”
but the same was said of Commander, the horse he took
to England last trip and won races with. Matilda, well-
known as a jumper on our show-grounds, is an honest
mare, but her owner can scarcely hope to score with her
on English show-grounds.
• * • *
Mr. “Bob” Beckett could not have done too
well with the trotters he took from Sydney to M.L. He
won a 75sovs. handicap with Comus, but went down in
the 115sovs. trot next day, Comus starting first favorite.
Hattie S, the handsome chestnut pacer awarded the trot-
ting-mare prize at Sydney Agricultural Show, was beaten
in two mile handicaps. Hattie, with a great dash of foot,
is one of the very uncertain sort.
* * » •
Of the Australian horses that have gone ’Ome
within the past year or two, Merman has taken most
kindly to the change of climate, and will probably prove
the best investment. It is significant, though, that the
English sporting writers don’t speak of Merman as more
than “ rather good-looking.” Among Australian rivals
he was quite a dandy.
* * * *
Trooper James Apps, who, it is cabled, gave an
exhibition of rough riding before the Duke of Connaught,
is a Bathurst (N.S.W.) master butcher. A strong Wes-
leyan, a Sunday-school teacher, and a staunch teetotaller
who never visits a racecourse.
* • • *
List, ye punters. One of the shrewdest judges
of “ fopm,” after amassing some thousands by laying ’em,
retired four years ago. He has returned to Brisbane,
“back to scratch —the result of trying to get on to the
good things.” As Jack Thompson used to say, “ Give me
the red-hot, fly customer for my money.”
No gate-money meeting is allowed within 12
miles of London. How different in Sydney, where the
gate-money sharks get as close as possible to the metro-
polis.
* • » •
The regulations recently framed under section
13 of the Suppression of Public Betting and Gaming Act,
1896 (60 Vic, No. 7), having come into force on the Ist
inst., and “ Tattersall,” Mr. George Adams, having com-
plied with the first condition by depositing the sum of
£lO,OOO with the Government as a guarantee of the bona-
fide nature of his transactions, and for his due observance
in carrying out the regulations, a license has been issued
to him by the Government to conduct lotteries in Tas-
mania. At the first drawing under these regulations, a
consultation on the Ellesmere Stakes, to be run at Rand-
wick on the sth instant, which took place yesterday
morning at Tattersall’s office, the Under-Treasurer, acting
on behalf of the Government, and accompanied by the
Secretary of the Law Department, attended, and ex-
pressed complete satisfaction at the clear and fair way in
which the proceedings were carried out. — Hobart Mer-
cury, June 4.
... *
Dear Bulletin, — You say that “ Tatt, ” could
not draw' on morning of the race, because there would be
no time to hedge. Could he not arrange with subscribers
to work a big starting-price commission ? The shorter
odds would be better than the blackmail now levied by
stables, &c.—V.
» * » *
The burglars, one of whom shot Const. Pearce
in the arm at Randwick the other night, evidently don’t
trouble about what is going on in the sporting world.
Under ordinary circumstances Oxenham’s residence
should be a good “plant” on the Sunday following a
Randwick Saturday, as the big ringman would presum-
ably step from the course to his residence adjoining, and
not bank until Monday morning. Yet two most deter-
mined cracksmen chose an occasion when almost everyone
knew that Oxenham and all the leading bookmakers
were, owing to police interference, out of cash business.
These murderous ruffians apparently read the newspaper’s
sermon instead of its sporting column.
* * * *
Tasmania is the first Australasian province to
give formal Parliamentary sanction to gambling for
private advantage. Curiously enough, though, the Act
which authorises, say, Tattersall, to run a sweep, must
be cited as “ The Suppression of Betting and Gaming
Act.”
* • • •
Despite the law’s attitude, a few Sydney bookies
still do business. Unfortunately for the public it is the
better class who are deterred.
* • ♦ *
Mr. Alfred Harvey, who bought Bloodshot at a
stiff price a year ago, has sold that unsatisfactory animal
to his trainer and rider, Teddy Power, for i'3oo. If
Blood6hot’s doubtful leg should hold good over the spring
meetings he will probably show a profit on the deal.
Anyway, his running under the new colors will be an in-
teresting matter for observation.
» » * •
Adelaide cricket will be played on the electorate
system next season. The change is due to veteran W. O.
Whitridge, who has advocated the principle for over ten
years. With the decline of football, something was
wanted to attract the public to the ovals.
* * * *
Unlike pretty well every other town in Aus-
tralia, Broken Hill has no locally-born adult population ;
one-half, or more, are South Australians, a fourth Vic-
torians, and the remaining fourth, or less, New South
Welshmen and others. Football brings out and keeps
alive these divisions more effectively than anything else.
Since the strike of ’92, Victorian contractors have intro-
duced a crowd of non-unionist quanymen, and be-
tween these and the South Australian unionist miners
there is a standing feud, which shows up every
time teams whose members come from opposite sides
of the border face one another. Fights and ground-
rushes are common occurrences, and a special board of
appeal, apart from the Association and consisting of men
who avowedly don’t know anything about football, has
been appointed to decide on the weekly crop of umpires’
reports.
* * * *
Money is being fairly thrown at Fitzsimmons.
The London Sporting Club has offered a £lOOO purse for
Fitz. and Creedon, ten two-minute rounds ; and J. L.
Sullivan —booh ! —is said to have backing to a like amount
for a match. It is hard to say which would be the easier
thing of the two.
* » * *
A match is talked of between Choynski and
Creedon, an Australian whom the present writer has ever
looked upon as over-rated at his weight. Should the pair
meet, Choynski, if he stands off and fights Creedon with
his left, will probably beat him without getting a blow in
return. The stocky, muscle-bound man’s day died with
the birth of Queensberry rules.
* * * *
Scarcely a week, or a day, passes but the world
chronicles a racing cyclist killed or smashed up for life ;
steeplechasing now takes a very back seat both as regards
quality and quantity of disasters. After a smash or two
most of the steeplechasers fill themselves up on firewater
ere making a fresh start, but the cyclist cannot follow
suit, as he needs the best of condition ; and not being all
Bilmartins, they lose their nerve when they get in a tight
place after a fall or two. Poor Harris, killed in England,
the other day, had “presentiments” before his death,
another way of saying that his nerve had gone ; and one
of the most promising of all Australian riders talks about
giving up the game since his recent purler. M Combe
and Elliott, riding high-wheelers, last week met with a
fearful smash in Sydney Centennial Park such a smash
that it is doubtful whether either will ever again be as
good as new.
* » ♦ *
Melb. football this season is being conducted on
an absolutely amateur basis. This is not due to any ex-
alted sense of honor on the part of the clubs, but merely
comes from their not having the cash to play up in de-
coying promising backs and unerring goal-sneaks from
their rivals. Another, and a far greater, cause of the
paid-player evil was the big office bearer in the club with
Parliament in his eye, who would go through the form of
“employing” a couple of crack men in order to catch the
“football vote.” The loss of interest in the game has
caused such patrons to realise that the football vote I s
now a thing of the past, and the crack players in their
employ have consequently received instructions to do
some work or clear out.
A week or two back, one Melb. club was start-
ing for a trip some hundreds of miles from home, and one
of the leading followers lost no time in waiting on the
secretary for details. “What about exes.”? asked the
player, suspiciously, shifting a quid in his jaw. “ Your
expenses will be paid,” replied the official. “ what
about all the time I’m losin’ through goin’ away”? per-
sisted the man of marks. “You’ll get nothing for your
time,” was the answer. “If you want a holiday you can
come ; if you want anything more, you’d better stay
away.” “ Bl’me ! ” said the footballer, “ it’s a blanky
mean dodge—but I’ll come.”
• « » *
In the 25-mile race at Sydney Agricultural
Ground last year Bill Martin and M‘Donell started
at opposite ends of the track. In the “ pursuit races,
now becoming 1 fashionable in England and France, riders
do the same, only that the race does not terminate until
they get level. These races, which are described as ex-
citing and interesting, have been known to extend to 11
miles. Theoretically, with equally-matched men, it should
last until both simultaneously dropped off exhausted.
* * * •
The ruling passion strong in death. When
Brunton Sheppard, the cyclist, fatally injured while road-
racing from Melbourne to Geelong, was picked up, with
his skull fractured in two places his jaws continued
working at his chewing-gum, though he was quite un-
conscious.
* * * *
Murif’s trans-continental ride now seems like
the majority of big bike performances, to be a mere trade
advt. When Mr. Murif left Adelaide he seemed to be
such a snowy amateur that wings were expected to
sprout from his shoulders ere he reached Alice Springs.
He blacked out the brand of his machine and started in
dead of night so that nobody might see what he was rid-
ing. After a few paragraphs containing these statements
had circulated, there came another, stating that “despite
the great efforts of Murif to conceal the name of his
mount, it had leaked out that he was riding a Foozledum
machine.” From this onwards telegrams came from
various parts of the journey in each of which the intrepid
amateur carefully attributed his success to the superlative
excellence of the Foozledum. It was when Murif was
200 miles from Port Darwin that the Dunlop Tyre Co.
wired : “ Best wishes—are you riding our tyres ? ” to
which the cycling financier responded laconically, “ Good
wishes not negotiable.” But the Dunlop Tyre people did
not appreciate Murif’s humor or his cold commercialism,
for they declined to take the hint, and are sending Green-
wood, the 40-year-old Vic. racing (and talking) man, for
the purpose of cutting a few weeks off the Murif time.
Packets
of
*
Cigars
' __
o«*ul’
PURC
MILO
nu/ac/Ured by
Is.
Rayerne
J. W. Stocks, one of England’s fastest pace-
followers, who rides a Dunlop cycle with Dunlop tyres,
will probably soon visit Australia. Middleton, riding
Dunlop pacing tyres, covered the 20 miles of rough road
in the East Melb. road-race, in 55min. 2-ssec.*
Missing Friends.
£JHERRY OR HOGG.
WANTED, the correct address of the Son or
Daughters of the above—George Thos., Emily, or
Bessy. Last known address: New Plymouth,
New Zealand. Letter sent July 15, ’96, to G. T.
Hogg, Sydney, in reply to death of Mrs. Cherry,
returned to their aunt Ann, April 28, ’97. Their
uncle, Sidney Smith, Crescent Hay Stores, Bir-
mingham, England, enquires. New Zealand
papers please copy.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR,
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraelough.*
It ought to be generally known that Rose’s
Lime Juice Cordial supplies a delicious cooling
drink in water—effervescing in all mineral waters
— and an excellent stimulant blended with spirits,
wholesome and refreshing in summer. It is en-
tirely free of spirits. Recommended by the
Lancet. It possesses valuable medicinal pro-
perties, cooling and purifying the blood, stimu-
lating and assisting digestion. Purchasers should
be careful to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others
being imitations.*
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Commerce depends on two governing fac-
tors : the sale of commodities, and the receipt of
the cash (or other commodities) which they repre-
sent. In times of depression like the present, both
processes are difficult of accomplishment—espe-
cially the latter ! But merchants who can sell
their goods need not be apprehensive of getting
paid for them if they will hand their accounts to
the Victorian Debt - Collecting Agency (Holds-
worth & Co.), 101 Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CltESCENT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
“ Ell>s’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
DO YOU want*
CATALOGUE?
L<Ty POST FREE
watches-Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
WeodipJc z CHristeiMg Presents
HliEWMAlSl- I75S177-FM7ARFTH 5r.
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.
MELBOURNE-
g Z-
BE THANKFUL
if you li£i\ eii t ci cough or cold in these changeable days.
But, if you hd\ e either cough or cold, or any trouble with
your lungs or vocal organs, b? tbaijkfOl for Geraudel’s
Pastilles. The real remedy for coughs, colds, and lung
troubles.
six ,lo ‘ en in a tube - Of «u Chemists and Storekeepers.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
• * York Street . SYDNEY .
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin


Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, pitt street
SYDNEY.
- TO LET -
For Particulars, apply
HENRY BROE,
Box 489 Gr.P.O. SYDNEY.
QRITRRION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Commencing Monday, 21st dune.
“LA BELLE AMERICAINE.”
ELSIE ADAIR
AND HER NEW YORK VAUDEVILLE CO.
“ A most brilliant, refined and novel performance, each
artist a shade cleverer than any we have yet seen ”
Australasian.
THE GLADSTONE WRIGHT
CONCERT DIRECTION.
Undertakes the Organisation of Concerts, Dramatic
Recitals, At Homes, Garden Parties, and General
Entertainments.
Supplies Artists, Living Pictures, Lime-light, Stage
Fittings, Marquees.
Estimates on Application to
THE DIRECTION,
77 Swanston Street, MELBOURN E.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Jtickards’s Neu> Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
CO High-Class Performers CO
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE. ’
fJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS'S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
QIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT / TO- NIGHT!
BLAND HOLT’S
GIGANTIC SPECTACULAR MELODRAMA,
“A LIF€ OF PLEASURE.”
Hailed as a Series of Surprises.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
■ORINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
“ Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THE PAULTON - STANLEY COMEDY SEASON.
TO-NIGHT 1 TO-NIGHT !
MY FRIEND FROM INDIA.
(By H. A. Du Souchet and W. Lestocq.)
The Brightest, Maddest, Merriest Absurdity ever staged.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s‘and Menzles’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
il stories), Is. 3d.
Amusements.
H E ?, MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Hus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
“Tbc Sigo of tbc Cross.”
By WILSON BARRETT, Esq.
A Noble Drama. Splendidly Produced and Acted.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES-55., 35., 25., and Is.
237
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET,
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
237
P‘ ctut- es, comprising stirring episodes
of the GRAIOO-TURKISH WAR and the REBELLION
IN CUBA. «r A SENSATION.
T VISITORS TO DATE. 170,000.
TO-DAY, FROM NOON ONWARDS.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
| BROUGH COMEDY
£IRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Under the direction of Mr. ROBERT BROUGH.
last three nights of the
COMPANY. \
THURSDAY, JUNE 17,
“A PAIR OF SPECTACLES.”
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, JUNE 18 and 19,
“KTIOBE.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
S5P"' SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
The Management have much pleasure in announcing
the Reappearance of the Universal Favorite,
MA<S6IE MOORE,
In a NEW and ORIGINAL Comedy Drama, entitled
“JOHANNA.”
Supported hy a SPECIALLY-SELECTED Company.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
OPERA HOUSE (King and York-sts.), SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING !
Farley’s Cpglisb Opera Co.
THE RECORD BROKEN.
High-Class Opera with the best available artists at
TWO SHILLINGS and ONE SHILLING.
Until further notice, Von Suppfe’s Military Opera,
FATINITZA. Roars of laughter, rounds of applause.
Plan at Paling’s. Day tickets at Josephson’s York Hotel,
next Theatre. J. A. CRAIN.
riIHE LAST OF SIX (collected stories by Ernest
X Favenc), Is. 3d.
TT TS WORTHY of note that the above Machines —
-*- wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade” as a sign of Excellence—have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
TP IIO ftrowillo ABSOLUTELY the
X 11C mCVJLIiC, CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER, Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
w. w.
GREENERS
CELEBRATED
GUHS * RIFLES.
Greener’s Rook and Rabbit Rifles on all systems
—Martini, Top Lever, Side Lever Hammerless,
and Ejectors. Accurate, Simple and Reliable.
Prices from 4 guineas Twenty-one consecu-
tive shots put on half-crown size at 40yds.
with a Greener 320 Rook rifle, and nine on a 2in.
square at 100yds. Send for list.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €fi)brocatioQ-
ROYAL PROGRESS CYCLES.
Messrs. GAVIN GIBSON & CO. have pleasure in announcing that their
efforts in selling the above Wheels have been so successful that they have
been encouraged to make arrangements for their more direct supply to the
public, and have, therefore, with that in view, appointed as agents,
Tb€ ENGLISH ai)d AMERICAN AGENCY CO.,
who will OPEN A LARGE CYCLE DEPOT on Ist JUNE,
at 416 Seorge Street, Sydoey.
This Company intends catering for the cycling public in all branches of the
trade, and will keep at their very central premises a large stock of High-class
Wheels by leading manufacturers in England and America.
Note the Address :
The ENGLISH & AMERICAN AGENCY CO., 416 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the Favorite English ROYAL PROGRESS BICYCLE.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle
For LADIES and GENTS.
■pMBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC S ADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc I interchangeable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Title ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“ DOWEIDGE^
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
CHILDREN REQUIRE EXERCISE
EVEN MORE THAN ADULTS.
Medical Men agree that Cycling is the best form of exercise for the Young,
their only stipulation being that the youthful rider shall have nothing to do with an inferior and unreliable Machine. The
ARIEL MIDGET CYCLES
Are essentially high grade in every respect, and the only difference between them and high-class adult machines is that of
weight and size ; Quality of design, materials, workmanship and finish are exactly the same.
Hitherto machines either toy-like or heavy in construction have been thought “good enough” for Juveniles. The public
have now been awakened to the grand possibilities of Cycling as a healthful pastime for our boys and girls, and in the ARIEL
MIDGET AND JUVENILE CYCLES we claim to have fulfilled the want for high quality machines at a reasonable pi i <
0-01-OI2T
FITTED WITH
Dunlop or Warwick Tyres
o oi-oist
The AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LI^ITEP.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES FOR
Dunlops
Hnmbers
Triumphs (with the
exception of Victoria and S. Australia).
Coventry Cross
Stars
Ariels
Swift
Singers
(except W. Australia).
Oriels,
&c., for
Australasia.
samojttvua
393 George Street - - Sydney-
-229 Elizabeth St. - - Melbourne.
33 Run die St. - - Adelaide.
Hay Street - - Perth.
Gill Street - - Charters Towers.
Adelaide Street - Brisbane.
Colombo & Lichfield Sts., Christchurch.
George Street - - Dunedin.
Hobart and Launceston.


Special Advertisements,
Irritating and Oisfiguring
ERUPTIONS
On the Face, Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Remarkable Experience of Miss Dorothy
Maher, Fitzroy, Victoria, whose portrait
we are privileged to give below:
“I take pleasure in testifying to
the great benefit 1 derived from
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I suffered
from eruptions on my face of n very
irritating and vexatious nature.
For a considerable time i experi-
mented with various so-called blood
medicines, but without any allevia-
tion of my trouble. At last, your
famous Sarsaparilla being strongly
recommended to me, I began to use
it, and after taking two bottles it
was most gratifying to see and feel
the effect in allaying the irritation
and reducing the eruptions. When
I had used three bottles the erup-
tions disappeared altogether, with-
out leaving a mark on my face, and
I have never been troubled with
anything of the kind since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
£</ A NOVELTY! VL*
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
' Obtainable of Chemists, Sf
Stoies, Perfumers,
or direct from
Streep
The Celebrated
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
./
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and wi.hal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS"
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Mother and Daughter .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch them both in dubitation,
In sooth they form a peerless pair;
A lovely damsel is the daughter—
Mamma —mature, divinely fair.
A very Hebe seems the younger,
All youthful freshness, maiden grace ;
The mother, Juno-like, outfiashes
The queenly splendor of her face.
My heart that fabled ass resembles
Who ’twixt the haystacks stood, opprest
And puzzled by a curious wonder,
Which one would suit his palate best.
N.Q.
P. LUFTIO.
Q. railway department built twelve swell
shops, cemented throughout and made watertight
and vermin-proof, close to the Roma-street station.
The twelve leases were offered for sale, each shop
having frontage of 20ft. sin., with a depth of 485 ft.
One lease, the best, was sold for —12s. a week !
Which proves that Queensland has turned some
sort of corner ?
“A fresh raid is contemplated by the
police authorities on the massage * lupanars or
bagnios,” as the Beitish Medical terms them,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“The same journal, under the heading ‘ Massage
a la mode,’ says, ‘ The sisters and nurses are cap-
able of giving lessons to the heroine of Lesbos,’
and ‘ the discipline treatment run as a speciality
is merely erotic flagellation.’ But blackmailing is
the more lucrative side of these establishments. A
female attendant, attired in a single diaphanous
garment more suggestive than nudity, with the
seductive silence of many charms, .solicits the male
patient. Should his manliness and tender-hearted
chivalry assert themselves, the inopportune arrival
of the proprietress follows, consternation, tears,
a woeful picture of virginal ruin, and a golden
shower of reparation.”
A free feed to the poor is one of the pro-
jected Melb. record-reign items, and much beef
and bread and beer have been donated by loyal
citizens. But the Ministers’ Association has just
appeared, gesticulating wildly with its fat umbrella,
and declaring against beer in the name of the
“ Lord,” and pointing out that it would be a
shocking thing to pour the demon “ derink ” into
the poor, who might thereby be induced to start
on a tempestuous Jubilee, ending in dishevelled
devils and vari-colored serpents. The Ministers’
Association is certain that this state of things
would give Her Majesty a horrid shock, and it
hopes that the beer will be returned unopened, and
that the poor will wash down their corned-beef
sandwiches with tea or lemonade. The Bulletin
thinks their reverences are right, but would sug-
gest the advisableness of substituting dill-water
for lemonade. Dill-water should be the only
drink at all record-reign banquets, judging by pre-
liminary symptoms.
William Butcher was arrested at Tarral
gon, Gippsland, the other day ; he was regarded
as a public offence in appearing to be nearly dead,
and in leaning up against the town, and groaning.
Butcher, who continued to groan, was remanded
to Sale, and, apparently because he kept on groan-
ing, he was sent back to Traralgon. At Traralgon
he moaned more than ever, and quite destroyed
the usual jovial atmosphere of the police-court by
his painful utterances and his wrigglings. To try
and satisfy the unreasonable man, the Bench sen-
tenced him to six months in Sale gaol, and the
police removed him, still groaning. He groaned
and twisted all the way to the station, and then
relieved the law of all further trouble on his
account by dying on the platform. Now some-
body in authority wants to know why a dying
man was hustled about in this fatuous manner.
Which should be a great consolation to William
Butcher in his little grave.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
UsVSE-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce, t
THB BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE. k
&
Ja m
ent
Lime-Frilit
Juice, it is
found, forms
most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 101 7, m a treatise on Scurvy 1 —“ I
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
& Co., Elliott Bros.. Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen d Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen d Co.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S c fl°u u id v AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable-for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused,by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hdt Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale bjrail Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fsm
V-
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
5/ 8 inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Round and Squai'e Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor is True to Name —RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydnn,.
ADAMS HOT€L, Pitt-St., Sydoey.
Superior Accommodation.
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
TERMS :
From Bs. per Day.
U|.J. Pams,
Manager.
MAIN ENTRANCE.
THE
‘ Plum ’
pfD
THE
(2J_ ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
-" Kazor a trial. I his brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It 18 specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell an i never requires grinding We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Beinpractical tradesmen ourselves, ue
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number ot years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee ea r h Razor for Two Years.
Price I §- ng ! e § ,azor > ! n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2Ls.
Ifemgle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post bree to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDN'EVT
VISITORS
TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Instjtute, and in the
miost; pf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, London. S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold by -«
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
s AND
The aged.


HERR iFL^SSHVITTSSEUNT,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
. Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
eourse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUOKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R»ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
'f have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
(in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. • UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. I-eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Buit in writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
■were of great benefit to me and others. In one ease,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
eelebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMiTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiftting pain.
-Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
J3P" ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Rranche .; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus —PROPRIETOR,
Box ‘ DB, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
EGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
Baron Sir Ferd. Yon Mueller, K.C.M.G.,
M.D., Ph.D., F.R.S., &c., &c.
The Greatest Botanist of the Century.
Spoke in the highest terms of Herr Rassmussen and his Alfaline Herbal Remedies, and although
a Doctor of Medicine himself, he, fur ye. rs, patronised these Remedies, and acknowledged to
obtaining gieat relief from them.
! •
N
>
? r a
■i
W.
■ :
i
§M
Herr Immm,
Till? CEMiISKATCD
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
successful
Herbal Remedies
—FOE THE —
BLOOD, NERVES,
LIVER & KIDNEYS.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL.
Many Thousand Testimonials.
A
V* 2 *?
S'
(Facsimile of the Baron’s Handwriting.)
As written on the back of 1 1 is photo.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmcbsen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend vour remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
* CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Festimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sidney, August 12, 1892.
To Hbrr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I w ill do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9 3,97.
Dear sir, —lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before ta&ing your Pills I had a great lump .n the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured
Partes Tange. Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to il toon \on that your Ifaline
Blood Pills completely cun d me of a Serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline li undies to my friends.— Yours
gratefully, JAMi S NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Hkrr Rassmussen. , August, 1894
Dear Sir, —ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and Inne tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sidney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Heinedies.
On Thursday before Good Frida v I took the first of jour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long he spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/0 Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Coolamundra.
N.S. W.
Constitutional General Debi ity Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spend ng [ ounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors —all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
j 7 ou and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that i was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
shoidd learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Reimdies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who double this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(.Signed) VV. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S. W.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some slanding. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office. Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE REMEDIES.
awarded^
JWO GOLD
MEDALS
i
m«s
m
AN*#;
&SS.
u
fHm
M
m
A L FALIN EPILL S?
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
12s i posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Bair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— Am Excellent)
Herbal Remedy for Costivene-s, Indigestion; Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders A harmless
but, most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets - An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -Thii
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness 0/
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
~ 2 „ 425.
„ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HERR BA3SMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Infoimation for
all Complaints. _______
WARNING
HERR RAS'MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia, Patrons snould always
obtain Re.ne.iies direct his own esr.ahh-hrnent* as
advertised on this page. All HERR RA SMI SSEN S
hEM DIES can only be obtained from bis own Othces
and I - ranches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be ijiven FREE at lIERK RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or; Money Orders payable to HaNS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his H ad Office or Tranches.
Herr nassmnssen’s Head Office: 547 Georgre-st., Sydney.
intercolonial
Branches :
( Melbourne — 150 Bourke Street
- Brisbane— 160 Queen Street.
[ Adelaide-154 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth, coi'ner Hay and William-streets.
Coolgardie—Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-street,
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers. Haunan-st


A Miracle in Sydney.
CASE INVESTIGATED BY A SCORE OF
PEOPLE AND VOUCHED FOR BY A
PROMINENT MEMBER OF PARLIA-
MENT.
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA, LONG CONSI-
DERED INCURABLE BY THE FIRST
PHYSICIANS OF THE WORLD, HAS
AT LAST BEEN CONQUERED.
A GREAT VICTORY FOR DR. WILLIAMS’
PINK PILLS.
(From the Australian Workman.)
On Thursday afternoon, our representative made
fiis way to the humble home of Mr. Thomas Jarvis,
45 Crown-lane, Ultimo. He was discovered nurs-
ing a two year-old baby, and his face declared him
to be one of the happiest men in Sydney. He was
up and about and able to answer the knock at the
door. Although pale and bearing still the marks
of a critical illness, and a period of pain, it was
very clear that he was an invalid on the road to
convalescence.
In reply to the preliminary questions, he said :
“You want to know all about my case? Well, I
am glad of an opportunity to tell you. The facts
may be of value to those who are stricken as I was. ”
“ How long were you suffering?”
“ Well, twelve months ago I got so bad tha,t I
had to leave off work, and I have done nothing
since then. About five years ago, next Christmas,
I met with an accident; I was badly scalded
while taking a bath in Pitt-street, Sydney. Since
the accident I have been in failing health, and
after four years of gradual development of the
malady, I was forced to give up my billet at the
Glebe Island.”
“ What were the symptoms ? ”
“ Simply indescribable. The pains were some-
thing terrible. They were just about as much as
I could bear. They were for all the world like as
if a saw were cutting my bones in two in every
part of me. I had no control over my bowels or
bladder, and was a nuisance to myself and every-
one else. I was incessantly shivering and shaking
and could neither eat nor sleep. On the 23rd
March last I saw a well known doctor and he told
me my case was utterly hopeless. However, he
gave me an order to the Director of Charitable
Institutions.”
* Did you make use of the order ? ”
n
A
■&A£
S&S
“ No; I came home and went to bed, and have
been pretty well in bed ever since. Five weeks
ago I could not walk across the floor ; in fact, I
could not get out of bed. I felt then that it was
all over with me, and only a question of days
when I should give up the ghost. My doctor was
attending me, and did all he could, by opium and
morphia pills, to ease the agony I was in. I was
under him for five or six weeks. He came to the
conclusion that I was suffering from Locomotor
ataxia, or Progressive locomotor ataxy, a disease
of the spinal cord, characterised by peculiar dis-
turbances of gait, and difficulty in co-ordinating
voluntary movements. He told me that I might
last for years, and that I might never get the use
of my legs. (Just then the patient kicked his legs
about with energy to show that medical opinion is
not infallible.) Well, just as a drowning man will
grasp at a straw, I grasped at an idea conveyed
by the advertisement describing the cure effected
in the case of another boiler-maker in England,
which I read in the Australian Workman, by
Hr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I read
in the advertisement of a case which seemed to fit
my own. I determined to give the Pink Pills a
trial, anyway, and sent for a box. The effect was
as marvellous as it was magical. I was able to eat
and sleep as though nothing was the matter with
me. It was the first appetite and rest I had for
many a day. It was incredible. I immediately
left the bed and was able to move about. I have
taken four boxes of Pink Pills during the past four
weeks, and am now taking the fifth box. I can
walk about with the aid of a stick, and am gradu-
ally, but surely, recovering my former vigor and
vitality. You see those crutches there? They
are perfectly new, and I have never used them.
They were made forme before I got the Pink Pills,
but I was too weak to use them, and now I don’t
want them. All I want is this stick, and I hope
soon to do without it. You see I am rapidly re-
gaining my strength.”
“He is 100 per cent, better,’’ said Mrs. Jarvis,
who had come in and taken the baby on her knees.
“The Pink Pills have saved his life, and made
another man of him.”
A friend who called in at this point, said that
Jarvis looked ten years younger that day than he
did a fortnight previously.
“I can now,” continued Jarvis, “have a cold
bath, and all the feeling has come back in my legs.
If I keep on going the way I am, I hope to be
able to resume work as a boiler-maker, and you
know I have to be in the very pink of health and
strength to work at that trade. lam better to-
day than I have been at any time during the past
five years. I ascribe all the change and benefit to
these Pink Pills. They have saved my life. lam
in no pain now, whatever, and feel like a new man.
On the. mantlepiece there is a box of opium and
morphia pills which the doctor gave me to deaden
the excruciating pain. But they can stay where
they are, for Ino longer need them. Everybody
who knows me has been amazed at the change in
me. They can hardly believe their eyes. My
being about again has caused quite a sensation out
here.”
Such is this remarkable history, and it confirms
what is said in all the chief newspapers of this
country of the astonishing cures wrought by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. They cure
locomotor ataxy, partial paralysis, and spinal
disease, also the many disorders which arise from
in impoverished state of the blood, such as
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, indigestion, loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, pains in the back, nervous head-
Mr. J. S. T. M‘Gowen, leader 'of the Labor
Party in the N.S.W. Assembly, was seen by our
reporter in connection with the remakable case of
Thomas Jarvis. Mr. M‘Gowen says he has known
Jarvis from infancy. He also knew that he had
to give up his work at Glebe Island abattoirs
twelve months ago, owing to a malady which he
developed. He afterwards heard that Jarvis was
bedridden, and that there was little chance of his
recovery. He understood Jarvis was refused ad-
mission to the Sydney Hospital, as his case had
been pronounced incurable. Mr. M'Gowen was,
therefore, like everyone else who knew the facts,
astounded at the complete recovery of Jarvis.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtainable from all
leading chemists, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Coy., Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will for-
ward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post order
1 box for 2s 9d, or \ dozen for 14s 9d.*
N.S-W. Government Railways.
Record Rcigo
CeUbratioos-
MONDAY & TUESDAY, June 21 and 22, 1897.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS will be
issued from all stations to all stations (except for
distances 13 miles and under, between stations in
the Sydney and Newcastle suburban sections)
commencing with day trains leaving terminal
stations on Saturday, 19th June, and thereafter
by all trains until Tuesday, 22nd June, available
for return until Wednesday, 30th June, 1897.
The ordinary return tickets issued locally be-
tween stations in the Sydney and Newcastle
suburban sections for distances not exceeding 13
miles on the 21st and 22nd June will be available
for return until WEDNESDAY, 23rd June.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS.—In addi-
tion to the cheap excursion tickets ordinarily
issued on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays,
similar tickets at 2d. per mile first-class return
(minimum Is.) and Id, per mile second-class re-
turn (minimum 9d.) will be issued at Sydney and
suburban stations to the country by trains leaving
Svdney as follows, AVAILABLE FOR RETURN
BY SPECIAL AND ORDINARY TRAINS
UP TO MONDAY, sth JULY
SOUTH COAST LINE.
MONDAY, 21st June.—7.3o a.m. to Wollon-
gong and stations beyond as far as Nowra ; 7.38
a.m. to Wollongong.
SOUTHERN LINE.
SATURDAY, 19th June.—2.2B p.m., for Bun-
danoon.
MONDAY, 21st June. —8.0 a.m. to Goulburn.
WESTERN LINE.
SATURDAY, 19th June. —2.25 p.m. for Mount
Victoria ; 6.15 p.m. for Orange.
MONDAY, 21st June.—B.lo a.m. for Bathurst.
NORTHERN LINE.
SATURDAY, 19th June.—l.ls p.m., for New-
castle.
MONDAY and TUESDAY, 21st and 22nd
June. —8.15 a.m. for Gosford (7.50 a.m. from
Milson's Point).
SIMILAR TICKETS TO SYDNEY ONLY
will be issued by the undermentioned trains :
NORTHERN LINE.
SATURDAY, 19th June.—Leaving Newcastle
at 6.0 p.m.
MONDAY, 21st June.—Leaving Singleton at
1.15 p.m., West Maitland at 2.22 p.m., and New-
castle at 3.18 p.m.
TUESDAY, 22nd June.—Leaving West Mait-
land at 5 a.m., and Newcastle at 6 a.m.
Available for return until MONDAY, sth July,
1897, by ordinary trains leaving Sydney at 9 a.m.
and 4.53 p.m. only ; ALSO BY SPECIAL
TRAIN LEAVING SYDNEY FOR NEW-
CASTLE AND WEST MAITLAND AT 11.55
■p.m. ON TUESDAY, 22nd JUNE.
WESTERN LINE.
SUNDAY, 20th June. —Leaving Orange at 9.20
p.m.
MONDAY, 21st June. —Leaving Bathurst at
3.25 p.m.
Available for return until MONDAY, sth July,
1897, only by ordinary train leaving Sydney at
10.15 a.m. ; ALSO BY SPECIAL TRAIN
LEAVING SYDNEY FOR BATHURST AT
11.25 p.m. ON TUESDAY, 22nd JUNE.
For the convenience of passengers wishing to
return home on TUESDAY, 22nd June, after
witnessing the Record Reign Celebrations, Special
Trains will leave Sydney, at 11.20 p.m. for GOUL-
BURN (first stop Menangle), 11.30 p.m. for
NOWRA, 11.25 p.m. for BATHURST, 11.50
p.m. for RICHMOND, and 11.55 p.m. for NEW-
CASTLE and WEST MAITLAND.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS
to HAWKESBURY in connection with the
Steamer General Gordon will be issued at Sydney
and Suburban Stations on 21st and 22nd June by
train leaving Sydney at 9.5 a.m., available for re-
turn on day of issue only, by train leaving Haw-
kesbury at 4.25 p.m. RETURN FARES (in-
cluding Steamer trip) : First-class, ss. 6d. ;
Second-class, 3s. 6d.
SPECIALLY LOW FARES at Is. 6d. first-
class and Is. second-class return, will be charged
at Sydney and Illawarra Suburban Stations to
Mortdale, Oatley, Como, Sutherland, and Na-
tional Park ; available for return on day of issue
only.
CLOSING OF GOODS SHEDS AND
CENTRAL BOOKING OFFICE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
On MONDAY and TUESDAY, 21st and 22nd
June, the GOODS SHEDS at Redfern and
Alexandria will be CLOSED, but Darling Harbor
Goods Shed will be OPEN until 10 a.m. for the
delivery of perishables. The Goods Shed at other
stations will be CLOSED except for the receipt
and delivery of perishables.
The CENTRAL BOOKING OFFICE will be
OPEN until 10 a.m. for the Sale of Tickets and
delivery of perishable parcels only.
Further particulars see handbills and posters.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M'LACHLAN, Secretary.
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. MAST,
145 Oollins-street, MELBOURNE.
ORGANISED BY THE
COMBINED FRIENDLY AND TRADE
SOCIETIES AND OTHER
ASSOCIATIONS.
Exhibition BCiildiQg,
Melbourne.
Friday - 25th June.
. . AND . .
Saturday - 26th June.
Melboixme
Exhibition BCiilding-
IN AID OF
THE
QUEEN’S
DIAMOND
FETE.
Infections Diseases
Hospital.
Exhibition Building, Melbourne.
MAGNIFICENT and UNPARALLELED
SHOWS, CONCERTS,
ENTERTAINMENTS,
BICYCLE RACES
FOE LARGE MONEY PRIZES,
TROPHIES - FOR - HARRIERS.
[ook!
What You can See
for One Shilling !
Friday AfterQooi),
25th JUNE.
In the OVAL—Queen’s Parade of 2000 Cadets.
March Past and Military Evolutions.
In the MAIN HALL—A Monster United Sun-
day Schools Demonstration, when the voices
of 20,000 children will be blended in sweet
harmony.
Friday Cycijifyg,
25th JUNE.
Grand Popular Patriotic Concert!
By the Leading Vocalists, and the Exhibition
Choir of 1200 voices. XW National Songs!
Popular Songs ! Enthusiastic Choruses !
Saturday
26th JUNE.
Note this! Note this !
PUBLIC - HOLIDAY - PROCESSION
THROUGH MELBOURNE CITY.
A Magnificent Street Pageant, based on the lines
of the LORD MAYOR’S SHOW, London.
The Biggest Show ever given South of the
Line.
Saturday Aftcroooi),
26th JUNE.
In the EXHIBITION—By kind permission of
Mr. Harry Rickards—various members of his
Opera House Co. in their Specialities. Mrs.
Green’s Pupils in Fancy Dancing. Variety
Shows, Highland Dancing, Irish Jigs, Punch
and Judy, Merry-go-Rounds, Feats of Strength
and Agility by the members of the Deutscher
Turn Verein. Display by Fire Brigade under
Chief Officer Stein. Shows of all sorts
Reception by Gog and Magog—A Perfect
Galaxy of Entertainment.
In the OVAL—Bicycle Races (the best men en-
gaged), a Popular Programme and Plenty of
Pacing Prizes. A Real Battle for the Monev
Right Through. e money
Saturday CycQiQg,
26th JUNE.
In the BUILDING-
GRAND POPULAR
PATRIOTIC -
- CONCERT.
Leading Vocalists, and the Exhibition Choir
of 1200 Voices.
Popular Songs. National Songs.
A Burst of Enthusiasm.
In the WESTERN ANNEXE—
All Sorts of Variety
Amusements.
Curlews, Deutscher Liedertafel, and a Scottish
Concert by the Scottish Thistle Club ” h
of Victoria.
In the OVAL—
Finals for the Bicycle Races.
Finals for the Harriers’ Races.
J. E. SHERRARD,
Hon. Sec.
THE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a Young
Lady who ran away from her parents, and ulti-
mately “ went to the dogs.” Also, Miss Skittles, the Girl
with Six Husbands ; Life and Love in Pans, etc., etc.
Each post free Is. 6d. The three for ia. Anglo-Aus.
Publishing Co., 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
nnOM Reeds
P W ALBERTS PATENT
Jhe_
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented 2s. 6d.; small size, Is. (id. NATIVE WA-
FATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with celluloid sliding- covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
Spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tion. 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
o
Send P. 0.0, for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoo’s Noted AccordeofyS,
Or call at one of our Branches —182 King-st., Newtown ;
8 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COX OX & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 5 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
V
W^v
V.
W-
sum
FISHER AND CO.'S
Fan>oOS Natara
(REGISTERED)
CURES - - The Head,
CURES - - The Throat,
CURES - - The Chest.
Once Tried, always Recommended for
COLDS, COUGHS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOFING COUGH,
Ac., Ac.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY, UNRIVALLED FOB
QUICK ACTION AND IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One BOSE BELIEVES. One BOTTLE CURES
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
Arthur Cocks and Co.,
Wholesale Opticians, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—! was persuaded to trv your Natara re-
cently whilst suffering from a heavy cold, and its effect
was far beyond my expectations. One dose effected a
marked improvement, and next day I had fullv recovered
from the cold, after taking four doses. It‘is the best
remedy I have ever used.—Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR COOKS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietors,
FISHER AND CO.,
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS AND
DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, .N.S.W.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per Bottle ;
By Post, 6d. and Bd. Extra.
GENTLEMEN when in town
CAN OBTAIN SINGLE DOSES, 3d. per dose.
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers in the
Colonies. Beware of Imitations, and insist upon being
served with NATARA, and no other Cough Mixture.
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL, Sydney and Parramatta;
PATTINSON (all shops).
Wholesale from —Elliott Brothers; Australian Drug
Oompany ; Hoffnung’s ; Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co. ; or
any other Wholesale House.


NEW
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Banffshire :
198 —Cases & Bales—lo 3
ex Southern Mail Steamers :
111 Cases & Bales ni
Now being marked off, making 1072
Bales and Cases to hand for this
Winter Season up to the present.
NEW GOODS FLOWING INTO ALL
DEPARTMENTS DAILY, and as quickly
FLOWING OUT AGAIN. The Public
know our values, and appreciate them.
Every Sale we make is an Advertisement,
and every Customer a Salesman.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
<&/
V
f
eki
The Hit
..of the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
are with us,
there is noth-
ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gi s h system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
does not brace
up. It builds
up. Its benefit
is lasting. Do
you feel run
.down ? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s I*ills. Mild but Effective•
David graham $ C°*
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
<s?Otl«nj?o’S su -“
Wiijtcr SOitiogS
JUST OPENED !
Importers of
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAVID BEAHAM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King St., Sydney.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
&ANI>SOMB
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Sm, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready Jane Ist.
u «w of confectioners as Only m limited
comber vrili be ism»L
A
St, John’s Works, W.C. LONDON
I AXES OF THE OONVTOT SYSTEM, by
Pbiob Wabuks f U, 3d. posted.
Harmy, says Commandant Booth,
as the machinery to find congenial work for a
ischarged prisoner in a locality where he is un-
known. Booths protestations are too broad.
-Woes he provide the unconverted house-breaker
with congenial cribs to crack ?
• B > n mes * This advt. appears
m Sydney E. News with the name of a local
newspaper-proprietor attached
ANTED, Smart Young MAN, groom, garden,
drive and look alter dogs ; must have first-class
references ; wages 7s. ; comfortable home.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., desires to
inform intending patentees that on account of his
satisfactory arrangements with leading patent
agents m all the Australasian provinces, the prin-
cipal countries of Europe, America, and South
Africa, ne is m a position to take out patents,
register trade-marks, companies and copyrights,
at rates very much below those hitherto charged by
expert patent agents, and which will be within the
reach of everyone. For the sum of .£2O, exclusive
of cost of drawings, he will obtain a Certificate of
Provisional. Protection (in the first instance) for
an ? ’ nven t'h ) n in the seven Australian provinces
and Great Britain and full patents in any other
countries in the world at proportionately reason-
able rates. Mr. Griffith’s office is 41 Castlereagh-
street, City, next Hotel Australia.*
A barrister from ’Ome lately filed an
affidavit in proof of his qualifications to be ad-
mitted as a barrister and solicitor of the Victorian
oupreme Court, and the court is now awaiting a
affidavit from this extraordinary nf>w-
chum. His narrative states, among other details
of his early career, that he was “compelled to
attend classes at a school gymnasium, where he
attained a certain amount of proficiency and
prowess, especially as a footballer.” Having thus
recommended himself to the favorable considera-
tion of the court in Victoria, he touches lightly
upon his legal and general attainments. ‘‘ He
has studied everything concerning men, especially
of the Anglo-Saxon race. ... He has not
neglected the abstruse and forgotten science of
metaphysics, and he bids fair to be proficient at
the piano. He also flatters himself that he has
considerable literary and judicial attainments, and
considers himself no mean lyric poet, having
written a variety of short effusions. . . . He
has eschewed libertinism and gambling, but, on
the other hand, is tolerably skilled in billiards
... and he has, from his earliest youth, received
the highest breeding,” etc. Altogether, he shows
himself to be a most desirable candidate for the
Melbourne bar, and if the prayers of several news-
paper reporters can work the point he will be duly
admitted to practice. Meanwhile, The Bulletin
would advise the learned applicant, who is now
43 or thereabouts, to plug away steadily at the
piano, that he may presently be able to give a
brilliant interpretation of his briefs, when he turns
them into lyric poetry and sets the words to
music.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“ The Patentees —Macniven & Cameron—deserve
A NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen. The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
In 1880 there entered the British navy as
a midshipman Prince Arisugawa Satsujow Taka-
hito, cousin to the Mikado, and adopted into the
royal house as heir-presumptive to the throne. The
officer who taught him English is now in Sydney.
The prince joined Admiral Ooote’s flagship, the
Iron Duke, Capt. Cleveland, at Yokohama, where
he was always called by his young messmates
“Allisugar-oh.” Of course, he was subject to
exactly the same routine and discipline as the
other midshipmen, though H.R.H. was allowed
one privilege, a Jap servant —not a great deal
when one considers that “ Allisugar-oh ” was only
16 and was cut off from all his old associates at
one fell swoop. The Prince was very popular,
being a “jolly little Jap ” all round and prone to
extreme generosity—so much so that it was abso-
lutely mean to express any wish in his hearing.
Also was he given to keeping the many festivals
of his country by fizz-shouting, though he never
drank more than a sip himself. In the fullness of
time Mikado Matsuhito, Emperor of Chrysan-
themum and other things, was blessed with a son,
Yoshohito-Haru-no-Miya, and “Allisugar-oh”
wasn’t such a big boy. So they sent him along
the usual H.M. navy curriculum —gunnery and
torpedo at Portsmouth, all the “ologies” and
“ics-ses” at Greenwich; then he went into his
own country’s service, and is now a post-captain.
Also, he is once again heir-apparent, for Yosho-
hito has gone into the Shinto Nirvana. Anyway,
when “Allisugar-oh ” ascends the throne it will
mean a lot in England’s favor.
mum
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
V&rjr
m
/ gE.O.fX
BLAKE
MFG.C 0 /
H. P. GREGORY AND CO,
Sole Agents fop
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Dumps
For Mining and ail other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
mining machinery
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description
m
- - FOR - -
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A COMPLETE DIET IN
ITSELF.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
Wholesale Agents for New South Wales :
ELLIOTT BEOS., LTD., SYDNEY.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
a
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
tCA
V WITH f ,
SANHAS
COPYRIGHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
SE NT c c £E
The Sanit a s C ? L e j
Bethnal Gpeen
IOnOOn
Hairdressers and wig makers
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in alarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d, Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, lOs. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 •£ 682 George Street, Sydney.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
PLENDID Accommodation for Visitors at
“ Wyadra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mrs. LTLLTS (late of Bundaberg).
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
(•HLOROPYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodtne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS r
With an increasing- demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it Mill per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk- p * oil y
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed. “” OI T
EUCRASY CO., F 1
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
DRUM
IN POSITION
PcafQess
R«!
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAli DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or Strimr.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Ahernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobieotionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
r
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can he eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
rjl H E LAST OF SI
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.


. . PROSPECTUS
OF THE
STOCKYARD CREEK PROPRIETARY CO
To be Registered under Part 11. of the Companies Act, 1890.
capital:
£12,000, IN 1200 SHARES OF £lO
ALL PAID-UP SHARES.
EACH.
~D‘i/PCCtO'PB »
WM. BROOKES, Esq., Melbourne F ° STKR '
Hon. E. MOREY, M.L.C., Ballarat. WM. JACKSON, Esq., Foster.
C. N. ARMYTAGE, Esq., Melbourne.
Brokers: CLARKE & CO., 309 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Manager (pro tem.) : A. J. PEACOCK. Solicitor : 11. H. BUDD, Eldon Chambers.
300 Shares are reserved for the Company, of which 100 only are at present offered to the Public at £lO
per Share ; net proceeds to be placed to the credit of the Company.
THE Company is formed for the purpose of testing, by a series of bores, and for further (kveloping
the property of the Company, containing about 500 acres of alluvial ground, situate a,t Stockyard
Creek, FoSter, South Gippsland. The net proceeds of the present issue of sha,res will be to the
credit of the Company, and will amply suffice to test the whole of the jiroperty hdd by the Company.
Messrs. Clarke & Co., of Melbourne who were large buyers of gold from §
the great value of this district as a goldfield, induced the present proprietors to take up on lease ana
prospect this property, with the object of discovering what is known in the d lBt ™J? JJ t h 4
Shafts have been sunk on the property, and gold has already been obtained at a depth o •
shaft A. Gold has also been struck on the Y.P.A. The difficulty m the past has been amount of
water, but previous owners never worked with more than an eight-horse-power engme which a so faa
to drive steam puddling machine. With modern applianees the amount of water to be , c ‘ tn ” d
with can be easily overcome. Shaft A has been sunk with the object of d^veriMtlhe lcist leiid and
it is claimed bv Mr. Markey, under whose direction this shaft was sunk, that the lead has been touna.
Bores were put down in the valley in 1872, with satisfactory results (see locality plan), gold being
obtained in the majority of them; but those bores cannot now be located and it is intended to p
down a series of bores lower down the valley, to prove the continuance of the lead, and to decide the
best position for the main shaft. , , . .
A contract has been let to put down the bores, and work will be immediately started
On the V.P.A. portion of the ground an excellent shaft is sunk, and valuable poppet head ,
puddling machine, and portable engine are on the ground, and all ready for work.
Applications for shares will be received by OLARKJ , qq , m Collin,-street, Melbourne.
The History of Stockyard Creek.
The history of Stockyard Creek, as a goldfield dates back to 1870, the first registered prospectors
being Sparks, Griffiths, and others. During the ensuing two years gold was won in very large quanti-
ties g as shown by the following reports, and then the development of the field was suddenly arrested
by the news of a new find at Turtons, 12 miles away. The immediate departure of the rmners to the
new field, and the consequent comparative desertion of Stockyard Creek are circumstances which will
need no explanation to those familiar with the ephemeral character of goldfields work in the early
days. Still, Stockyard Creek has never ceased to yield gold, practically on demand. The work done
from 1870 to 1885, spasmodic and crude though it was, produced sensational and continuous finds
gold which (in view of the primitive character of the operations) are probably without parallel in the
history of gold-seeking, and these finds are properly attested as facts by official records and the returns
of the banks. There can be no suggestion of doubt that the Victory, Gladstone and Jubilee Quartz
Reefs, situated at the head of the valley of the creek, actually yielded the enormous quantities of gold
credited to them in the early days. One record states that the field, as a whole, turned put 3 tons
weight of gold from 1872 to 1880. All the facts tend to one conclusion—viz., that from the inadequate
methods, the desultory work, and the want of capital and labor, the claims already opened up are not
half exhausted, while the large area of untested ground adjoining the proved claims offers to enterprise
a rich reward for the investment of a moderate capital. n , .
“ The original prospecting claim of 800 yards by 100 yards, owned by Sparkes, Griffiths and party
(four men), who struck gold in May, 1870, yielded GOOOoz. of goldl from that time to December 1872.
This was obtained from alluvial workings of an average depth of 52ft. This claim subsequently became
the Stockyard Creek Gold Mining Company During the first year of the latter s existence (181 3)
gold was obtained to the value of =£4785 ss. 4d., and dividends were paid amounting to £2400. Subse-
quently, the claim was let to tributors, whose gold-winning record reads
T 074 £4,527 8 6
107 K 10,057 19 8
|o7fi . ... 2,194 3 9
1877 ;;; ;;; 1,48210 3
Total ... ... £18,262 1 8
“If we add to this the gold obtained by the company in 1873 (£4785 ss. 4d.), and that obtained
by the prospectors in the two preceeding years, 1870-72 (£24,000) we have a grand total from this
mine alone of over £45,000. The alluvial wash in this claim has only been partially worked the lower
portion of the claim being un worked, although having washdirt, value 6oz. to the set of timber on the
boundary.” BE POUTS.
A report of MR. JAMES STIRLING, Geological Surveyor to the Victorian Government refers
to this goldfield in the following terms “The alluvial deposits, surrounding a small hillock known
as Kaffir’s Hill, seem to have yielded the richest deposits. The auriferous gravels may be said to
comprise two classes of deposit: the older found capping the low foot-hills, and the younger forming
the so-called leads at lower levels. The lead (if lead it may be called) seems to have been traced from
the flanks of a ridge running northerly from Kaffir’s Hill, about six chains distant, attaining m one
Diace a depth of 60 feet, the wash-dirt occurring in irregular deposits, the richest portions being
worked in narrow gutters, flat shelves, or patches. It is stated that 500 oz. of gold was obtained m one
of the drives, and in another of 160 feet an average of 120 oz. to the set of timber was obtained. The
deepest ground yielded more specimen gold, and the upper portion finer water-worn gold The
alluvial auriferous belt is, approximately, half-a-mile wide.”
MR. JOHN MOONEY, member of the Gippsland Mining Board, who writes with a long and
intimate knowledge of the district, is very emphatic in his testimony. His exhaustive report contains
the f l V![:^'^ r o : rmous yields obtained on this goldfield, both on the surface and at shallow depths,
should have justified the expenditure of large sums in search of the lower formation; but, up to the
present date, there has been little or nothing done except to trace the reefs on the surface and at
shallow depths and, even in these cases, mistakes in management and want of machinery have been
responsible for much neglect of good properties ; and no adequate reason can be given why such won-
derfully rich reefs as the Prussians, Ophir, and Jubilee, on the western slope of the Kaffir Hill and
running through the Gladstone and Jubilee leases, should never have been worked below water level.
Stone that gave from 2 to 12oz. per ton on or near the surface should have tempted capitalists long ere
now to risk a trifle in an attempt to follow up the surface scratchings of the early days ; and after the
enormous yields obtained from the alluvial workings in the flat on the southern and western ends of
those two leases, and which was all specimen gold, and in lumps of from 1 to 12 lbs. weight of solid
gold it is difficult to understand why the ground of these two leases has remained unworked so long.
It is’more surprising when we take into consideration the fact that the Stockyard Creek goldfield, m
less than eight years, furnished the world’s coinage with something over three tons weight of gold.
That it should be practically left to fossickers, and no attempt be made to reach the second formation
of stone, and the known rich reefs in the valley of the creek, lying as they do at the back door of Mel-
bourne is a standing reproach to the mining investors of our capital city, when, as at the present time,
they readily speculate thousands weekly on the merest chance of success in Western Australia, where
the ascertained prospects, rich as they are, by no means surpass or even equal many of these we have
ln record gives a glimpse of the success which in the early days attended the exploi-
tatmnffi the alluvial oni^h is fieldr-ked by eight men ( its area 250 feet square, 30 to 40 feet sinking),
yielded £BOOO worth of specimens in two years. It was then let on tribute, and gave from £6 to £8
per week per man for a considerable time. This claim is estimated to have yielded £70,000 worth of
gold from the alluvial. The lode was never worked. . . . .... <x> - r >, •
g “ The ‘ Scotchman’s ’ claim (200 feet square, 25 to 40 feet sinking), adjoining the Big Log claim
five men’s holding, yielded £40,000 worth of specimens. The Mechanic s claim gave £30,000 worth
° f Prospector’s*’ to 40 feet sinking), gave £3OO per month per man for
two years ;it was then let on tribute, and turned out a ton of gold during the ensuing five years. It
is estimated that over £lOO,OOO worth of gold was won from this claim Some of the specimens were
very rich, showing solid lumps of gold sticking in them from Ito 12 lbs. weight. Two distinct reefs
were touched in these workings up to 2 feet thick trial crushings from which gave 9 oz. per ton some
Tmlll parcels giving as high as 18 oz. per ton ; in fact, it was more than half gold. But m the absence
this work had to be abandoned, as the ground was too wet for a windlass. These work-
ings are included in the ‘ Prussian’s ’ line of reef.
g “ The ‘ Prussian’s ’ claim was worked by six men, with good results yielding up to 2700 z per week
“The ‘No 1 South’and ‘Golden Bar,’ six men each, won about £50,000 worth of gold and
specimens in two years. In this mine the lode was worked to 80 feet only and two crushings were
takonout. One parcel of 90 tons gave 9700 z. of gold ; and the second of 120 tons, 1200 oz
“ The ‘ Caledonian ’ claim, six men, was worked m the early days for |specimens and gave good
results up to 60oz. to the machine of dirt. Within the last year (1896-97) the present owners obtained
Xh as 70oz. to the machine of dirt of heavy reef gold, one solid lump weighing 57|oz This gold
is supposed to come from a reef east of the ‘ Jubilee’line, which lias not yet been worked.
18 «<The ‘Ophir’ claim, the ‘Victory,’ and the ‘Jubilee’ are three properties which have been
abundantly tested in the past, and have given excellent results, with a promise of much more to
follow.”
mm' rtyttoWTNG STATEMENT OF GOLD PURCHASED AT STOCKYARD CREEK
THE OF VICTORIA SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
To June, 1872 ... •••
From June, 1872, to December, 1872
December, 1872, to March, 1873
March, 1873, to June, 1873 ...
July, 1873, to December, 1873
” January, 1874, to June, 1874
July, 1874, to December, 1874
January, 1875, to June, 1875
July, 1875, to December, 1875
Total from about April, 1872, to December, 1875
Average Valdk of Gold, £3 16s. lOd. per ounce
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £,900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledge
TO DEFY COMPBTITIOKT.
"WINES 2716 Best Br^ uls only of SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral waters, cordials, ftc
SYDNEY.
Kent Brewery,
t*ook of n atu re
.I—y —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
nnrl unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Imoum OF GUSTAVE, from the French, Is; by
P °Pipnfa*HoT, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
N0 P V la L in H°OMF d UlTabout the human System new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Koofe, post free, Is 3d.
komance OF A fair Girl’s price ls
ou • nr,st free Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post tree.
3 mysteries COURT of London, by G. W. Reynolds
23 • post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d. _
Hei'TAMeron, unexpurgated, French stories, post „s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
-3 1«
Marta Monk. Is 6d ; post, ls9d.
Marrlage as It WAS, as It is and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual* Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
New Realistic Novels:—The Serpent Tempted Her;
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famous Romances of Voltaire, lllus., post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
La Chassb au Chastre (in French), posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to remale
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post. Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
'Hustrated p°Bt^ guBjECTg THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
“ UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot.
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
STYLE No. 14.
£9 9s. CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
Ha NO MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBIIUTO
Having been appointed Agent?
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a. stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any mske
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON &. CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Fokbes’s PHOSFERRINE.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance,
HOMCEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collin«-St., Melbourne,
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.


Symes’s Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was no official programme issued for
the Booloobi race meetings in those days. Each
event was started after the officials and “ influen-
tial ” cockies had quelled a disturbance behind the
shanty. Very few people in the district took an
interest in the sport itself, the announcement that
a meeting was to be held being merely the signal
for the gathering of the clans. Days before the
event the leaders of Booloobi society were busy;
the Ryans selecting their blue metal and carting
it on to the course ; the Kellys cutting and trim-
ming their “ supplejacks ” and box saplings; the
Donovans gathering bottles and secreting them
in hollow logs and other “convanyent” receptacles
at the far end of the course. When we heard that
young Donovan had bought a bull terrier, and
that the usual proceedings were to be varied this
year by the introduction of a dog-fight, we decided
to attend. Symes, our neighbor, had a 241 b.
terrier which, he said, might pick up something
his weight on the course. Symes promised to
drive us over in his best cart —blue-painted, with
shafts of stringy-bark saplings. When we saw
the harness —a combination of greenhide and No.
8 wire—we hesitated; it hardly seemed strong
enough for Booloobi. However, we risked it.
Proceedings opened with the Challenge Stakes—
first prize, a new saddle ; second, a bag of pota-
toes ; but very little interest was shown in this
event owing to the fact that a preliminary argu-
ment was going on between Mick Kelly and
Donovan. Kelly offered to start the fun by fight-
ing Donovan and his dog “one up and the other
down,” but Donovan had hardly enough “ light-
ning ” aboard, and promised to see Kelly later on.
Symes led his dog up and asked the weight of
Donovan’s, whereupon Kelly accused him of at-
tempting to jump his claim, and challenged Symes
and all his family—dog, of course, included.
Kelly was an awfully jealous man. Symes, how-
ever, ignored him, and let his dog loose on Dono-
van’s. I saw the young Ryans moving towards
their metal; this was the signal for hostilities to
begin. They began.
• * * *
I met Symes a few days after on his way
to town. His eye was a little discolored, and the
bridge of his nose barked. He had a summons
hanging out of his near-side coat pocket. I asked
him to inform me how I got home.
“Home? Why, in the bottom of my cart, of
course, with half a load of metal and broken
glass; we drove down Devil’s Leap with the
Donovans and Ryans in pursuit. You regained
consciousness when we were half-way down. You
must remember that. You yelled out something
about an ironbark pumpkin painted red. My
boy, that ironbark pumpkin, as you called it, was
my 241 b. terrier — I buried him yesterday.”
ROBERT HAP.
Some quaint names painted up on Sydney
residences: “Home,” “The Nook,” “John o’
Groats’ House,” “Crest of the Wave,” “ Bessie-
ville,” “ Cottage of Content,” “ Wallace Maritana
House,” “William Carey House,” “Leather
Hall.”
Mosquitoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Mudd, of Melbourne, has lectured on the
question “ Why did God make Mosquitoes?” and given it
up in despair. The earthly purpose of those aggressive
insects has not been revealed to Mudd. But The Bulle-
tin knows why God made mosquitoes. They were
intended to toil in conjunction with the Social Purity
Society, and they are always on the job.
Round the benches in the park
Lurks the skeeter after dark ;
There the coupled lovers
Take their places for a “ spoon,”
Shaded from the rising moon :
There the skeeter hovers.
Charley, hugging Mary Ann,
Like a base, deceitful man
Begs a sinful favor.
Love is strong, and woman’s weak—
Hasten, skeeter, to her cheek,
Taste its red-blood flavor !
Tightly held and hotly kissed.
Could she scream, did he persist,
Scorning Virtue’s veto?
Tragic moment for the maid.
Suddenly to Mary’s aid
Flies the good mosquito.
Quick the bite, and sharp the pain :
Back to “common-sense ” again
Comes the rescued victim.
“ Skeeters ! let us leave this place.”
Note the frown on Charley’s face—
Fancy can depict him.
Mary rises from the seat,
Stands erect upon her feet;
Not a word is spoken
Tear-drops glisten in her eyes,
Deaf her ear to Charley’s lies;
Passion’s spell is broken.
Then the skeeter flaps his wings .
In the stilly night and sings—
Jubilant, elated—
“l’m a part of Nature’s plan ;
On behalf of Mary Ann
Skeeters were created.”
Melb.
E.F.
Rumor credits Joubert with the intention
of promoting a “ jubbert” in Westralia.
In Melbourne they are heavily fining
traders for selling cotton-seed oil as best Luoca.
Nineteen-twentieths of the so-called olive-oil
traded off in Sydney is cotton-seed with, at best,
but a very slight admixture of olive. The fried
fish of commerce is almost all cooked in cotton-
seed, and even such connoisseurs as the Children
of Israel are deceived.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGEL
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
The Real Old Genuine Stingo.
Dear Bulletin,— When the “ Wrinkler ” en-
quires “does ‘ V.’ know that there is not enough
real brandy made in France to fill one-tenth of one
exporter’s bottles,” I can appreciate the signifi-
cance of the italics. A few years ago I was con-
ducted through one of the largest brandy distil-
leries in France. After seeing everything there
was to be seen, my guide produced a decanter and,
pouring out a liberal nobbier, offered it with the
remark, “ That’s a brandy you could safely give to
your aged mother. It is pure brandy—3o years
old.” He almost shrieked with horror when I
moved towards a water “ monkey,” so I drank it
neat, and —well, I knew then that I had never
before tasted real brandy. It was as soft as milk,
and the grape aroma was delicious. I remarked
that their *** brandy wasn’t equal to the sample.
He laughed and replied that the ordinary brandy-
drinker would scarcely pay 255. a bottle for it,
which was what it was worth. Subsequently, a
friend employed in a large Cognac business told
me that one could buy any quantity of brandy
labelled “ Cognac ” or champagne labelled “ Eper-
nay,” at 20s. per case, f.o.b. at Charente. The
brandy, he said, was mostly “ trois-seize,” which is
a white spirit distilled from potatoes and imported
from Germany. What the “ champagne ” was
made of he couldn’t say, but he showed me some,
and it was got up with a lovely white and gold
label, gold top, and all the usual fixings, looking
much handsomer than the genuine article.
* * * *
With regard to “ whusky,” I plunge on Scotty ;
but what does the average whisky-chewer in this
country care whether he drinks fusel oil, foreshot,
or even “ draff,” so long as it is powerful enough
to pierce his tin-lined throat ? Here’s a fact as an
illustration. I was shipping-clerk for a Sydney
firm, and one of my self-appointed duties was to
give an old veteran who carted for us a nip out of a
sample bottle occasionally. One day I said to him :
‘ ‘ Could you do a drop of real good whisky, A— ? ”
“ My oath ! ” So I poured him out a second mate’s
nip of Blank and Co. ’s 20-year old —matured in
sherry casks. I didn’t caution him not to water
it, because he wasn’t built that way. He drank,
and then looked at me suspiciously, and with such
a “ What yer givin’ us? ” expression that I laughed.
“ Why, I can’t taste it! ” said he. I took down
his own particular bottle and poured out another
nip. He sniffed at it, tossed it down, and then —
between his gasps for breath—said, “ Ah ! that is
the real old stuff. I can feel it all the way down.”
The “ real old stuff ” was pure white spirit, which,
so far as I know, was only sold to the museum, at
ss. per gallon, for preserving snakes.
* * • *
Hotel - keepers, the bush variety especially,
trade upon the cornstalk’s inability to distinguish
whisky from poison. I had an example of this
some time ago at a roadside pub. on the Mudgee
side. Travelling with some sheep from Havilah,
I took the men not on watch into the pub. for a
refresher. Seeing two or three bottles of “Mul-
doon’s old Irish ” on the shelf, the taste and smell
of which I was intimately acquainted with, I
named it. The proprietor took a half-filled bottle
and poured me out a nobbier (the old help-yourself-
out-of-the-bottle style appears to be dying out in
the bush). I smelt it and put the glass down again.
It wasn’t Muldoon’s whisky, and, moreover, the
bottle had at one time contained bad rum, by the
smell of it. The genial host’s reply to my protest
was, “ Well, strike me fat! Can’t you read.
Chummy ? ” as he dumped the bottle he had used
on the counter before me.
I assured him that I could read Muldoon s
name on the bottle, but that was no guar-
antee that it contained Muldoon’s whisky. I
also expressed surprise that there was so little
demand for my favorite brand, for, judg-
ing by the generation of thumb-marks on the
label, it had taken him a life-time to sell half-a-
bottle of it. This seemed to annoy him, and he
took his decorated oath that I couldn’t tell one
whisky from another. He had a variety of
“ flash ” brands on his shelves, so I retorted by
saying that if he would open one of his precious
bottles of “ Muldoon,” pour out a nobbier, and
stand it in line with a sample of every poison he
had on the premises, I would bet him drinks for
all hands that I would pick out the “ Muldoon ”
blindfolded —by the smell alone. He accepted the
wager in most emphatic language. The result
was that we finished the bottle of “ Muldoon ” he
opened for the test—without money and without
price ; and as we filed out of the door, smiling, our
host exclaimed to me—
“ You’re wasting your time as an explosive
drover —you ought to be a starry grog-inspector. ”
If the bogus label scare prompts Government to
appoint inspectors of whisky-labels, I’ll ask that
Mudgee boniface to give me a reference.
H.H.C.C.
A Jubilee suggestion :
Dear Bulletin, —A week or so from now Australia will
be wallowing in holidays—all but the poor landlord. He
will have to go on in the same old monotonous groove of
collecting his rents, holidays or no holidays. Now, as it
is notoriously the Australian landlord who is responsible
for all this local hullaballoo about V.R.’s Jubilee ; suppose
he takes a holiday and refrains from collecting his rents
on the gazetted days. All of which is respectfully sub-
mitted to the distinguished consideration of the Australian
landlord.— Tenant.
Camperdown (Vic.) is an ideal place to
get drunk in. It has a lock-up—but as a lock-up
is not a gaol “ within the meaning of the Act,”
the Camperdown inebriate who gets 21 hours'
from the local beak has to be taken by train to
Geelong, accompanied by a constable. By the
time the train arrives the drunk has got through
nearly half his sentence, and—thanks to the nice
jaunt in the bracing air—is pretty well sobered.
After a sleep in the comfortable Geelong gaol, he
is his own man again, and ready either to return
to work or start on a fresh jamboree.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says :
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Tl)€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORP STREET.
COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING
see tliat you get it.
PROOF
•V
Oar Netting
large
is CURVE UR and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
LUSiISHT BROS. .# CO.
limited.
a 'tfspf
Wan
R t
K-
m
im
m
I
»
■
m
PROOF
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application;
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb Chambers, Bligb-St., Sydney,
Works—
Cb'SWick, Parranjatta River.
“ COURIER, ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.


The Man that Steadies the Lead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He is born in the light of red oaths,
And nursed by the drought and the flood,
And swaddled in sweat-lined saddle-cloths,
And christened in spur-drawn blood ;
He never was burdened with learning,
And many would think him a fool,
But he’s mastered a method of “ turning ”
That never was taught in a school.
His manners are rugged and vulgar,
But he’s nuggets of gold in our need,
And a lightning flash in the mulga
Is the man who steadies the lead !
When the stockwhips are ringing behind him
And the brumbies are racing abreast,
It’s fifty to one you will find him
A furlong or two from the rest
With the coils of his whip hanging idle,
His eyes on the mob at his side,
And the daintiest touch on the bridle—
For this is the man who can ride !
And the stallions- that break for the mallee
Will find he has courage and speed,
For he rides the best horse in the valley,
This stockman that steadies the lead.
When they’re fetching in “stores”to the station
Through tangles of broken belar,
And the road is a rough calculation
That’s based on the blaze of a star ;
When they’re quickening through sand-ridge and
hollow,
And rowels are spattered with red,
And sometimes you’ve only to follow
The sound of the hoof-beat ahead ;
Then we know that he’s holding them nor’ward —
We trust in the man and his steed,
As we hear the old brown crashing forward,
And his rider’s “ Wo-oap ! ” to the lead.
And again in a journey that’s longer,
In a different phase of the game,
Dropping down the long trail to Wodonga
With a thousand or so of the same ;
When the blue grass is over our rollers,
And each one contentedly rides,
And even the worst of the crawlers
Are stuffing green grass in their hides.
He is ready to spread them or ring them,
Or steady them back on the feed,
And he knows when to stop them or string them,
This stockman that rides in the lead.
But when from the bend of the river
The cattle break camp in the night—
Oh ! then is the season, if ever,
We value his service aright;
For we know that if some should be tardy,
And some should be left in the race,
That the spurs will be red on ‘ Coolgardie ’
As someone swings out to his place.
The mulga boughs—hark to them breaking
In front of the maddened stampede !
A horse and a rider are taking
Their time-honored place in the lead !
As an honest, impartial recorder
I’d fain have you all recollect
There are other brave men on the Border
Entitled to every respect;
There’s the man who thinks bucking a tame thing,
And rides ’em with lighted cigars ;
And the man who will ride any d—d thing
That ever was hooked to the bars ;
Their pluck and their prowess are granted,
But, all said and done, we’re agreed
That the king of ’em all when he’s wanted
Is the Man who steadies the lead !
Jan., ’97.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
A Question of Respect.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If only men were Men!” sighed the
woman.
The man looked tired and gazed abstractedly
into the distance. “What do you want me to
do ? ” he asked.
The woman became instantly energetic. “Do
you want me ? ” sharply.
“You know I do,” replied the man, aroused.
The woman went closer, placing both hands on
his shoulders. “Would you really marry me
after the ? ” Her lips were white and she was
trembling.
“ Dear,” said the man almost tenderly, “ be-
cause he does not reverence you, please don’t
doubt me. I shall be honored in my wife no
matter how she comes to me ! ”
The woman’s eyes were brilliant, but she was
not satisfied. “Do you respect me—although I
am ? ”
The man took all the necessary oaths.
“You are a man ! Now lam happy ! ” said the
woman.
• * * *
The Incubus, who had been listening
throughout, hidden by the ivy tendrils and the
dusk, stepped forward, curious.
“Do you really respect her?’ he asked the
man, pointing impolitely to the woman, who had
started back, pale as death, from the man’s arms.
The man recovered himself with difficulty, and
the Incubus repeated the question, but this time
bowed to the woman instead of pointing.
“Yes!’’ answered the man confusedly, but
sincerely.
“Ah, thank you,” said the Incubus; “I was
momentarily interested in ascertaining your pre-
dominant characteristic. I do not think you are
much of a rogue ! ” He nodded and passed on
down the path.
The woman had been eyeing the man and the
Incubus with agony and apprehension. Amaze-
ment overcame her now. Recovering, she sprang
down the path and faced the Incubus, less quickly
followed by the man.
“ What are you going to do? ” she demanded.
“Nothing !”
“ Which means ? ”
“ Anything but a divorce ! ” The Incubus
laughed and struck a match on his leggings. Both
sounds grated on the woman’s nerves.
“ Why ? why ? why ? ” she cried distractedly.
“ You hate me, why won’t you let us both be
free ? ”
The Incubus spoke deliberately. “ I beg your
pardon, madam. I neither like nor dislike you ! ”
“ Then why—— ? ”
He purposely misunderstood her. “Because,
madam, any affection would argue a foundation of
respect you cannot inspire, at least in me. ” He
bowed ironically towards the man whose figure
was sharply silhouetted against the sands of the
bay.
The man stepped forward with clenched fists
he was very young. ‘ 1 Enough of this ! he sai
hoarsely. “ I can’t stand much more.
“ I beef your pardon,” said the Incubus wj
consummate courtesy, “I had forgotten your re-
lationship to the lady. I beg to retract anything
offensive my remarks contained ! And ne tie
parted unopposed into the shadows.
* * * *
The woman laughed hysterically, but drew
back when the man would have taken her in his
arms. “No ! don’t touch me ! don’t touch me .
Ah, how cruel he is ! No, keep from me . You
men are all the same. He swore he loved me
when he married me, and scarcely a month alter
our wedding he grew cold. It is coldness kills us
women!” ...
She was sobbing, bitterly sobbing; pacing up
and down; now pressing her hands to tier side,
now wringing them in absolute despair.
The man was miserable, and almost crying, too.
He was scarcely 23. . ,
“I did nothing to change him ! moaned the
woman —“ only love him. My God, how I loved
him ! ” ,
“ But you love me now? ” asked the man, pas-
sionately. .. „ ,
“ I don’t know,” said the woman. ' Hon t ask
me; Ido not know ! ”
• * * *
At breakfast next morning the Incubus
was sipping coffee as he read the cables, when the
woman entered, pale and purposeful, with dark-
rimmed eyes. She held something tightly clutched
in her left hand.
Rising, with old-fashioned courtesy, he waited
till she was seated, then went on with the cables.
“ Nearly sure to be a big European war,” he said,
absently ; but recollecting, amiably offered her the
paper.
She took it, and crushed it, with many rustles,
into the chair beside her. “I want your atten-
tion ! ” ,
“It’s so early—scarcely ten, he said, depre-
catingly. . . ,
Something seemed to choke the woman, though
eating nothing.
“ Please be a little kind to me ! ” she said with a
queer, catching voice, “I am only a woman.
What are you going to do with me ? ”
“ Where is ?” he asked presently. His
voice was altered too.
“ I have sent him away for ever! What will
you do with me ? ”
“ What do you deserve ? ”
“As God’s above me, I’ve done you no dis-
honor. I’m fit to be your wife yet ! ”
“ You are quite pretty enough,” suggested the
Incubus, “but” —brutally—“ I’ve had to do with
many such as you before my marriage. The pity
is, with all my experience, I was unable to choose
just what I wanted.”
The woman slunk away as if he had been too
close to her.
“Don’t —you —believe —me?” she whispered.
“As I live, lam a pure woman. I swear ”
she stopped at the smile on her companion’s face.
“Physically pure, yes,” agreed the Incubus.
“ I suppose it’s a fault in the training—all the
others were the same. The intention is nothing
with you women. Morally rotten, you are god-
desses because physically intact. I congratulate
you on your ”
The woman toyed with the something she had
been holding in her hand.
“ Will you give me some water ? ” she asked.
He handed her a glass with all the grace of a
courtier.
The woman unscrewed the lid from the some-
thing, and emptied a white powder into the
water.
“ Poison ?” asked the Incubus. Pardon my
curiosity, but I hate to see you'suffer unnecessary
pain, and arsenic or strychnine give the greatest
agony. Womeninvariablyuseoneorother. Absurd,
too, considering there are painless modes of self-
destruction available.” He was watching her
keenly, but appeared oblivious; her lips were
moving as if in speech, and she raised the glass
slowly to her mouth ; her eyes half-closed, ap-
parently seeing nothing.
“ Stop ! ” said the man, sternly.
The woman looked at him, a passion of beseech-
ing tenderness in her eyes. “ Forgive me ! Love
me! Ido not want to die! ” It was a heart
prayer.
The man took the glass gently from her and
placed it out of reach with elaborate care, then
suddenly stood up.
He took her in his arms and, bending back her
head, looked into her eyes. “Swear by God in
Heaven you will never do that again ! ”
A mad hope seized the woman. “I swear,”
she said. “Oh, dear love, love me a little! I
cannot live without your love. I was mad last
night. You make me mad when you despise me.
Love me a little, dear ! ”
“ I have been a fool,” said the Incubus, ambigu-
ously ; “ I have always loved you.”
After a long, rapturous moment the woman
looked up. “ And you do respect me a little ? ”
“ Everything in the world, dear,” said the man
foolishly.
* » * »
They went arm in arm into the garden through
the open French window, and lost themselves
among the roses.
“Ah, dear ! ” said the woman suddenly, with a
start of seeming horror, and hiding her face in
her hands. “ The poison ! Someone may drink
it! ” She started toward the house.
“No, dear, I’ll go,” said the Incubus. “Wait
here for me ! ’’—authoritatively.
He ran with light steps into the breakfast-room
and, going swiftly to the table, without hesitation
drank the poison.
“ I am not taking any risks, I think,” he said
cynically. “My respect for women will save me 1 ”
Sydney.
AMBROSE PRATT.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight' deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.* -■
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.*
RECORDS. RECORDS. RECORDS.
FOR UNQUESTIONABLE EVIDENCE AS TO MARVELLOUS CURATIVE PROPERTIES.
Pr. Williams’
PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE.
READ THE TRUE REPORTS OF CURES EFFECTED AS STATED IN UNDERMENTIONED CASES. THE ACHIEVEMENTS ACCORD TO
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS THE GREATEST TRIUMPH OF MEDICAL SCIENCE.
A Sydney Lady’s Remarkable Cure.
ALMOST EVERY KNOWN REMEDY HAD
BEEN TRIED IN VAIN.
SUFFERED FROM INSOMNIA, DEBILITY, EXHAUS-
TION, DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION, PALPITATION
OF THE HEART, &c., &c.
(From the Australian Courier).
Hearing of a remarkable cure in the suburbs of Sydney, and
being anxious to verify the report, we despatched a representative
to the residence of the lady in question —-Mrs. Margaret Layfield,
69 Surrey-street, Darlinghurst—who, in response to a request for
a history of her sickness and recovery, told the following story,
which is given in her own words :
“Up to the spring of 18941 was always comparatively healthy,
and could carry out my duties without, feeling in the
S
■
lightest degree fatigued, and would enjoy a sound and restful
night’s sleep. Then I began to suffer from weakness, and a feeling
of depression. I had a fulness and pain at the chest and round
the sides ; I was also troubled with palpitation of the heart and a
sense of overbearing exhaustion ; lost a great deal of sleep; in
fact, I kept tossing about the bed all night. In the morning I
woke unrefreshed, and looked at the day before me as one of
positive torture. Frequently I had to remain in bed all day, and
call in the assistance of a neighbor, being really too weak to do
anything ; I also had a terribly languid feeling. Having inherited
a good constitution, and being always averse to calling in a medical
man, I endeavored to battle through my troubles, trusting that a
certain amount of determination would assist me to throw off
this terrible nausea. Exhausted nature, however, at last gave
way, and I was on the eve of sending for a doctor, when a friend
drew my attention to a remarkable cure of dyspepsia and nervous
debility effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I
got some of the Pills as an experiment, and at once proceeded to
take them in accordance with the printed instructions. After a
few days, and before I had completed the first box, I felt a visible
improvement, my appetite returned, and once more food agreed
with me. I continued taking the Pills, and am now happy to
relate that I seem as well and strong as ever, and have suffered no
more from that terrible indigestion. I feel deeply grateful that
chance threw in my way Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, as I tell every-
one ; in fact, I should consider myself a heartless woman if I did
not make this matter public, and endeavor to alleviate the troubles
of my suffering sisters.
“I now feel happy and contented, being restored to health,
and can fully appreciate those beautiful lines of the poet Thomson,
‘ Health is the vital principle of bliss.’ ”
Influenza’s Victims ,
A SCOURGE MORE TO BE DREADED THAN
PESTILENCE.
(From the Aecadian, Wolfville, Nova Scotia.)
In the spring of 1894 the many friends of Mrs. Mary Free-
man, in Wolfville, N.S., very gladly welcomed her return home
after a long absence from her native town, but it was with the
deepest grief that they beheld in her the prey of a disease of almost
incredible severity. It appeared to all that the brightest future in
P=3
&
m
m 1 1
store for her was but a
few months of suffering
existence. Not long
after her return, how-
ever, the people of
Wolfville were sur-
prised to hear that,
after using a few boxes
of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, she had become
almost completely well.
Anxious to hear the
truth of this surprising
report, our reporter
waited on Mrs. Free-
man at the earliest op-
portunity. From her
he received a full ac-
count of her painful ill-
ness and remarkable
recovery. In January
of 1889 Mrs. Freeman,
who was then living in
severely attacked by influenza. She had partly recovered when a
relapse followed, and while recovering from its effects she was
seized by acute rheumatism and neuralgia. The combined sickness
resulted in complete y breaking down her constituion. tlpon re
covermg from neuralgia she one day noticed a little pimple on her
left ankle, which became exceedingly painful. It grew rapidly
soon becoming as large as a gold dollar, and breaking into a running
sore. Others immediately followed, and soon the whole bod? was
covered, the limbs becomingly terribly swollen. The most emin-
ent physicians of Boston were appealed to, but beyond infomm™ r
that the ailment was due to a completely run-down system, they ren
dered her no assistance. In the spring of 1894 she came to N.S., hoping
that a change of climate would effect a cure, but to no purpose.
Bone ulcers, greatly exceeding in painfulness the sores which first
appeared, manifested themselves. She soon lost the use of her-
limbs, became unable to feed herself, and was compelled to be
carried to and from her bed. Her eyes became weak, and she was
thus denied the enjoyment of reading. After many remedies had
been tried and proved useless, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were
finally appealed to. Scarcely six boxes had been consumed when
the ulcers showed symptoms of healing, the appetite grew better,
and her general health greatly improved. Since that time her
condition has steadily improved, and her health is now far better
than it was previous to her serious illness. Save a slight stiffness
of the limbs, she shows no signs of the terrible scourge she has
passed through. Mrs. Freeman is not unmindful of the great
obligation she is under to this remarkable medicine, and she is
anxious that the wonderful cure which it has effected should be
generally known.
A Note on the Change of Life .
The most critical period in the life of a woman is that attend-
ing the cessation of menstruation, or, as it is most generally
termed, the change or turn of life. The symptoms attending this
period are fainting spells or attacks of faintness or dizziness, head-
ache, general debility, exhaustion, hysteria, pains in the loins or
limbs, &c. The change is a gradual one—for better or worse —for
the former if the patient is wise enough to fortify the system
against the ravages of the symptoms attending the change. For
this purpose no remedy ever discovered equals Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. They act directly upon the system, lessen the severity of
this critical period, and leave the patient in the enjoyment of
robust health. All ladies approaching this critical period should
take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
SIMM
INK
ILLS
O
, T Tl ? e y positively cure Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and
if ia ’ a Influenza’s evil after-effects, and are a specifio for
all diseases of women, such as anaemia, poor and watery blood,
female irregularities, nervous headache, and hysteria. They are
not a purgative medicine, but brace up and permanently strengthen
the whole system. jo
w T he y, now obtainable of all Chemists, and from Dr.
Williams Medicine Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a
. or 81X I? r I4s-9d. ; but are genuine only with full name, Dr
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.


NOW
ZLdln bv7h„ BpringS iat ° being ' no one know, how, b
temuoh thß ltlT r k f. “ nd , l “ m,sdiatol y ■*«*, --ollmg with over ir,creasing volume
~ulf „o bv bte “ dtb ,° f *• lMd - , » with marvellous rapidity, is
prudent as well ee to thlT of tabes'” < ’ P ‘ de,m0 ’ ” ud nse3 to the U P B ° f tho ™® ‘“ d
W€
«»y take it for granted, in such a case, that there is “something in it" ;-some clever
“ application > hidden from th « cynical view of those who
believe in the mostly fools theory, but which does very actually appeal to the
universal sense of wit in wisdom. No inconsiderable amount of pith, truth and happ,
humor is crystallised in the best-known of these winged sayings. We
SNAN’T BC
■urpnstd if one, in particular, at once occurs to the majority of our readers. It is—
P GUINEA A BOX and refers to the value which the British
Iniblic has attached to that fine medicine known as BEECMAM’S BILLS. For
over fifty years their great excellence has been celebrated by the golden proverb, now
heard in every household, and which will continue to be so heard as
LON <k
as disease is to be cured, pain abolished, health established, and clear heads and stead,
nerves remain among the blessings best worth achieving in this busy world.
geecham’a pills |f|ake [ife jjjorth giving.
The
Mighty Hpaler.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
r ry itfor Whooping-Cough
ole “IT Lu “* T onio ha * done wonders for me in stopping my oough and
Poural/.Tifl 6 lungs. It certainly is a wonderful meaioine. I have spent
pounds, and all to no good, before I tried it.’*
ADA FLETCHER, 140 Lawson Street, Dari iff fityii.
“ Your Lang Tonio I have used for yean. I think it my duty to let
' athers know how valuable a medicine it is for the our. of colds. I have found
invaluable benefit from it, and oould not carry on my profession without It."
M. BIBBERO, Professor of Swimming, 416 Mile End Road, London.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS,
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, HulL
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Pateut
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
9
a
rs
4
Pi
w
ft
!§&r®y I
i
<e>«V **>
THOSE HOTEL BILLS.
Miss Flypp : “ What did the proprietor do when you complained about the
leak in the roof?”
Me. Pypp : “He charged me for a bath ! ”
Bfllck Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSH WARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT. NATIVE ROSE. CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, fjEGBiL
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, £eRBVT
WILLIAMS.
—AMD—
CIGARS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, YIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA.
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
SalOOnS furnished from £IQ to £lOO. Cash or Time-Paymont.
*ar Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS.
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


6£
Ptibec
if
* pubec*
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nist* and Clubs ot Australia.
r-THE-'
Ballet <Sirl,
with 22 rmcy iUustrs-
trationg, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic lif«»
Fort Free IK
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
tags aecount of Private and Public Bars, and the
i, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
Vk bskS original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
WTADAME PANZA,
Box 9J3, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
NMk&A&K’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application,
Six.”
of
Last
The
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 84.
WortbiOgtoi) PGiDP'Og E J?g[s €
(Australasian Branch.)
pirotners.
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JN T . S.W.
: ;
. WFTTH PEFRIN & CO., Moray-streefc, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
south Austranir AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT 00., Nor^rjce,^
- “““"^.".fscIKFETca^REMANTTE.
Western Australia: HiiRRIS, soar**® , T ATTNnfWON
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Joan, LAUNCESTON.
Near Zealand, JS. HmTER* CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 60 PER CENT.
O’ £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1028.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
M'OL'.OWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
fcho healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not ->ceii
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailments, of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions amsupplied for thar use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY rHLM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. l*ur-
chasers should look to the Label on theeoxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
Tbe. COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying ail the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTEKNOON TEA.
Note. Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Partita
T
he FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the .BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARB JTTR STREET - THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agentß H. PATESON, MaNAOKB.
p
IRKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
1/nnvrnyrra- 2VEuflk.os:i3xrE3H'sr, SXES-A.M:
SYDNEY.
£SISr C3H3J JESS
& BOILERS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Sample Grinders.
Krom Rolls.
HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Agitators.
Blast Furnaces.
Triumph Coueentraton.
Crushing Maoblnery.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls,
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers.
A TVI n.i garna.ting MZacHinery.
Clesn-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator.
Beater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roasting and Cliloriclizing Fninacea.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Cone entrati n ■■■ Maclxinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners.
6 Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting Machinery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Ru.mping Macliinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Roclt Brill Rlants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., ftc.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyett ft Smith’s Fans
for Ventilating Purposes.
Water Wheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huxon’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Caldwell’s Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Toilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
*TlbLe - -
ATOR OSCILLATOR
nLL Sm<S€R SCWIN6 MACHIN€S.
THe - -
ALL SINCER SEWIN6 MACHINES.
RAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking Powder .
Scale of A. dvertlsing
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ••• 6s - P er incll P? 1 insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly .. (26 insertions) ... ... 20 „ „
One Year „ (52 insertions) ... ... 26 ~ „ „
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An KXTKA discount of 5 per cent. allowed for cash in advanoe.
Cnr T "~:d always Used.
IRISH MOSS
As Safe as it is Certain.
W IL r KTNDS of . COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
m, , ~ ' . : Lows Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
h l and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
See you get Bonnington’s.
