

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Louis Koederer’s Champagne*
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
X£. G, «S£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
f/'x
mm
17
£
Job>/i
7-
z
£
jia
t
-i t
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
*
A
VL
4,
o
V
JT.
<RAc*tAsbcK>
O
o
C
o
«
o
V
f *
R. A. HBKVBY, Agent, Pitt Strhkt, SYDNEY
[DRINK > i
CUP BjLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED Q'UALITY-
AIL STOREKEEPERS
tN Af.jS, \A/. & QUEENSLAND.
ROBERTS’ WiQc & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
USHER’S SPECIAL RESERVE WHISKY, 3s. 9d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, 10s. and ss.
HENNESSY’S or MARTELL’S THREE STAR (***) BRANDY, 6s.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A, Splendid Lunch for is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence, 10/-per day.
Before visiting the (ity write to the Manager for
Cara Qf Tariff, Correspondence promptly attended to.
£ .V sf
ft?/,.
,*V/^
v
„*N«
/
/#
#
f?
$ S
.-S’ **
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
-K2
/
sRED bird
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
TIEEIEC
B
est
icycle
uilt
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
/■MELBOURNE.
Depots-! ADELAIDE.
(WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTI NC
TOE
CHEA-FEST & 33EST
FOR ALL KINDS OF
STRIPPEJ&S
AND
. . Harvesting 1 Machinery.
Specially Made and Waterproof.
Width 2* 3 3J 4 4J 5 6 in.
Price: 9d. lOjd. 1/- 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/11 per ft.
Raw Hide Laces and ail kinds of Fasteners in stock.
Correspondence invited. Price Lists mailed free.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Scientific jjefet gcilssters
—AND —
Commercial Inquiry Agency.
The Scottish Trade Advocate and
Fidelity Society,
172, 173, 174 AND 175 VICKERY’S CHAMBERS,
83 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Private, Professional, Mer-
cantile or Trade Debts
Recovered in Australian colonies.
83IF” Interests under Wills, Policies, etc., collected.
Commission from 2£ per cent. Legal services free.
Highest references given to leading mercantile firms.
PITT and HUNTER
STREETS,
"crxxasa
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. ECOTEX.
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. 2=®“ Write for Terms.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
THE SMELTING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦a
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS:
Head Office- Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
lllawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera
tion shortly, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped ii
the most Modern Style, have been established at th<
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be
tested for the guidance of those not familiar with the
value of same.
FROSSARD’S CAVOOR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Voi. 18.—Iso. 888.
| (Saturday, February 20, LBO7.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


Publications.
Tbe SOoligbt Year Book
For 1897.
A Half-Crown Book for Sixpence.
information on all kinds of Subjects,
p«t oloth ’ «° w **»?«.;
ALEX. LINDSAY,
Bookseller, 53 Pitt-st., Sydney.
“BULLETIN” STORIES.
JUST PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS.
Brice, 1/6; post free, 1/9
(tEO. ROBERTSON & 00., SYDNEY.
Red Page Readers should SMOKE
OLD DOMINION CIGARETTES.
Why?
Because your “ Red Page ” Reader is a thoughtful man. He rrobablv h n « „„ v , .
mind. If he gives way to intoxication, it is literary intoxication-not hITJ 10nt * cal taste and a refined
could revel in Red Page cleverness, would appreciate Old Dominion 't* S ~„a mftn > one who
cleverly constructed, and the result of just as much thought' Old Dnniin are just as
good ready good ; nothing better in the shape of a cigarette is Ld. r ? 11 Cl &arettes are
the Red Page after. 1 = ls macle - L >ght one first, and read
THE RED PAGE
QUATRAINS.—BY THOMAS BAILEY
ALDRICH.
PESSIMIST AND OPTIMIST,
This one sits shivering in Fortune’s smile, ,
Taking his joy with bated, doubtful breath.
This other, gnawed by hunger, all the while
Laughs in the teeth of Death,
MASKS.
Black Tragedy lets slip her grim disguise
And shows you laughing lips and roguish eyes;
But when, unmasked, gay Comedy appears,
Tis ten to one you find the girl in tears,
COQUETTE.
Or light or dark, or short or tall,
She sets a springe to snare them all p
All one to her—above her fan
She’d make sweet eyes at Caliban,
EPITAPHS.
Honest Tago. When his breath was fled
Doubtless these words w'ere carven at his head.
Such lying epitaphs are like a rose
That in unlovely earth takes root and grows.
FAME.
Of all the thousand verses you have writ,
If Time spare none, you will not care at all;
If Time spare one, you will not Jknow of it:
Nor shame nor fame can scale a churchyard walL
THE DIFFERENCE.
Some weep because they part,
And languish broken-hearted,
And others—O my heart 1—
Because they never parted.
Here is a contribution from “ Anglo-Austra-
lian, ’ a Foreign Dogmatist, called “A Literary
Outlook. ” Hardly necessary to say that the Local
Dogmatist admires its vigor, and its memory, anc
frequently disagrees with its conclusions. So pro
has been balanced with con, because fights are
always interesting, and—who knows ?- -Truth may
spring from the encounter. And, for the sake of
fair play, the Foreign Dogmatist is allowed to say
his sooth unhampered by editorial patting or
pruning. Here he goes—
The present is the day of the literary specialist and the
small bard. Never was there such a plenitude of talent
and such a dearth of genius. Yet never was the term
genius more glibly misapplied. “According to the press
notices nowadays,’’ remarks Robert Buchanan, “ nearly
every book I come across is a masterpiece.”
• • * *
That we are losing our sense of the meaning of words
formed the gist of one of the most original papers read
before the late meeting of The British Association. “We
are drunk with words,” said Professor Flinders Petrie;
and then he traces the effect to the cause—the crowd ol
aorry scribblers and gentlemen who write with ease.
It is to the idols of the illiterate—the pensters of the
Ouida, Marie Corelli, and Braddon type—that we are
indebted for the vulgarisation of the English language.
A word no longer may represent a thing unless surrounded
by a bevy of inane and intoxicated adjectives. Even in
Australia to say that “Jones is drunk ” conveys nothing.
But when you say “ Jones is drunk ” you are under-
stood by the meanest intelligence. Yet Jones remains
exactly as drunk as before; no more, no less.
* * * •
Read the reviews. There are quite a thousand geniuses
In England at the present time. Just think of it. A
thousand writers deserving the term we apply to Homer,
yet scarcely to Horace. Every tupenny talent lias nowa-
days beoome a sovran sun. The modern reviewer would
apply the word genius to a catsmeatman.
* * • *
As a matter of fact, is there in the literary world just
»ow a single mind of the first rank, many-sided, armed at
ell points? One of universal significance, one we can put
beside the giant intellects and supreme masters (to quote
Frederic Harrison’s list) such as Homer, Plato, Sophocles,
ASschylus, Virgil, Ariosto, Aristophanes, Shakespeare,
Cervantes, Calderon, Dante, Milton, Goethe, Corneille,
Moli£re, and J. C. Neild ?
In England we have Swinburn—a lyric poet certainly,
but intoxicated with alliterative rhetoric. Yet one who
from amid a wilderness of meaningless jargon occasion-
ally produces music of astounding dignity and beauty.
Yet put him beside Goethe—or Parkes ?
In France a Zola with his dry-as-dugt Rougon-Maequart
dungheaps—dreary catalogues of vice illuminated by none
of Balzac’s brilliant flash. In Russia and in Norway Tolstoi
and Ibsen, men of problem and theory. In Germany the
•ocialists Marx and Nordau. In America no phcsnix out
of the ashes of the Concord Group.
In Australia—more bards than rabbits.
* * • *
N.B.—By the way, why not draft all the In Memoriam,
Spring, and Dying Swagmen Poets into the rabbit areas.
It is a practical idea. Either the bards would eat the
rabbits or the rabbits would eat the bards.
* « * *
To return. Taking a comprehensive view there does
not appear to be any star of extraordinary brilliance to
the north of us unless it be that distinguished Australian
traveller and literateur, Douglas W. B. Sladen, M.A.,
author of the well-known stanzas —
The baby is not very fit,
And condensed milk doesn’t appear to agree with it.
Nothing, in fact, but a high level of mediocrity across
which flashes an occasional Kipling,
* * * *
Real literature is not easy to make. It is written
•lowly, with the heart’* blood. “This book that ha*
kept me lean these nine years,” says Dante of hi* In-
ferno. The Conan Doyles, Besants, Weymans, Anthony
Hopes (who do not take nine years over a book) write up
to a high level and for a big cheque. It is excellent work
—and yet? Is any of it satisfying? Has any of it the
sweep of vision, the catholicity of thought, the pieroing
insight, the wide outlook of George Eliot at her best?
* * * *
The Cause of Literature is also seriously impeded by
the successful men and women who have made money at
it. The hard, bitter discipline which alone produces good
art is suddenly relaxed. They have made their bwn
public a public that oalls for more. An overworked
brain will not produce masterpieces, but it must be flogged
and spurred to produce something. Produce, produce,
produce, while the boom is on 1 Take Hardy’s “ Jude,
the Obscure,” for instance! “ Lewd,” or even “ Stewed,”
would be, perhaps, the better title. It contains some-
thing of both—a sort of indecent literary hash.
* * * •
Turning now to Australasia. Our keenest and most
oatholic intellect*, those which may be said to represent
the foundation-stones of a National Literature, are
Marcus Clark, Alfred Domett, James Brunton Stephens,
and, as a fourth, perhaps, Adam Lindsay Gordon. They
have labored without reward. It was their misfortune
that their work possessed the quality of literature. Lik
all good art it required perspective. And whilst waitin
for the tardy recognition of the public the men mostl
died, or killed themselves, or retired disgusted into som
uncongenial, but more profitable, environment.
* * * *
Domett’s clear, cold, classical style, with its stately
movement and outbursts of pure lyric music, will neve
catch the public ear, but as poetry, distinguished from
what one may call “poetastry,” it has not been surpasset
this side of the Line. Domett’s work in relation to hi
environment somehow reminds one of a Greek statu
that has found its way into a pawnbroker’s shop
Stephens, the many-sided high-priest of Australasian cul-
ture, with a fine foresight and a dazzling wit, has ren
dered a greater service to the cause of National Literature
but he has not soared to as keen an ether as the Ne\
Zealander. Yet Stephens has much more of a universal
note, a saner outlook, a broader conception, and his work
remains a massive bedrock for the Temple that is to be.
* * * •
Marcus Clark died with all his best work undone
“ For the Term of His Natural Life,” powerful though i:
be, is less remarkable as a completed achievement than
as a promise of greater things to come. The faculty fo
broad outline and fine detail, the scope, the reserve, thi
keen insight, the poetic sense, the artistic touch of this
great writer are all there, with a suggestiveness tha;
images higher possibilities. And if there be anything in
“Q.’s ” late contention in The Speaker that nowadays
the best poetic work is being done by the prose writers
one would be tempted to say that Marcus Clark’s intro
duction—that jewel of prose—was the best poem in
Gordon’s book.
* * * *
The present writer is a heretic who believes that Gordon
and Kendall were men of considerable talent, writers o:
good verses, who occasionally entered the domain o
poetry. Intellectually, they do not stand on the same
plane with Domett, Clark, and Stephens. They do not
reach the intensity of thought and expression to be
found in Ada Cambridge’s “ Unspoken Thoughts.” Their
outlook was narrower, their conception more warped.
They have been extolled above their merits, but the best
part of their work will find a place in the Australian
Anthology: Gordon’s for its verve and ring, Kendall’s
for the haunting charm of its music.
* * * »
Take the Browning, Shelley, Swinburn, and Whyte
Melville out of Gordon’s work, and the Tennyson and
Swinburn out of Kendall’s, and there is certainly some-
thing left—but not much. With the lesser Australian
poets, after you have deducted the influence of other
writers there ig, perhaps, nothing.
* * * *
Coming to comparatively recent times. We have in
Victor J. Daley’s verse a nearer approach to pure poetry
than attained by either Gordon or Kendall. And in
Francis Kenna we have a coming artist Of rare promise.
Most valuable work has been given us from the pens of
Paterson and Lawson. Work more truly reflective of the
land we live in ; more distinctly a product of the soil and
less influenced by contemporary and other writers. In
fact, at the present stage of Australasian development—
the ballad stage of a nation—it was the product that had
to come. And it came.
* * * *
Yet it is a singular fact that Australia is weak in prose.
Lawson has written his incomparable bush yarns. Louis
Beck, Ada Cambridge, Ethel Turner, Louise Mack, Alex.
Montgomery (about the best) have all written successful
novels. But the Australian novel still remains unwritten
and the hand that is to write it does not appear to be in
evidence.
* * * *
One noticeable fault runs though the work of nearly
every Australian writer except Clark and Stephens. It is
all too hurriedly done. Many of the writers are not
equipped. Many of the books that are lauded as Austra-
lian standard works would he none the worse for severe
revision. No doubt the harassing conditions of life may
account for this in part, but I am inclined to attribute
much to faulty models. Australian writers do not take
the highest standards. They have modelled on men who
have not too successfully modelled on greater men than
themselves—instead of getting their mgtter direct from
Nature and their manner from the Great Masters.
* * • *
In conclusion, if the taste of the English public is to be
gauged by the popularity of the prurient prints emanating
from the Bodley Head, Vigo-street, by the vagaries of
the Yellow Book, and the poetry of Mr. Arthur Symons ;
if Hill-Top novels and Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s dreary
imitations of “ Middlemarch " can command a price anc
a public ; the Old World has fairly entered on the days o:
the decadenoe. But in the Nevi r there appears to
stirrings of more vigorous life, throes of birth. The
are indications that we are on the threshold of an Epoc
What we are producing may be rough, but it is viril
untouched by literary senemia. And it is but the b
ginning of things,
* * * •
If the big Australian journals were less concerned wit
obtaining cheap American matter and English serials
cut-throat prices, and more with fostering a buddin
National Literature; if critics of one province cou
overcome their bias to writers of another; and if tl
public paid less attention to pre-arranged racing-swindl
and the fatuous “bike,” and more to the cultivation
their alleged minds, the chances are a good deal migh
come out of Nazareth.
♦
The Local Dogmatist’s comment consists mainl
of “ but ”
This is interesting, but there are so many things t
irritate. The second-hand fifth-hand fiftieth-han
“ views,” for example ; the flippant, inaccurate phrases
the provincial narrowness of the “outlook” and th
estimates. Here is “Ouida” bracketed with Mari
Corelli and Miss Braddon as an idol of the illiterate. Bu
there is no kinship, no similarity between them. Miss Brae
don is a very hard-working and meritorious craftswoma
w’ho has just finished her fifty-sixth novel. The fifty-si
are not all tolerable by a trained intelligence ; their melo
drama is nearly always inartistic ; but for strength of plo
and skill in narration some of the earlier ones earned (anc
deserved) high praise at a time when the models fo
novel-writing were neither so good nor so numerous a
now. Marie Corelli’s work, either as English or for in
telligence, is not to be compared with the best of Mis
Braddon’s. It is simply easy, imaginative rubbish, th
facile outpouring of a crude and untrained mind. Anc
” Ouida ” is a writer whe, however absurd or extravagan
at times, is so vigorous, so scienced, and so often effective
that no one who has really read her books would dream o:
echoing the familiar superficial sneer at them. There is in
her essays and her studies of Italian peasant life amovinc
strength whioh makes it ludicrous to call her an “idol o
toe illiterate.” “ Anglo-Australian ” should read anc
judge for himself. To say that “ Ouida ”or Miss Braddon
“vulgarises the English language,” or deals, asa rule, with
bevies of “inane and intoxicated adjectives,” is simply
to utter nonsense. But, if “Anglo-Australian” himsel
happened to be an “idol of the illiterate,” a glittering
forra-of.words like “a bevy of inane and intoxicatec
adjectives ” would probably convince them he was talk
ing sense. So much force is there in verbal rhetoric.
* * * *
“ Anglo-Australian ” cannot show that a single capable
reviewer thinks or has said that “ there are quite a
thousand geniuses in England at the present time.”
Since he (habitually ?) ridiculously exaggerates his
phrases, can he consistently blame ,a limited section of
Australians for exaggerating theirs?
* * * *
“ Homer, Plato, Sophocles, jEschylus, Virgil, Ariosto,
Aristophanes, Shakespeare, Cervantes, Calderon, Dante]
Milton, Goethe, Corneille, * Moltere,’ and J. C. Neild.”
Has “Anglo-Australian” carefully read and considered
the works of all these? Or is he merely relying on
Frederic Harrison when he calls them “ giant intellects
and supreme masters " ? If the latter, what is the value of
Anglo-Australian s ” opinion concerning one set of
writers whom he does not seem to have read as compared
with another set of writers whom he does not seem to
have read ?
• * * *
Pass “ Swinburn ’’-with the wonder whether “ Anglo-
Australian ” has read “ Swinburn,” or whether he is only
flashing about him in second-hand phrases; and the
wonder what on earth is the use of comparing one writer
in one country, in one age, with another writer, in
another country, in another age, when they are unrelated,
atypical ; and a whole host of other wonders.
* * * '•
“A Zola with his dry-as-dust Rougon-Macquart dung-
heaps ” ! Plainly “Anglo-Australian ” has read “Nana ”
in a translation, and feels justified in endorsing the glib
fifth-hand Philistine condemnation of him—which, by
the way, is out-of-date in the best Philistine circles
But! . . . and but!! . . . andbut!!! . . . isZolaFrance?
And is Tolstoi Russia? And what is the astounding
reason why Marx and Nordau-a dead social-philosopher
and a living one-should represent literature in Germany ?
Really, it would be an education to “Anglo-Australian ”
—as it is to everybody acquainted merely with
the cant names advertised in our newspapers-to go
into the Deutsche Bibliothek at Sydney, and see the
shelves filled with novels and poems by men unheard-of
by the average English-speaking person—Freytag, Heyse,
Reuter, Geihel, Hoffmann, and a hundred others more
recent, nearly as noteworthy. And has Italy nothing?
“In America no phoenix out of the ashes of the Concord
group.” Who said that first? Who said it last’ And
is it true, anyway, with Holmes and Whitman but just
dead? And did not the Concord group illuminate by
contrast with an unenlightened America, while now light
is everywhere so diffused that even brilliant writers are
not so prominent?
• * * *
“In Australia-more bards than rabbits.” Exaggera-
tion again-and why the sneer? How can perfection
come without practice? Lower down “Anglo-Austra-
lian ” pleads for the fostering of “a budding National
Literature” and “ the cultivation of alleged minds”—
but this is only his aggravating way.
* * * *
“The Conan Doyles, etc.” This is another miscellane-
ous generalisation needing reservation and distinction
“The sweep of vision, the catholicity of thought the
piercing insight, the wide outlook,” etc. Why, 6 de-
nounqer of the “bevy of inane and intoxicated adjec-
lives”! why dilate on "the sweep of vision” and “ th»
wide outlook " f
* * • *
" Jude, the Obscure ”an indecent literary hash! Here
is the Philistine cant again-and second-hand again!
One can only wonder, and quote, from among a dozen
competent critical tributes, Havelock Ellis’s: “In all
the great qualities of literature ‘Jude the Obscure’ seems
to me the greatest novel written in England for many
years ” —with one’s own modified endorsement.
9 9 9 *
“Turning now to Australasia”—“ Anglo-Australian’■
plainly knows better what he is writing about; but there
is room for many rational differences of opinion—whereof
two or three. One can affirm dogmatically that Domett
was a clever writer of intellectual verse, which rarely or
never glowed into “ poetry.” One can doubt whether
Clarke would ever have done better work. One can
especially protest against the depreciation of Kendall—
“ to whose fine genius England has never done justice,”
says J. Churton Collins, one of the first six living critics of
English literature. One can protest further against the
cant idea that we are in the ballad stage (is any ballad
stage possible in a land of State education? why did not
the ballad stage come in or before the Kendall-Gordon-
Stepbens era, instead of after it? what have the quoted
Daley and Kenna to do with the ballad stage?)
* * * *
Neither Becke nor Montgomery has written successful
“novels.” Ethel Turner and Louise Mack have doubt-
fully written “ novels.” “ Ada Cambridge ” has doubt-
fully written “successful ” novels—in any literary sense.
And where is Browne?—to say nothing of others. And
has “ Anglo-Australian ” any idea how “His Natural
Life " was written ?
* * • •
"The prurient prints emanating from the Bodley Head,
Vigo-street 1” “The Bodley Head ” publishes the Keynote
series—including work by “George Egerton,” Henry
Harland, Ella D’Arcy, Marriott Watson, Francis Adams,
and a dozen other notable writers of the second rank, in
whom only prejudice can read prurience; it publishes
Kenneth Grahame’s “The Golden Age ”—a book so fas-
oinating that Swinburne was tempted to write columns in
its praise ; it publishes the poems of Wm. Watson and
John Davidson, Nora Hopper and Katharine Tynan, R.
Le Gallienne and Francis Thompson—really, really
‘‘Anglo-Australian ” should know better.
* * * •
There are other things, but one grows weary.
Little items :
E.K. : “ Why does ‘ Banjo ’ change Old Pardon’s
colors ?On earth his jock rides in a blue jacket—‘.to sea
the blue jacket fall back.’ When he gets up iri the
world, it’s ‘ blue halo, white body arid wings.’ As
haloes are supposed to be white he might have
stuck to his old winning dolors—‘white halo] blue
body and wings.’ Objections ‘ Whoever saw a
blue angel?’ Answer: ‘Whoever saw a white
one ?”’... A Lond. correspondent on some lesser
lights: “S. R. Crockett is a general favorite, and so
generous to cabmen that there are grave doubts of his
Scottish origin. Conan Doyle is like him in size and
geniality looks more like a well-fed steam-boat captain
than an author. Harold Frederic is noted for the humor
of his blasphemy and his candid manner of calling a man a
liar. Grant Allen is an insignificant-looking man with a
pointed white beard and fishy eye. Colvin—Stevenson’s
dreary biographer—is a melancholy creature who makes
interminable speeches about his god at banquets.”
S.G. : “Mirror-writing” (writing backwards from right
to leit, or as usual script would appear in a looking-glass)
has often been noticed as a symptom in obscure brain
troubles. But a little Paris girl has developed quite a
new phase of “ wrong-side-on-ness” in speaking whole
sentences backwards. The order of the letters in each
syllable follows the usual left-to-right rule, but the order
of the syllables is reversed. An English child so suffering
(translating an actual remark of the small Parisienne)
would say—“ Own al me let you will. Man tee naw
dean ter miss, tee ahn.” This, on the "mirror” analogy’
was, “Auntie! Mister Dean, naughty man. Will you
let me alone ! ” The trouble was a brain abscess, due to
inflammation of the internal ear. A related symptom
has occasionally been noticed in children who, when
drawing, say, a bird, begin at the feet or tail and
draw from back to front, finishing at the beak.
P. : “ R. S. Smythe, in his ohliqual newspaper letter on
Locke Richardson—and Shakespeare, mentions his delight
in Francis Jacox. I had thought I was the only man who
had read him. A mine for a literarian. He is, or was a
pure compiler, and pieced together magazine articles out
of such a mass of varied heterogeneous reading as no
other writer has displayed, except Aaatomy Burton,
in his classic lore. Jacox seemed to have every book
even down to ephemeral novels, classified in his mind.”


Medical.
PERFECT MANHOOD
Health streUcth Vigor
TO A RIPE OLD ACE.
Weakness & Disease of Man
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved day, feel
a benefit every day ; soon know yourself a
king among men in body, mind and heart.
Every obstacle to a happy life removed.
Nerve force, will, energy, brain power, when
failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strength-
ened and developed.
Sufferers from overwork, ill-health, re-
gain your vigor! Don’t despair, even if in
the last stages. Don’t be disheartened if
quacks have robbed you. Let us show you
medical science and business honor still
exist.
The President of the Institute is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New
York Scientific Investigation Society with
their gold medals and orders of merit, and
holds letters of congratulation for the suc-
cess of his scientific discoveriesfrom the lead-
ing Draetitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring medical treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published—Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescrip-
tions, &c., sent free on receipt of address.
Address the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON Sc CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11A FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful parents, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire tor liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
aanno
AIISV3
John Durant’s SURE CURE
CAPSULES
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, Which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cme secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gam mg in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
AIjL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
oase which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Did Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
(Mumford's Vivifying (Herbal
(Medicated (Nervine gonic gills
f!'"' restore yon to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
riehlnJ"! 7 m an a erfu i n ? e, ’ ,oine »cts like a charm, en-
riohmir the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts thatare weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, l wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per Case : with all
instructions. By Post to all parts. 1
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 187$-]
© s RICORO’s
F &•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for GGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
kgentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st. .Sydney.
“A BORN PHYSICIAN.’’
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRlCE—Posted, Sealed—
£l, including ONE MONTH’S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
-
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastihgly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
v ith unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints,
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price JB2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering. New edition of my latest work, “ Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men.
N.B.— I The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this Paper.
teaiNNiNQ. j
MADE | MAN OF ,ME »
One year ago I was a physicia! and mental wreok, and had lost all hope
of ever getting cured. Hearing of Dr. Irving's Horncepathic Institute,
I applied there, and am today perfectly cured.--R.T.R. mn ,
The Homoeopathic Treatment is a, complete cure for Nervousness.
Full particulars of this certain remedy I will send you (free) sealed.
The Homoeopathic Treatment cures in i weeks. ,
Dr. IRVING CO.* c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabetli-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
man y years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those whioh have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young 3len and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
mg symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of thebreast-
k° ne u° n P ressure > yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Wiu. Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
rirTT>4'rf aSe - S ma y ke quickly and permanently
LURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses ilone but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Mention thifj paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONI! POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure of Nervousness.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eves, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women .
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
L A. D I E S !
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Tty,
sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920.
29 York Street* Sydney.
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
' lief from pain ; security from Strangulated Her-
nia, and a permanent cure if possible. Please
investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic Elastic
Truss,” and you will be surprised at what you
will learn. This Truss positively does the work,
and is worth £lOOO to any ruptured man or
woman. If you want the BEST, call or send 2d.
in stamps for free Pamphlet No. 1. It contains
full information. MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL &
CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square/Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
**of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
consult Dr. FREEMAN.
This well-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases.
He CURES ALL DISEASES. His NEW PAMPHLET
sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding their trouble.
PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and Medicines sent free
from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st.), SYDNEY.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &0., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you nob
more than £l ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
TNT o Cur ®, TXT o 3E* ay.
rrHIS is the ONE and ONLY Eleotrio Belt which
x will cure all WEAKNESSES in all stage*,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electrio Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi'l convince the most
sceptical. Address —
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Ciiamulks 03 Eliza until Stkbbx SYDNEY.
GALVANIC
pysPElis
electro
b Elt


TATTERSALL’S
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
March 2.
AUSTRALIAN C.
50,000 Subscribers at
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
Name
£
5.
shares in the above.
Address __
MOOREFIELD H. March 20.
10,000 Sutaacribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
N ame,
Address,
HAWKESBURY H. April 10.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
:
SYDNEY C
April 19.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name,
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts Stiited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, ft you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. Youd
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
GALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
InthonyHordern&Sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
COLDS, COUGHS,
INFLUENZA,
SORE THROAT
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
YER
Will relieve the most dis-
tressing cough, soothe
the inflamed membrane,
loosen the phlegm, and
induce refreshing sleep.
For the cure of Croup,
Whooping Cough, and all
the pulmonary troubles
to which the young are
so liable, there is no other
remedy so effective as
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
Made by Dr.J.C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell, Mass., TJ.S.A.
In Half-size Bottles,
» And also in large 4/6 size.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
as- The name, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
Is prominent on the wrapper and is blown
in the glass of each bottle. Take no cheap
imitation.
Qo Rot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
BEDDING,
PURIFIED -
. HEALTHY
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lender & Sons ,
608, <lO, (512 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch ldren’s sweet)
vv-Pur&tSZt*- t£>
Lancet.
O A
A
Bt. JoY n s Work*, W. 0., LONDON.
Tbc AveoOes of Tinjc
are literally strewn with lost opportunities. Every day we hear the wail,
“If I had only done this or that. If I had only grasped the opportunity
when it was presented.” Well, now, don’t wait any more. Here is your
opportunity : To anyone sending me a postal note or P. 0.0. for 11/6,
I will send post free a pair of
JOHN HUNTER’S
Celebrated.
HALF-GUINEA BOOTS.
You can have black or tan—any shape, any size. Say what you want
and don’t delay. Take the chance whilst it it offered.
JOHN HUNTER,
George & Market Streets, Sydney; Queen Street, Brisbane.
[SHOPS AND BRANCHES EVERYWHERE.]
APENTA. “APENTA.” APENTA.
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
ROTTTFD UNDER THE ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF THE ROYAL HUNGARIAN
BOT CHEMICAL INSTITUTE (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE), Buda Pest, Hungary.
“We know of no stronger or more favorably-constituted Natural Aperient Water. —L. Likber-
mann Royal Councillor, M.D., Professor of Chemistry and Director of the Royal Hungarian State
Chemical Institute (Ministry of Agriculture), Buda Pest.
Approved by the Academie de Medecine, Paris.
Of all Druggists and Mineral Water Dealers. Sole Exporters —
The Apollinaris Company, Limited, London
Rubber Manufacturers.
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS to BREWERS’ HOSE,
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUS TA RD
can be obtained
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
wherever
•phe best resource tor every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baking and Birds
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Every
Variety of
and each of unrivalled excellence, delivered free by
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
KST SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
Bicycles, Sulkies, Buggies, Saddlery, Harness.
«... SSSTMS
bw\ P^>aUty t Cd% e e^?o^.%nar a nt,eed to bo the best made in the Colony; "s**. *£ You can buy saddles for
Gonial mlde Park Vaddlis, 58s. ; Hoff-skin, knee and can make money out of if you
Manufacture and Import.*
ALWAYS ORDER
“ Schweppes”
As other Waters of inferior quality nr- now o p fen supplied
bearing labels of same style and colour as Schweppe s.
SCHWUrPE'S WATERS ARE SUPPLIED TO THE QUEEN
The Boss's Boots .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shearers squint along the pens, they squint
along the “ shoots ” ;
The shearers squint along the board to catch the
Boss’s boots;
They have no time to straighten up, they have no
time to stare,
But when the Boss is looking on, they like to be
aware.
The 1 1 rouser ” has no soul to save. Condemn the
rouseabout /
And sling ’em in, and rip ’em through, and get the
bell-sheep out
And skim it by the tips at times, or take it with the
roots —
But “pink” ’em nice and pretty when you see the
Boss’s boots.
The shearing super sprained his foot, as bosses
sometimes do,
And wore, until the shed cut out, one “side-
spring ” and one shoe ;
And though he changed his pants at times—some
worn-out and some neat—
No “tiger” there could possibly mistake the
Boss’s feet.
The Boss affected larger boots than many Western
men,
And Jim the Ringer swore the shoe was half as
big agen ; , „
And tigers might have heard the Boss ere any
harm was done—
For when he passed it was a sort of dot and carry
one.
But now there comes a picker-up who sprained
his ankle, too,
And limping round the shed he found the Boss’s
cast-off shoe.
He went to work, all legs and arms, as green-hand
rousers will,
And never dreamed of Boss’s boots —much less of
Bogan Bill.
And Bogan by his mate was heard to mutter
through his hair:
“ The Boss has got a rat to-day ; he’s buckin
everywhere—
He’s trainin’ for a * bike,’ I think, the way he
comes an’ scoots,
He’s like a bloomin’ cat on mud the way he shifts
his boots.”
Now Bogan Bill was shearing rough and chanced
to cut a teat;
He stuck his leg in front at once, and slewed the
ewe a bit;
He hurried up to get her through, when, close
beside his shoot, _
He saw a large and ancient shoe, in mateship with
a boot.
He thought that he’d be fined all right—he
couldn’t turn the “ yoe ” ;
The more he wished the Boss away, the more he
wouldn’t go;
And Bogan swore amenfully—beneath his breath
he swore —
And he was never known to “ pink so prettily
before.
[Ye sons of sin that tramp and shear in hot and
dusty scTubs,
Just keep away from “ headin’ ’em ” and keep away
from pubs.,
And keep away from handicaps—for so your
sugar scoots — ,
And you may own a station yet and wear the Boss s
boots.]
And Bogan through his bristling scalp in his
mind’s eye could trace,
The cold, sarcastic smile that lurked about the
Boss’s face ;
He cursed him with a silent curse m language
known to few,
He cursed him from his boot right up, and then
down to his shoe.
But while he shore so mighty clean, and while he
screened the teat,
He fancied there was something wrong about the
Boss’s feet: ,
The boot grew unfamiliar, and the odd shoe
seemed awry, ,
And slowly up the trouser went the tail of Bogan s
eye.
Then swiftly to the features from a plaited green-
hide belt —
You’d have to ring a shed or two to feel as Bogan
felt— , . , , i
For ’twas his green hand picker-up (who wore a
vacant look), ,
And Bogan saw the Boss outside consulting with
the cook.
And Bogan Bill was hurt and mad to see that
rouseabout; j
And Bogan laid his “ Wols’ley ” down and
knocked that rouser out; .
He knocked him right across the board, he tumbled
through the shoot — _ ,
“ I’ll learn the fool, ’’ said Bogan Bill, to flash
the Boss’s boot ! ”
The rouser squints along the pens, he squints
along the shoots, ,
And gives his men the office when they miss the
Boss’s boots. , ,
They have no time to straighten up, they re too
well-bred to stare _ ... .
But when the Boss is looking on they like to be
aware.
The rouser has no soul to lose — it’s blarst the rouse-
A net rip ’em through and yell for “ tar ” and get the
bell-sheep out. . .......
And take it with the scum at times or take it with
the roots, ,
But “ pink ” ’em nice and pretty when you see the
Boss’s boots.
HENRY LAWSON.
“Rouseabout” and “ picker-up ’’are j n a t n e^ c ! 1 l a " f ; e f a r b ” e
terms in above rhymes, as also boss and super ,
shed-name for latter is “ Boss-over-the-bpard. Ine
shearer is paid by the hundred, the rouser by the week.
“ pfnk’em prettv” :to shear clean to the skin Bell-
sheet) ” ' shearers are not supposed to take another sheep
out of nen when the “ Smoke-ho,” breakfast or dinner
fined now.


Australia!} o»H«h#
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■■OVIUCI/t WO \ lyly ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
ctors:—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
r.'r. J',, WALKER,_Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. \V. MEEKS, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary ; RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Directors
J.
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
Annual Income ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 8 V I» IT T STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY FOR EASTER HOLIDAYS AND
AGRICULTURAL SHOW WILL MAKE THEIR STAY
ENJOYABLE BY RESIDING AT THE AUSTRALIA.
FIRST
OF SYDNEY’S HOTELS.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most conveniently situated as regards
Theatres, Banks, Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room at every houi
of the day and night—advantages which no other Sydney hotel can offer.
BATES ; 12/6 PER DAY UPWARDS, INCLUSIVE OF
ALL MEALS AND ATTENDANCE.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Managee, Castlereagh-st., Sydnev.
AUSTRALIA.
RRYANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
and.
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and. Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTBALIAA BBAADY
(Joshua Bros . “ Boomerang 99 Brand),
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
*3T Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. Isa
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFiiUHG &, CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
IRO-A-ZD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
• ~ :
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo c o m o ti ves,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRiS ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKES, M. 1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Condon & Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
Our New Year’s
Shipments comprise the
PICKED GOODS
in the
London Market.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
and ar j 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example :
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 50s
Serge Sac Suits 50s
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 45s
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QLTALITY
ANI)
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE
F
fiee -A-Istjd nvc^.i?,insr^]
lIRE and MARINE INSURANCES Effected on Every Description
Current Rates. WOOL INSURED from Sheep’s Back to
of Property
London.
CO.
at Lowest
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVE
£1,000.000
£435,000
Agencies in all the Principal Towns of New South Wales.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH —Bl PITT STREET SYDNEY
S. HAGUE SMITH, Manager. ,T. A. MTNNETT, Assistant Manager.
Business Announcements.
Revolution'in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
THE
teeth
teeth
teeth
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of I’atnlcss
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
BodLalla Cheese
The finest in the market. Our Registered
Brand is on every Cheese.
BodLa.Ha. Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Boclall a Hama
In get-up and quality are equal to the best
English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SFSSKX STREET, SYDNEY.
W.F. & Jolin Barnes Co’s
FOOT and HAND POWER
TOOLS and MACHINERY.
TURNING LATHES. SAW BENCHES.
MORTISING and TENONING MACHINES
FRET SCROLL SAWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS :
H. P. GREGORY
& COMPANY,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE :
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
OS’ Prices and particulars on application.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 18 Years - £130,000
K? INSURERS SH ARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896 —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THE-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ... £22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £460,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc,
Australian .Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks,
J.P., Directors. Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jessop,’
Director. Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Important Announcement by Di.rson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers.
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Pl?ic© TJll“
known Here a Cigar of exceptional quality. "
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
AgHU-sizea Cigars for 6d. !at ** no d o„b,
P^ udl “ al > ljut machinery, overcoming the great cost of production m s ,
permits a Oigar ot such quality and weight to be made at a profit DIXSON
and SONS intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA
comes as a pleasant surprise to m-mv .1 ,
good Cigar, have lately been prevented though" rl'reXd
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury
Noto- Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will „ *. /
address on receipt of ,Os while this Z \ Paid) *°
i 'wine this advertisement appears


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 888.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1897.
Pbice, 6d.
ON THE ROAD TO UNITY.
“ Didn’t I told you so! ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Australia for the Australians•"
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
mi n Q
Per Annum ... ••• ••• n r
Half-yearly ... n <1 6
Quarterly... ... „°
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin _ Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added whew re?mrea
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian piomnce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
'Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. r .
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclcnoivledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding _ two columns in
length or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. AU
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
vaid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street & Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co. f 3 Chuvch
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Yui.—Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Bs. Bd. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1897.
Cardinal Moran’s Convention Candi-
dature.
The appearance of Cardinal Moran as a
Federal candidate has roused up all that re-
mains of the Kiama spectre which did so
much hard service in the bad old Parkes and
Abigail days. The ghost is by no means
what it was, and it has done no work worth
speaking of since the visit of that eminently
vulgar and foolish charlatan, the Escaped
Nun, several years ago ; still, there are great
possibilities about it, and the Cardinal’s can-
didature promises to arouse them for all they
are worth. Until Mr. Moran entered the
field Federation was a plain business matter
and a concern of this earth only. There
were many different aspects of it, but they
were all business aspects—matters which
could be settled by arithmetic or argument
or concession. Now the ghost of St. Peter
and the memory of Dutch William are
vaguely mixed up with the subject, and the
vote will go, to some extent at least, accord-
ing to the religious convictions of the can-
didates, though the question at issue is one
with which religion has absolutely no concern
whatever. Some men will probably be
elected because they are good, reliable Holy
Romans ; some because they are sour and
embittered Protestants ; and only the small
remainder because they are supposed to
know something of the subject at issue As
there is no religious problem to be discussed,
and no Mass to be said, and no Communion
to be administered, the Holy Roman or the
sour and baleful Protestant are of no more
value, as such, at the Federal Convention
than the footballer, or the Mormon elder, or
the boss chess-player, or the prize long-jump
man The fact that a man is a good member
of any creed doesn’t fit him to tackle an
abstruse political question any more than
the fact that he has a special knowledge of
catching whales. The country was making
sufficiently bad progress with the Federal
question while it was considering the Federal
question only ; now a great part of it isn’t
considering the Federal question at all but
the wholly irrelevant religious question, and
is consequently making still worse progress
than before
* * * *
Until the Cardinal’s advent as a candi-
date there was no religious element involved.
The raising up of the old, weary Kiama
ghost might be worth while if there were any
signs of special political ability about Mr.
Moran. If he brought a great mind and
clear ideas and profound knowledge to the
Convention, his presence there might be good
value for the ghost and the turmoil. Unfor-
tunately, so far, he appears as a very ordinary
and commonplace priest, without one new
idea, and with only one or two limp old ones.
The only thing of note which he has sug-
gested so far is that the most difficult ques-
tions should be postponed for “12 or 18
years.” That massive idea was communi-
cated to The Bulletin long ago by a wrath-
ful and profane footballer, who said briefly .
“ Let the thing sweat.” The Cardinal,
in more elegant phrase, has so far only sug-
gested the same thing as the footballer. His
creed, up to date, seems to be that anything
that is easy may be done now, and anything
that is difficult be put off till to-morrow —
which has been the creed of almost every
politician from the time when Australia first
existed until now. The art of letting things
slide, and putting them off till to-morrow,
and handing them down to the next genera-
tion, is so well understood in this Great
To-Morrow Land that Mr. Moran’s advice
is not novel, nor is it valuable. The cost of
that gentleman’s candidature is the danger
that the whole business will be wrecked on
the rocks of sectarianism and go down, amid
storm and anathema and nose-blood, into
oblivion. And the only equivalent for this
serious disturbance is the assistance of an
amiable, old, ascetic, teetotal cleric armed
with the brilliant suggestion that perhaps we
might as well go on doing what we have
been doing all along— i.e., hanging the matter
up, and shoving the responsibility along till
the morrow. The deal looks remarkably
unfair and one-sided.
* * * *
The irruption of this respectable but not
too brilliant ecclesiastic has very largely
altered the position of affairs in New South
Wales. The election of the Cardinal himself
may be regarded as an absolute certainty by
reason of the Catholic vote, therefore there
is an equal certainty of the exclusion of
some other man who couldn’t possibly have
been a weaker or more hazy politician than
Mr. Moran amounts to by his own showing.
The electors who vote for him because he is
a boss Catholic will, in many cases, vote
for others because they are Catholics also ;
if they begin voting a religious ticket they
will probably keep on doing so right through.
Therefore there is a sudden boom in the
stock of Dan. O’Connor, and Louis
Heydon, and some other very ordinary
people whose prospects of getting in because
of their political abilities are small, but
who may get through when the votes they
get for being good and solid Romans are
added to those they get on the score of their
personal popularity. Also, a very large
number of people who would otherwise have
voted on the merits of the candidates, so far
as they understood them, now want to vote
in a way that will show their loathing of the
Papacy and the Scarlet Woman and the
Beast of Revelations and other strange
things and animals and incomprehensibilities,
and so as to keep up the credit of Dutch
William and John Knox, and to show their
appreciation of the defence of Londonderry,
and by way of whooping for many dusty
ghosts which concern this country not at all.
The obvious way to do that is to vote for the
men who have damned the Pope most con-
sistently and loudly, consequently the
chances of John Haynes and sundry other
persons who were formerly down near the
bottom of the list look more promising.
And the prospects of half-a-dozen good men
who are neither Catholic nor distinctly Pro-
testant but only Australian—who go into the
contest for the sake of their country and its
future, not for the memory of old-time Irish
spectres, and the recollection of mediaeval
shindies on the other side of the globe, and
the glory of an old Italian church—are dis-
tinctly worse. The sectarian row takes
votes from them on both sides and brings
none to them from any direction.
* * * *
The Bulletin regards this as a seasonable
opportunity to speak disrespectfully of St.
Peter, and to curse Dutch William and his
tomb, and his memory, and his ghost, and
all his belongings. And it distributes the
same curse cheerfully on all the long,
shadowy, interminable line of Popes, and on
Chiniquy and Loyola, and the Escaped
Nun, and the Nun who should have escaped
but didn’t. And it devoutly wishes that
Derry had been razed to the ground, and
that the Boyne had never existed, and that
James 11. had been a hardened Mohamme-
dan or had died very young. For 40 years
or more the bones of the irrelevant persons
above-mentioned have persistently intruded
themselves into New South Wales politics.
The province has been bossed by their dust,
and by the memory of the bricks which once
formed the walls of Derry. On at least two
occasions its fiscal policy has been decided
by William’s ghost and by the memory of a
twopenny-halfpenny scrimmage of two hun-
dred years ago. The very worst Minister of
Mines who ever held, office in New South
Wales attained to it because William came
uppermost in that Irish rough-and-tumble of
olden times, and about the second worst
Govei’nment which the province ever suffered
under was wholly owing to the same Wil-
liam, now deceased And about the most
genial and wordy incapable who was ever
persistently inflicted upon it held ottice tor
years on practically no ground at all except
the utterly irrelevant one that William
ou<dit to have deceased a lot earlier than he
did and should be a lot deader than he is.
The continued existence of that politician,
and his constant recurrence in office, were
wholly and entirely a protest against the
lamentable William and the expression of a
widely-held belief that William wasn t all
he was cracked up to be. This paper, being
wholly Australian, with no reverence for
live kings or dead ones, and regarding Derry
less than Booligal or Thargomindah, and
having no present use for William 111. or
St. Peter, or any other deceased foreigner,
respectfully suggests just here that New
South Wales has already had more William
111. than its fair share and deserves a rest.
* * * *
New South Wales in general has a con-
siderable amount of respect for Cardinal
Moran as a citizen. It has never heard of
any shady act being laid to his charge, except
that he drinks a stone bottle of ginger-beer
at lunch daily, and it regards him as the
estimable figurehead of a very picturesque
form of religion, which has more beauty and
incense and stained glass and thrilling legend
attached to it than all the other creeds put
together. It recognises that he had no desire
to raise the sectarian spectre, and that it is
in some sense hard that he should be asked
to abjure his political rights as a citizen
because of his position as a churchman. But
Cardinal Moran can no more go into politics
as a private citizen than can the Chief Jus-
tice or the hangman or the Anglican Primate
or the Pope. He wouldn’t be elected on his
political record, for he has none ; therefore,
he must be elected on religious grounds, and
he can’t be elected on religious grounds
without the Kiama Ghost waking up. In
any case, if the Cardinal withdraws it will be
very little loss to the country, for he shows
every sign of being a lamentably ordinary
statesman. And it will be very little loss to
himself ; the price of his isolation is his
palace and his title and his salary and his
carriage and the jewel on his hand, which
the faithful kiss in so many ridiculous atti-
tudes, and these things are a very fair
equivalent for all the kudos which he is ever
likely to win in politics by his own merits.
Further, it may be urged that when the Car-
dinal asks the people to regard him in his
Federal Convention capacity as an ordinary
citizen only, he is asking an absurdity. No
man dressed in that alarming red robe can
pass as an ordinary citizen ; the physical and
moral impossibility of it strikes everyone in
the eye like a thunderbolt. Mr. Moran is
an extraordinary citizen taking an unfair
advantage of his competitors by virtue of his
glaring millinery. No other man, unless he
dyes his nightshirt bright-red and wears it
outside his clothes during his canvass, can
meet the Cardinal on even terms. There-
fore, the contest isn’t a fair one; Mr.
Moran’s sacerdotal garment is an extraneous
consideration wrongfully introduced into it,
and it should be eliminated as a disturbing
element.
* * * ♦
New South Wales is the province which has
been most troubled with sectarianism in poli-
tics. It is the one where the Kiama Ghost and
the Yellow Pup disease have raged most per-
sistently—therefore, it is the only one where
Cardinal Moran as a F ederal candidate
would be a serious calamity. With the
wonted irony of things it is also the
only one where any church potentate has
intruded himself into the Federal election.
The one redeeming feature of the case is
that the sectarian row of to-day is a very
small affair compared to that of twenty or
fifteen or even ten years ago. And the
saddening consideration even about this
improvement is that it doesn’t arise, so far as
all the available evidence goes, from the in-
creasing intelligence of the community so
much as from its increasing indifference.
The Australian element, as distinguished
from the imported one, grows more and
more predominant, and the Australian, as a
rule, doesn’t take his religion very seriously.
Unluckily, he takes very few other things
with much seriousness either. He is the
great “casual cuss ” of the English-speaking
races, and if his interest in Dutch William
is waning it is not so much because he re-
cognises the futility of that irrelevant
monarch as because William 111. is no rela-
tion to football or bicycling or cricket or
any other subject of real interest. Still,
though the Yellow Pup is a small and
shrunken animal compared to the animal he
once was, Cardinal Moran’s candidature has
imported all the animal there is of him into
the Federal controversy, where there were
more than sufficient difficulties on hand with-
out this latest addition to their number.
And for that reason this paper regards the
Cardinal as a disaster, and urges him to get
out of his anomalous position—if he still
occupies it when this paper comes out—with
all possible speed.
On the Road to Unity.
One day last week the little band of Melbourne
importers entertained Premier Reid, of New
South Wales, at a banquet, and that lumbering
but playful person took the opportunity to help
along the cause of Federation in his own pecu-
liarly inverted fashion. G. H. Reid has
allowed himself to be nominated as a candidate
for the Federal Convention, but beyond that he
has done nothing to arouse interest in the great
question of the day. Instead he has taken the
most elaborate precautions to avoid being of
any possible assistance, by leaving his own pro-
vince, and hiding himself away at an obscure
Victorian watering-place, and preserving a
dead silence and an aspect of ostentatious in-
difference. But though New South Wales’s
weary Fat Man could not exert himself in the
cause of Australian nationalism he emerged
from his retirement full of vigor and energy to
address the Foreign-traders of Melbourne, and
wake up the old feud between the two pro-
vinces for all he was Worth. There is a sort of
unwritten code among Ministers which forbids
them to deliver addresses in another province
upon that province’s politics, ahd in obedience
thereto Premier Seddon recently declined to
deliver a lecture in Tasmania on the Maoriland
policy of State Socialism lest it should seertl
even by inference a criticism of Tasmanian
politics. But G. Retd is troubled by no small
considerations of this kind, so he seized the
chance which presented itself, and in about an
hour he exhibited himself as the most complete
ignoramus, or something Worse, that he has yet
attained to* And considering the eminence he
has reached in that line on many previous
occasions, the fact that he broke his own record
in this particular instance worth recording.
The oration was, in the main, the old, weary
comparison of the respective resources and
prosperity of the two provinces, which the
New South Wales Foreign-trade party has been
struggling with more or less for the past dozen
years. Most of the time Premier Reid care-
fully avoided figures or definite statements, so
that it is hard to pin him down to any absolute
assertion. But in four separate items he did
descend to particulars, with the following dis-
astrous result, as reported in his own appre-
ciative organ, the S.M. Herald :
New South Wales with Freetrade had quite as much
coin in her banks as Victoria with her Protection, and
that comparison disposed of the fallacy of the Protec-
tionist policy to keep the money in the colony. He
quoted statistics from the “Victorian Year Book” to
show that Protection quite failed to keep men in the
country. (Cheers.) How was it that the people did not
run, ruined by Freetrade in New South Wales, to the
Victorian Protectionist paradise? During the last few
years 60,000 more people had left Victoria than had
entered it, while the population of Sydney had increased
by 35,000 in two years. Certainly some of their people
were also going to Western Australia, but then they had
not, like Victoria, spent £50,000,000 to keep them there,
(Cheers.) Every strong man who left Victoria repre-
sented a bad investment of £IOOO. Protection was to
settle yeomanrv on the rich Victorian soil, but he found
from the “ Victorian Year Book ” that in 1893 there were
11,000 acres less under cultivation than 13 years pre-
viously. He did not wish to gloat over such things. He
pointed out that, though the New South Wales farmer
was not protected, wheat cultivation increased last year
by 150,000 acres, and would probably be much greater
this year. In conclusion, he said he had spoken frankly,
&c., &c.
* * * *
The above statements are, in the hiaiiij
not only glaringly and utterly untrue, but
they are so hopelessly incredible and are
contradicted by facts so easily ascertain-
able by everybody that the character of
the man who made them becomes an in-
teresting study. Taking them in their order,
according to the quarterly returns published
in the daily papers, the Victorian banks,
at 31st December, held £8,900,000 in coin
against £6,950,000 held by banks in New South
Wales, therefore New South Wales, instead
of holding “ quite as much,” is £2,000,000
behind. The population of Sydney didn’t
increase by 35,000 in two years at any time for
a very long while back, but in the last two
years for which returns are available (1893-’95)
its population diminished from 416,000 to
408,000. As regards the statement that Vic-
toria, in 1893, had 11,000 acres less under
cultivation than 13 years previously (1880); in
1880 the cultivated area of Victoria is given as
1,997,943 acres, and in 1893 as 3,019,009 acres,
so instead of a decrease of 11,000 acres there is
an increase of over one million. And in the
matter of New South Wales cultivation the
Government returns are made up to 31st March
of each year, and at 31st March, 1896, they
didn’t show an increase of 150,000 acres in the
area under wheat but a decrease of 51,000
acres (from 647,000 to 596,000 acres). The
statistics as at 31st March, 1897, are as
yet mainly surmise. These discrepancies
cannot be set down in charity as mere
mistakes, for like all the discrepancies in
the figures of the man who is always wrong,
they lean in the one direction, and go to bolster
up G. Reid’s own particular argument. There-
fore, assuming that the report is correct, the
matter resolves itself into two alternatives : If
Premier Reid manufactured his own bogus
statistics, then he is the dullest and most in-
capable perverter in Australian politics. And
if he took them from some other person without
inquiry, and lent the weight of his name and
position to them without personal investigation,
and was really deceived by them, then his
ignorance is stupendous, and his simplicity is
absolutely incredible.
’» * * •
The question involved, however, is not wholly
on even mainly that of Premier Reid’s in-
accuracy. No one expects the awful Fat Man
of New South Wales to be even reasonably
accurate. His career as Premier has been a
long series of disastrous shuffles and backdowns.
The famous list of the Dibbs Government’s Civil
Service appointments which he laid before Par-
liament was proved to be a shameless fabrica-
tion, and had to be withdrawn. His sham list
of Vic. and N.S. Wales prices had also to be
dropped in humiliation as an exploded legend,
and the responsibility of it put on the other
fellow. The alleged £330,000 surplus looks
painfully uncertain and bogus in the face of the
State statistician’s figures showing a £600,000
deficiency, G. Reid lives in an atmosphere of
perpetual exposure and conviction, till his utter
inability to go straight has become a bye-word.
Therefore the fact that hardly one of the state-
ments in his Melbourne speech can bear inves-
tigation is hardly worth mentioning. The
really important feature of the case is that
Premier Reid is apparently out of the Federa-
tion business for good, This is the only pro-
bable explanation of his conduct in abandoning
the Federation campaign in his own province,
and going away to Melbourne there to deli-
berately stir up the old provincial squabble and
to drag the fiscal issue out of its grave. The
rivalry between New South Wales and Vic-
toria is always ready to break forth and howl
at the shortest notice and on the smallest pro-
vocation The rivalry between the two fiscal


parties in New South Wales is another spectre
which is perpetually getting out of its grave at
the most awkward moments. One of the
greatest difficulties in the way of union is the
hecessity of laying these two ghostly mon-
strosities alid keeping them quiet for the time
being; and when Premier Reid, at this moment
above all others, goes out of his way to prod the
twin goblins into furious activity he is a traitor
to the Commonwealth and to Australia.
* * * *
Curiously enough, Reid, in this respect, is
merely following in the footsteps of his pre-
decessor, Parkes. • When the last Federal
Convention met to draft a Constitution for
Australia, Parkes broke up the harmony of
things by a wild and irrelevant Foreign-trade
harangue, in which he quoted alleged figures
and facts to show the greatness of New South
Wales and the miserable smallness of her
Southern neighbor. Then Premier Munro
arose with a mass of State statistics to prove
that Parkes’s figures were pure invention, and
the work of constitution-making rested while
these two irrelevant old men shook their fiscal
creeds at each other and—in effect—called each
other Ananias in the name of peace and unity.
Whether that episode did anything to wreck
the movement it is impossible to say for certain,
but the convention assuredly came to nothing,
and if the provincial spectre which Parkes
dragged from its resting-place was not re-
sponsible its author certainly did all he
could to make it a cause of strife. The
spectacle of Reid raising the same old contro-
versy just when Parkes’s lost opportunity is at
hand again is a pitiable coincidence. No one
has ever felt quite sure of Premier Reid’s sin-
cerity in the cause of Federation. He was an
avowed and bitter enemy till within the last
two or thtee years. Then he was a more or
less dubious friend till his return from the
famous Queensland mission. Now he is a
candidate who stands out of the campaign
until late in the day, and an alleged
believer in goodwill and brotherhood who
goes forth on a special mission to rouge up the
old provincial hatred and uncharitableness.
So the sectarian row and the fiscal shindy, and
the old provincial ghost, and Reid, and the
Cardinal, and Heydon’s dog-parable all march
abreast on the road to peace and unity, and the
blessing of their country goes with them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bone and the Shadow.
The invitation issued to all the Premiers of
Australasia to go ’Ome and help in the rejoic-
ings at Victoria’s 60th anniversary leaves
sundry politicians between the devil and the
deep sea. And the trouble is that no one
really knows which is the deep sea and which
is the devil. The rule in such cases is to hang
on like grim death to the bone and let the
shadow slide, but in this case the bone and the
shadow look so much alike that no one can tell
for certain which is which. The man who
goes to England may be made a baronet, or a
baron, or something; the man who stays
behind may be the first Premier of the Common-
wealth, arid may be made an earl in honor of
that unique event. The man who goes is
tolerably sure of his title, provided everything
pans out as arranged, but it may be a very
small title after all, and hardly worth having.
Again, the royal life on which the whole cele-
bration hangs is very old and frail, and it is
almost an even chance that there will be no
celebration after all, and that the visiting
Premier may only arrive in time to be too
late for the funeral. Then he can hardly
ask for his title over Victoria’s new-
made grave, and there will be no rejoicings
to take part in, and he can’t, in common
decency, send in a very large liquor bill under
such painful conditions. The coronation of the
next monarch, too, will probably be a year or
more distant, and, though titles will be going
then, no Premier could hang on and be the
guest of the British nation long enough to wait
for that happy event. Then, again, a Premier
might arrive only to learn by cablegram that
his understudy had wrecked the Ministry
almost as soon as he left, and he was neither a
Premier, nor a national guest, nor a prospective
duke, nor anything else save plain, ordinary
Jones. Even if everything went well, it is an
open question whether being a national guest
includes passage-money and drinks ; if it doesn’t,
there will be a ruinous bill to pay, and between
that and loss of income through necessary neglect
of business, the guest will probably return only
to file his schedule. If it does include drinks,
he will return with a disgraceful nose, which
his old supporters will shudder at. Further,
he may be drowned on the voyage. On the
other hand, he may stay and there be no Fede-
ration after all, or someone else may get the
Premiership, or he may get it and his Ministry go
broke the first month, or he may keep it and the
expected title not come. The man who goes may
get run in through mashing the strange female in
London as the natural consequence of too many
free drinks at the expense of an admiring
nation, and the one who stays may get snake-
bite while looking for the site of a Federal
capital out at the back of Bourke. Which is
the bone, and which is the shadow ? Also, are
they both bones, or are they both shadows ?
It may pan out either way. The Premier who
celebrates may come back with no title and no
celebration, and with his Ministry fallen and
his business gone to wreck, and crawl ashore
with nothing but a portmanteau of soiled
clothes and much rheumatism. And anything
may happen also to the one who didn’t go —-he
may even be refused the billet of Postmaster in
Chris. Watson’s first Federal Cabinet. There
has been no time in the last twenty years or
more when the bone and the shadow looked so
large, and so uncertain, and so much alike.
Carruthers’ Little Scheme.
Minister Carruthers, of N.S.W., issues his
own little scheme, made all out of his own
head, for settling the Federal railway difficulty.
It is evidently intended as a compromise
between the people who want to keep the rail-
ways under provincial management and those
who, like The Bulletin, would pool them and
the public debts without worrying about the
odd half-penny :
A uniform commercial basis of valuation of existing'
railways should be adopted, and when valued the rail-
ways should be taken over. The idea was to test the net
earnings on a 4 per cent, return on capital, and to capi-
talise the values or earnings. For instance, a line return-
ing £4OOO a year above working expenses would be
valued at £lOO,OOO, whilst a similar line with net earnings
of only £lOOO would be valued at £25,000, although, per-
haps, each had cost the same. The federal authority
Would then take over the local railway debt to the extent
of the capitalised value ascertained on the basis men-
tioned, and any balance remaining of the railway debt
would remain a charge on the State concerned. New
railways would be constructed by the States, and would
be run on federal freights, etc., but would only be taken
over, after, say, three years’ test of earnings, and then
only on the capitalised value of their earnings.
So far as concerns the taking over of existing
lines, this looks tolerably fair, but a whole lot
of questions loom up behind it. If the lines
are taken over on the basis of their earnings in
1896, N.S.W. would hand over its system at
5 millions below cost ; S.A. would lose 2\
millions ; Tasmania, 3 millions ; and Victoria,
which touched bedrock that year, would lose
about 15 millions on the deal. If the earnings
for ’95 were taken as the basis, Victoria would
lose about 11 millions, and the other provinces
would remain much the same. If Westralia
came in on this system while the boom was
still on, the Federation would actually have
to pay it 6 millions for railways which
cost only 2 millions, and which, when the
boom is over, will possibly not pay inter-
est on 1 million. Of the four federating
provinces N.S.W. would come off best under
this system if it were applied on the basis
of present earnings only ; if an average
was taken for the last ten years South
Australia would profit most; if an average
w r ere taken for the next ten years or three years
the province which faked the accounts best
would probably come out on top. N.S.W.
would gain a great advantage by this valua-
tion system as regards the railways, and Mr.
Carruthers, as a good cornstalk, therefore
suggests its application to the railways only.
The other provinces, however, would probably
demand its application to the post-offices, tele-
graphs, and all other revenue-producing works
taken over by the Commonwealth—that is to
say, the Commonwealth would only take over
so much of each province’s debt as the
assets handed over would pay interest
upon on a 4 per cent, basis—and then the
situation would change woefully, and Tas-
mania and N.S.W. would be left with the
biggest proportion of provincial debt on hand
while Victoria and S.A. would have compara-
tively little. The Carruthers system, if it is
applied at all, must apply all round. Also, it
can’t be applied at all in the case of W.A.; no
sane Government would take ovfcr the Wes-
tralian lines on the assumption that the present
boom rate of earnings is going to last for ever.
And if the Westralian lines, supposing Wes-
tralia comes in, are not taken, over on the
same basis as the rest because W.A. is on top
of a boom, Victoria would probably object to its
lines being valued according to the earnings when
the province was at the bottom of a depression.
And if the next year’s, or three years’, revenue
was taken as the basis of valuation, some ener-
getic Treasurer would probably sneak £lOO,OOO
of the loan funds, and buy £lOO,OOO worth of
tickets for everywhere, and by thus swelling
the revenue put 2\ millions on the value of his
provincial system in one act. The idea only
leads to endless arithmetic and long pages of
figures, and confusion and exasperation and
deadlock. And that is why The Bulletin is
of opinion that the Federal Government should
take over the public debts, railways, posts and
telegraphs, defences, fortifications, arsenals,
&c., as they are without any arithmetic at all.
The calculation can be worked out in 427 dif-
ferent ways to show that every province is the
biggest loser, and also that every province is
the principal gainer, and also that every pro-
vince comes out just about level. And as none
of these estimates is very much more convincing
than the rest, this paper believes in letting
them all slide.
“ Nautilus ” to The Bulletin :
Re Gov. Lamington’s lament on the decadence of the
British seaman. Is this decadence to ’be wondered at
when the treatment the British seaman receives is con-
sidered ? The coasting sailor is about the hardest-driven
individual in Australasia, and every Britisher who sees
the opportunity lights out for pastures new, leaving Fritz
and Hans to do the bullocking. In Maoriland the
foreigner is comparatively scarce — the Macs, ye ken, pre-
dominating, with the Union Co. especially. The native
youngster shows a decided aversion to a seafaring life,
unless he can drop into the engine-room or stokehole and
start right away on men’s wages. The “ patriotic ”
British shipowner is also knocking out his countrymen
by registering his vessels under foreign flags to evade the
mild restrictions of the British Board of Trade. Ignor-
ant noodles are busying themselves establishing branches
of the Navy League, while the shipping firms are
systematically rooting out of their employ all those who
have the least claim to the name of sailor, and substitut-
ing useless trash whose chief attribute is grovelling sub-
serviency and abject submission to any imposition forced
upon them. Truly a beautiful tribe from which to re-
cruit a fighting force to resist foreign aggression ! The
enemy to be most feared is apparently the one within
our gates.
Under the caption, “Another Silken Bond,” a
lightning-jerker addresses The Bulletin on a
subject presumably of interest to telegraphists,
and, it would also appear, of importance to the
general public :
Every year a sort of picnic-party, humorously called a
congress, is held by the heads of the Australian Post and
Telegraph departments. As a rule, the various motions
passed are harmless, but' last year one was quietly
approved of which, if put into force, will be disastrous
from several points of view. It was decided ‘ that the
‘ International ’ code of telegraphy be unformily used
throughout the Australias from Ist July, 1897.” This
motion was passed by a body of men utterly ignorant of
practical telegraphy. It was proposed by Mr. Tiiynne,
the Queensland P.M.G. who has for his henchman a brand
new “ expert ” from England, where the proposed code is
in force. The code is called “ International,” but it is
significant that the Yankees refused to touch it at any
price. The code at present used by the four Eastern
Australias is the Morse, which prevails throughout the
continent of America, and as the Yanks are unsurpassed
in electrical matters, and are, to put it mildly, not the
least progressive of nations commercially, there is, it will
be admitted, some strong prima-facie evidence in favor
of letting things here stay as they are. Next to accuracy
rapidity is the great essential in doing business by tele-
graph. Recent exhaustive tests show that in the Morse
code a first-class man can maintain 38 words per minute
for an hour or longer. In the International the highest
obtainable speed was 31 words per minute. Roughly com-
puted, a difference of 12 messages per hour or 100 messages
per day on the busy lines. It needs no expert to perceive
that every advantage as regards simplicity is with
the American code, and that the one proposed in substi-
tution is cumbersome in the extreme ; men who have
used it for years freely admit its inferiority to the Morse.
But the worst feature has yet to be stated. The proposed
code is a jumble of new symbols and transpositions.
There are 11 transpositions and J. 2 new symbols. A new
set of characters could be seized in an hour and mastered
in a month, but it will take many a day before this Vola-
puk affair is firmly grasped. This especially applies to
those operators who read by sound, and they constitute
about 80 per oeht. of the rank-and-file. Many of them
who have used the Morse code for 15 or 20 years and had
certain sounds engraved on their brains will surely never
be able to take or send at a reasonable rate of speed.
When this motion was passed it was looked on by tele-
graph-operators as a joke, but the ukase has now gone
forth that it is to come into force on the date mentioned.
The trend of telegraphy has so far been in the direction
of speed and simplicity, but this is a fall back of at least
20 years. The leaders of the 150,000 Yankee operators
promptly refused to touch the “ International ” code,
declaring it to be unwieldy and slow, and they were right.
It has but one virtue —it is English, you know. Briefly
summed up, the result of this fad, if persisted in,
will be : Ist. For the first year errors and delays
innumerable and consequent loss of revenue. 2nd.
The operators themselves, finding their protests dis-
regarded, will “ go slow,” knowing that they cannot be
replaced, and that the loss will fall on the taxpayer and
not on themselves. As they are punished for errors, they
will not try to get rid of the business at their own ex-
pense. This matter directly affects everyone who does
business over the wires, to say nothing of the three or
four thousand men who are to be harassed by this
absurdity. Finally, it clearly shows that the fool of the
political family is invariably the Postmaster-General, and
that what satisfies the Conservative British bureaucracy
is quite good enough for the “ blasted kawlinies.”
Perhaps some expert will now briefly state the
other side. The Bulletin presumes that there
is another side.
A queer complication, as disclosed at a recent
inquest, has arisen in Parramatta Gaol. A
prisoner died from nervous exhaustion, conse-
quent on typhoid fever. No alcoholic stimu-
lant was used, as the Justice Department,
acting apparently with the approval of the
Government medical authorities, not long
ago issued a regulation prohibiting such
stimulant unless administered in the sha]3e
of white spirit. This, the gaol doctor,
it seems, considered would be at any time
obnoxious and especially so in cases of enteric
disease. The genesis of the regulation in
question appears to have been the official deter-
mination to stop excessive use of “ medical
comforts” in penal establishments —an object
laudable enough if accomplished by proper
means. The local gaol doctor made no special
application in this case, as when he did apply
on a former occasion he was referred to the
general order of 1895 by the Govt, medical
adviser, who “saw no reason for modifying that.
order.” The jury’s verdict was in accord with
the medical testimony, but to itwas added a rider
that the medical officer should be allowed to
use his own discretion in the administration of
ordinary alcoholic stimulants in urgent cases.
It is indeed hard to see why any distinction
should be made in the medical treatment of a
man because he happens to be in prison. The
prison rule in question proscribes the use of all
alcohol save in the form of white spirit, which
it is recommended should be mixed with “ a
nauseous drug.” That a gaol-doctor should not
be allowed to prescribe wine or brandy for a
sick prisoner if, in his opinion, it is necessary,
is, in The Bulletin’s opinion, an outrage on
humanity and civilisation and on the medical
profession. It is also in strict keeping with
the brutal traditions of Botany Bay. In this
matter the frog-blooded -N.S. VV. Minister of
alleged Justice should be put on his defence in
Parliament. His prisoner was gaoled for
vagrancy. He was a vagrant because he
couldn’t work with typhoid upon him ; there-
fore, he was practically gaoled for having
typhoid. And being imprisoned for having
typhoid, the gaol regulations possibly spoiled
any chance of recovery he might have had.
So the Justice Department works in a beauti-
ful circle, and Minister Gould is the centre
thereof.
Bruce Smith, M.L.A., proposes in all serious-
ness that the Commonwealth Parliament should
have no franchise of its own, but that each
province should elect its members on any fran-
chise —Tory or Liberal, manhood suffrage, pro-
perty suffrage, dual or triple or multiple vote
for Thrift—which pleases it best. This might
work all right if each province was appointing
members to govern itself only, but as the mem-
ber elected in Sydney will help equally to
govern Melbourne and the Northern Territory
and Gippsland, and the one elected in Zeehan
will have the same voice in affairs relating to
NiS.W.’s interests in the Commonwealth as the
one elected at Goulburn, the scheme is impos-
sible. Under the circumstances, the people of
Sydney have an absolute right to a voice in
fixing the Federal franchise for Tasmania and
Victoria, and the people of the S.A. backblocks
have as much right to a say re the Federal
franchise of N.S. W. as the cornstalks them-
selves, and it is absolutely necessary that there
should be one uniform franchise fixed by the
representatives of all the provinces. No man
has ever yet dreamt of suggesting that each
N.S. W. electorate should fix its own franchise ;
it is recognised that the man at VVilcannia or
Milparinka has a perfect right to help in dic-
tating to the one at Sydney or Parramatta how
he shall elect his representatives, because the
Parramatta M.L.A. helps to govern the back-
blocks town as much as he does his own. The
same rule applies to the Federal Parliament,
and Bruce Smith’s scheme for a Babel Legisla-
ture, speaking in the many tongues of many
different political systems, is a weird piece of
confusion.
Several Australian M’sP., infilling their Con-
vention nomination-papers, were sorely puzzled
as to what trades they should set opposite their
names. Some, consequently, described them-
selves as engaged at crafts and professions
which their nearest friends never knew them to
earn a penny at. Others selected the business
of their pre-Parliamentary days. This is not so
criminal as it is grotesque, and, whatever it is,
it proves once more how absurd the Payment of
Members Act is in calling the <£3oo a year, not
salary or wages, but a “reimbursement of ex-
penses incurred.” “What business do you
follow?” asked Melbourne Court of Hugh
M'Coll, early in the payment-of-members era
in Victoria. “ I’m a member of Parliament,”
answered the doughty irrigationist. “ But,” said
the testy Bench, affectingnot to understand, “ how
do you earn your living ? ” “I have my salary
as member of Parliament,” answered the sturdy
Hugh, “ and I live verra well on it.” Garrett
and Parkes so muddled the wording of the
N.S.W. Act that members who take their
salaries are made to resemble closely the stage
bobby who so indignantly rejects a bribe if
given openly, but all the time holds his curved
palm for it behind his back. A,_ properly
worded Act should place the lawmaker on the
same footing as regards title to remuneration
for services rendered as are professional men
and artisans. Any other view of the thing
produces crime or folly and, for purposes such
as a Convention nomination, makes many an
otherwise straightforward member declare he
belongs to a trade or business the tools of
which he-can hardly name.
A malignant Bulletin correspondent:—
Mr. Garrard, N.S.W. Minister for Education and Indus-
try, has left on a month’s holiday trip to Maoriland.—-
Daily Paper.
Mr. Garrard is also Minister for Unemployed,
and, just prior to his departure, he closed up
the Centennial Park and Randwiek relief works
and stopped the free-ration supply, and gene-
rally fixed things to prove that there are no
unemployed in Sydney. Down at the Labor
Bureau, Boss Creer tears his hair and sweats
his brain over the problem of what to do with
270 odd old men, aged between 55 and 80, who
have hitherto eked out a miserable existence at
the Park, and who now find themselves with-
out food, work, money or credit to tide
them over till Hon. Jake is pleased to turn
him from the Hot Lakes and consider their case.
By the time this great statesman gets back
most of the chronic unemployed will probably
be hard at work cleaning crowns and harps (or
gridirons) for the future use of N.S.W. Minis-
ters. Meanwhile, all able-bodied reliefers are
sent to Botany sewage farm, where the M.W.
and S. Board’s myrmidons set them to heave
sand into trucks at the 35 shovels per
min. At the end of an hour they are dismissed
by the score and a ring of “ good men ” (min in
the £hwim, be gob) are put on, and the promis-
cuous reliefer hies him back to the Bureau to
plague the overburdened superintendent. By
the time Minister Jake gets back, starvation
will have got down the tail of the surviving
unemployed, and the Bogan scrubbing swindle
will fairly hum.
The little fat gentleman from Sydneyside
brought bad luck to the pathetic Argus.
Premier Reid’s advent down South was doomed
to sow fresh seeds of dissension in the Freetrade
camp, and to bring ridicule on Max Hirsch for
being the tool of the Tories. But worse
remained behind. The Argus was so pleased
with the general result that it tried to crow a
second time about it. Referring to Reid’s
audience, it published the following disastrous
sentences :
About one-fifth of those present were representatives of
country districts, and many had travelled over 100 miles
to be present. They testified to the vitality of the cause
in the country, and to the earnestness with which the
fight against freetrade and monopoly will be continued in
the future.
There is many a true word said by misprint.
But a further paragraph appears in the same
issue (12-2-’97) commending the establishment
of the cordite industry :
“ Peace hath its victories no less renowned than war.”
Mr. C. N. Hake points out in his report that the estab-
lishment of a cordite factory in these colonies would be of
service not only to the defence forces, but to the mining'
industry. He says : —“ During 1895 there were 5,446,0001 b.
of explosives, valued at £178,000, imported into Aus-
tralasia solely for mining and other industrial purposes.
At present the mining industry here is practically entirely
dependent on supplies of explosives from abroad, and a
sudden stoppage of such supplies, or even any disturb-
ance or restriction in the regular supply through uncon-
trollable circumstances, would seriously affect the welfare
of this vast industry, upon which so large and important
a class of the population is dependent.”
The Bulletin wants to know if there is a
Freetrader in existence. Premier Reid believes
in protection in contracts; Murray Smith
believes in a tax on tea imports; the Argus
believes in establishing a cordite factory to
benefit the mining industry. Wanted, a Free-
trader !
♦
According to Lowles, the dreary British M.P.
who recently pervaded Australia as “ honorary
commissioner of the Empire Trade League,”
Premier Nelson (Q.) bragged that a European
nation had made overtures for preferential
trading advantages with Kanakaland, but that
Nelson was “ earnestly desirous of strengthen-
ing the ties,” &c. Also, that Nelson wanted
“ to enter into reciprocal arrangements ” with
England. either one, or two, or
three of three things : —l. That Low Les con-
sidered that his audience (at the Colonial Insti-
tute, London) consisted of natural born
fools. 2. That Lowles himself was a fool.
3. That Lowles wanted to exhibit Nelson as a
fool. Lowles was simply treated well in Aus-
tralia as a visitor who could understand and
relish a good dinner when he got one. He was
trotted round by a few Protectionists merely as
a live specimen of a British representative who
bled protectionism when pricked below the
skin. But there is no one in Australia dense
enough not to know that a Freetrade country
cannot reciprocate a ha’porth’s worth of any-
thing ; nor can a country that professes Free-
trade, as England does, also consistently pro-
fess that it can and wants to reciprocate.
Right there, the whole matter ends. Lowles
was fondled as a passable buzznacker, or as a
bipedal dromedary possessing two distinct fiscal
humps. His hosts stroked and stoked him ; the
Australian people ignored him ; and the Aus-
tralian press slaughtered his proposals.
The Protectionist leaders of N.S.W.,
having made a painful show of themselves from
the beginning of the Federation campaign, are
keeping it up well to the end. Ex-Treasurer John
See chipped m last week with a suggestion that
the debts and railways should be kept under pro-
vincial control, and that members of the senate
should have a six years’ tenure, the Upper House
having an uninteresting half election every three
years—which is about as good an idea as if John
See’s legs were elected by the constituents of
Grafton this year and his head and stomach went
up for re-election in ’99 and were thrown out. And
John Norton curses at the rear end of the pro-
cession. The enthusiastic John is against pooling
the debts because “ N.S.W. would have to bolster
up the other colonies which had not assets enough
as security for their debts.” Whioh is woefully
irrelevant, seeing that the only security in all the
provinces is the people, and no assets have beer
given as security for any of the debts.”


THIS STVLfc.
15/6 16/6 Patents, 18/6
Boots that do all they promise
are Callaghan Boots.
Gent’s Pumps, 10/6 12/6 17/6
„ Cycling Shoes, 8/9. Boots, 14/6
Callaghan & Son, 395 George-st., Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK,
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENTt
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1895) - - £45,423,762.
PuMic attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company 8 v 3
Twe “*y-y. ear Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost •
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
protection C '° nie ’ BeCUre investment > and absolute
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment
and fixed annual income; ’
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
““'V effective forms of investments, indemnity,
and. fixed annual income to survivors ] *
Continuous Instalment Policy so adiuaU th*
payment of the amount insured L to «eate a
fixed income during the life of the benefidary•
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life •
P^l^^yrecomnTimd^^to
r n h d° years -
Company's Building, al iha
of the Branch Officii- 06 ' S V dne y. or at any
473 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
116 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland
73 King William Street, Adelaide S A
Bt George’s Terrace, Perth W A A '
93 MtoquißT, Street. HoW, T aem . ni ,
The X rays have been utilised by Edison,
and the Edison Electric Parlor at 162 Pitt-street,
oydney, will now show everybody his or her skele-
Tivn *° r • ’ without stepping into the grave. The
itcllson vi tascope, which is the cineniatographu
Itdison-wise, realises perfection in this branch of
art; there is no blurring, no vibration, with the
great iiidison’s apparatus, but only kissing, dano-
nghting, &c., &c., with beautiful color and
musical effects. Other attractions are the Ediscro
Innptoph-no n ed rhono ß r„ r h *
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Masta.”
Criterion “ Strange Adventures of
Miss Brown.”
Royal. “A Mother’s Sin.”
Palace Rickards’ Variety Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Prisoner of Zenda.”
Bijou “A White Elephant.”
Royal. “The Derby Winner.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
George Rignold is filling in the last week
of his season at Sydney Royal with a brief revival
of the “Two Orphans,” which is probably the
best piece he could have selected to farewell in.
The “ Orphans ” depends mostly on Jaques, and
that bulky rowdy is the very best character that
Rignold performs. Further, there is no other
man in Australia that The Bulletin knows of
who could do Jaques as well, or anything like as
well, as Rignold does him, with his ferocious and
beery humor, and his bass whoop, and his clumsy
dance which suggests a flushed megatherium in
hob-nailed boots, and his large, generous tendency
to blast everybody and kick anybody and steal
everything. It is Jaques who has kept the “ Two
Orphans ” alive up to new. The good men in it
are respectably commonplace, but the bad man
sending up his howl and curse outside all the beer-
shops of old Paris, and doing his 2cwt. of hulking
war-dance on top of anybody who is small enough,
and grovelling bulkily to everybody who is large
enough, and inserting his two immense calves and
his large, greasy, comedy head into the story in and
out of season is a powerful essay on the advan-
tages of being wicked and happy. Jaques is the
only really happy-looking person in the
“ Orphans.” The two good girls in particular
are abjectly miserable, and make a rather in-
efficient entrance on foot, for the Normandy coach
never turns up. Miss Hughes plays the blind
sister admirably, almost as admirably as
Maggie Knight—the best Australian blind
orphan up to date ; and Miss Watts-
Phillips does the other orphan very moderately.
Diver, as the melancholy, moral, knife-grinding
brother, fills his part only respectably most of the
time, and rises to a big occasion in the last scene,
where he rips up the head of the family ; and
Plimmer does the hero as well as that nice young
man in the three-cornered hat deserves. Also,
Miss Guildford, who is hauled right out of the
drama on her way to New Caledonia, leaves a very
favorable impression behind her, and looks as if she
might do some still better work when she gets back.
Rignold is bound for Maoriland, where his two
new military dramas are expected to make a boom;
why they didn’t make a bigger success in Aus-
tralia will ever remain a mystery. Regarded as
two warlike and combustible dramas with heaps of
spectacle and butchery in them, they were far
above the average. Possibly, however, Major-
Jawbone Neild had filled all the demand for war-
like spectacle that was going. Neild’s aspect of
being prepared to seek the bubble reputation
at the commissariat waggon was so desperate
just then that no other military show had a fair
chance.
** * *
“ Miss Brown,” at the Criterion, is doing
more business than that small theatre can com-
fortably hold, and should last out the season with-
out any difficulty. It may not be a great
production, but it is evident that the struggles of
Thornton to find the pocket in his skirt so as to
put in the orange that is given him by the brown
girl from Demarara strike the public’s sense of
humor strongly. The weirdest part of the story,
unfortunately, doesn’t occur on the stage at all,
and is merely related afterwards by the torn
policeman. The frustrated elopement, when the
bride gets into the coach, and her Brown, being
headed off by the detective and the German music-
master, bids her save herself while he furiously
tackles those two interlopers, isn’t seen, but merely
heard of afterwards. The war between Miss Brown
and the constable, judgingby the fact that it lasted
off-and-on for an hour or two, and spread over
several miles of country, and judging also by the
shattered state of the combatants afterwards, must
have been about the most inspiring ear-chew on
record, and it is also left out. Miss Brown is seen
back at the ladies’ seminary in mud and handcuffs,
but her return, with three policemen hauling her
along in custody, is likewise invisible to the eye of
the audience, and its description by the embittered
cop is a poor substitute for the real thing. When
Thornton is quite done with “Miss Brown ” as a
three-act comedy it might be re-written as a drama
in five acts, with all these fights, particularly the
one in which the German music-master is de-
molished, and the muddy flight of Brown across
country at night, with her skirts over her arm,
shown in detail. Then it might be put on at a big
theatre as a military spectacle, and started on
quite a new career of usefulness.
*« * *
Harry Roberts having departed for Mel-
bourne, the part of Jaikes, in the “Silver King,”
has lately fallen into the hands of D’Arcy Stan-
field, and Corkett has also been re-arranged, and
there has been a considerable shifting about of
parts. The “ King ” ends his career on Friday,
and then Westmacott’s co. moves to the Royal,
where “ A Mother's Sin ” will be produced on
Saturday. Judging by many past experiences,
the present pessimist reckons it most probable
that it will be the same old sin that the stage
mother has been committing in five acts for the
last 500 years or thereabouts. The stage heroine
mostly sins that same sin—-at least she comes on
and states that she has done it, or her heavy
father shakes the fact out of her ; and thereafter
she is thrown out in tears on her hair-knob, and
wanders about in a long, sad-colored cloak, and is
an awful example to the young. If Westmacott’s
she-parent commits an entirely new sin she will be
a blessed relief in the weary ways of melodrama,
but this paper hasn’t any hope worth mentioning.
“ Matsa ” is due at Her Majesty’s on the
27th. This show has left a good reputation behind
it in Melbourne as a vast Egyptian spectacle
wherein old Rameses —the king whose horses were
shod with gold—rises again from his dusty pyra-
mid to appear at the strictly moderate charge of
Is. for the gallery, and Osiris and Thoth and the
cat-gods, and the cow-gods, and the divine onion,
and the ancient dignitaries whose bones moulder
in Memphis, and the Pharaohs, and Potiphar s
wife, all reappear in boundless magnificence.
“ Matsa ” is guaranteed to have more glare and red
sunset and other casual glories in it than any
two other plays of its size, and with the biggest
theatre in Sydney to throw itself around in it will
have all the opportunity that the city can offer it.
** * *
Harry Rickards, by a judicious process of
shifting the company round, still keeps up a cer-
tain appearance of novelty at both his Sydney
theatres. Miss Jessie de Grey, who is the latest
Palace novelty, has started well, and gets
three encores nightly, though The Bulletin,
after a careful study of this rather ordinary young
lady and her very ordinary voice, gives up specu-
lating as to the reason. Coleman, the Winterton
Sisters, Lawton, and the remarkably clever Dele-
vines make a strong co. in themselves, though the
fact that Lawton is still pegging away amiably at
the old “ Chinatown ” business suggests that his
range is rather limited. As for Harry Shine, he
looks like a poor imitation of Knowles, only not in
such a hurry. The Tivoli relies mainly on those
clever gymnasts, Wilton and Stack, Alice Leamar,
and the valuable Chirgwin, but this latter person
will probably come round to the Palace shortly,
and try to look there as if he was a perfectly new
individual who had just arrived from parts un-
known.
*# * *
“ The Prisoner of Zenda,” produced at
Melb. Princess’s on Saturday, should pass as a
fairly clever adaptation of Anthony Hope’s
romantic novel, not an easy subject for the
dramatist to lick into a semblance of truth.
Hope’s story —as some people know, and most
people don’t know, nor will they pay 2s. fid. for a
paper-covered book in order to discover the fact--
begins with an English sassiety incident, dated
1733. This incident provides a prologue to the
play. In 1733, A.D., the Crown Prince of Ruri-
tania (a factitious Danubian State), whilst paying
a short visit to London, amused himself with a
married lady, the Countess of Rassendyll. The
Prince had the dark red hair and long nose of his
amorous raoe, and. when, eight months after his
return home, the Countess was guilty of a son and
heir, baby bore a strong resemblance to the Prince,
probably because the mother elect had been gazing
fondly at his Highness’s portrait since he went
away. The Countess’s lawful husband couldn’t
lodge a protest against his carrotty heir.
The old man died just previous to the
interesting event, and so the hair and
nose aforesaid ran collaterally in the Ruritanian
royal line, and the noble Rassendyllie family
from generation to generation, down to the pre-
sent time. The plot of the play, up to the pro-
logue, is up to date and wildly incredible.
Detragedised, it might be the libretto of a comic
opera—a mediaeval narrative of things happening
last year in a kingdom that never was.
* • * •
Rudolph Rassendyll, a British tourist in a
straw hat, going casually to Ruritania (the
country where his illegitimate great-great-grand-
father came from), encounters a political crisis in
the Forest of Zenda. A new and comparatively
unknown red-headed king Rudolph is to be
crowned at Strelsau next day, and the ceremony
is a matter of urgent importance, seeing that
Duke Michael, the king’s half-brother, has
wicked designs on the sceptre. But the
king, whilst travelling to town via Zenda
forest, accompanied by a faithful Bismarck,
gets hopelessly drunk and drugged. One
of Michael’s myrmidons puts opium into his
fifth bottle of firewater, which lays the monarch
out. The case is desperate. At Bismarck’s re-
quest tourist Rudolph, being a red-headed and
long-nosed replica of his remote relative, agrees to
get crowned and keep the throne of Ruritania
warm until its lawful occupant shall be sober
enough to slink unobserved into the impostor’s
shoes. Meantime they leave the Lord’s Anointed
snoring in a cellar. Rassendyll’s coronation is a
huge success. His appearance staggers Michael
and deceives even Princess Fla via, the King’s
cousin betrothed, who now loves her Rudolph for
the first time on the ground that he is much nicer
than of yore. Duke Michael soon discovers the
imposture, but cannot expose it, because he has
taken possession of the real king and chained the
royal leg to a dungeon wall. The rest of the story
is plot and counter-plot, and bloodshed and com-
plicated woe. After three months the real king
is rescued by the gallant pretender, whereupon
Bismarck palms him off as the red-headed Rudolph
who had the coronation, and Princess Fla via
undertakes to marry him for the sake of the
country, although she dotes upon the other fellow
more than ever. And the other fellow is about to
return to London by the next train when the cur-
tain falls. With the Princess’s parting salute still
damp upon his lips, Rassendyll vows that no
other woman shall kiss him. He goes forth into
the darkness to resume the straw hat of private life
and brood over his vanished greatness.
* * * *
Julius Knight impersonates three distinct
Rudolphs—the Prince in the prologue, followed
by the real and spurious kings in the play—with
good effect. -He has many chances to appear
heroic, also he wears much gorgeous raiment. The
opportunity for any suitable actor is immense,
whereas Mr. Knight’s success is not astounding,
although he seems quite suitable. Gaston Mer-
vale, the Duke Michael, and a scrtnebody else in
the prologue, makes pleasing first impressions,
and W. F. Hawtrey does well in the Bismarckian
character of Colonel Sapt. Another new-comer,
H. J. Oarvill, figures respectably ; several minor
male parts are played neatly, as a rule. The two
imported ladies, tall and striking, call for notes of
admiration. Miss Ada Ferrar, as P™cess Flavia
is warm and winsome, and Miss Elliott Page, as
Duke Michael's ill-used sweetheart, fills the bill.
The handsome coronation costumes are not well
displayed by their amateur wearers, some of whom
turn out to be less attractive than was expected.
But too much was expected, perhaps.
** * *
The principal change in Bland Holt s bill
at Melb. Royal is a revival of the bold adven-
turess, bent on making trouble between Walter
Baker and his girl. The siren in question has
been absent from melodrama lately. One had
begun to miss her cold, callous laugh, and, there-
fore, it was a pleasure to find the wanderer bounc-
ing into Baker’s baronial hall last Saturday, with
her sinfulness unimpaired and her language
changed for the worse. She said “Damn! not
as an idle figure of speech, but earnestly, as
though she were almost capable of adding
“Blast!” to the sentence. Which proves that
the British dramatist believes in Women’s
'Rights. The hero this time is a mar-
ried earl, who declines to go astray any
more, but the adventuress lures him into
compromising predicaments, whilst her accomplice,
the majah, endeavors to make cause for a divorce-
case against the earl’s wife. The dark clouds of
unjust suspicion roll away after the third act, and
the sun shines upon a rather inferior Derby, in
which the earl’s horse, by romping home from the
majah’s “ dead bird,” wipes out a mortgage on the
baronial hall. A regimental ball and a trial gallop
of the ’osses at daybreak protrude themselves.
“The Derby Winner’s” scenic effects, and the
other effects, include pretty well everything
that Bland Holt can set up within a
given time. Also, the drama itself was
written by three experienced stagers who had
a knowledge of human nature and grammar, and
who erred only in concocting a turfy story without
a comic Jew it. Sometimes “ The Derby
Winner ” drugs. At such moments the old re-
liable Solomon Moses would prove a friend in
need, but he cometh not. Albert Norman, Miss
Elizabeth Watson and Miss Frances Ross supply
the bulk of the serious acting, and keep it fully
up to proof. Walter Baker is not required
to do much, except when he discovers
the majah chasing his wife around the
sofa. Cosgrove shapes well in the middle dis-
tance, and the popular Bland Holts go for less
than usual. Altogether, there are twenty-five
people concerned in the enterprise apart from
“an army of auxiliaries.” One of them has lost
her honor, she says, and a few others never had
any honor to lose, but the general tone of “The
Derby Winner ”is pure. For example, the trainer
who refuses to countenance a “stiffening” trans-
action supplies the Melbourne district with a long-
felt want.
** * *
“ A Woman of No Importance ” retires
from Melb. Bijou on Friday, notwithstanding
that O. Wilde has hit the popular taste somewhat
hard. Manager Brough's season is limited to a
few weeks, and other comedies are waiting to
appear. On Saturday they will try “ A White
Elephant ” for the first time in Australia. The
“Elephant” was only lately produced in London,
so it will not have to suffer the inane remarks of
Augustus de Newchum, who usually has seen all
these things done evah so much bettah “at
Home,” doncherknow.
** * *
A matinee performance of “Prisoner of
Zenda ” is advertised for Saturday next.
At Poverty Point,
One section of Sydney Liedertafel is jubilant over the
vote given to abolish the ladies’ choir connected with the
society. Once more will the old routine of unconfined
conduct reign supreme, as no ladies will be present to
disturb the males in striking smoking attitudes, and tell-
ing the one good story. The conductor, who was absent
through illness, seems not to have been consulted re the
disbandment.
The Canadian successes of Albani’s Concert Co. have
more than fulfilled expectations. Vert, writing to a
friend, declares that Albani’s singing will ereate a furore
in Australia. He also adds that she will prove to be the
taost welcome vocalist Australia has yet listened to.
Phil. Newbury and his wife, Emily Spada, have been
touring S.A. country districts. At Mt. Gambier the
audience became noisy during an Italian serenade, and
the beauteous Emily walked off the platform. Then the
large and tuneful Phil, came on and used thunderous
language. Whereupon the people crawled under the
chairs, and harmony was restored.
“Matsa” does not go on tour yet, but, as a compro-
mise, W. and M. have sent forth a variety co. to Geelong,
Ballarat, and Bendigo, comprising Juliet Wray, Knowles’
Lauri, Little Gulliver, the Lucifers, Clark’s cats, and so on!
Madame Christian, now Sister “ Paul of the Cross ” of
St. Vincent Convent, sang a “Gloria” from the
“ Messiah ” at the Christmas midnight mass, with lime-
light effect.
William Hawtrey, who stage-manages the new co. at
Melb. Princess’s, is the exact image of his brother Charles
author of “The Private Secretary.”
Brisbane (Q.) Musical Union, which could only pay one
quarter’s salary in two years to its conductor! which is
“queer” for E2OO secured on guarantors, which thinks of
selling its alleged £5OO library for what it will fetch, and
which has been asked by its conductor to “ guarantee ”
him at least £5O for his next year’s salary, talks of im-
porting a new conductor from Hingland I A few years
ago the whole Union committee had to resign to enable
the Union to be “ reconstructed,” and now some of its
malcontent members are asking the present committee to
“ do likewise.”
Shifter : “ Westralia has been torn and agitated over a
theatrical suit, v. a manager who dismissed a married
ladv for daring to become as ladies wish to be who love
the'ir lords. What a beastly cruel thing the stage is.
Pass the word round, and the public stays away ! ”
Melb.’s Mrs. Maesmore Morris takes to the boards. The
name recalls that of Mdlle. Maes, who became a Melb.
actress under the name of St. Denis, tutored by Hoskins,
who afterwards succeeded better with Florence Colville.
Mdlle. Maes suicided over a love affair, being hopelessly
limed by a married man.
Mrs. Maesmore Morris, the much-advertised Melb.
beauty, doesn’t sport one of the principal show costumes
in “ Prisoner of Zenda.” As the mayor’s wife, a not very
exalted personage in the play, she will be called upon to
look pretty and speak a few lines, which is an easier task
for a novice than the maintenance of a stately demeanour.
A rumor that Westmacott is about to be incorporated
with the firm of W. and M. has absolutely no foundation
in fact. It is merely one of those things which are never
left unsaid by the paragraphic guesser.
At the Boosey Ballad Concert in the Queen’s Hall on
January 2, Ada Crossley was so superbly dressed as to
make all her fellow artists look quite dowdy. On New
Year's Day, in the same hall, she sang in “Elijah” with
Ella Russell, Ben Davies and Charles Santley, and,
according to the Daily Post, Miss Crossley was the dis-
tinct success of even so distinguished a quartette. It
was her first appearance in London in oratorio, and
before leaving the hall she booked two other big engage-
ments.
Syria Lamont, who was to have gone to Germany this
season to sing Wagner’s heroines, is playing leading boy
in one of the Birmingham pantomimes instead.
Some of the papers claim that the Mr. R. C. Rivington
whom shapely and tuneful Florence Young has married,
is a cousin of the Earl of Clancarty. Clanearty is the
young ass who married Belle Bilton, the music-hall
singer, and of whom it was said in the witness-box, dur-
ing a divorce-suit which his pa made him bring, that he
and some boon companion tossed up for her.
That very fetching Maoriland singer, Cecily Staunton,
who, had she been thoroughly trained early, would long
ago have made a big name for herself, is said to be pro-
gressing well in Marchesi’s advanced operatic class.
When the mail left, Bessie Doyle (now Eileen O’Moore,
begorra!) was announced to give an orchestral concert at
the Queen’s Hall. A. H. Gee had been re-engaged at the
Palace of Varieties ; he had sung successfully in “ Samson
and Delilah ” at the Queen’s Hall, with Edward Lloyd
and Andrew Black in the list of principals. Kowalski
was to give two concerts in Paris early in February, and
returns soon after to Australia. Willie Walshe had an
engagement pending at the Prince of Wales’ theatre.
Little Maud M'Carthy is dowm to tour Australia with
Madame Albani, which Clement Scott thinks a grave
blunder, quoting the juvenile violinist Hoffman as an
instance of the ill-effects of overworking infant prodigies.
Bulletin’s London correspondent writes
“ Wilson Barrett, actor-author, is unable to takeoff ‘The
Sign of the Cross,’ although the last nights were
announced, for the crowds keep rolling up ‘ the blooming
sacrifice to see ’of the Christians to the lions. As Marcus
Superbus, W.B. is stately, imposing, and no more color-
less than might be expected from a ‘ star ’ playing ten
times a week. The ‘unco guid’ flock to the Lyric and
weep splashing, briny tears, but the ‘hard-cased’ sinner
grins at it all, excluding the remarkably clever delineation
of Nero by an unboomed actor, and then betakes himself
to the Criterion to flirt with more dangerous tigresses.
The book, though slashed with scorn and damned by
indifference, has passed its 20th thousand.”
Allan’s Melb. Musical Magazine, a modest shillings-
worth in a gaudy wrapper, contains a dozen popular
songs, some of them as new as “Matsa,” and others as
old as Queen Victoria.
They are saying in Melbourne that one or two pathetic
topical verses might be added to Whitburn’s song —“ All
through riding a bicycle.”
There is rumor of another Westralian meloarama being
staged in London —akin to the “ Duchess of Coolgardie”
—which, by the way, turned out a dismal frost, despite
royalty having been coaxed to the show on three occa-
sions. One of the company playing in the aforesaid
hideous travesty of Australian life (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent) gave that show away considerably one even-
ing by becoming hilarious, and —to show he was persona
qrata with the management, perhaps—flinging something
like 50 stall tickets down upon the table of a London res-
taurant. The new drama is said to be the work of a dis-
tinguished Australian who has —oh, ye gods ! —“ really
been an Australian cow-boy.” Louis' Becke, when this
was told him, solemnly swore that he had never carried
round a milk-can in Sydney in his life, and that he wasn’t
the man ; also that he knew not the difference between a
bullock and a gelding.
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society will shortly set to
work upon the concert overture, “King Lear.” As
there are vacancies in all departments, early applications
will be welcomed at Paling’s.
Berlioz's great work, “The Damnation of Faust,” will
for the first time be performed in Australia by Sydney
Philharmonic.. Hazon is scouring city and suburbs for
additional voices, male and female, and is enthusiastic
over his anticipated success. The committee invite mem-
bers of musical institutions, church choirs, &c., to help,
as well as orchestral aid.
Marie Lloyd is coming from Johannesburg to Sydney
Palace.
“ The Geisha ” and “ The Gay Parisienne ” will be pro-
duced in Australia this year by a Geo. Edwardes Co.
Florence Young disappointed an eager crowd of sensa-
tion-seekers by being married very quietly to Mr. Riving-
ton at St. Peter’s last week, thus throwing away the
ohance of a big advt. and dispensing with the vulgar
splash considered indispensable to the giving out of the
matrimonial life-sentence by folk who never have any
chance of distinguishing themselves, except by being
bridegroom-and-bride at a conventional white-satin-and-
orange-blossom parade.
Med. : “ The footlights in the medical blood. Dr. Neild,
dramatic critic first, with a secondary leaning to tnedi-
cme and pharmacy. Son Charles Neild deserts medical
study for splodging in Melb. Princess’s. Daughter Caro-
line, looking at the legend ‘ Bilton House ’ over the
doctor’s door, deviates to the boards as Carrie Bilton
Eldest daughter Harriet, a beacon of the Shakespeare
society. Daughter Violet, a capable amateur actress
So, too, George Coppin swore mighty oaths that his
family should never tread the boards. Young George
trod them, married one on them, and was fired out of tht
paternal mansion. Fred, enthusiastic organiser in Melb
ofllardware Assoc, theatre nights, later gold-digger and
chief welcomer and encourager of travelling shows u,
Omeo way. Eldest daughter Amy, supering in Roye
shows; daughter Lucy, leg-parts in panto, and superin
with Holt; daughter Gena, wardrobe boss and oversei
of panto, children, later secretary to Rignold ; daughti
Daisy, dancer in panto, and outside shows. Old George
daddy was a surgeon who deserted scalpel for stage.”
One Harrigan, of New York, about 20 years ago invented
the modern Variety Irishman, with carroty, ragged whip-
Ln S vT°Y a gorilla face, under a battered belltopper
and he is about as real as the man in green coat, red vest,
and knee-breeches.
Haresfoot: “Actor Manager Wyndham, London, fcai
Been delivering a smug address, on a Theatrical Exhibi-
tion about to be held. He finds that two grand dramatic
eqas have been the reigns of Elizabeth and Victoria, oi
rather Victoria 1, Elizabeth 2. In other words, Pinero,
Jones, Grundy, Gilbert, Chambers, and Co., somewhat
wipe out Shakespeare, Beaumont, Fletcher, Jonson, Web-
ster, Pord, Tourneur, Massinger, Hey wood, Shirley, and
Mrs. Bandmann-Palmer (wife of the furious German
who brought Louise Beaudet to Australia years aga)
advertises in the Era— “ Eight years on tour with own
company. Immediately following this comes the advt. >
Mrs. Walter Bentley, on tour with own co.”


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.,
Best possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
Houses.
Hy. Mark Wald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
The Doily Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
koeetz patent
“Little Giant’’
Prospectors' CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fred’.i. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-SI., SYDNEY.
CHEQUE BANK LTD., LONDON.
Travellers’ Drafts Cashed all *ver the World by up-
wards of 20,000 Banks, and by over 2200 Banks in Great
Handbooks on Application.
NEW OFFICES:
135 Pitt Street (near G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
lAMES MALCOLM,
Agrnt.
T
IME IS MONEY !
“YOST”
“DENSMORE”
“CALIGRAPH”
BOSS
MACHINES OF THEIR
CLASS.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ;
Barrack-sfc., PERTH ; Sub-ageircies—Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write for Catalogues, and particulars.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
BAL'ATAtI
ELTIN
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wai. A.d.ams & Compy.,
Oil Merchants A Engineers’ Furnishers.
71 Clarence-st,. Sydney ; _ 521-523 Collins-st. , Melbodrjtb*
The Wild-Cat Column,
The Queensland National Bank now proposes to
reconstruct on quite a different scheme from the one
formerly suggested. It is proposed that new deposit-
receipts shall be issued for three-fourths of the existing
deposits, at 3| per cent, instead of the present 4£. The
other fourth is to bear no interest at all. The three-
fourths are to be repayable by five instalments from 1917
to 1921 —why the date wasn’t fixed at 2517 doesn’t appear.
The remaining fourth is to be repaid out of profits—if
there are any—when the bank gets its second wind. One-
quarter of the profits is to go to a reserve-fund ; one-
quarter towards repaying the odd fourth of the Govern-
ment’s deposit, and one-half towards repaying the private
depositors their casual ss. in the £. Also, the paid-up
capital is to be written off to the extent of £480,000,
leaving the amount paid about £450,000 only.
This scheme is unique, or thereabouts. When
three-fourths of the deposits bear interest at 3J percent.,
and the other fourth pays no interest at all, the interest
all round is only £2 12s. 6d. per cent., instead of £4 10s.
The proposed saving at the expense of the miserable de-
positors is over £120,000 a year, and as the bank says it is
now only losing a little over £3OOO a year it practically
asks that the depositors shall make it a present of the
other £117,000 so that it can repay them out of their own
money If the depositors wrote off ss. in the £ as lost
and were paid the agreed-upon 4J4 per cent, on the
balance, and the date of repayment remained as it is,
the loss would be a good deal less. The Q.N.B. is
admittedly millions to the bad probably a
great deal more, but this amount is admitted. In the
ordinary course of things this would be covered by writing
off paid-up capital and balance to credit of profit and loss
(together £973,000), calling up and writing off unpaid
capital (say £300,000), and then the remainder of the loss
(£1,227,000) would fall on the depositors. Even Matthew
Davies’ dreadful banks were honest enough to go on this
principle. Instead, the Q.N. Bank proposes that the
shareholders shall ostensibly lose £480,000 and the deposi-
tors shall lose about £2,340,000. By the bank’s own show-
ing the loss on working is at the rate of £3OOO a year, and
as it asks a concession of £120,000 it should have £117,000
a year left. The depositors, who supply the whole of
this, are to get £87,750 of it back as part payment of their
principal, and the shareholders are to get the remaining
£29,250 in the form of a reserve fund. In other words,
they are to get nearly £30,000 a year as a present from
the depositors for their kindness in not paying these
same depositors. In 20 years, at this rate, they will get back
from the depositors £600,000 to make up for the £480,000
capital written off, so the depositors will really stand the
whole of the shortage and make the shareholders a hand-
some present besides. As fully £2,000,000 of the deposits
are Government money borrowed at over £3 12s. 6d. per
cent, all round, the State, by making this reduction, sub-
sidises the Q.N. Bank to the extent of £20,000 a year-
-4400, 000 in the 20 years covered by the scheme—at
the taxpayers’ expense ! The State, with its prior lien,
could almost certainly get its money back by liquidation,
so it is bleeding the taxpayer quite voluntarily
to keep afloat the most disgraceful bank in Austra-
lasia-most people will think also, to prevent an indepen-
dent investigation by liquidators, and an exposure which
might land many big men in serious trouble.
The miserable private depositor has no voice at
all. If he doesn’t take anything that is offered to hitn
the result is liquidation, and if the bank was sold up now
it would probably only yield enough, at present prices, to
cover the State’s prior claim and leave him absolutely
nothing. Therefore, he must take anything that is offered
to him or go without. The State, by keeping its prior
claim hanging over him, practically bulldozes the private
depositor into absolving the directors for the ugly past
and accepting their terms. And the people who run the
State and the people who are absolved are so very
much alike that it is difficult to tell one from
the other. Apparently, the rumor about the share-
holders surrendering all their capital and going out
bodily was merely intended to help the Arrangement Bill
through Parliament; that being safely through, the old
crowd remains in possession. It will be interesting to see
how the balance-sheet reads hereafter. The last one,
though shown by the report of the Parliamentary investi-
gation committee to be a stupendous sham, was
certified in the same old way without explanation
or apology. For the future-is it proposed to show a
debit of £2,500,000 to profit and loss? Or will the por-
tion of the deposits which bears no interest be left out of
the liabilities altogether ? Or will the account be kept
square by putting in the assets at the old bogus value,
and will they go on certifying just as before ?
Nothing is said about calling up any fresh capital so as to
give the depositors decent security for even their much-
reduced claims.
The Bulletin, for the first time, feels really
gorry for Davies and Munro and various other people.
If the very worst of the dead banks—the Mercantile,
Federal, City of Melbourne, and a dozen more
—had started again on the Q.N.B. plan they might, to all
appearance, have been alive and flourishing to this day.
Also, the Australian Banking Go. might have been boom-
ing yet if its promoters had only known this system of
reconstruction. In this paper’s opinion, the Q.N. Bank
is the most utterly disreputable bank now existing in
Australia, and the people who run it are gifted with more
superhuman cheek than all the other bankers of this con-
tinent put together, and it is backed by the most entirely
remarkable Government this country has possessed up to
date. The Q.N.B. will probably pull through if this
latest arrangement comes off —at least, only a very bad
kind of swindle and idiocy could prevent it pulling
through with such vast concessions—but. the price in
money and moral stink is a great deal too high to pay for
any bank.
* « * * *
What a strange crowd of cripples the Australian
banks will be when the latest batch of arrangements are
through! The Q.N.B. reconstructed twice and with
the money locked up at nominal interest for 20 years.
B.N.Z. reconstructed three times or thereabouts ; Stan-
dard Bank, ditto; Commercial of Australia, Colonial,
A.J.S., London, E.S. and A., patched up twice each;
Bank of S.A. and Colonial of M.L. absorbed under stink-
ful circumstances; four more banks gone bung; three
more still struggling with their original reconstructions ;
another which didn’t reconstruct writing off half its capi-
tal. The cripples round the Pool of Siloam were nothing
compared to this woeful gathering.
* * * *
The affairs of the Colonial Bank of Maoriland
grow more interesting as the investigation progresses.
According to the liquidators’ report, as far back as 1888
the bank’s inspector informed the board that bad and
doubtful debts not provided for amounted to £94,000,
while the entire reserves were under £77,000. In 1890
he announced that bad and doubtful debts were £119,000,
with only £90,000 of alleged reserves against them. In
1892 he reported £114,000 of bad and doubtful debts, with
only £BO,OOO of reserves to cover them. And early in
1895 he drew attention to the fact that the reserves were
£85,000, while bad debts alone amounted to £92,000, and
£44,000 more were extremely doubtful. Therefore it
would seem that for five years the bank’s own trusted
official persistently reported that the reserve fund was
mostly, if not wholly, lost; that, to all intents and pur-
poses, there was no reserve fund ; and that the Colonial
was in a lamentably bad way. Yet the directorate told
nothing of this to the shareholders. They paid dividends
regularly, and systematically represented the institution
as sound, and put forward the reserve fund as a reality,
and even congratulated the shareholders on their pros-
perity. And the auditors signed the balance-sheet (which
sheet stated that “provision had been made for bad and
doubtful debts,” when allegedly it hadn’t) regularly ;
and said nothing. There is, so far as Thk Bulletin
knows, no single instance when the auditors told the
truth about a bank that was in difficulties; in every
one of the one or two or three dozen recent cases
which have ended in smash or awful revelations, the
auditors have signed the nice, solvent-looking balance-
sheet just as usual right up to the day of burst. It is
because of this fact that The Bulletin persistently advo-
cates a system of independent audit by State auditors.
The M.L. Colonial Bank’s directors, by the way, were
large, rich, solid men—Tory politicians mostly, who were
deeply shocked at the rash financing of the present
Liberal Ministry; and they seem to have behaved after
the manner of directors in general. And the average
director is just a trifle less reliable than the average
private auditor. The directors, by their own and their
friends’ votes and their proxies, really appoint the
auditors, and by the same means they can eject them if
they say things that are disagreeable. Which is the
reason why the directors and the auditors always tell the
same half-truth or the same brazen cram, and will continue
doing so as long as the present system lasts.
• * • *
About eight months ago Westralia floated a
3 per cent, loan in London at £lOO 16s. Bd., the very
highest price ever obtained by any of the Seven Pro-
vinces, and the Forrest Government has been drunk with
exaltation ever since. The other day it paid for the
Great Southern railway with £1,100,000 worth of 3 per
cent, securities, and an attempt to sell them in London
by tender at £9B only resulted in offers for £233,000
worth. The balance has now been placed privately at
£96 15s. This is a very big drop in the credit of the
Red Dust Land, and if W.A. proposes to dump another
large loan on this kind of market, it certainly won’t be
the same burst of glory that the last one was.
• * • •
The A. J.S. Bank re-construotion is still in an
indefinite state. Last Tuesday, its 4£ per cent, inscribed
deposits were offering in Sydney as low as 11s. 9d. in the
£, with no buyers, while its ordinary deposits were going
at 12s. 6d. in the £. Bedrock in the bank-deposit
market is represented by the dreadful Queensland
National, with buyers at 9s. 6d. in the £, sellers lls. 6d.
* * * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Co. of New York
shows an even larger year’s business than usual, though
it has put up many records in this direction in past years.
The assets increased during 1896 by £3,284,283 and now
stand at £45,161.239; and the surplus of assets over
liabilities has been increased by £552,774, and is now
nearly nine millions. This is the largest surplus possessed
by any insurance co. on earth, and the Equitable is
naturally not a little proud of it. With such an immense
margin it would be a very large disaster indeed that
could make the Equitable totter on its foundations.
* * * *
Melbourne Tramway Co. pays a 5 per cent,
dividend and reports that the profits are £4437 better
that those for the previous half-year. There have been
stormy times Of late years for the co. In ’9l it made a
profit for the 12 months of £98,000. In ’94, the bottom
year, the profit was down to £19,600. Now it is up to
nearly £30,000 and steadily rising again. Before the co.
can divide anything it has to provide £76,000 per annum
for interest, £32,000 for sinking fund, and about £15,000
for renewals, besides over £200,000 for working expenses.
Its 5 per cent, dividend absorbs £24,000, so it has now
got a good margin to go upon.
* * * *
That mighty absentee landholder, the South
Australian Co , which reduced its rents a year or two ago
owing to the agricultural depression,' has now got tired of
playing the moderately good Samaritan, and is shoving
them up again in the midst of almost the worst period of
disaster the province has experienced. Forty years ago,
when the rich land yielded 20 bushels to the acre and the
price was 4s. to 6s. a bushel, the S.A. Co. charged £l6
rent for an 80-acre section. Now prices are lower and the
yield from the exhausted soil is half as much—sometimes
less than half—and the rents are £35 to £4O for the same
area. As Government land got scarcer, and the farmer
became less able to get away from the SLA. Co.’s bloated
monopoly, rents went up, and as land becomes still
scarcer rents will keep on rising—unless the graduated
land-tax is shoved higher and higher until the great
octopus absentee is wiped out
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.
reports a profit for 1896 of £7209 compared with £6536
and £4740 for two previous years, s«,things are' distinctly
prosperous. The balance of preliminary expenses (£237)
is written off ; £5OO goes to reserve for renewal of plant,
making it £lBOO ; a dividend of 8% per cent, (half-year at
7)4 and half-year at 10) absorb £6562, and the balance to
credit of profit and loss is consequently reduced from
£1875 to £1785. Considering all things the action of the
co. in rushing the dividend up year by year looks reckless.
It has no reserve fund beyond the £lBOO already men-
tioned. It has a very small oash balance of £326. It
owes £38,000 to debenture-holders and is doing nothing
to reduce this liability. Its £24,900 worth of freehold
property is put in at cost, even if nothing is said
about the possible deterioration in land values the de-
terioration in bricks and mortar is a certainty. Its
£68,000 worth of plant, mains, &c., are also put in at cost,
and they are also liable to deteriorate and wear out.
Also the accounts are still squared by putting in £15,000
for goodwill (or, as it is called, “ parliamentary rights and
concessions”), which is a very dubious way of making
things balance. Altogether the Hydraulic Co. might be
well-advised to go a great deal slower and pay 5 per
cent, instead of 10.
* * * *
On 30th June, 1896, N.S.W. public debt stood
at £62,411,373—the record to date.
* * * •
The year ended June, 1895, was the boss year
(since 1884) as regards N.S.W. railways. In 1891 they re-
turned 3’59 per cent, on cost ; in 1892, 3’58 per cent. ; ’93,
3-48 per cent. ; ’94, 3‘46 per cent. ;in 1895 they boomed
up to 3-60 per cent.; then in 1896 there was a big drop to
3‘44 per cent. —the worst record since 1890.
The Australian Widows’ Fund writes off
£125 000 to cover depreciation of its assets during the
last five years. This means nearly 10 per cent, of the
funds or two years’ accumulations gone at one fell swoop,
which is the biggest single act yet done in this direction
by any Australian life society, bar the Mutual of Victoria’s
famous writing-off a year or so back. This is a serious
shock to policy-holders whose bonuses suffer heavily, but
it is undoubtedly a wise and manful proceeding, and one
which should inspire confidence rather than diminish it.
The tremendous fall in values within the last few years
has run the Australian insurance offices into heavy losses
from which even the best management could not have
wholly saved them. It is all a part of the bursting of the
bubble theory about this being the richest nation on
earth ; when the alleged wealth of the boom-inflated
country drops 100 millions or so it has to be written off
bv instalments everywhere, and the insurance offices must
either do their share or become bogus concerns travelling
on sham balance-sheets and non-existent assets. The
offices which this paper views with most suspicion are
two or three which haven’t done any serious writing-off
as yet. , * . *
The chairman of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia reDorts, with iust pride, that new deposits increased
during P 96 from £1,666,000 to £2,945,000, and that 293
new accounts were opened during the year. Apparently,
that blessed “ restoration of confidence ’ has come at last.
A scheme is on foot to form an Assets Co. to
take up and manage the remnants of the Federal, Mer-
cantile City of Melb., and English and Australian Mort-
gage Banks. There is so little left of three of them, and
the business now consists so largely of waiting till the
bricks and mortar become saleable while the liquidator
Dicks his teeth and drives away the office cockroach to fill
m time that the four offices and staffs and the four separ-
ate liquidators are an expensive mockery.
Maoriland Accident Insurance Co. (which also
insures against sickness, burglary, cycle-theft, and injury
to bikes by accident) has a profit for the year of £4921. A
dividend of 15 per cent, usee up £750 of this ; £2OOO goes
to reserve, making it £lO,OOO, and £2OOO to re-insurance
reserve, which now stands at £BOOO. Also, there is £4OOO
at the credit of contingencies account. The M.L. Acci-
dent Co. has every appearance of being a remarkably
solid and prosperous concern. It has £5OOO paid-up capi-
tal, £15,000 uncalled capital, nearly £34,000 of reserves,
mostly invested in State and municipal debentures, and
it carries four-fifths of its profits to reserves, and yet pays
a handsome dividend. The only unaccountable feature
of the balance-sheet is that the eo. has £44,000 invested,
part on mortgage, part in city property, and the bulk in
debentures yielding from 3J to 6 per cent. Yet the year’s
income from interest and rent is set down at £lOBB
(against £1483 for 1895), or just about 2£ per cent, all
round. Possibly some dark intricacy of the book-keeping
is responsible for this mystery.
» *' » »
Balmain (Sydney) New Ferry Co. reports a half-
year’s net profit of t’i223. A 10 per cent, dividend (£678)
is paid ; £2OO goes to insurance-fund, and £345 added to
profit-and-loss balance. The mode of keeping the ac-
counts is a little mixed, as usual. In the previous report
it was stated that the amount carried forward, after pay-
ing dividend, was £1519, and that the div. absorbed £672 ;
this time it appears that the said div. absorbed only £643,
and the balance brought forward is really £O4O. This is
only the co.’s harmlessly muddled way of presenting
things, however, and it seems to be getting along all
right.
* * * *
That crowd of J. Bull capitalists who want to
invest £250,000 in the Victorian wine industry provided
the State guarantees 3 per cent, interest for 14 years, is
still appealing to the Victorian fly to walk into its little
parlor, and pointing out what a beautiful little parlor it
is. Yet surely nobody save Bull would expect a Govern-
ment to subsidise the foreign wine-merchant up to £7500
a year, so that he could cut the throat of the unsubsidised
local man and wipe him out.
* m m •
Victorian Farm,ers’ Loan and Agency Co. issues
a quaint balance-sheet. Loss for 1896 is apparently
£5020. The liabilities (including £85,000 capital) are
£290,000 ; and the assets include properties at book-value
£118,000; amount lost £65,000; and goodwill £25,000.
As the goodwill of a concern that is 165,000 to the bad
and getting worse is just about nil, and the loss isn’t an
asset, it would seem; therefore, that £90,000 out of the
£85,000 capital is lost, and the Farmers’ Loan and Agency,
unless it can call up more capital, is already insolvent.
How insolvent it may be seems to depend on how the
£llB,OOO of book-values turn out. Book-values turn out
in all sorts of ways—also, they sometimes don’t turn out
at all. Yet the F.L. and A. Co. goes on gaily, and ap-
parently regards itself as quite a live affair.
* • • *
Premier Nelson in Parliament re Q.N.B. : “ A
new directorate is inevitable.” Byrnes ditto. And now
some of the old directors are offering themselves for re-
election, despite the openly-expressed opinion of both
Parliament and people in favor of an entire change.
Talk about cast-iuon cheek ! Even the sluggish blood of
the Courier, is waxing warm at this last indignity.
» * * *
Hobart Gas Co. pays a half-yearly div. of 21s.
per share. Held in 5500 £2O shares called up to £lB.
Launceston Gas Co. pays an uncertain 4s. per share.
Municipally-owned electric-light in the Northern city
responsible for the vast difference.
• • * *
The dull, Fat Men of Vic. Leg. Council, who
say their mission is to correct the blunders of the
Assembly, insisted on inserting a clause in the Com-
panies Act to the stupid effect that no co. shall call itself
“ Proprietary” if it has more than 25 members. And
now the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. has either to change
its name at much expense for legal formalities, or shift
to Sydney or Adelaide, or else get a special Amending
Act passed for its benefit.
* * * *
The Rise and Shine has blossomed in sight of
the public as the Broken Hill Extended. On a fine, clear
day the smoke from the 150 ft.-high B.H. smelter stacks
can certainly be seen from the Rise and Shine mine ; and
that is as close a connection as any that exists. Still, it
is a very fair sulphide show ; but, once more, even very
fair sulphide shows without railway communication at
the shaft’s mouth will not pay divs.
* * • •
B.H. Proprietary’s four-weeks output during
January :—Ore treated, 27,501 tons, producing —4130 z.
gold, 584,6550 z. silver, 2323 tons soft lead, 58 tons anti-
monial lead, and 386 tons matte. The matte is estimated
to contain 59 tons copper and 38,8380 z. silver.
* * • •
Sanitary arrangements underground in the
B.H. wines, where about 2500 men work, are complained
about. Though the mines are in the municipality the
municipal inspector has, it is alleged, no power to enter
a mine and enforce sanitary laws. Generally speaking,
the provision made is fair ; but the absence of inspection
other than that of the Inspector of Mines causes much
uneasiness, while a rather severe local outbreak of fever
(the hospital is full and running over) has intensified.
By the way, the chiefly-English-owned Central
(Sulphide Corporation, Ashcroft’s process, property) is a
bright and shining example for all the other mines in the
matter of provision for the workmen’s convenience and
health preservation.
B.H. South adds six buddies and other contri-
vances to its concentrating plant with the object of mak-
ing a greater recovery from the slimes. Underground, it
is quite possible that the co. may have trouble with some
of its ore bodies, which have a treacherous, slippery ap-
pearance. This is a set-off against the undoubtedly im-
proved look of the faces from a mineral-bearing point of
view.
• * * •
The British mine people are now exporting all
their better-grade concentrates, hitherto taken by the
B.H. Prop.
Block 14’s new furnace and other reducing works
at Port Adelaide have been started. Meantime the co. is
drawing heavily upon the Junction and Junction North,
and North for milling ores.
Said that a Bull syndicate has its buying eye
on the North Broken, for which an Adelaide firm
is feeling the way with a £1 per share bait. But the
North crowd are talking 305., on the assertion that
the Junction North lode is trending east to the North
B.’s boundary. Difficult to comprehend why the North
should be in such a terrible stew to prove the bend of the
J.N. ore body, for even if it didn’t complete its elbow-
swerve east and kept straight on, the North’s other block
would get it. Thus the J.N. level the N.B. is extending
to show the dip of the lode into its ground seems a sheer
waste of lovely cash.
* * * *
- Commerce —a London financial paper with a
reputation for telling the truth about mines—looks with
a kindly eye at the Garibaldi mine, Hillgrove, N.S.W. Of
late it has been saying more about this show than all the
others in N.S.W. put together, and the fact of the
Eleanora (the next mine)—“ though comparatively only a
new undertaking”—paying divs. is hailed with much
satisfaction. Possibly Commerce is not aware that the
Eleanora is a very old mine, that although £30,000 cash
was paid for it many years ago, fully another £30,000 was
lost on it before it began to pay. Writer trusts Bull will
pull out with the Garibaldi, but to do so the mine will
have to improve very much, i
* * * * *
What was the last clean-up of the Great Western,
Cobar, and why are the officials so very quiet about it?
A mysteriously-managed mine,
* * ♦ *
Tilden’s Proprietary (N.8.W.) lately made
another start—l 72 tons gave 760 z., and the battery shut
down for want of water.
« » * *
Good Wyalong crushings—Wye and party’s
claim, 40 tons, 3060 z. ; Neeld’s No. I claim, 31 tons,
2090 z. Each claim is worked by tributors.
* * * *
Majah Neild, in course of an alleged London
interview, is represented as having yabbered boomster-wise
on N.S.W. mines. Spoke of the returns of Beyers and
Holterman’s and Krohman’s claims, “ What about these
claims to-day?” asked the interviewer. “I farcy they
have been abandoned, and may say they have never been
worked in a systematic manner,” said the Majah. Nobody
ever yet heard of a rich old mine having been well-
worked. There is ground for believing that the two
shows named were abandoned because of excessive rich-
ness, the gold being so coarse that it used to burst the
screens. “Then,” added the Majah, “we have diamond
mines, one of which was recently sold in London for
£lOO,OOO cash.” When? Where? Which? And who
got the money ?
* * * *
A W.A. newspaper: “ The water at the 300 ft.
level of the Great Boulder is still heavy, about 3000
gallons a day being pumped at present.” How mining
men out there must enjoy reading their own newspapers !
The water would be light, from a pumping point of view,
if it was 3000 gals. an hour. There is one mine in Aus-
tralia pumping more than 3000 gals, a minute, but nothing
is said about it because it has too much water—-that's its
trouble. Being the other way about in W.A., even the
sign of water in magnified into a deluge.
• * » •
Some of the Westralian promoting or “ explora-
tion ” companies have reached the pathetic Stage. They
exploited much money out of Bull by means of news-
paper-expert’s reports in exchange for “ wild cats,” and a
big song has been made of the divs. they paid. The
boom being over, batteries having gone up, and, more
unfortunate still, water having been struck, there is the
devil to pay. Having a huge stock of “ cats ” on hand,
the game now consists of distributing them gratis amongst
the dying cos., and thereby encouraging reconstruction.
Of course they are all rich properties—that is the reason
they are given away. The Great Fingal Co., on the eve
of disruption, had a free mine thrown at it, and while
the old mine was cursed big things were predicted for
the new.
•** * *
At a meeting of the Wealth of Expectations
shareholders in London, the chairman said it was matter
for congratulation that big ore reserves had been opened
up—loo,ooo tons assaying from 1 to 30z., say an average
of 2oz. per ton. It is impossible to trace any authority
for this statement, except that of the chairman—and the
say-so of the ordinary London chairman is about as good
as a Turkish bond. A wire was read from Callahan, the
Lake View superintendent, saying the vein in the cross-
cut was well-defined, but not a .line about 100,000 tons of
2oz. ore—which he would, of course, have been glad to re-
port if true. Even KaufTnan, who is largely responsible for
the concern, only wrote saying—“ There is an unlimited
amount of ore developed that will pay to crush, and all
you need is a water-supply.” It is quite evident that
some more gold, as well as water, would not be amiss.
The capacity of the reservoir, the chairman with some
pride said, was a million gallons. Evaporation and a big
battery would knock that out in a month.
* * * *
W.A. wire: “A 20-head battery has been
bought for the North Boulder. The mill was obtained ip
Coolgardie, where it was lying unerected.” Alas, how
many other mills are lying around unerected ! The
experts, too, can manage to do some lying while the mills
are lying on the ground ; but when the mill goes up, ex-
perts shut up, for it speaks the truth in al) languages
—except when the “gold” it turns out is only worth
9d. the ounce. When the expert is done away with, and
reporting on mines is dope by machinery, then, and
only then, will real mining have a show.
* * * *
“ The Great Boulder is crosscutting for the lode
at the 300 ft. level. The country is hard and progress
slow.” The richness, width, and regularity of the Kal-
goorlie lodes have prompted throughout the world thp
question : “ Is this line of country going to continue rich
and strong with depth?” If itdoes,it will, as Captain Gates
lately declared, astonish thg world. Near the surface,
most of the mining men worthy of the name were
suspicious. Every level down to 300 ft. has helped
to reduce these doubts, but for which some of the mines
by this time would be more than double their depth. All
wanted water, but all waited on each other, fearing that
in searching for water they would los<y the run of the
gold.
* * * *
The Fenteman’s Proprietary G.M. Co., no
liability, the registration notice of which appears else-
where, is a Maldon (Vic.) show, floated the other day by
Mr. A. E. Langford, of Melb., with exceptional celerity.
There are 27 acres in the lease, on which a 200-ft. shaft
has been sunk. The reef runs from 3ft. to Bft. ; and the
last party who held the property crushed 2088 tons for
1104 oz. Provisional directorate includes some good
names.
* * * •
At a doleful meeting of the New Chum Gold
Mines Co. (Bendigo), held in London, the promoter and
local director was ready with a great speech, the object of
which was to restore confidence. He depicted in lovely
colors the past and present richness of Bendigo mines;
said nix about the poor ones there, of which the New
Chum is a fair sample, and there are many of ’em, but
had to admit that 200 ft. of sinking with rock drills had
cost £25 a foot. Great Scot! “They knew that saddles
of great richness were being worked by neighboring
mines, and no doubt would be worked bj r their own in the
future.” Perhaps they don’t know that this property
is so distant from the well-known Chum mines as to
make its name a joke, that it is altogether too far away
to talk of any saddle formations worked by other mines.
Being on the New Chum line is about the only reasonable
certainty it can lay claim to.
• • * •
Clarke’s Brilliant Worcester and Victory mine,
Towers : 570 tons of stone for 17050 z. smelted gold
(£6020); final clean-up will give a shade over 3oz. per ton.
Mine looking splendid.
* * * *
Malayta will probably be visited by a horde of
gold-seekers in the near future. A well-known Northern
b6che-de-mer fisher tells how he saw golden ornaments
among the natives of that barbarous island, and several
visitors have noted auriferous indications in its streams.
* * * •
There will be severe trouble in Westralia if the
importation of bond-labor ltalian miners continues. They
are arriving in gangs, poor and miserable, consigned to
nigger-drivers whose game is “truck,” and who design to
hire them out, organ-and-inonkev fashion, much under
white wage-rates. When the Italian comes “on his
own ”to Australia—when he comes free—he is welcome
as a man and a brother ; but when he (or any other)
comes as a bondsman and under a binding agreement to
be loaned out like a string of camels by a boss who pays
his passage, acts as his interpreter, boards, lodges and
clothes him, and can only make a profit out of the deal
by dead-horsing and sweating him, and also bringing
down other men’s wages—well, there will be a convulsion.
Workers under agreement can’t be imported to the United
States, and an anti-foreign-agreement law is sorely needed
in Australia. The big English companies are determined
to get cheap labor into the West.


TJOSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modem Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading > Sydney
Oculists. If. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
materials thoeoug-hly SHEUTTK
" The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita Je for
. BUSINESS RIDING
OFFICE - BUSH
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS
35/-
40/-
45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of <£2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OP THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
the name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations.
Society
COOLALTA
There is a deadlock in the Brisbane (Q.)
Council over the election of a Mayor—it being
locally believed that the Brisbane Mayor for this
year will be among the record-reign knights.
Brisbane grovel is always on tap.
AT ANOTHER BUSH SCHOOL.
INSPECTOR: “ What is an army?”
BOY: “A place where they heat a drum and sing halleloojah!"
A vain man is Brisbane’s outgoing Mayor.
He “ ran down South ” in the winter, and was so
awe-stricken with the potentialities of Mayoral
rohes that he inaugurated robe-wearing in muggy
Brisbane. The poor town-clerk has had to follow
“ suit.” .One alderman has publicly protested by
sitting in his shirt-sleeves.
*** . *
Melb. : “ The photo-er, with a stock of the
murderer’s portraits, raises his flag half-mast for
the murdered.”
Great daily journalism ;
.Dead Dog Gully.
General satisfaction is expressed here at the arrest of
Butler. ,
* Washerwomans Flat.
A general feeling of relief is experienced here at the
capture of Butler.
Why not vary the monotony :
Gorrygalloot.
The town has been plunged in the deepest despondency
since it became known that Butler is in custody. The
unexpected news has occasioned universal regret, and by
general consent all work on the hemp crop has been
suspended.
The Adelaide Hospital volcano has begun
to spit in a fresh place. The dismissal of nurse
Wyllie caused the Register, the organ of the
strikers, to make a few remarks about Dr. Astles,
one of the new honorary staff. Then Dr. Astles
replied, describing the big editorial head as “ a
receptacle, editorially considered, of the evil-
smelling vapours which caused its flatulent dis-
tension.” Which flattering compliment to editor
Finlayson’s gigantic intellect so pleased the latter
that it is believed the Register will henceforth
support the Government.
Signs of the times. S.M. Herald advt. :
A RCHITECTURAL Draftsman, used to details,
-la. seeks engagement. Salary, 20s. per week.
And for four £1 a week billets as assistant-
machinists at Sydney Govt; printing office 480
youths and others applied.
* * * *
Mannum (River Murray, S.A.) residents
are cross with Gov. Buxton because, although
they got a brass-band and a banquet ready in his
honor recently, he passed right by their town in
the steamer without so much as showing himself
on deck. All the population—mostly Germans, by
the way —are now in favor of the immediate estab-
lishment of an Australian Republic.
There seems to be
more “religion” than
honesty about the aver-
age street blind person.
On most of the-psalm-
grinding organs heard
at Sydney corners large
cards notify that the
instruments have been
given by some goody
society which nobody
has otherwise heard of.
Apropos, it is said that
one pair of afflicted
duettists originally
came to Sydney in Sal-
vation rig, but the
local Army was not
taking any. Then they
tackled Moody and
Sankey under the Me-
thodist wing, but failed
to strike oil until they
took to singing senti-
mental duets with
“ lashin’s o’ love ” in
them. To hear a blind
woman singing of her
heart instead of her
alleged soul is one of
the most refreshing
things on earth.
* •
An incident (writes
a Bulletin correspon-
dent) which throws a
side-light on the effect
of the Westralian boom
on the Adelaide jewel-
lers. I wanted to buy
two scarf - pins say
about 30s. each. Met
the jeweller just inside
the shop-door ; stated
my business, and was
asked to call round
again, as he was just
going to lunch! Where
else in Australia would
a jeweller run away
from A 3 like that?
Brisbane (Q.) “ sassiety ” supports the
immigration policy of the Govt, under the impres-
sion that ‘ ‘ free passages ” will be offered to ‘ ‘ domes-
tic servants.” Such action, though perfectly
illegal, would not surprise anyone “ in the know,”
and the Govt, has a sort of approving abstract
resolution of Parliament to fall back on. The
trouble with the Mary Janes that come from Eng-
land in the past have been twofold ; they have
either speedily got married, or have adventured to
be “gay.” The contrast between English dome-
stic service and the larkiness of freedom in Queens-
land is too vivid not to affect the female mind.
* * * *
Lawyer Duffy to the, jury in the Boyett
divorce case : “ The tone of morality in a country
town is not very high,” and the country towns get
up and yell. Why ? The tone of morality is not
very high anywhere. Duffy’s assertion, in which,
perhaps, he means to imply that Melbourne is
more moral than Paddybangle or Yerra Yerra, is
IRRELEVANT.
P. ASTOR: “ Don’t you know, my dear berrothah, that water is much
bettah than beeah for quenching the — ah—thirst? ”
B. UMMER : “ What if'tis —who wan’s guesh his (hie!) thirsht?”
based on the fact that there is a somewhat larger
percentage of illegitimate births in the country,
but an illegitimate child is now rather a manifesta-
tion of comparative innocence. In matters of
morals as in most things we are too prone to judge
by results. “By their fruits ye shall know them ”
is not always a good working rule.
*** * V
Dear Bulletin,- — Be Gov. Gormanston.
You say “when he (as per contract) refuses to
head subscription-lists, his subjects snort and
sneer.” You are not quite right there. What
the Tassies do “snort and sneer” at is this:
While H.E. cherishes in his fostering bosom every
trumpery R.C. concern that turns up, charitable
or otherwise, any charity or organisation out-
side the pale of his own church is indignantly
bounced off his pneumatic shirt-front. Some time
ago his lordship was in a jeweller’s shop, when a
little girl in all innocence asked him to put his
name down on a collection-card she was carrying.
Gov. Gormanston glanced at it, observed that it
was not an R.C. affair, and dropped it to the
ground, with some kind of a curse, I believe. Yet
his Excellency can afford to put £5 to a small
subscription-list for the prevailing Indian famine.
—Sludge.
* * * *
Miss Florence Seymour became well-known
to metropolitan playgoers in Australia by her
refined and intelligent (albeit amateurish) work in
“Jim the Penman,” 10 or a dozen years back.
She played the forger’s wife—Harry St. Maur
being the criminal hero—and, although at that
time unable to meet all the requirements of a diffi-
cult acting part, her performance was very effec-
tive. Miss Seymour figured as leading lady of the
St. Maur company, in “Jim the Penman ” and
lighter pieces, for some time previous to visiting
England, where she remained until 1895. Last
year she was engaged by the Firm for musical
comedy, and on tour and throughout Maoriland,
also in Brisbane, she scored again as the fascinating
widow (vice Maud Hobson) in “ A Gaiety Girl.”
Just now the subject of this notice is giving valu-
able assistance to the Brough company. In “ A
Woman of No Importance ” she plays with some
success the cynical matron, w r hose morals are more
open to doubt than her good style and aptitude
for speaking her lines expressively. Miss Flor-
ence Seymour promises to identify herself with a
class of character which has generally been ill-
treated on the Australian stage.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I am a convalescent
patient in the fever ward of a W.A. hospital.
Three days ago a clergyman cast his holy eye
around the premises and, spotting a youth of 16
with typhoid who up till then was rapidly getting
better, started, in an almost crying tone, to invoke
the Almighty’s good will to take this poor boy to
the mansions bright above, and “ dear Loard, do
not let him die in sin.” The unfortunate youth
thought his time had come, his temperature jumped
degrees, and he was delirious next day. I saw
him carried out a few minutes ago. Is this man-
slaughter ?— 11. V.,’ Boomland.
* * * ♦
Rev. Jones, the Melbourne undertaker
scores one in his controversy with the authorities’
who have now cancelled his license as a parson. He
explains that had be not taken on the duties of
sky-pilot as well as hearse-conductor, he and his
customers, would remain in the position of fre-
quently “ being compelled to pay for the services
of a clergyman who was never engaged, for services
which he never rendered.” It is true that the
parson that lives by his fees has a privilege of levv-
mg a poll tax (a dead-head tax) on Church of
England corpses buried in the Melb general
cemetery, and when business is lively and he can-
not rattle off the service over all comers he vets
there just the same financially. If the average
undertaker can be harder, or quicker, or more suc-
gestive of a holy penny-in-the-slot-machine when
officiating at a grave than is the average burvine
parson, he deserves to be encouraged if only for
his surprising energy. J
*. * *
The opinion held by an exalted personage
who is probably competent to judge, is that the
Australian mounted-rifle team is a very fine lot of
fellows, and that the men would cut a much better
figure in England if they were decently officered
Judging from what
happened the other day,
it is better to be very
sober when you are ferry-
ing a Governor.
* *
Even the cemetery
has its amusements. The
latest Melb. craze and
big draw is the sorrowing-
party (say Mrs. Jones’
sorrowing-party). Armed
with floral harps, crowns,
&c. (with name, &e., on
of course), clad in deep
black and with set faces
they march to the bone-
yard, and within the
patent glass show-case
advertise their sorrow.
Then, intermingled with
prayers and songs of
praise, a good, healthy
weep. The party spend
the afternoon talking
death and comparing
graves, and are happy.
* *
A pretty reach of a
pretty river is the Milton
reach of the Brisbane.
They have a good deal of
rowing and sailing there
in the season, and neat
contrast is afforded when,
as the boats manned by
the strong crowd the
reach, the funeral passes
along the river bank. As
the river road is the direct
route to the principal
cemetery, the funeral can
always be relied upon to
happen. Next door to the
cemetery, by the way,
are the rifle-butts. Bris-
bane is a great place for
little touches of that
sort. The rifle-butts used
to be alongside the hos-
pital.
The excuse of the Kanaka who murdered
a Chinaman in the Dunwich Boor Asylum, More-
ton Bay (Q.), was—“ That man too much tease
me; no can stand him ; he common no-good
Chinaman ; Chinaman more low than black-
feller ! ” That sums up the racial creed of the
brown man. It is similar to the contempt with
which the Australian bush nigger looks upon
Chinamen. So here are the gradations—white
man, brown man, black man, yellow man ! And
the yellow man yet may rule the world.
* * * •
A “Poor Parson” correspondence in
Melb. Argus shows an utter want of regard for
poor old Malthus. The complaint of the average
shepherd is that his stipend remains stationary
whilst his family multiplies, and he never seems
to observe a connection between these two ordi-
nary circumstances. Yet history tried to teach
him that the Loard prospereth the servant who
increaseth not his domestic needs. Three succes-
sive Bishops of Melbourne have been childless.
When a curate tells a sorrowful tale of triplets to
Field Flowers Goe the dignitary gazes modestly
down at his gaiters and bids the prolific parent be
contented with his little lot.
* * * *
H. : “In the Argus, we have the doleful
wail of a clergyman, who cannot make things
meet on almost .£5 a week. To this complexion
must they come, in the words of the song—
I’m going to do without ’em,
I shan’t want any more.
1.c., celibacy.”
Miss FLORENCE SEYMOUR.
Photo. , Alfred Ellis , London.
Japs have invaded Mount Magnet,
’ their almond-eyed odalisques, and the
white Messalinas are incontinently fleeing, recog-
nising the fatuity of competition. A strange
proof of his advance in civilisation is afforded by
the tact that, unlike the sober Chow, the gold-
fields Jap soon becomes addicted to liquor, and
goes at times for fights and sprees as if he were an
|^” m l 3ara ble Briton. The Palladium is in deadly
* * *
A telegram in Sydney Daily Telegraph :
.., , , HORNSBY JUNCTION, Tuesday.
A black snake about 4ft. long- was discovered niakijig its
way into the residence of Mr. P. C. Mayne yesterday.
Alter several unsuccessful attempts to kill it, the snake
escaped into a hole under the house.
Also two black spiders and a bull-ant were ob-
served walking arm-in-arm down the main street
GROVEL!
Grovel, Grovel, Glorious Grovel!
Rising from palace, from street, and from hovel!
Singing to welcome an addle-pate peer,
Lauding the grace of a Baron de Beer,
Piping the praise of a dissolute king,
Pleased with the baubles that garnish the Thing,
Licking the hand that is wielding the rod,
Kissing the boots and the dirt they have trod,
Saxon and Hybrid and Celt we may be,
But “ we all are as one in our welcome of thee ”
Grovel!
Grovel, Grovel, Glorious Grovel !
Rising from palace, from street, and from hovel!
Lauding the crapulous creatures of Rank,
Hailing the wisdom of brains that are blank,
Spreading the carpets on ways that are foul,
Crying “ All Hail ! ” to the Villainous Jowl,
Greeting as God the Incarnate, a'swine,
Prizing a grunt as a message divine—
Sundered and scattered though far we may be,
The true “ crimson thread ” of our kin is in thee —
Grovel!
N.Q.
P. LUEFTIG.
TEMPORA MUTANTUR ...&c.
[For The Bulletin.]
She says : “Wilt thou be ever mine—
Oh, dearest, tell ? ” I softly say —
“ For other love I’ll not repine ;
Thy love is all I want ” — to-day !
GEMINI.


TYPHOID:
Dr. Grf.sswei.l, Chairman
Melb. Health Board, says:
-Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, says: “Ordinary
filters are powerless against germs so small as typhoid
germs; use a JEFFERY FILTER.” The
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Sole Agent for New
South Wales and Queensland— J. S. PEARDON, 4 Bond-
street, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
by post
QU AID'S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/fa each,
recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
£. MOUNT 'ASTLTS & SONS, Scle Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
MEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Life Assurance Only. Purely Mutual.
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO POLICYHOLDERS.
ASSETS
ANNUAL INCOME
SURPLUS
£35,965,430
7,796,762
4,946,230
RESIDENT BOARD:
(with power to ISSUE POLICIES, PAY CLAIMS, etc.)
Thp Hon Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President of Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
The Hon. Sir John tga^ THj Esq ’ w . E WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Office for Australasia:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
• (Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’
LADTES’
£l<! and £2l
£lB and £2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 189 G im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Uadies
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
at noon to-day, but, after an exciting chase, they
succeeded in tripping the constable and escaping
up a tree. Last night an esteemed resident, Mr.
Jeremiah Toomey, when passing through the
churchyard, saw a strange figure resembling a
gorilla sitting on the vault of one of our most re-
spected citizens, but as Mr. Toomey had unfor-
tunately left his glasses at home, this may have
been only a cow. These events have caused quite
a stir in the township, and Federation and the
Butler case are temporarily forgotten.
* * * *
A Melb. doctor, speaking from a wide
acquaintance with sassiety babies, declares that
the growing disinclination of mothers to nourish
their offspring from Nature’s font is accountable
for a great increase of marasmus and a fearful
activity in the infant coffin-trade. The babe that
is not made welcome at a mother’s breast stands
an excellent chance of flying away to Abraham’s
bosom. And the Patriarch, rubbing the little
tummy of the new arrival, says : “ Did it die of
somebody’s patent indigestible food, did it ? ”
* * * *
It is proposed that some of the country
gaols in Victoria shall be utilised as homes for the
aged poor. Solitary confinement and the use of
the lash will, however (it is understood), not be
allowed under the new regime. Charity is evi-
dently making great strides down South.
* * * *
Spagnoletti : “Melb. is a queer place.
Last Sunday night I was in a fruit-shop near the
hospital. A nurse came running over for lemons.
The fruit-man said he was sorry, but the law would
not allow him to sell them after six o’clock ! ”
Professor Mudd, F.L.S., advertised to
lecture at Fitzroy, Melb., the other night, on
“Why did God make Mosquitoes?” No man
knows why God made mosquitoes, but perhaps it
was with the idea of keeping bald-headed men
awake in church till the plate comes round. On
the other hand, no mosquito is ignorant 6f the
Almighty’s purpose in making men.
* * * *
The old historic clock of St. Peter’s at
Campbelltown (N.S.W.), after a silence of many
years, was set going again the other day. “ The clock
is one of three sisters, the others being located
respectively at the Paddington Barracks and
Darlinghurst Gaol.” The three sisters of civilisa-
tion : the Church, the Barrack, and the Gaol!
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (C.Q., total population 5000)
is ravaged with typhoid. The other day the local
hospital had 26 patients down with that disease,
while others were crowded out.
*. * * *
A 100-guinea piano
lately raffled at a North
Maori land city church ba-
zaar was pulled off by a
visiting agnostic, who had
succumbed to the wiles of
one of the ewe-lambs in
short skirts to the extent
of half-a-crown. The glad
tidings were immediately
conveyed to the winner by
one of the show - officials,
an opulent personage, who
drew the unbeliever’s at-
tention to the fact that he
had already one piano,
that he was a prosperous
man, and that the holy
church was, like most of
its kind, very dicky finan-
cially. “ I don’t want the
piano, then,” laughed the
winner ; “ you can raffle it
again for your church, if
you like,” and the smiling
capitalist withdrew, thank-
ing him for his generous
donation. The bazaar com-
mittee was informed of
the gift, and after the ewe-
lambs had hitched up their
skirts another inch they
managed to get rid of a
second instalment of
tickets. Then the draw-
ing was held, and the pos-
sessor of the lucky ticket
was found to be none other
than the wealthy show-
official aforesaid. He
didn’t miss a good thing ;
a carrier’s van came round
same afternoon and con-
veyed the precious instru-
ment to an auction-room,
where it was sold for some-
thing like £7B.
* *
Two notable Mes-
dames Publichousein Bris-
bane (Q.), who have been
refreshing their hair with
alleged peroxide alarm-
ingly, have experienced the
calamity of finding their
thatch change to a vivid green color, and now hide
their confusion under wigs. Previously they were
both red-headed.
• * * *
Melt). Observatory authorities have decided
to close the big telescope against the public. In
excuse they say the whole time of a clerk is em-
ployed answering questions, and, further, that t
majority of the visitors are “young people of the
opposite sexes in couples ” who come ostensibly to
enquire about Mars and Venus but are frequently
caught “kisssing one another” in view ot the
clerk.
INNOCENT CHILDHOOD.
"I say, mummy, wot’yer watering the plants for?
"To make them grow, sonny, dear."
“Then, why didn’t they water father?”
A well dressed clerk in a financial institu-
l j(in was recently accosted by an infuriated female
while doing the Sydney Strand after office-hours,
and charged with' picking her pocket. She ac-
him to the police-station with a con-
tiguous member of the “ foorce,” and her tale ran
that he was the young man of fascinating person-
ality who had, during a 1 ‘ mash in the park, under
pretence of putting a ring into her pocket, playfully
abstracted 235. The inoffensive youth aforesaid
was thrust amidst the cell-blasphemy and filth
and fleas for six hours (the time it took the. nimble
UNDER PRESSURE.
ISABEL: “Are your feet cold, darling?
ALGERNON: “I don’t know, pet; they’re loth asleep!"
force to find his friends to bail him out). Appeal-
ing before the Bench next day, the la( ly coolly
stated that she had made a mistake in identity,
whereupon the “ prisoner ” was allowed to depart.
Of course, he has no redress for the outrage, but
his lady friends now note with regret that he is a
pronounced misogynist.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Oscar Wilde’s epigrams
provide any amount of misunderstanding for those
woolly-headed wiseacres who are “fond of smart
dialogue, doncherknow.” The other night I heard
an elderly, languid Britisher discussing the new
play at the Bijou with a ditto, ditto. He was
good enough to translate the meaning (as he under-
stood it) of 44 Saints have a past —sinners a future,”
which was intended, he said, to express Mr.
Wilde’s opinion that good men can look back
proudly on their achievements, whereas bad men
must look forward to a warm time in Sheol. You
are apt to laugh at authors who explain their jokes,
but isn’t it advisable to let dull people into the
secret? Oscar might as well have made his
epigram clear to the meanest intellect, thus
“ A saijnt has ep joyed himself thoroughly, a sinner
is not nearly satisfied.”— Melbourne. P.S.— b or
myself, I hope to arrive at a time when I will get
away from all wickedness, because it bores ope.
* * *
The Assyrians of Sydney are to have a
newspaper of their own.
* » » *
Cape Times, January 14, ’97 :
BIRTH.
Skead. —On 24th December, 1896, at French Hoek,
“after 17 years of married life” —The Wife of F. H.
Skead (nee Miss Braver, Robertson) was safely de-
livered of a healthy Daughter; mother and child
doing well.
* * * *
On its newer boats, if not on its older ones,
the P. & O. Co. has reached absolute perfection in
one respect. The co.’s big vessels are absolutely
odorless—ventilation and cleanliness are such that
wherever you go and no matter when you go there
you can smell nothing. 41 The best smell is the
absence of all smell.” And as the heaviest roll
managed by the magnificent China on her voyage
to Australia was 13deg., it follows that nowadays
it is only the very exceptional man or woman who
can manage to get sick at sea without over-eating,
* * * *
Scene : Melb. city watchhouse. Time,, 9
a.m. First prisoner to second ditto— 44 Them’s a
rough-looking lot of 4 drunks ’ lined up this morn-
ing.” Second ditto— 44 Them’s not ‘drunks;’
them’s j>lain-clothes coppers.”
?
“ This life,” we say, and check the sceptic’s
laughter
With some dim umbra of a vague Hereafter.
“Look back,” the Doubter gibes, “the key lies
there;
Is this not death, the death of lives that were ? ’
BERNARD ESPINASSE.
THE CYCLOMANIAC.
Old friend, John Bpown, was fat and ro mil,
Too much so for his liking,
Until he caught the craze and found
A 44 banting ” cure in biking.
The difference ’twixt John of yore,
My fleshy chum who trousers wore,
And John in knickerbockers—lor !
Is really very striking.
The Humber did hipi good at first—
It made his skin less greasy ;
In biking art as yet unversed,
He took the matter easy. ,
He merely went at balmy e’en
For gentle spins on the machine;
The fat man fining down to lean
Kept fairly bright and breezy.
I stared aghast in six months’ time>
And now I gaze aghaster,
For, like a thief atoning crime,
John works his treadmill faster.
The thing he deemed a healthful toy
His mind and body will destroy;
’Tis sad to see the dear ,old boy
Enslaved by such a master.
The cold sweat dews his biking face,
A fatal gloss imparting ;
All round the town he rides a race
From 44 scratch ” (m fancy) starting.
And, O ! the other day he came,
With groggy legs and eyes aflame,
To me and said, “ Brown's not my name—
I’m Porta Relph Billmarting.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
T.L.M. : Truly peace hath her triumphs. A
Democratic Govt, is a useful thing to have about a country.
Had the row not been settled, Premier Seddon might
have taken it into his head to run a State mercantile fleet.
.. Max : May do as suggestion H.J.D. : Little Ped-
lington again 120 in Shade : Old—and unpublishable.
Constance C. : Will print “To Save.” Dido : Haven’t
reached it yet, anyhow Pedagogue: It will do
W.N. : Your many obvious “ chestnuts” cast a cloud of
suspicion over the rest of your copy S.G. : “In
‘ Answers to Correspondents,’ Jan. 30, I note this— 1 V. :
Maloney’s association with Geismardo Richards was an
unpardonable act, but his chief crime was blacklegging—
niaking physic and attendance cheap, in Melb.’ In the
words as read there seems a slur on a profession most
charitable of all. The rule in the reputable medical pro-
fession has ever been this : ‘To the millionaire, from his
point of view, his life is valuable as a means of further
millionisation : charge him accordingly. To the poor man
his life is valuable as a support to other strugglers whose
life depends on his life ; charge him not at all. To those
between, since the laborer is always worth his labor, charge
according to their value ; you owe that to yourself and
those depending on you.’ Also, remember the Great
Physician’s ways and those of Dr. Luke, the Apostle.”
James C. : You are confusing the two Akhursts. The
burlesque-writer died many years ago ; the other is stijl
alive H. : But what a lot of deadbeats one meets whq
can get any amount to drink, but nothing to eat 1
Marie H. : It’s probably pretty true. Not a nice story ;
but it is well for these things to be told —as you may see
presently Jim: “Celestial hosts” is good as applied
to the Chows who dined and wined the local whites
V. : Queen Victoria’s half-sister, daughter of her mother
by a previous father, is, or was, Princess Feodora, of
Leiningen Crabapple : Send something printable
R. Sapling : Neat, but it’s the ground that Clancy trod,
and you haven’t improved on Clancy Aitkay (Cape-
town): Already circulated in Australia C.B. : The
Bulletin never allows anyone to say in its columns that
“ his attention has been directed ” —haw ! —to something
that this paper has printed. Apropos, among others who
used |to publish that they “never read The Bulletin?
was the late ex-Pretnier Parkes. At a book-stall, the
other day, a book of his alleged poem's was picked lip
containing a marginal note in his own hand: “ This
passage often quoted by Bulletin.” And'you are one of
’em Vielona : The M.B. degree carries the title of Dr.,
not by right, but by courtesy W.P. : No, “not evet)
the Butler case ” makes The Bulletin abandon its advo-
cacy of the abolition of capital punishment. The fear of
the gallows didn’t deter the murderer, whoever he was,
for he reckoned ori not being found out. The deliberate
inurderer-for-gain does reckon on escaping; as for the
hot-blooded homicide, no argument appeals to temporary
insanity. People who write as you do are (though they
may not know it) only murderers who like their murders
done for them by deputy. Blood they must have—the
long-drawn-out evening-newspaper hanging: sensation is
their bull-ring A. Jayem : Handed to artist..... M.E.L.
(B.) : “F. ” acceptable Polliwop : An old idea
J.W.L. (Lower Prosperine) : Sorry we can’t identify the
verses by your description Rhesus : Glad to see that
the Adelaide white girls also are devoting much earnest
attention to the souls of Cow Fat and Gone Bung ....
M.B. : Possibly H.M. : May be “ Willows.” Cubbie :
Too much horror for your art ..... Fitz. ; The Q. contingent
vote is too mouldy a subject for a oolumn article
W.G.B. : You say the girl had “ Form of radiant beauty,
brightened like a rainbow-tinted dome.” Well! Did you
paint the rainbow op her yourself? J.K.E. : Ought to
be bright, but isn’t.W.N.G. : No, thanks. ... Ingrate :
You argue at great length that Cardinal Moran should be
admitted to the Federal Convention because he is a
celibate, whose continent example will purify the morals
of the ordinary political persons. Admit we hadn’t con-
sidered that point S.B.P. : But they aren’t funny
j.G. : Not good enough A.A. (Well.): Sketches too
thin for B. ; triolets poor ; other may do R.A. : Point
too small for space L.A.A. : Sorry unsuitable
J.G.H. : Man squashed under tree, and beautiful fire-
works of imagination coruscating around him.
Keera : Too technical. You would describe the pattern
of Juliet’s stocking Philip B. : Napoleon has alreadly
died a lot more poetically. T’other flat and old-fashioned.
E.M. : Send “Esther” to some domesticated little
paper Bob B. : You are a dull dog, Robert
Tarampa : Small, melancholy little hymn with sore feet
mercifully put out of its misery Botanical: Bulletin
tries hard and generally manages to steer clear of feud 3
between past billet-holders and present billet-holders
Am. G: Dreary Zelos : Drearier Bourke: A healthy,
able-bodied man has no absolute claim on the community
for food or railway passes. If the community chooses to
give them, it is an act of grace, for which he should be
very thankfnl Saint: Stiff and stale VV. : Too
heavy for Bulletin A.W.R. : You killed him, and
we killed it. Honors easy R.S. : Point only
worth par. Don’t remember yarn Maxillus : Don t
mix poetry and prose in that fashion Avoca
(Vic.) : \Vhere the pumpkins come from ?
Dick : Alas, there’s nothing new under the sun. Also, all
men are liars. It is only now that we begin to feel the
truth of these things Pedro :It is true, Mr. Hollis
asserts that the Redfern railway interlocking arrange-
ments are deficient. But why does he not state precisely
where and how ? What/s the use of talking at random?
D.T. : Cricket has been played for money in England :
according to W. W. Read’s book, even Oxford and Cam-
bridge used to have thousands sterling directly depending
on the result of their games H. : The little paper
espouses the cause of the Q. Parliamentary squad, and
cheerfully assumes that they are all the Labor Party—
ignoring the Worker and the organised unions at its
back F.D.A. (W.A.) : Thanks. True Bill : Good
story, but it wouldn’t do in print. J. Blundell : The
Bulletin’s federal ticket will appear in the issue of
February 27 M.N. : Great Scott. Is there another
place besides Cairns where the white man takes off his
hat to a Chinaman? E.J.E. (Perth): Thanks ... C.C.
(Vic.) : Law can’t be cheapened and yet remain good that
way. To let anybody and everybody practise law,
whether he knows any law or not, and draw wills and
conveyances, would only fill the profession with quacks
like the trance healers and patent-medicine fiends and
bogus cancer specialists and debility frauds who hang on
the outskirts of the M.D. profession. And there are quite
enough legal ignoramuses already Tooan : You’re a
nice bard to help along a good cause :
When Federation’s wings shall shield us as a hen
Her tender chicks from other birds of prey,
Our flag's inscription with a cockatoo
beside the emu and the kangaroo.
Why not have the large, hairy spider and the tick on the
flag also when you’re at it? W.T. (S.A.): Not much
thrill in it .Mosquito: Received, with thanks
Rem (Norseman): Five pages, mostly about the “ glorious
orb of heaven” and such-like golden bosh. Heaven is
supposed to be overhead. The sun is as often underfoot
as overhead. Underfoot is where hell is supposed to be.
Please consider this point cgrefpjly J.B.D. (Hay-
market) : The two offices differ much in size, but they are
about equally strong. In some respects, would prefer the
Widows’ Fund Microbe: Why do people walk in g
circle where there are no landmarks to guide them? The
world is full of unsatisfactory explanations. It is ascribed
to everything, right down to original sin and the cussed?
ness of inanimate objects J.O. (Harden) : You get the
whole moral aspect of everything in one sheet of paper.


H-P-K-F-S.
Our Handkerchief Department has been
enriched with the following :
Ladies’ Fine Muslin, rich emb. edge - 3/9 doz.
Ladies’ Fine Lawn, tucked & hem-stitched 2/10J y. doz!
Extra Fine Lawn, special designs - 3/9 y, doz!
Extra Fine Lawn, lace & tucked borders .6/9 y doz.
Have you had a copy of our Autumn and
Winter /Fashions Book ?
W. T. WATERS 4, CO.,
Thb Leaders of Fashion,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
Whho©
. . CURES . .
Indigestion
Mr. A. M. MOMSEN, 568 Geo. St., Sydney, writes
I have been ill so often and so long that I had
given up hopes of ever getting better.
The first dose I took of your “ WAHOO ” gave
me relief, and from that time I began to get better,
and to day I can eat meat and other food WITHOUT
ANY AFTER SUFFERING. I sleep well, and in
fact my whole system seems changed for the better,
and I am sure that it is ENTIRELY DUE TO YOUR
WONDERFUL “ WAHOO.”
2/6 PER BOTTLE (Dose 15 drops).
ALL CHEMISTS, or post free trom Loasby’s
“Waboo” Mfg. Co. Ld., 171 Kent-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Feb. 16, 1897.
My Dear Myee—
The little clique that is never happy unless it is
prostrating itself before some “Hon.” is now
sending around circulars inviting subscriptions
from the Nicest to buy a present for the approach-
ing marriage at Govt. House. A deep-set craving
that exists in the breasts of most newly-married
couples to have their house filled with fast-tarnish-
ing electro-plate and multitudinous d’oyleys, is to
be assuaged from a general fund temptingly in-
vited by the statement that amounts of subscrip-
tions will not be mentioned, but “lists of ladies’
names will be presented with the presents.”
High-toned wording is tautological at times, but
the meaning gets there all the same when the bait
of having one’s name gazed at gratefully by vice-
regal eyes is held out to the “ presenters of the
present.”
The China departed on Saturday afternoon in a
burst of popular excitement with a thronging pub-
lic gazing awestruck at the- notables and refusing
to leave the ship after repeated warnings of the
bell; finally the distracted stewards had to sort
out the non-passengers and hustle them off the
decks. There are so many titles booked by the
colossal liner that a plain “ mister ” will feel quite
lonesome aboard. Most of the local magnates
going ’Ome by her to celebrate the “record reign ”
have had each his or her little farewell shivoo pre-
vious to departing. A chastened form of farewell
was bestowed on Lady Windeyer and her three
daughters the day before in Quong Tart’s rooms
by the W.C.T.U., when a presentation was made;
the meeting broke up with prayer and fasting at
the latesome hour of 7 p.m. Another passenger is
the brilliantly-gilded Miss Concord Walker, who
will get to England ahead of her subsidised mili-
tary detachment.
Owing to a narrow official devotion to quaran-
tine red tape, a recent distinguished visitor has
been as much worried as if he were a small-poxed
Ninevite. He was a large, spotted canine who
played dog to “Great Men” Lee’s Bismarck.
The trouble began at the border and was pro. tem.
settled by Toby having a first-class carriage to
himself with a man attendant. As he was wanted
for the Palaoe performances, Shark Island was
considered too remote a retreat for the histrionic
quadruped, and after much letter-writing a private
quarantine-ground was marked off near Rand wick
where doggie was allowed to display his spots and
bark at the public through specially-erected wire-
netting. Then his owner objected to the small-
ness and crampiness of the dog-house, and so the
myrmidons of the law took the animal back to
Shark Island and H. Lee used to travel backwards
and forwards in the Govt, launch to see his canine
pet, who was once visited in his retirement by
Cora B. Potter herself. The end of it all was a
staggering bill from the Chief Stock Inspector.
After haggling, the amount was reduced by about
one-half before owner, dog, spots and all left on
Monday per Zealandia.
The photograph-beauty who is helping the
“ Zenda ” boom along in Melb. by appearing for
the first time on any stage, has faced the camera
more often than any other woman in Australia.
Every sun-artist of any renown has peered at her
from under his black cloth, and more or less accur-
ately reproduced her delicate profile. Her family
is alleged to be indignant at her imitation of the
professional careers of Mrs. B. Potter and Lily
Langtry, and an irate parent personally expostu-
lated with her manager, but as the lady is married
and has hubby’s consent she can snap her fingers
at parental wrath.
Melb. society matrons and maids helping to
boom “ Zenda ” by appearing in the court scene
are all adoring the new stage-manager, who is
connected with a leading Nice family, and works
harmoniously with his sassiety supers.
The news of Butler’s arrest was first distributed
about the same time as the morning’s milk, and
women dashed madly out in every sort of hastily-
snatched garments, and finished their dressing
with one eye on the looking-glass and the other on
the latest particulars. Now, they are all chewing
their pen-handles in search of inspirational views
on Federation, which, for the present, has quite
ousted Butler as a topic. Vague and tentative
mistiness, spread out in a thin veil of no meaning,
characterises most of the utterances of the Even-
ing News Sibyl. The really straight-hitting is
made by those who prophesy disaster as a result
of proposed union. So the Delphio oracle was
always vague, because she spoke generalities, but
Cassandra was vigorous because her unbelieved
utterances always foretold evil happenings. It is
much easier to be fluent in abuse than in praise.
Candidates in search of telling phrases won’t find
much illumination from reading opinions of
women, given simply as opinions of women. To
find out a woman’s opinion on any subject, it is
only necessary to know her point of view, but
paragraphs in the vein of “I think that Federa-
tion is in the air ” don’t suggest a point of view.
Monday’s American boat, the ancient Zealandia,
had quite a theatrical send-off. Lottie Moore,
who with her husband was among the crowd on
the wharf, proved that a young woman with clear
complexion and bright hair can triumphantly wear
a ga,B-green tulle veil. Emily Soldene was au-
revoiring friends and announcing her intention of
leaving for ’Frisco per next boat. Carl Hertz and
wife left, also many others of the profesh, to whom
such extensive bouquets were handed up that the
passengers had the air of sitting under their own
vine and fig-tree. But the most gorgeously-
attired of all was a youthful Melb. pressman on
his way to ’Murka. His button-hole bunch was
so huge that he blushed unseen behind it.
The Brassey yacht, Sunbeam, hastily ran into
Port Jackson in a scared sort of way last week,
and put ashore Lady B. and belongings. The
Maoriland cruise was about the most thrillingly
adventurous that the much-travelled cockleshell
has yet undertaken, and, after a spell of wild
weather and lost bearings, and other terrors of
the deep, her Ex. was glad to go to the mountains
for a few days to recuperate and proceed home
unobtrusively overland.
In Maoriland, during the Brasseys’ visit, the
Vic. Governor’s special train was delayed an hour
in starting on one occasion, thereby clashing with
the time-table, and keeping the main passenger
train waiting longer than even the patience of
Maoriland railway travellers can stand. The
weary waiters lurked about the station, and
amused themselves by hurling abuse at all
Governors and all railway departments. When
Brassey’s train arrived, one elderly lady leaned
out of her car-window, and emphasised her disgust
by flourishing her antique brolly, and glaring
menacingly at the vice-regal party until the train
disappeared.
The disinterested ticket-seller who moves around
in sassiety with high-priced pasteboards to dispose
of for theatrical and other benefits, relying on his
or her —it is most often her—victims’ wish to shine
as a patron of the “drammer” for financial sup-
port, is now thwarted. A much-pestered citizen
has discovered a plan to unite economy with a
show of liberality. He buys the tickets and then
forwards them to the regular booking-office, offer-
ing the seller a bonus on each one sold, thus pre-
serving the grateful thanks of the profesh and
working his free-handedness on a sound commer-
cial basis.
From Manly to Newport is one of the favorite
rides for bicycling tours. Every week-end sees
parties of perspiring youths and over-heated girls
scorching along the roads, with chaperon plodding
devotedly in the rear. Mrs. Grundy has not been
altogether killed by the bicycle, and, rather than
let her girls go off in parties unwatched by her
coldly-correct eye, she has taken to bicycling her-
self. The scorching tourists don’t object; it is
always quite easy to puncture a chaperon.
Among new music received is a chirrupy new
setting of “The Lark now leaves her watery
nest,” by W. H. Bell, with skylarky effects in the
accompaniment; and a tuneful request is to “ My
Darling to Sleep.” “My darling,” after cen-
turies of abjurations, ought really by now to have
a seven-sleeper power of slumber. This appeal is
from Adrian Ross, and is set to music by Lar-
delli. “Love’s Noel,” by H. Bunning, has an
effective top-note ending.
Advance plates of coming modes, sent out by
leading drapers, show that the skirts are still to
be fluted, with as many godets as the purse of the
wearer can run to. Also, trimming is creeping on
again by degrees in the form of bows and little
flounces. Bows need to be applied with discre-
tion. At a ball I saw a tall, elderly girl in pink
with graduated black velvet bows up one side of
her skirt, dancing with a little man with a high
waltz-step, and as he pranced around his partner
he looked exactly as if he were climbing up a
ladder. Flounces I observed very prettily applied
on the gown of a lady who was seeing some friends
off by the American mail-boat on Monday, and
she had a ’cute arrangement for keeping her hat
straight by means of the old-fashioned and
despised elastic band concealed beneath those
little fixings under the brim called in Paris the
cache peigne. Next wintey hats will God-bless the
Prince of Wales, as the three feathers tower aloft
in all the models. A glance at the underwear
page impresses on the eye the knicker working its
insidious way into most wardrobes.
The Sydney and suburban hospitals have en-
rolled names of over 1000 women and girls
anxious to find employment as nurses. Probably
99 per cent, of them would snort with indignation
if asked to take a place as “ general ” or house-
maid, where the work would be much less
unpleasant, but is dubbed menial, and therefore
shied at by worked-up enthusiasts who wish to
toil hard at their “mission in life ” —and keep con-
spicuously before the public eye in a noticeable
uniform. The objection of woman to be bossed
by woman is not so stringent when the position is
semi-public as when the boss feminine is frankly
called the “ missus ” and not “ the matron.” And
nurses’ hours are regular, though long ; there is no
restriction as to evenings out, and the young man
is not carped at by an unsympathetic employer.
An eleventh-commandment competition was
lately held by some Yankee newspapers. About
which a distinguished traveller tells how he was
interviewed in New York one evening by a young,
beautiful and blushful lady-reporter wishing to
get the light of his intellect on the biz. of com-
mandment-manufacture. He confessed that his
brain was unequal to the “ sudden demand,”
“ but,” he added obligingly, “ I should have no
objection to delete one or two of the original
ten, if that would meet the case.” The inter-
viewer thanked him and bashfully withdrew, and
next day he found his suggestion among a string
of answers from all denominations from the Sal-
vation Army to the Mormons ; it was to break the
other ten.
Peak Hill, Westralia, rapidly rushes towards
civilisation. The first barmaid has arrived there—
now the inhabitants are clamoring for a church.
The pioneer Hebe was the cause of immense ex-
citement the day she arrived—far more, writes my
informant, than will probably be caused by the
advent of the first resident clergyman. Every
man had washed his best shirt, greased his locks,
if he had any, and otherwise adorned himself, and
was waiting on the coach route, ready to hand her
down.
Writes my Melb. correspondent:—
“Dresses on dummies have all the same limp
and rag-baggy look, and even the displayed-
beforehand ‘ Prisoner of Zenda ’ costumes in the
shop-windows had a droopsome air, which disap-
peared entirely when the gowns were seen on the
wearers at the first-night triumph, with the
adjuncts of white arms and necks, diamond
coronets, and waving plumes. The court scene is
an authentic understudy to a Buckingham
Palace shivoo. The hero in the prologue
wears glittering white satin embossed with
gold; when stripped for the duel, he showed
a lace-ruffled shirt that suggested possibilities for
an evening blouse to every woman in the house.
In the coronation scene the society beauty scores
by her leap into the air as the cavalcade approaches,
showing any quantity of pale-blue silk hose and
satin slippers. Rumors of fabulous sums spent
on Princess Flavia’s gown were apparently jus-
tified by the splendor of Ada Ferrar in the part.
The play is well managed, even ‘ shouts outside ’
being realistic.
“Baronet Clarke’s wife is preparing for a
mighty effort to establish a fever hospital in Mel-
bourne with the thanksgiving donations of Her
Majesty’s loyal subjects this sixtieth year of Her
Majesty’s gracious reign. Lady Brassey lately
got at ‘ loyalty ’ to the tune of £15,000, or so, for
the local Blind Asylum, and under ordinary cir-
cumstances the new Yictoria Hospital scheme
wouid go begging all in vain. But level-headed
Mrs. Clarke comes along at the right moment with
a capital cause, which carries a good business
name. ‘ Yictoria Hospital ’ for the good of the
public and the glory of the Queen ! It is an in-
spiration.. Moreover, Mrs. C., by long and honor-
able service in hospital booming, has earned a
right to come to the front, also Lady B. is off duty
just now, anyway, and taking one consideration
with another, the Blind Asylum subscribers are
mostly sorry for their rashness in sacrificing so
many bawbees on the altar of Guvment ’Ouse.
They must either repeat the dose, or stand re-
vealed as uncharitable snobs.
“A while ago Gov. Brassey was captured for the
foundation-stoning of a Presbyterian kirk in a
small suburb of Melbourne, at which there was a
goodly meeting of the clans, and an orthodox
silver trowel (value three guineas) for the star
performer. His Ex. promised a cheque for ten
guineas (profit of seven guineas to the blessed
cause), but this is not forthcoming thus far,
wherefore the grave elders and the little minister
are sore distressed on the question of how to send
a gentle reminder. Lord Brassey will please
accept the above as a g.r.
“Chancellor Brownless, of Melb. University,
has distributed as wedding presents hundreds
of his photographs during the past few years.
It is refreshing to find that the souvenir,
as a rule, was reproduced upon the hearts of the
happy pair. There is a movement on foot among
the varied classes of portrait-holders to fete their
St. Anthony in royal style on his 80th birthday,
which happens soon.
“ Never has a Melbourne Christmas season been
so prolific of seaside scandal and rocky revela-
tions. The moralists, from a point of vantage at
the doors of their three-week-rented cottages,
have taken note of the proceedings and returned
to town to make up their black-books. One cries
out, through the columns of a morning paper,
that surely Melbourne murders supply enough
sensation, without the youth (both sexes) of the
colony, painting things red in the heart of
nature’s loveliness. As a fact, at certain sea-side
places there was an outbreak of continental
bathing, and the carousals at fashionable hotels
became fast and furious on sundry occasions.
“ Archbishop Carr rules his army with ‘ the iron
hand in a silken glove.’ He is very watchful, sees
everything, says little, but acts. As soon as a
young confessor appears to be making himself too
sociable with his flock he is removed to another
parish, and if two or three devout married ladies
be observed to move after him the Archbishop—
well, the rest is Roman Catholic mystery terminat-
ing in absolution.
“ The late Baron von Mueller has enjoined his
executors to publish two vols. descriptive of his
connection with Melb. Botanic Gardens—of the
directorship of which he was rather unjustly de-
prived. The first will be a biographical sketch,
the second a bibliography of his writings. They
are to be profusely illustrated, and a copy of
each is to be presented to every learned society
throughout the world. The Baron himself had no
‘method in his madness.’ Every room in his
old house in South Yarra was found choked from
floor to ceiling with valuable litter, from which the
required material had to be disentangled. Rev.
W. Potter, who has the heavy task in hand, is a
well-known litterateur. He still edits the Aus-
tralasian Schoolmaster and Literary Review,
which he founded 18 years ago.
“Unlike the lucky sister and brother of a
defunct rich widow, the late Salmon Wilson’s
relatives are said to be still vaguely irritated on
the subject of his testamentary falling-off. The
Churchill marriage came expensive, and no matter
how he dealt out the dust there never seemed any
kudos to spare for poor old pa-in-law. Even his
wedding-gift to the bride of a gold ewer and wash-
hand basin gave food for mirth to the recipient’s
clan, who never tired of suggesting resemblances
between the toilette operations of their kinswoman
and Hood’s ‘ Miss Kilmansegg of the golden leg. ’
‘ ‘ People do hit on queer ways of spending their
dollars. When dear old dead-and-gone Mount
Morganaire Pattison launched out in Brisbane in
the height of his riches the first thing he bought
for his new house in the Bananaland metropolis
was a gorgeous bed, price 100 guineas. Visitors
to the abode of the then Treasurer were always
granted a glimpse of the four-post tabernacle
where amidst plush and gilding their host en-
shrined himself nightly.
“ To return to the Churchill - Wilson couple :
the bridegroom got very angry at his first vice-
regal ball in Melb., when an obscure individual,
propped against a wall, asked him, in all inno-
cence, ‘Do you admire Lady Sarah ? ’ ‘ Lady
Sarah Wilson’s husband, at your service !’ replied
young What’s-his-name, with the sort of bow one
reads about in books. ‘Hardly a .fair question,
then, I suppose ? ’ listlessly hazarded the imper-
tinent, but he was vouchsafed no answer.
“ One of the richest station-owners in Victoria
looked a little put-out the other month when one
of his managers, a tried and trusted servant, an-
nounced his intention of getting married. After
some demur, he agreed to build a cottage, and,
later on, forwarded a piece of plate as his contri-
bution to the wedding-gifts. Hardly were the
young couple settled in their new home than the
boss made his first call, and gave the bridegroom
notice to quit. ‘ Retrenchment, deah boy !’ he
explained affably, though he took little pains to
hide the truth—viz., that he preferred bachelor
employes. Now the wedding-presents are packed
away for brighter days, the bride is back with her
mother, and hubby has gone off to the West in
search of employment.
“Melbourne fashionables, male and female,
now air their family crests on the ribbon-bands of
their sailor hats.
“ Twelve more or less smart Melbourne girls left
for France last week, it is said ‘to embrace the
religious life,’eight of them being booked for the
Convent of the Faithful Companions, whose
branches are at Richmond and Kew, Melb. It’s
about time the worldly young men of that city
began to wink their other eye in protest against
these marriages. What is the A.N.A. thinking
about ? s
. years ago, certain masculine, short-
haired, theosophical ladies were advised by Mahat-
mas to bore for coal on the Red Bluff, St. Kilda
Melbourne. About .£BOOO cash and 4000 ft of
borings have been put into the venture and about
80 tons of rich ocean mud and excellent road-metal
taken out, but no coal. Owing, perhaps, to the
sordidness of financiers or infidelity re Mahatmas
raging in Melbourne business circles, the creditors
have now seized the Mahatman plant.
“ The christening of Pursey Chirnside’s son and
heir was the occasion for a gathering of a whole
mob of nice people’ at Werribee, as well as
farmers and tenants who were attracted bv a free
feed. Little Percy Errol Fortescue—as the
youngster was named-had to put up with a good
deal of kissing, and bawled all he knew. Mrs
Chirnside, who is pretty, looked proud and happy •
and Pursey was congratulated on being a father in
strains of adulation which, if you took them
seriously, might lead you to believe he had done
something which exceeded the most sanguine
anticipations of all who knew him.
“Miss Lily Snodgrass, injured in a recent
tram-dummy sensation in Melbourne, is now im
proving m health, and stated to be explcted
shortly to recover completely. ” xpected
Yojirs affectionately.
CLEO.
, ?l he i^ vfc ' a PP eal of Simon Fraser, M.L C
to the Federa electors of Victoria, appears in this
issue, and will interest any whom it may concern
Stated that an Australian Premier recently
had the bailiffs in his house for city rates, and that
when he went to row the town-clerk on the subject
he was shown to the door.
Crowned heads of Europe have always
given their royal patronage to Ed. Pinaud, of
Paris, but never so much as lately ; his perfumes
are now recognised as incomparably the best in
Europe. The biggest hits of Ed. Pinaud have
been “ Violette Reine ” (quite different from
“ Rhine Violet ”), and “Preciosa,” the sweetest
and most delicate perfumes ever made; in fact,
they are known everywhere as the quintessences
of the richest flowers grown in France, and are
sure to be rushed by everybody.*
Perth Morning Herald now has a special
reporter in Adelaide to wire through all Eastern
news. Until Feb. the three Perth dailies had
a joint service for interprovincial telegrams
because of the limit of 500 words each put
upon them by Govt. Now the duplicate wire is
through, however, they have launched out into
unlimited competition.
At a recent M.L. inquiry into the conduct
of a made-in-Germany school-teacher charged with
kissing and fondling his female assistants, the
culprit, who admitted the kissing, excused himself
on the ground that “it was a custom of his
country.” But it wasn’t explained why the cus-
toms of one’s country should be carried on behind
a door with a chair against it.
Item from Premier Reid’s famous Melb.
speech : “ The people of Victoria were trekking
to N.S.W. and Westralia every day.” Item from
N.S.W. State statistics for 1896, published other
day : —Arrivals in N.S.W. from Victoria, Queens-
land, and S.A., 58,860; departures from N.S.W.
to these three provinces, 60,661.” Which way is
the “ trek ” going?
Ash, M.P., who, as a newspaper proprietor,
was ruined by a libel-action and so forced into
politics and the law, has entered proceedings for
criminal libel against the editor of the Weekly
Herald, the official organ of the S.A. Labor-
party. Apart from other considerations this is
awkward because Premier Kingston (Ash’s busi-
ness partner) has the solid support of the Labor
members in Parliament. The alleged libel
is of a purely personal character, and has refer-
ence" to an action brought by Ash against a
domestic servant who engaged to enter his service
but left without notice.
H. r “Read the touching episode about
the late Dr. Tracy in a recent Australasian. When
,£5OO straight was offered to him for prolonged
and devoted attendance in diphtheria cases on a
poor family which only received this £5OO as a
windfall by legacy, he refused to take any fee
whatever. Tracy was keener than any Mel-
bourner in keeping his finger on the pulse of
medical knowledge. Yet he would show off with
his operations at the Women’s Hospital before a
score of his rivals, whereas nowadays microbology
forbids the presence of one unnecessary spectator.”
The Queensland Minister for Mines in-
forms the Brisbane Ministerial organ, unofficially ,
that his selection of chairman to the Royal Mining
Commission of one who knows nothing whatever
of mining is only objected to by one of the Com-
mission. It is, however, too absurd to believe
that the other members of the Commission, who
are all experienced miners and represent mining
constituencies, can agree with the Minister that
the best qualification for the most important posi-
tion on the Commission is absolute ignorance of
the subject.
Purves, Q.C., canvassing as a Federation-
candidate, is disgusted to find his Nationalist
utterances of some time back remembered against
him, and fiercely declares his love for the Throne
and Person, and his determination to have Crown-
brand Federation only. Her Majesty gives the
learned Q.C. complete satisfaction in all respects
but in sending us for Governors men who do not
want to “ boss the job.” With Federation, he ex-
pects a Governor-General like the Governor-
General of India, “ men who speak with authority,
and who, in claiming anything, say ‘ it must be
done.’ ” There should be no mistake about the
loyalty of Purves after this. What he wants is a
Federated Democracy bossed by an autocrat.
J. S. Harrison writes ;
In your issue of 30 ultimo you state “ One Harrison
writes to say . . . the same scribe alleges that the province
will also lose its ‘ outstanding assets secured on lands ’—
whatever the assets may be and however they came to be
‘ secured.’ The assets referred to amount to the large
sum of about fourteen million pounds stg., being the un-
paid balances due on land conditionally purchased from
the Government and safely secured, the deeds being re-
tained until the principal and interest have been paid. I
think you will now see the correctness of my assertion.”
The Bulletin admires the gall of the last sentence.
What Mr. Harrison asserted was that if N.S.W.
federated it would inevitably lose the above
.£14,000,000 of “ assets secured on lands.” Now,
no Federationist that this paper knows of has
even suggested that the Federal Government
should take over public lands and unpaid balances
thereon, and no one can compel the Parliament
and people of N.S.W. to ratify a constitution
which didn’t leave the land revenue for provincial
purposes, and it is absolutely certain they wouldn’t
do so even if asked —and no one has asked or
thought of asking them. Moreover, Mr. Harrison
doesn’t even attempt to show how his absurd
bogey will come to pass ; he only says, on his own
unsupported authority, that it will come to pass.
In which respect he ranks with the prophets who
announce the end of the world for 1899. And
when he thinks that this paper “ will now see the
correctness of my assertion ” he only shows the
awful effects which thinking has on a constitution
that isn’t used to it.


Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
*<**•*•
:
Si ; •
Tam.
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Pcal^rS,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Filins Developed and Printed Send for Price Lists.
IBADE
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W BALCHLN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The estate of the late Mrs. Silas Harding
has been valued for probate at £204,000.
They say Pastor Fitchett has arranged so
that he no longer draws both ecclesiastical and
secular revenue.
Mirams is now never seen with an um-
brella. By the way, Parkes said he despised men
who carried umbrellas.
S. Australia and Tasmania have each two,
and N.S. Wales has three, knights standing for the
Convention. Victoria has six knights and one
baronet.
Carl Blucher, an old Buninyong (Vic.)
identity, who claimed blood relationship to Mar-
shal “ Forwards,” was found dying in his hut the
other day.
Education Minister Cockburn (S.A.) seeks
to secure the reversion of the S.A. Agent-General-
ship. Mr. Playford will not stay in England after
the beginning of next year.
Melb.’s richest widow (£20,000 a year),
now in Heaven, had, it is “ reported on good
authority,” given her hand and heart to the genial
skipper of an ocean tramp.
ARTHUR STREETON, Artist.
Photo., Falk Studios.
The ex-Victorian, Donald Larnach, who
died in England in May last, left personal pro-
perty in Victoria valued at £7450, and in the
United Kingdom at £619,935.
Semi-reverend G. W. Smailes, M.L.A., of
N. married, the other day, a grand-niece of
African explorer Livingstone. • Smailes is reading
for the Bar and expects to be shortly admitted.
The “oldest living native,” John James
Gangel, died the other day at Hobart, aged 90.
His father was an army sergeant who came out in
the Calcutta at the foundation of Van Diemen’s
Land.
“Tourists’ ” cloth caps will now go out of
fashion, as black satin dresses went out of date
after Mrs. Manning wore one as her gallows toilet.
As sure as fate, cloth caps will now be known as
“ Butlers.”
Prudent - patriotic - policy Heydon once
•spoke for four and a-half hours in N.S.W. Leg.
Council against a divorce bill. Every member in
the chamber slept, including the then president,
John Hay.
It was the portrait published in The Bul-
letin which unearthed Leischeit, erroneously sup-
posed to have been among Butler’s alleged victims.
Leischeit’s employer at once identified him from
the print and informed the police.
Premier Reid will be 52 on February 25.
He landed in Australia (in Melbourne) in the year
’52, and he computes his present staunch Free-
trade (so-called) following (apart from Labor sup-
port) in N.S.W. Parliament at 52.
A gentle correction : An Adelaide news-
paper man ringing up “ Montefiore,” the residence
of Mr. Way, asked if “ His Honor the Chief Jus-
tice ” was in. Reply : “The Right Honorable the
Chief Justice will speak to you in a minute.”
The late Chief-Justice James Martin’s
eldest maiden sister died the other day at Brendon,
near Glen Innes, the residence of her brother, G.
Martin, P.M. Miss Martin was 73 years of age.
Another maiden sister, almost as old, still resides
at Brendon.
Rev. C. F. Priddle, late of St. Luke’s,
Liverpool, one of the last of the N.S.W. ecclesias-
tical pensioners, died last week. The dead cleric
was nephew of Dr. Wardell, the barrister, mur-
dered by Jenkin and Tatterdale on his estate at
Petersham in 1834.
Rochford, New Guinea prospector, who
was reported missing, has turned up safe and
sound. He will find his obituary-notices in
Northern papers highly interesting reading. One
of them gave Rochford a whole column of quite
picturesque biography.
John B. Thurston is the second Austral-
asian Governor buried in Melb. general cemetery,
Charles Hotham (1855) being the other. Apropos,
all the dead Chief Justices of N.S.W. are buried
in their province, while but one of the Victorian
O. is interred in Melbourne.
Hansardian : “ All attempts at a list of the
Victorian knights have failed. How soon the
hobby-horse is forgotten. Complete : Barry, Ben-
jamin, Berry, Davies, Duffy, M‘Bain, M‘Culloch,
MTntyre, M‘Mahon, Madden, Mitchell, Moles-
worth, Murphy, O’Shanassy, Palmer, Sladen,
Stawell, Turner, Verdon, Williams (2), Wrixon,
Zeal.”
It doesn’t seem to be generally know n that
Mr. Justice Hodges, of Vic., was a clergyman
before he abandoned divinity for law. His name
used to appear in the clergy-list of some years back
as “ the Rev. H. A. Hodges,” but the title seems
to have fallen into abeyance of late.
The curator of Hobart Museum had to in-
terview another civil-servant on business. “ Tell
Mr. ,” he said to a bright youth in the outer
office, “ that the curator wants to see him.” The
bright youth entered the inner office with :
“ Please, sir, the Creator wants to see you.”
It is a matter of deep regret that Austral-
asia’s ablest and most enthusiastic avowed Re-
publican, Inglis-Clark, the Tasmanian Attorney-
General, having had to go abroad in search of
health, cannot take part in the Convention, to
which he would assuredly have been elected.
“ Wouldn’t you like to be buried in Aus-
tralia ? ” someone asked Henniker Heaton during
the latter’s recent visit. “ I’d not be the first
Australian to be buried in Canterbury,” replied
Henniker ; “ Governor Gipps is buried there, also
Broughton, Australia’s first Anglican Bishop.”
Premiers Seddon, Turner, Forrest, and
Nelson are as good as booked for Joe Chamber-
lain’s magnificent suite of rooms in Jabez Balfour’s
palatial Hotel Cecil. There is still hope of cap-
turing Kingston, and Reid’s refusal once, twice,
and even a third time will be taken as coyness.
If it is definitely decided that Way, C.J.,
must go to England to represent Australia on the
judicial committee of the Privy Council, it is prob-
able that Judge Boucaut will be the new S.A.
Chief-Justice, and that Insolvency-Commissioner
Russell will be promoted to the Supreme Court.
Sydney’s ex-Mayor Sammy Lees, inter-
viewed on his return from the Under-world :
Paris is gay and brilliant, and the Parisians know how
to do things ; but their traffic is in no way regulated as it is
in London.
And that is all about Paris. O, the municipal
soul !
Leith Napier, the boycotted Adelaide Hos-
pital doctor, who is allowed private practice by
Government, has so profited by the advertisements
given him during the recent row that he is now
drawing higher outside fees than any other man
in the city. None of the other imported doctors
have the privilege of outside practice.
Talmage, marrying the millionaire’s
heiress, fetches to mind Grattan Guinness and
Joe Symes in Melb. A newspaper organ of the
Y.M.C. A. asked why Joe was not happy-looking,
like Guinness. Symes replied, in the Liberator,
that he resembled Christ in his melancholy look,
but he would look as happy as Guinness if, like
him, he was going to marry an heiress with
£30,000.
Arthur Streeton, artist, off to Greece and
Italy by the Polynesian, was bom in Victoria
midway in the sixties. He is no servile imitator
of any school; follows no beaten conventional
track ; and his originality is his work’s distinction.
He delights in the joyous, sensuous side of
nature ; portrays arcadian dreams and pastoral
symphonies, animated, rich in coloring. Conser-
vatives call him impressionist—which may explain
why his picture, “ Golden Summer,” was “ skied ”
at the Royal Academy, and at Paris Salon
was hung on the line, while the artist received
“ honorable mention.” Three of Streeton’s
pictures hang in N.S.W. Art Gallery. The Melb.
Gallery recently purchased his Hawkesbury River
picture exhibited at the last show of the N.S.W.
Society of Artists.
Melbourne’s hand-
somest clergyman is to
marry shortly the pretty
daughter of a leading
medico.
Dear Bulletin, —
H.F.’s remarks re the wide
difference between religion
and morality are borne out
in the case of that holy de-
faulter, James Ed ward
Geake, the Daylesford (Vic.)
lawyer. Geake in the box
preserved complete confi-
dence in himself as a saintly
man, and scattered frag-
ments of Scripture and fer-
vently religious ejaculations
about the court. He was a
convicted criminal, he le-
vanted when out on bail,
and let in the dear friend
who provided the recog-
nisances, and was certainly
guilty of many mean frauds,
and yet it was impossible
to disbelieve that the man
regarded himself as a suffer-
ing martyr, and was certain
that if it pleased Providence
to call him hence at that
moment he would go sail-
ing into Paradise unques-
tioned, and would find an
extra superfine robe, a
jewelled crown, and the
whitest and widest wings
in stock, all awaiting him.
The person who is both re-
ligious and moral is usually
an ascetic. Religion and
morality, far from being
inseparables, only associate
on sufferance. —S.S.
S. : “I was on Spencer-street (Melb.)
platform the other day, seeing a friend off by the
Sydney express, when my curiosity was excited
by the conduct of many porters and gold-braided
officials, who were bowing and scraping and buzz-
winking about the windows of a carriage lower
down. The station-master was particularly atten-
tive, and was ably seconded by the head-porter,
who was backed by various grades of porter, down
to a humiliated half-and-half who humped lug-
gage. The full strength of the dept, gyrated
round that carriage till the train started, and
even then a zealous officer chased it along the
platform. As it passed me I saw that the com-
partment contained some members of baronet
Clarke’s family. Who says the Australian
character is lacking in veneration ? ”
Premier Kingston, asked whether he
would accept the invitation to the Record Reign
celebrations, answered : “ The Opposition would,
no doubt, like to catch me * tripping ’ ” He is
not going to England, The Bulletin hears, despite
the Register’s assurance that there is nothing to
prevent him doing so.
EQUAL TO THE EMERGENCY.
BRIDGET: "I'm reading here about ' Ultima Thule of Stagedom.'
Who was she?”
MICK: “A darlint of an actress. Twinty year ago, just afore I
cum to this country, I seen her play the Colleen Baton in
Cork. ”
Marsden, whose estate surrounds the old
Blayney (N.S.W.) copper-mine, was buried, as he
strictly enjoined before death, in the cap of the
lode. Rather a good idea to be interred in the
ground which yielded your pile. Old George Lan-
sell, the Bendigo mining millionaire, might do
worse than be buried in the bottom level of his 180
mine. He never goes down ali ve, and oan have
no objection to being taken and left down when
dead.
CROSSED IN LOVE,
TACHELOB VISITOB: “What’s the matter, Maudie?”
MAUD (crying): “I told the girl next door I was going to marry
you, and she said you’d be dead when I grow up. Boo-hoo!”
“ Has this chap ever seen active service ? ”
said a London journalist to a newly-arrived Mel-
bournian, showing a card inscribed “Major
Neild, M.P., office of the Agent-General for
N.S.W., Victoria-street, Westminster; Commis-
sioner on Charities for N.S.W.” Perhaps not;
but his brother read the burial-service over the
murdered Burgess the other day.
Judge Windeyer once remarked to a very
junior member of the Bar who was opening his
case confusedly: “I wish counsel when addressing
the court would try and put their facts in order.
Chronological order is the best; but I’m not
particular. Put them in some order—alphabetical
order, if you like.”
Queensland railway de-
partment has a “ principal
assistant engineer ” named
Pagan. Why not call him-
self “Queenslander ” with-
out disguise ?
Millionaire Thomas El-
der (S.A.) is now practically
dead, but the Geographical
Society, on behalf of Borch-
grevink, are trying to get
from his trustees the <£5000
he promised several years
ago towards the expenses of
the Nordenskjold Antarctic
expedition.
People wonder why the
Argus so strenuously avoids
giving publicity to the name
of J. L. Purves (its own
special legal champion)
whenever it can be avoided.
Even in the list of Federal
Convention candidates the
name of J.L. appears at the
final, reluctantly sand-
wiched in between the illus-
trious names of Lormer,
J.P., and the eloquent
wharf orator, Flynn.
Melb. Herald suggests
that Premier Turner could
go ’Ome, put in an appear-
ance at the Queen’s longest-
reign corroboree, and get
back to political business
all within the space of 12
weeks. Such haste were
very inconsistent with such
a mission. If Turner in-
tends to burn incense at the
altar of Himperial Federa-
tion, as Mrs. Turner fondly
desires, he may as well spare
p c 'w days for dallying with
t e duchesses of the Prim-
rose League.
Cowra local item : “Yesterday Mr. John
Fagan sold 60 prime bullocks off his Mulyan
estate, Cowra, at a high figure. Their destination
is Coolgardie, via Adelaide.” Mr. Fagan was
the driver of the Forbes gold escort when it was
stuck-up by Gardiner and gang at Fugowra. He
keeps the hat he wore that day as a souvenir. It
has a bullet-hole in it.
Mr. Angus Mackay, N.S.W. Lecturer on
Agriculture, has received an invitation to transfer
his services to the Victorian Government, and this,
it is said, he intends to do. Mr. Mackay once
edited the Queenslander and afterwards the
Town and Country Journal. He was a member
of the Queensland Parliament for some years and
unsuccessfully attempted to enter the N.S.W.
Assembly.
The fact that S.A. Chief Justice Way
practically appointed himself to that position over
the heads of the other Judges in ’76 is sufficient
excuse for excitable Tories to anticipate a similar
action on Premier Kingston’s part should Way
reside in England. The desire to see such an ap-
pointment is principally the foundation for the
rumor, however. Kingston, as is well known, has
no ambition other than in politics.
Melb. : “ Suddenly Thurston lays his
bones among us. Our cemetery receives a distin-
guished guest. It gives me a pang to reflect that
not one person in a hundred knows anything
about him. There is not in Melb. necropolis the
clay of another man so eminent, What kind of his-
torical education do we give our boys ? I suppose
you may go through all the State schools and find
not one has ever heard of Thurston.”
The S.A. Govt, are hard nails. The Edu-
cation Department makes a profit of =£l4oo yearly
out of the school-books written and compiled
(mostly in his leisure hours) by the late Inspector-
General Hartley and handed by him gratis to the
State. Yet, monstrous to relate, the Cabinet is
now haggling as to whether the compensation to
be paid his widow in return for the copyrights
shall be £750 or <£soo. Mr. Hartley, at the time
of the accident which killed him, was entitled to
eight months leave on full pay (or the equivalent
of ,£600).
Alfred Saunders, a teetotal god of the late
Maoriland Parliament, relates that in the early days
members’ grog-scores contracted on the steamer-
trip from their homes to and from Wellington
were paid by Govt. “ Nestor ” Saunders being
sea-sick was assured by a sympathetic friend that
champagne was a certain cure. He did not try
it, but the other passengers thought the suggestion
so good a joke that they had their drinks charged
to the helpless Saunders. His grog-bill that trip
was the largest on record, and shortly afterwards
the privilege was stopped.
Is it a subtle Jewish joke—that letter
from Rabbi Davis recommending Cardinal Moran’s
Federal Convention candidature ? The Bulletin
has been trying to read between the lines of the
Rabbinical pronouncement, but so far has got no
“ forrarder ” in its ponderings as to why Patrick
Francis the Cardinal should be in such special
favor with the representative of Moses and Co.
The good old story here obtrudes itself: “Lay
me in the Hebrew burying-ground, Father,” said
the dying Irishman to the priest. “ Why, my
son?” enquired his reverence. “Because,” said
poor Pat, “ it’s the very lasht place in the whole
worrld that the Divvil would look for an Irish-
man. ”


"BREAKING IT GENTLY.
Joe Chamberlain : “Your Majesty, I have bad news for you—Heaven help you to
bear it ' Here’s a letter from George Reid saying that he can't come to your
record blow-out! ”
H M “ Heavens ! then we may as well drop the whole business.”
Gallek : “ Brown, you appear to be worried ; what is it 1 ’
Brown : “ Well, I’m trying to figure out my share towards paying ior those 10.00 Q
* casks of Freetrade cement,”
■ ~/
K » h
D
% "
DAN O’CONNOR’S LITTLE GHOST. \
“ In China there were 400,000,000 people hungry for an
extensi >n of territory. The plague of locusts which at-
tacked the Egyptians would be but a circumstance to the 'v
invasion by hordes of these people.” _pA/vs F//>fr4yTfvM S/=o, c^
! rlie P, ' enuer cannot see his way to visit England in
or er to take part in the celebrations connected with
the Cueens record reign.”
s. 1 raps George’s vision will improve later on.
Dibbs : “ What! not to oblige a lady*! ”
OVERHEARD IN CABINET.
Jack Want : “George, a happy thought strikes me! Let me
represent you at the Queen’s record celebration. I should
not be missed ”
Reid : “ But —but Her Majesty does not live in Japan I*
“At a special meeting of the Council of the Churches, held on
Wednesday, it was resolved ‘That this council considers it of
the utmost importance that in the Constitution for Federated
Australia there should be a recognition of God Its a Supreme
Ruler; and that provision should be made for such acts of
Common worship as should be deemed suitable in a legislative
body.’ ”
The ground would be covered if Cardinal Moran could see his
way to take up a collection from time to time during the Conven-
tion.
E \\o —/\ 1 a'S <o VQ^(t
y: <y /00 <?, y/?/7r
jy'&ar ejjes
/Trz CguZco\T
Zco#eco *ffo
-^t^A
CARTOONLETS.


THE PENALTY OF REFUSAL.
The view taken by most of the Premier's colleagues with respect to the invitation issued by the Secretary of State to the politieal heads of the several colonies is
that it virtually implies A ROYAL COMMAND. If Sir George Turner should ultinately agree to go to England, it will chiefly be because this view has p[?]vaded
with him."-Melb, daily paper.


OLD SAWS RESET.
“ the pennies ’’—for a pound of - □ Silly
□Silly Tea.
“Once bit” —always gaten
Granuma,
“ One man may take a horse to the water,”
but unless he is an ass himself he will
always drink
□Silly Tea.
GRANUMA “gathers no moss,” but it makes
muscle.
GRANUMAandEODAH and pureBILLYTEA,
The more they be taken the better you be.
GRANUMA cures Indigestion.
BILLY TEA prevents all ailments.
“ TRUTH is always best.”
BILLY TER is TROTH.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
William Fleming.
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Stock, and to A.vrive —
BAND SAW MIRLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
__ __ ENGINES and BOILERS
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY, ’
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS, ° WS
cm —l* ING ’ S RELIABLE BUGGTPS
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
~^° r ' U , r ' her Part !cular s Prices, &c, apply^to—
MORRISj LITTLE & SON LTD.
BONOASTEB, ENG., and MELBOURNE, '*
BTANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney: GuLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney JAMFS MTOiw tx. ° R
Geelong; P. LEARMONTH & CO., Hamilton; A. HARRAP & SON, Launceston, Tasmania; ROBERTS <fc (Jo Ltd Hobart T -®^ e^ourne
Kingston, S.A.; QUEENSLAND MERCANTILE CO. Ltd., Brisbane; BLACKBURNS & Co’., N.Z.; M‘Beln. ’bOWKER Kh
JiiKU-uSON GO AJoi j & (JO..
Perth, w!l. Ad6lalde: J °HN GRICE & OoJ
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Government by caravan” is the latest
name for Premier Reid’s proposed moveable
federal capital.
S.A. Register is trying hard to depose
Copley from the leadership of the Opposition and
to put up Solomon in his place.
Argus again : “Everything is possible in
a democracy.” No — the Argus would be im-
possible. But first catch your democracy.
Miss Catherine Spence (of South Aus-
tralia, where the sex enjoys the Parliamentary
franchise) is the_ only woman nominated for the
lederal Convention.
Cardinal Moran’s Federal Convention can-
didature is a result of the adulation he received at
the mock-convention at Bathurst. An outcome of
Flattery—and Slattery.
Barlow, the odd-man-out in Q. Ministry,
has publicly confessed that the main object *f the
Q. delegates to the Federal Council was “to put
the brake on to the Federal movement.”
Gillies has started in to save his country as
soon as he got back, and the name of old Talking
Duncan lo»ms large and conspicuous in the list of
Federal candidates. Duncan has been saving his
country all his life, and he can’t get over the habit.
Wallace Nelson’s satirical skit in the
People’s Newspaper (Rockhampton, C.Q.) on the
press-comments about the Q. labor split reads like
very fine irony; but, all the same, it is a wasted
endeavor to cover up an actual rift before that rift
becomes a chasm.
Cardinal Moran’s consent to nomination
for the Federal convention was nicely timed to
upset the Orange cart. Before they had time to
think, the nomi nations closed, and Brother Wheeler
lost his chance to jump into the fray with book
and sword and yellow sash.
Cardinal Moran : “Religion must be the
base of the Australian Commonwealth ”
A base of many rocks, of rubble stone,
Without cohesion, mouldering here and there;
Smooth, rounded rocks that cannot stand alone,
And will not stand together anywhere.
During 1896 the Maoriland Government
collected a land-tax of £274,372 ; income-tax,
£93,371. These figures show an increase over
1895 of £7OOO land-tax and £3) '0 income-tax.
The sort of increase which breaks it gently to the
old land kings that they no longer rule in Maori-
land.
“ Toby ” Barton is the proud possessor of
Uie biggest Federal Convention nomination-paper
in Australia, with 4188 signatures upon it. Car-
dinal Moran is a good second with 3999, and R. E.
O’Connor, Carruthers, and Lyne follow. Only
100 signatures were needed ; the rest are advt.
and frill.
Liberty, the National Ass organ, is against
old-age pensions. “ When the people were left to
themselves,” it says, “they provided for their own
old age.” Query : What is about the date of that
good old time that nobody has ever heard of, when
people provided for their own old age? Also,
when were people “ left to themselves ” ?
Premier Reid, just returned from whoop-
ing up the fiscal ghost in Melbourne and raising Cain
generally, says that he “ will not imitate Messrs.
Lyne and Copeland in their perpetual breaches of
the friendly understanding arrived at by intro-
ducing the fiscal question in any of my addresses.”
What a beautiful development of Aminadab
Sleek-ism !
Hobart merchants went mad for a railway
to the West Coast, and rushed the famous grid-
iron Bill through Parliament. A Zeehan priest,
Father Murphy, at an election meeting the other
day, referred to the matter as “The pathetic
insanity of people who look for commercial salva-
tion in the paradise of a foreign syndicate.” Good
for Murphy.
One probable effect of Chamberlain’s invita-
tion to Aus. Premiers and their wives and families
to picnic in England at Bull’s expense during
Queen Victoria’s reign-record celebration will be
that Q. Premier Nelson will hang on to office by
his eyebrows till after the event. Old “ Never-
mind ” will mind for once, and Mrs. Nelson says
amen. Another effect will be that Q. Home
Secretary Tozer will cabal more sinuously than
ever.
S.A. is thinking, more-or-less indefinitely,
of building a line from Port Augusta to the
Westralian border, 553 miles, provided the W.A.
Government can see its way to build the other 470
miles to Kalgoorlie. As the Forrest crowd, how-
ever, wouldn’t even build a line to give the gold-
fields an outlet to Esperance Bay, in its own terri-
tory, lest the boom should thereby be shifted from
Perth, it will probably wait till the universe is old
and toothless before it voluntarily makes a trade-
outlet vid the next province.
■ way in which Premier Nelson is
going on is certainly estranging all his former
intimates, who would beg him to resign but for
the f eared results of the consequent battle—Tozer
v. Byrnes.
Hobart demo-
crats asked Maoriland
Premier Seddon to
deliver an address on
adult suffrage and ad-
vanced legislation as
practised and experi-
mented upon in the
Land of the Mo a.
The burly one (also
his wife) told thedepu-
tation he would like
to help in that way,
but—well, what would
Tas. Ministers say to
the proposal ? Some
Ministers raised no
objection, but the
wily Braddon gently
disapproved and
pushed the point of
etiquette successfully
home. Braddon
doesn’t want an agi-
tator of Seddon’s
weight going about
disturbing the folks in
the Land of Sleep aLot.
Out of about
9200 N.S.W. civil ser-
vants who contribu-
ted to the Superan-
nuation Fund, 6300
have withdrawn with-
in the last year and
ceased contributing.
The pensioners and
the old men who will
shortly become pen-
sioners stick by the
fund religiously, but
the people who supply
the money have de-
parted pretty unani-
mously. All these
6300 are entitled to
get back their con-
tributions with 3 per
cent, interest when
they leave the service,
but the signs are
that before most of
them retire the Super-
annuation Fund will
be extinct, and the
claim will be as hard
to collect as Pontius
Pilate’s p.n. at 20 cen-
turies after date.
Vic. Labor-party has formulated a political
platform in 14 articles, with the most important
one left out. The party wants, besides Federa-
tion, one-adult-one-vote, the referendum, progres-
sive land-tax, State bank, a State Department of
Labor, courts of conciliation, the maintenance of
Protection, eight-hour system, minimum wage,
old-age pensions, income-tax, tax on Asiatics, and
no further alienation of land. And the reform of
the Vio. House of 48 Rich Landlords, which is
the one thing wanted to gain all the rest, isn’t
even mentioned.
“DOUBLE OR QUITS."
PARSON (to crippled mendicant) : “I would have liked to give you a shilling,
my poor man, but I find I have nothing less than a florin.”
HIS POOR MAN : “ S'pose we toss up to see who keeps that!”
A BACK SEAT IN
AUSTRALIA.
STOCKRIDER : Hi! mister,
come on!”
NEW-CHUM : “ Haw ! Can't,
don’t yer know, my
bridle's getting too short.”
A sidelight on the Queensland political
situation is that Brisbane Telegraph backs At-
torney-General Byrnes as the only member of the
Ministry who possesses a backbone, while the
Courier and Observer beslaver Tozer and
“ cotton to ” the Labor-members. Meanwhile,
Figaro, a weekly run chiefly in the interests of
squatters and banks, is feebly approving all round,
and waiting to see definite signs of the “third
party.”
Sydney Evening News approves of Car-
dinal Moran’s Federal Convention candidature.
The News’ famous “Ominous Silence” leader of
five years ago is now, in these days of rapid jour-
nalism, matter of ancient-history.
The last batch of N.S.W. Federal candi-
dates to get in their nominations were the Prudent
Federationists —Heydon’s Mangy Dog party, so-
called from its handbill with the parable about
the healthy dog and how it unwisely federated
with the other dog whose hair had all fallen off
owing to a disagreeable skin-complaint. Just 15
minutes before closing-time on the last day of.
nomination their representative burst in with five
nomination-papers, and while they were being
handed over the door closed. It was a close thing,
but the Mangy Dog party got there all right.
* Unusual interest is attached to the recess
stumping of Q. Labor-leader Glassey this month
on account of the alleged ravine he has jumped
politically and of the scandals concerning the
Tozer-Labor cabal. When last heard from ofassey
and his daughter were having tea with Gov
Lamington. The Bulletin doesn’t say an alleged
Labor leader can’t consistently have tea. with a
Governor, but he requires to do it very artistically
if isn’t to leave marks on the paint, as it were. *
At Sam Hordern’s farewell, the other day,
Attorney-General Want jeered at “the leather-
lunged political orators whose sole ambition was
to get £6 a week.” This shows the fine nerve of
Mr. Want, who draws .£lB2O a year public money
for about four months’ work, and, even in these
four months, insists on making as much more as
he can at his private business.
They cut things fine in S.A. Treas.
Holder is mournful because the expenses of the
Federal Convention, inclusive of salaries, which
are fixed at £2 2s. a day for each representative
for the whole term of office, will swallow up all
his expected surplus. By raising the income-tax
exemption from £125 to £l5O he sacrificed £7OOO,
which would just about have paid the Federation
exes.
It was almost to be expected of Q.
Attorney-General Byrnes that he would “ give
away ” the cheap-labor fetish of the Q. Fatman.
The first electorate that took this young man to
its political bosom was Cairns —Cairns, that takes
its hat off to the Chinaman, that sends gifts to the
altar of Joss, that dances at Ah Scab’s wedding,
and that stands godfather to the piebald progeny
of Cow Lee.
That amiable cattle-salesman, Brunker,
M.L.A., announces briefly, for no reason assigned,
that a Federal railway system is “impossible.”
The Bulletin reports with equal brevity, and for
the same reason, that Brunker is impossible, and
always has been so, and that there never could
have been such a person as Brunker, and leaves
things at that. Brunker is now abolished, and
there is no such individual any longer.
Dear Bulletin, —If you want to “work
the oracle” in the Q. Civil Service just now, get
the loan of a Labor M.P. Especially so in any
department under the Ministerial control of Home
Secretary Tozer. It’s more than half the battle.
Ask anyone in the Govt. Printing Office. Ask
also in the railways, which are under “ Bob ”
Philp and Commissioner “ Bob ” Gray. Ain’t
*it curious, though ? —Yours, Ux (Brisbane).
’Frisco Chronicle :
. . . the murderer (Butler) for whose head the Aus-
tralian Government offers many hundred pounds .
It is only British and American papers and people
that have any idea of Australian nationality. To
ourselves we are N.S. Welshmen, Victorians,
Bananalanders, and Westralians —to the outside
world we are Australians, and the Chronicle
thinks there is an Australian Government.
Writes “ A Tasmanian ” :
The Bulletin alludes to Gov. Gormanston and hii
difficulties owing to the small salary voted him by the
Tas. Parliament. Can you not go a step further and
suggest that each Australian Parliament should follow
Tasmania’s example and limit Governors’ salaries to a
still greater extent? The position then would not be
worth having by nominees of the English Government,
and it is possible that the office would soon become ac-
ceptable only to those elected by the Australian people.
Once that principle received general acceptance by the
Australias and England, a sufficient salary could, I think,
be voted ungrudgingly to enable the people’s choice to
carry out his functions on a scale proportionate to hi*
position and the province’s finances.
The Q. Ministry which some people
(chiefly people included in it) hope to see in the
next two years:
Horace Tozer, Premier and Home Si cret try.
Charles Lilley (place not fixed).
J. G. Drake, Attorney-General.
Thomas Glassey, Minister for Labor.
Robert Philp, Treasurer.
A member of the Labor-party is to get the Post-
master-Generalship, and Groom possibly the
Lands —while Byrnes and the Worker gnash
their teeth in unison but not in harmony. (Here
take in Bulletin smiles.)
Last week a wild, whirling cablegram ap-
peared in the daily papers telling about a great
battle in some snake-infested region of western
Africa. There was half-a-column of blood and
shriek and (verbatim) “desperate fighting,” and
furious attacks by “hordes” on the gallant
British squares. Then it transpired that a man
named Thomson had been killed and six men
were wounded—some of them, no doubt, by their
own comrades. All that howl and disaster and
gore, and only one corpse named Thomson at the
end of it!
H. : “ Carlyle, in ‘ Heroes,’ says it is all
humbug to suppose the time produces the man.
How often, he adds, do we see the time go to rack
and rum for lack of the man? No Higinbotham,
Wentworth, or even Parkes, appears at this junc-
tiire, with commanding utterances, on Australian
Jrederation. Our leaders are excellent Bourgeois.
Ihey play the ball down too much. A striker is
called for some Jack Lyons of politics. The head
is catered for, but there sadly lacks a man of
heart, just one, to set the bonfire ablaze. Some-
one, for a test, who will start the women talking
about Federation. Some Mirabeau. Send him
along, ye Natives.”
Tasmania, after many deficits and with a
huge accumulated shortage, has just come out
with a little surplus of £50,000, arrived at by
charging a much larger amount of current expen-
diture to loans. Therefore a demand goes up
throughout the province for an immediate reduc-
tion of the income-tax and land-tax, which are
declared to be very burdensome.” It is the
same dd story in three chapters : (1) Australasia,
as shown by the State statistics, is the richest
country in proportion to population on this earth;
itl wU S - S ?^ e rf ly P °°- tha f', lt can,t afford to pay
3 a l’ W 18 80 miserably stone-broke that it
d anythm £ without borrowing the money
from a poorer country to do it with The usual
soured „ a^ oufc country’s “magnificent re-
sources closes the proceedings.


“While the Billy Boils,” by Henry Law-
son, with eight plates by F. P. Mahony, is already
m its fourth thousand, and may be had from Angus
and Kobertson, Sydney. Post free 5/6.*
ARNOTT!
The ABNOTT Biscuit
is always recommended
for its
PURITY!
No imitator can reach
the ARIKTOTT standard.
Carefully avoid imitations of
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
The Children’s Food.
a
ctr
a
ia
git
wmt
5^3
LU
xr3
LO
5
va
IHE
3XTA.MB
, . OF . .
PALING & CO.
ON A PIANO or other Musical Instru-
ment is of great value, as it is a synonym
for experience, progress, probity, and
superlative merit.
Paling & Co. being the Largest Dealers
in Pianos can buy cheaper than other
houses, and this IS THE REASON they
give 20 PER CENT, better value.
A careful examination of their Large
and Varied Stock will demonstrate that
their PIANOS and ORGANS are pre-
eminent in all-round merit and intrinsic
value.
Lp Lipp & Sopti's
"fej.
lS ?
SE3
g
<35
Ce
J)
%^=K£>)
CS^D
c_^<3
Tbe Steioway,
Tb* BriijSnjead,
Tbc Lipp Piapos,
cannot be excelled in touch or tone,
and they are triumphs of mechani-
cal skill, constructed with special
regard to durability. In beauty and
chaste elegance of design they are
FAR IN ADVANCE of competi-
tion. Special attention is directed
to the other Pianos, which are
equally good value, namely, the
JULIUS FEURICH, CARL
ECKE, GORS and KALLMANN,
UEBEL and LECHLEITER,
“VICTOR,” “BELLING,” the
ESTEY ORGANS. Catalogues sent
Post Free. EASY TIME PAY-
MENT TERMS.
W. N. PALING & CO., Limited,
SYDNEY, AND AT NEWCASTLE &. BRISBANE.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
I
Oo
ROTHERHAM’S ENGLISH LEVER.
Hand finished, full-capped English Lever, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest, and
best time-keeper ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B—
—4, 5, 6 years’ guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or Keyless, £2, £2 10s. Short
Wind Keyless, 7s 6d and 12s 6d. Superior quality, 20s, guaranteed. Gold
Levers, £4, £5, to £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherham’s Levers, Waltham’s, and
Waterbury, at 25 p.c. less than other houses.
m
mm
m
( (v
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. 9c. Solid-Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Pure Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
. c/T:Ar;v s
ajpawir
Q>» *' : " n "
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
mmmm
a r,
Gold 2-bar Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s 6dt
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond, 30s.
Diamond and 2 Rubies, 355. ; 3 Diamonds, £2.
6 different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s.
15c. Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and 6s.
flte:.. ,„31fa3yij
Ofeii'iimJlll
'■ ..I
Gold 3-bar, Red Stone, 16s 6d.
18c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s., £3. Price to size of
stone.
SAVE
5S to 7S 6D
in the Pound.
I SELL DIRECT
from the
Makers to the Public.
PAA
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Bedstone, 12s 6d
b
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Kubies or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
ilWi
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18c. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heavy, £2.
k r; >
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 20s.
18c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds, 3 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
5 pure Diamonds,
£i 10s.
Pure Silver Plate on White
Metal, 20s.
Send for illustration.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 I Os, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Ladies’ 3 Sapphires, 2
Diamond Ring, 18c.
Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6;
all Diamonds, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £B, £lO, £l2
10s., £l5, £2O. Price
according to size of
stones.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel-
lined, 3s 6d, 4s ; case,
Is extra.
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
Red Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s.
Any jNaine.
9c Solid Gold, 17s (id. 15c., 25s and 30s. 18c.
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
’
iPIEW
QBBMi
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds, £3. Diamond and
Ruby, £2 10s.
Gold Brooch, 2-Bar, 15s 6d.
150. Solid Gold Double Buckle, 30s.
Send for
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST.
All Goods Duty Paid
to all
Parts of Australia.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
giM&mmXs&i
iPS*
Watch
Repairs
Guarantee' l
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting: Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
wzms^rno
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. .o.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s-
-355, 40s. Send for size card.
ii,llhMiil!!ii,s36>
irti v s-fr
Cgiiilftllllliiaiillll
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s. *
15c. Gold „ 32s 6d.
Solid Gold. Any Name or Initials, beautifully
engraved, 10s. Extra strong, 12s 6d.
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
Wat dim a her, Jeweller,
and Direct Importer,
815-817 George-st.,
opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
Dear B.—Done at last. Euchred by a
squatter. We always used to get down the
chimneys of locked shearers’ huts. In the Albury
district the newest chimneys have barbed- wire let
into the brickwork and crossing the flue. Next
year a howitzer, loaded with Liverpool salt, is to
be placed enfilading the track from the travellers’
hut to the kitchen. The firing is to be managed
by clockwork and electricity, arranged at irregular
hours and connected with the telephone batterv
Yours, S. the W.
Writes an Australian in London : “ A
starved-looking, miserable man, with a filthy face,
rain-sodden garments, carrying a basket on his back
half-filled with refuse kitchen garbage ; a woman,
slatternly, dirty, and redolent of gin, carrying a
diseased-looking infant in her scraggy arms, come
outside your window and sing (?) —
’Ail to Jesus, Prints hof Peats,
’E vvus born to-d-a-y, to-d-a-y.
Hand hour ’earts his flit with joy,
Glory to ther noo born King.
These are ‘ Christmas Waits ’ singing outside
your window, and they’ll wait till you give them
something—or sing on.”


“ Pain is nothing but the cry of a suffering
nerve for healthier blood.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
M LEAN
UP-TO-DATE,
9
LOWEST PRICES.
BEDSTEADS. BEDSTEADS.—French, Italian, and Half-Tester. Latest Designs in
Nickel and Black, Brass and Black.
COTS. COTS. COTS. — Strong, Cheap, and Latest Patterns. The above goods we
are offering at Special Reduced Prices.
BABY CARRIAGES. BABY CARRIAGES.—Latest American Styles and Finish.
Well Upholstered. Newest Designs. Fitted with Wood or Tinned ; Metal
Wheels.
GO-CARTS. GO-CARTS. Single or Double. In Bamboo or Wood ; fitted with
Rubber Tyres.
WRINGERS. WRINGERS. WRlNGERS.—Strongest and Cheapest in the Market.
Suitable for Household or Laundry Use.
APPLE - PARERS. APPLE - PARERS. —To Pare, Core, or Slice. Suitable for
Domestic or Factory Use.
LAMPS. LAMPS. LAMPS. New Styles ; 1897 Patterns. Suitable for House,
Shop, or Public Halls.
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LIMITED,
Elizaloetli Street, MELBOUHKTE.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.
PRIZES —£2SOO
GRAND EXHIBITION.
EASTER
I4tl> to 20tb APRIL, 1897
PRIZES—j§2SOO
PRIZES—J“2SOO
PRIZES—^2SOO
On 20tli will be held a Monster Federal Naval and Military Tournament.
Prize Schedules and all information from
F. WEBSTER, Secretary,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
A-lsaolutely Destroys Ticks and Lice. Cures and Prevents Sca"fc> and Footrot.
Nicotine Mange Cure (in bottles), -|-pts., 1/6; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles),-J-pts,, 1/6; pts., 2/6 each,
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 63 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
MENZES
L,
MODERNISED & RENOVATED at a cost of £30,000.
The MOST PALATIAL FAMILY HOTEL
in Southern Hemisphere. m , ,
ierms from £4? 4-s.
MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL ALLANCEMENTS may be made by writing to the Manager.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE
And. see that you get it.
NETTING,
*7
Our Netting is CHEAPER- and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
LySIGHT BROS. * GO.
LIMITED.
msm
mmmm
wnim
9je*99JL#em
ramni
«MUIM
imilija
MOSKM
ft**
w/
PROO
Otj
eY
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application,
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices—
Bligb Chambers, Bliglj-St., Sydijey.
W orks—
Parramatta Rs^cr.
“The household virtues do not teach
charity any more than the love of a tigress for
her young makes her a domesticated animal.”—
L. E. Austin.
-tie cyclones. Nevertire (writes a Bulletin
correspondent) is not the only Australian township
that has been bashed by a whirlwind. Bowen
(N.Q.) was in the track of one in ’B5, and traces of
it still remain. A 700-ton steamer was lifted up
about 40ft. into the main street (!). A gigantic
buoy weighing 30cwt. was blown 100 ft. up Mount
Lindsay, where it still remains, and the telegraph-
poles for 30 miles were snapped like carrots
During the storm a resident was blessed with
twins, and they are known as Windy and Gusty
to this day. The Bowenites got such a hurrying
around generally that they have never tried to
repeat the experiment in their daily habits. Even
now, when the S.E. winds get extra strong, they
anchor their houses to trees and take to burrows.
Yet another Bananalander tells this paper that in
destructiveness to the square mile and the calendar
minute a certain Bowen tornado (which followed
the ’B5 calamity) lasting three minutes only and
cutting, as it were, a clean swathe through the
township, just about beat the record.
G. F. Hopkins, who suicided the other
day at Adelaide, was a man of many experiences.
He was a clerk, a mounted policeman, a clerk
again, a labor leader and public agitator, an aider-
man, a mayor, and a M.P. That was the high-
water marie of his success. He was a reasonably
able but rather erratic politician for six years ;
then he was successively a railway detective, a
custom-house officer, and manager of a wine mer-
chant’s business ; then he was short in his cash,
and last of all he took a billet as a successful
suicide.


Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
!ATest& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 20, 12 noon.
Konoonaria, Tuesday, Keb. 23, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 20, 12 noon.
Cargo only for these ports.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Feb. 23, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Feb. 23, sp.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 20, 2p.ni,
Barrabool, Tuesday, Feb. 23, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 20, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 27, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through, at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
—THE—
APELAIPE STEAMSHIP Co.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Friday, February 26.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)
early in March.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Friday, February 26.
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) early in March.
ESPERANCE BAY j-Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. South Australian, Friday
February 19.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
England via
by the
AMERICA
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at i p.m.
I I
Leave.
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
MONOWAI
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
3158 April
3158 )May
March 15 March 20
12 April
10 May
April
17 May
15 June
8
6
3
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIKTIIEK UKIMICEH KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, .Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over =£lo
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
Cable Address—RiEMSElL.
Code—Mokeing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges ol
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK &. SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. „ 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
John DEacg^regfor
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office) Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman ; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
Acting General Manager : Walter Vardon Ralston.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New South
Established 18X7.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET,
Wales.
SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ..
1,946,940 0 0
1,190,250 0 0
1,946,940 0 0
Total 5,084,130 0 0
Directors:
Jambs Richard Hill. Esq., President.
Jambs Reading Fairfax, Esq.
The Hon. Charles Kinnaird Mackbllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison. F. W. Utker.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other hanks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
J. Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, d) Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... "" £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed <£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
l7 Bond Street, Sydney.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £‘4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,656,825 17 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 93,174 210 .
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
— 2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Auditors: W.H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
SEWING MACHINE.
■ ■ PRICE 10/6.
PRACTICAL! STRONG ! CHEAP !
A Child can operate it. Impossible to put out of order.
The “BABY” is a perfect little lockstitch Sewing
Machine, well made and finished. Warranted to sew
equal to any other machine offered. Fitted with Patent
FINGER PROTECTOR, making it absolutely impossible
to get the finger under the needle, insuring children
against accident, liable with other machines.
Sent complete in neat wooden box, properly adjusted
with Thread, Needle, Cloth, and everything necessary to
begin sewing, and full instructions, to any part of the
colonies on receipt of P. 0.0. for 10s. 6d.
THE POSTAL SUPPLY CO.,
Box 12SG, G.P.0., Sydney.
13 s " Money returned if not satisfactory.
MAKES AN ADMIRABLE PRESENT.
CURRANS PATENT SAFETY POCKET.
SECURITY
AGAINST LOSS and THEFT. For right to use apply
Fred. W. Landau & Co.,
TAILORS,
79 King Street, Sydney.
Call and see this valuable invention for Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s use.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
Soutli Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
MAORILAKTD.
Mrs. BOND’S CreSceijt Hotel,
INVERCARGILL,
IS
“The” Health Resort
FOR AUSTRALIANS.
THIS HOTEL AFFORDS
A HOME FOR
VISITORS.
Charges Strictly
Moderate.
Coffee Palace.
THE LARGEST HOTEL in TASMANIA.
S. T. SUTTON - - - Proprietor.
Launceston,
Tasmania.
TOURISTS DREADING
a SECOND HEAT WAVE
SHOULD SPEND THE
SUMMER at....
COOPER’S CRITERION HOTEL,
WHERE THE MEAN
TEMPERATURE last JANUARY was 75°,
Against Bourne’s 120°.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
T'lin ders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rpOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
- 1 - Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves —and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Steamer.
o
Commander.
Sydney,
1 p.m.
♦China ...
•Massilia
•Arcadia
•Par’m’tta
•Ballaarat
8000 P. Harris
5026 R. Harvey ... Feb. 27
6608 A. C. Log-in Mar. 13
4886 C. F. Preston Mar. 27
4890 T. S. Angus 'April 10
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
noon.
Feb. 20 Feb. 24
March 6 March 10
March 20 March 24
April 3| April 7
April 17'April 21
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £B5 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - motley can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,055,281 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Lishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gotrford (with aeency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
IQSGraQC€ Co.
(LIMITED).
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also insured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Mates very Loiv.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager,
T. J. (tILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
BALLARAT.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SUA It-EH It OKEJt.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK Si SHARE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 311. Melbourne.
£io <n £l5
ALLOTMENTS
RIGHT AT
BELMOKE STATION,
23 minutes from Sydney ; selling fast, because Belmore
is the site for Manufactories that will supply hundreds of
workmen. Torrens Title. EASY TERMS— £I deposit,
ss. Monthly. Over 140 lots sold last few months.
Plans— E. C. V. Broughton,
Valuator under R.P. Act,
250 Pitt-st., Sydney.
GAS COOKERS.
THE
'Eureka’ Gas Cooker
Can now be obtained from the
Australian Gaslight Company
By payment of <£l Cash and 10s. Monthly until
paid off. If Gas is in the room, the Cooker will
be connected FREE OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per cent. Discount allowed for
Cash Purchases.
Free Cookery Lectures in Company’s Show-room,
Haymarket, Sydney, every Wednesday afternoon,
at 2.30.
MILLER’S
PURE TASMANIAN . . .
. . . BLUE GUM OIL
OPOISTFRED
Written guarantee that this article is the
product of the Eucalyptus Globulus ONLY,
without admixture or dilution with poorer
kinds of Eucalyptus. Bottles, Is. —all
Chemists. Wholesale: T. RHODES, 108
Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. P. Miller & Son,
Distillers, Hobart.
pi you have a Drink?
A6d Packet CORNELL’S GINGER BEER
POWDER makes 2galls. first-class Ginger Beer
A (id. Packet CORNELL’S MALTONIC BITTER BEER
POWDER makes 2 gal Is light Bitter Ale.
All Grocers, or Post Free Bd. stamps.
W. CORNELL,
Ballarat, Via


Packets
Of
v' -
6*2 D^Ljcars
Pi/alii’
PUR£
r .,., .gWr t l ' lo
/flanuticlured by ■ sr
' J..g,-td) (■-■& i
‘fjQYJZRNE swtritAUAC Mb
■"
Is.
BEST SOAPS FOR WARM CLIMATES.
TOILET Soap
PRICKLY-HEAT Soap,
Pleasantly-perfumed Antiseptic Soaps for Bath or Toilet, prepared with CALVERT’S pure CarboUr
Extract of letter from Fred. I. Mouat, Esq., M.D., late Professor of Medicine in the Merhv.,,l n n 1
Calcutta:— For some time before I left India I used your Carbolic Soaps with 9? lle £ e °j
advantage I indeed. I ceased to nsp. «.nv n+Lpr t fnivnri 11 satisfaction and
CARBOLIC
6d. Tablets, and
6d. & if- Bars.
advantage ; indeed I ceased to use any other. I found none so soothing to the (Mscomfortcaused ! f v Ctioi l , a [ ic
heat, profuse perspiration, and other sources of dermic irritation." K aiscomtort caused by prickly
F - C - CALVERT & CO., MANCHESTER
PILES. —Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free for 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
A delicious cooling drink. The juice of
the lime fruit, as prepared in Rose’s Lime Juice
Cordial, supplies a beverage particularly whole-
some and refreshing in water —effervescing in all
mineral waters and an excellent stimulant
blended with spirits. It possesses valuable medi-
cinal properties, cooling and purifying the blood,
stimulating and assisting digestion. It is entirely
free of spirits. Recommended by the Lancet.
Sold everywhere. Purchasers should be careful
to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others being
imitations.*
Last September (writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent) I was staying at a Belgian seaside place.
A severe gale was raging, and I casually remarked
to my wife: “Looks as if our only Wragge was
about.” The waiter brought the mail. The first
letter I opened was from Wragge aforesaid, saying
that he intended attending the Meteorological
Conference held at Paris last year. He had
reached Paris on the identical day.
District Court Judge Coffey has decided
that under the Licensing Act the contents of a
glass cannot be divided. The point raised by a
woman charged with sly-grog selling was that she
sold a glass of hop beer and, after being paid for
it, poured m a “stick ” of whisky gratis. As the
beer was admittedly paid for, the Judge held that
the whole contents of the glass were paid for.
Why Do Not more Men attend Church?
Indisputably women represent the largest pereent-
age of any congregation. Why? A worthy divine
interviewed a hundred men, and among prominent
reasons for non-attendance were the following :
Criticisms of church, organisation, ministry and
members. Some claimed that the church was not
social; others objected to creeds; while others
claimed that the preaching was not “practical;”
that ministers dwelt upon the supernatural, assum-
ing what the hearer doubts, failing to emphasise
what all believe, taking up the doctrinal rather than
the ethical; others claimed that ministers fail to
reach men because they are too “credulous,” not
taking the scientific method into their thinking ;
others excused themselves by finding fault with the
unworthy church member ; but none of these were
the reason for Mr. William T. Richards’ non-
attendance; for he writes from Moonta Mines,
S. A. : ‘‘ In 1889 I lay swollen with dropsy and
dying with Bright’s Disease. All else failing, and
in despair, I used Warner’s Safe Cure.” In 1896
he writes : “Six bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and
phials of Warner’s Safe Pills cured me, and I have
only lost two days’ work since that memorable
time.” *
S^SSiSSjS
uHl&fcillYii
'V''
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Gd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Go.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. ’
T THE RENOWNED '
“BEBEAH”
Champion Prize Wines,
SOLE AGENT : WM. MCKENZIE,
379 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Strand Arcade. SYDNEY.
F'°!L t ! 1 t PerSOn Wh ° 59 not a ’Millionaire, there ar,
L PAUCES “»-TiT
SYDNEY. One is “THE <KES€E\T situated fin
“Z,°^7 EET (ha ' ldy t 0
KING srSr' St d eet C,,m ‘ c situated 5(
KING SPUEE-E, and near the General Post Office
rrWPlletwr UEO. W. ELLIS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The officials of the Martin-Lewis match, who
disqualified Bilmartin for two years in about 3min.
20 l-ssec., showed their strength of mind by re-opening
the case immediately the public started clamoring that
Martin had not had British fair play or Cochin-Chinese
justice, or something. The hearing was an amusing
function. “ Bill ” was ushered in, and immediately he
had been accommodated with a chair he demanded that
his solicitor should be admitted. This the meeting re-
fused, and Bill instantly left the room for five minutes,
returning to renew his application and plead piteously
that he himself was not smart enough to conduct his own
case. The meeting was adamant, and Bill retired once
more. A few seconds later a belltoppered individual
came in instead and, announcing himself as the legal
adviser of Martin, began an impassioned harangue on the
ethics of cycling. The meeting didn't arise and fire the
interloper out there and then ; it murmured a lot of
objections to “ this gentleman being allowed to enter a
private meeting,” but nevertheless the intruder had his
20-minutes’ say. Then he consented to leave, and the
gentle Bill entered once more.
“I want to know right here what the evidence
is against me,” remarked Bilmartin. It was explained
that no evidence was brought against him ; the stewards
were merely of opinion that his running was cronk, and if
he had anything to explain now was his time. Bill
looked thoughtful for a few seconds, then arose from his
chair and went outside again to consult his solicitor, and,
during the following quarter of an hour, he made three
additional trips to the other side of the door. This began
to get monotonous, and a motion was carried that Wil-
liam would have to stop or go—one of the two. Then
began the fun. Despite Bill’s contention that he was not
smart enough to conduct his own case, he certainly had
no fool for his client —it is questionable whether the
united efforts of the Vic. bar would have been more suc-
cessful than those of the plugger himself. As cool as a
cucumber, with a calm, confident smile irradiating his
iron jaw, he simply held the floor. Instead of the meet-
ing examining William, William examined every member
who had the temerity to speak, and beat him badly.
With a host of cycling precedents at his fingers’ ends,
Bill had one to apply to every charge levelled against
him, and a pertinent, unanswerable question to finish off
the sentence. The meeting was flabbergasted ; Bill licked
it on every point, but its opinion was unchanged with all
the logic of the iron man, and, after sitting from 8 p.m.
to 2 a.m., it confirmed its previous sentence of two years’
disqualification. “I don’t know what sort of a cyclist
Martin’s solicitor would have made,” said one of the
stewards coming away from the meeting, “ but Bill would
have made a tip-top lawyer.” And so he would. The
writer would sooner be defended by Bilmartin than
Purves, if the former had been trained to the law.
Porta was one of Bilmartin’s witnesses during
the reopened hearing of the latter’s case before the match
officials. Porta w%s once asked why the reputed partner-
ship or close professional friendship between himself and
Bill had been severed. “ Missa Martin know too mooch,”
explained Maximiliano ; “Porta joost like leetle baby.”
The Italian has apparently grown since then.
* * * *
The L.Y.A. was verdant and puerile, as usual,
in its hearing of the Bilmartin case. Questioned on the
subject of his alleged winnings, William said it was “an
absolute impossibility to win more than about £40.”
Then William’s trainer stated that “perhaps £5OO could
have been won on Martin, but the backers would have
been ‘ welched ’ for £450.” And the League stewards
listened to this tommyrot without a snort.
If Martin sold his match with Lewis he certainly
didn’t sell it to the larrikins who make what they call
“ books ”at bicycle meetings. No money worth men-
tioning is to be got out of them, seeing that they merely
dabble in silver wagering with frowsy loafers and foolish
shop-boys. A couple of “quid ” paid to an impecunious
rider would be about the full extent of the squaring
that a recognised bike “ book ” could arrange, so when
capitalist Martin and his trainer spoke derisively about
the betting on the course, they should have been pulled
up short by the L.Y.A. tribunal for going wide of the
point. One wealthy juggins, lured into one big wager,
at the Victoria Club or elsewhere, by a registered Ikey
Mo, might suffice to create a bike racing scandal. Two or
three such lambs would more than suffice. The Bulletin
doesn’t say or insinuate that Martin sold his race, and it
is glad, under all the circumstances, that the disqualifica-
tion has been rescinded. It merely states, as a matter of
fact, that under the aforesaid conditions Martin could
make an absolute certainty of finding a liberal purchaser
if he were open to be approached on the delicate subject.
Even Ikey Mo is not a necessary item in transactions of
this kind. Sir Mulberry Hawk, with a Lord Yerisopht to
work upon, can often fix up the result in any kind of
sporting match. Sir Mulberry talks boxing, rowing, foot-
racing, or biking to his unsophisticated pupil, until the
pupil gets excited and backs his fancy for some forth-
coming event. And, lo ! the fancy is stiffened.
Martin’s sympathisers write the most artless
letters to the newspapers, recording the plugger’s heroic
effort to win the 10-mile race under extraordinary diffi-
culties, and taking its genuineness for granted because
he got so close to Lewis at the finish. The weakness of
their reasoning is in the assumption that Martin is as
artless as themselves. What they say of the loser’s per-
formance corresponds exactly with his own statement.
“ When I passed Lewis I was taken along at a rate I
couldn’t hang on to. . . . When I got well ahead I
was trying to get an easier pace, for I felt utterly done,
but they went on, with the result that I had to fall
back, and ultimately lost all the advantage I gained.
Then my shoe came off. ... I first managed to get
it back, but directly I was coming up it slipped again,
and I had to go on with it anyhow. At the end I sprinted
all I knew, but Lewis had too much of an advantage and
won.”
The Bulletin, without charging any dishonesty
to the industrious ’Murkan, will merely remark that many
horse-jockeys have been wiped out for suspicious riding
under circumstances not more suspicious than the afore-
said. Martin’s pacemakers are presumablj’ under control.
When they travel too fast for him he can bid them go
slower. As for his shoe coming off, the fatal occurrence
—accidental or otherwise —is on all-fours with the pro-
verbial breaking of a stirrup leather, or slopping of a
stirrup iron, in a horse-race, and everybody knows that
that may happen by design, as well as by accident. As
an excuse for defeat it carries no more weight than “ the
splendid run at the finish ” which has brought hundreds
of cronk jockeys within an arm’s length of victory. The
business policy of an experienced and crafty battler like
Bilmartin cannot be judged from his performance in a
race unless, of course, he wins it. He seemed to lose this
through ill-luck, but things are not necessarily what they
seem. Martin, in any case, was bound to proceed with
due regard for appearances, inasmuch as a flagrant
swindle would entail disqualification for certain. There-
fore, the merits of the case, as far as common-sense can
estimate them, turn upon the incidental betting. If un-
natural odds were laid against Martin before the event it
may be fairly assumed that some people “ knew some-
thing ” —or thought they did.
After all, the disqualification was annulled, on
appeal to the League of Wheelmen, by 23 votes to 11, on
the ground that the evidence was insufficient to prove that
Martin didn’t try to win. This decision simply means
that the League considers its own officials darned fools,
incapable of doing the work they were appointed for, and,
if the few specially selected from the many are fools, what
about the bulk ? Neither under the V.R.C. nor English
Jookey Club rules is the decision of the stewards amenable
to review by the club committees, it being considered
that the men who were present, and in a position to see
for themselves, are in a far better position for adjudi-
cating than outsiders.
In saying this, The Bulletin does not enter
upon the question of Martin’s guilt or innocence. The
stewards had no evidence against him but what they
themselves saw, and they deemed that to be all-sufficient.
Anybody with sense enough to stop away from
cycle matches in future would know that evidence of dis-
honest running is absolutely impossible to procure. In
fact, the only evidence which could be of any value would
have to be in the shape of a confession from an accessory.
The governing body of any sport must necessarily repose
a certain amount of confidence in its officials, always tak-
ing care that those officials are competent, courageous,
and spotlessly honest men themselves.
Is it true, as alleged by Martin, that one of the
officials who disqualified him had bets on the race ? If it
is, then the court of disqualification was emphatically a
tainted tribunal.
But it is feared that the value of such a man as
Martin would anyhow have been too much for the
cupidity of the League Council, which has more than
once shown that it regards the reputation of cycle racing
as a small thing beside the big gates which the presence
of the Plugger always ensures. To quote the Age
Their hearts were bleeding for poor old Bill
Who had put the League on its legs.
Too tender-hearted were they to kill
The goose with the golden eggs.
However, there is another auriferous goose —the public—
which may refuse to lay again.
* * * *
One indisputable fact that sticks out of the
“ great international match ” scandal is the fact that Ken
Lewis is rather less of a real champion than the busted
Parsons used to be.
* * * *
“ A glowing future is assured for the bicycle for
recreation and for industry. To the pleasure-seeker this
creation of spider-spokes and air-filled tires has become
indispensable.”—(Melb. Argus). The Tory journal is
always a day behind the fair. Within the past month the
Melb. bicycle trade has most unexpectedly “ slumped,”
and the machine’s future isn’t glowing at all. At first
bikes were bought under the delusion that they would
last for ever. A sudden luxuriant growth of bike-repairing
shops set people thinking, however, and now the luke-
warm, would-be purchaser awaits satisfactory answers to
two great questions—What is the average life of a
machine ? and how does its devoted rider look by the
time when he needs another one to go on with ?
* * * »
A Melbourne cycliste has been fined for knock-
ing down and riding over an old man of 70 years. Pro-
bably she couldn’t help it. Women are not too clever at
stopping bikes. Last week a cycliste, running before a
gale along Bunnerong-road (Syd.), met a mob of cattle.
Intending to dismount, she jammed on a hard brake, and,
to the terror of the cows, shot out of the saddle at a tan-
gent right in among their feet, with disastrous results to
nose, gloves, and skirt. Lovely woman should learn to
back-pedal before applying the brake, especially when a
cyclone is making the pace.
• * » *
It is printed that the other day, when the
P. and O. boat left for Bombay, it carried 1400 passengers
of all sorts, and no fewer than 900 cycles. Slightly over
60 per cent, of those on board were therefore cyclists.
• * * *
Two of the best-paying days of the year for
bicycle races are Good Friday and Xmas Day, both of
which the L.V.W. has piously barred for the future. This
rule will lead to a squabble with the country clubs
directly Easter comes, for Ballarat and Bendigo are bound
to kick hard against the deprivation.
* * » *
The acceptance of Ken. Lewis’s explanation was
only what was expected, and the surprise was that it
should have been demanded. His running in the match
was in no way suspicious, and during his long cycling
career his name has never been associated with anything
shady.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —A small boy on a bike, signing
himself M‘G., writes: “ Why do you let that unthinking
correspondent drivel so about the handicapping under
the Vic. League ? He evidently labors Under the delusion
that starts are allotted solely on performances, and that
suspicions of stiff riding and subsequent training-form
are not taken into consideration.” I am the unthinking
correspondent. I drivelled about the L.V.W. handicap-
ping to the effect that Tebbutt, who won his heat in the
Austral Wheel Race, was not penalised for subsequent
handicaps, whereas Jackson, the winner of another heat
in the same “classic” event, was put back 100yds. or
so. And there were other inconsistencies that might
be mentioned—presuming that professional bikism is
worth mention, which I doubt. Now, what’s the
matter with M’G. ? The Austral is a valuable prize, and
the men who got into the final heat showed their true
form on the day, one supposes. If they don’t “ spin ”
for £3OO, when do they spin, anyhow ? In the light of
that form the handicapping for the A.N.A. race, a few
weeks later, was very hard on Jackson and very soft on
Tebbutt, who ultimately captured the stake. Let me put
my little question. Why let M‘G., a hanger-on to the
clique of foolish bike authorities, and a weak-minded
idolator of Parsons, tilt at plain facts in your columns ?
He holds a brief for the defence, and chatters right away
from the point, unless his point be an insinuation that
Jackson rode “stiff” in the Austral final. If so, why
wasn’t the man disqualified by M‘G.’s tin gods who super-
intend the sport ?—Driveller.
* * * *
Cyclist Lesna’s visit to Australia has been a
very expensive failure thus far, but there is seemingly
plenty more money behind the speedy Frenchman.
* * * *
Steward Cathie, who agreed in the disqualifica-
tion of Martin, but subsequently repented, gave the
majesty of bicycle-racing government away in these
words •“ Martin could not have won £2OO, supposing he
took all the wagers, and left none for the public. The
owner of the bicycle Martin rode would not do anything
underhand, and Lewis could not afford to let Martin have
the whole stake.” The bike-owner has no control over
the legs of the man on his machine, neither does Martin’s
defeat touch the question as to whether Lewis could
afford to let the stake go to the plugger, who didn’t get
it. Cathie’s reasoning is full of mystery. But there is a
beautiful clearness about the declaration that an “inter-
national championship” can’t produce £2OO worth of
wagering. At this rate bike-racing isn’t worth a tithe of
the notice it receives.
» * * *
Horses are now so cheap in Adelaide that they
are used as food for pigs, and the Zoo has given over
paying for the old derelicts which are driven down there
for the carnivora to eat. The steeds so treated are not
Carbines, although the lions have been regaled on the
carcases of such racehorses as have come to grief on the
Adelaide course. Probably the people who swallow horse-
fattened pork are not aware of the fact or they would
turn Jews.
* * * *
The Y.R.C. has improved upon its first legisla-
tion re payment of jockey-fees at scale. The clause per-
mitting the new rule to be set aside in the case of
“ special agreements ” is now governed by a saving clause
to the effect that “ copies of special agreements with
jockeys shall be lodged with the secretary of the V.R.C.
and approved of by the committee, and such agreements
shall not be taken to apply to jockeys unless they are
employed in the stable.” Under this rule a boy who
accepts a casual mount from a stone-broke stable will at
least handle the money for same, even though he may be
bounced into promising to lend it back again to his em-
ployer after the race. And the chances are that a little
of the sugar will stick to his itching fingers, anyway.
• * * *
In a Melbourne weekly is issued a page of
photos, depicting the leading bruisers who mash each
others features in public on Saturday nights. No more
delicate compliment could be paid by Melbourne’s lead-
ing society journal to society’s temporary leader, than
this recognition of Acting-Gov. Madden’s penchant for
the ring.
* # * *
The sudden death of Tom Hales’s wife last week
was the result of a heavy meal taken immediately after
an exhausting journey. In fact, Sadie M'Donald’s case
repeated. The tired actress lay down to sleep after eat-
ing more than she could digest, and was “ seized with
pains.” It was just so with poor Mrs. Hales.
* * * *
“ Granny ” Stebbings, who rode Benedict, the
Hobart Cup winner, has ridden a winner in that race four
years in succession.
* • » *
Valiant (Antaeus—Vic) is now well-backed for
Newmarket owing to his easy win in Moorefield Handicap
(N.S.W.). Six furlongs is too short a distance for this
handsome horse to be seen at his best, but over a longer
course he should pick up a good race before returning to
N.S.W.
* * * *
The Caulfield and Melb. Cup flash-in-the-pan
Rosella (Trenton —Pardon) is doing good two-mile gallops
with an eye to Aus. Cup, in which she has but 6.10. This
aristocratic mare has been long “ on the shelf.”
* * * *
Though twice beaten at Sandown Park (Vic.)
last week, the S.A. Newmarket candidate Staffa is still
well supported by those who should know most about
him.
* * * »
Mr. S. Hordern’s 2-year-old, El Norte (Norden-
feldt—Hebe) scored a good win for N.S.W. in Alma Stakes
at Y.A.T.C. meeting last Saturday, whilst Dowry (Lochiel
—Dona), a N.S.W. cast-off, easily won Oakleigh Purse.
* * * *
AtV.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield last Satur-
day, the Ballarat stable, presided over by Alec. Taylor,
had a good time, winning Oakleigh Plate with So-and-So
and the Steeplechase with Galway. The win of the former
has resulted in another Ballarat horse, Wait-a-bit, being
backed for Newmarket; he will, however, have to meet
some smart animals who have waited a good bit for this
spin.
* * * *
Surcingle : “ Re old Coppin’s—the horse’s—
skull in Melb. museum. Bespeak Carbine’s skeleton.
Or he could be done in two jobs like Barnum’s Jumbo.
His stuffed skin in Sydney and skeleton in Melb.”
* ♦ * *
Before winning at Williamstown (Vic.) the fast
but jady mare, Lilith, was treated to a drop of “summut
short ” out of a lemonade bottle. At ’Ome the famous
North-country horse, Taraban, was given a bottle of rare
old port before starting ; whilst Melton, the Derby winner
of .’B5, was given so much whisky before the Cambridge-
shire that when called on for a final effort he reeled, not
from distress but liquor.
* * • •
Some of the Kiama Show arrangements were
not up to the standard of the usual South Coast Show.
One Sydney trotter, Siren 11., put in an appearance and
won the trot, but the conditions were not such as to en-
courage metropolitan owners to compete. The horses
were advertised to carry list., but there were no scales on
the ground, and the jockeys could neither weigh in nor
out, so it resolved itself into a catch-weight affair, mani-
festly unfair to the owners who carried full weight.
* * * •
Mr. “ Dave ” Gregory was given a send-off
by his fellow Audit officers, upon his transfer to
the paymastership of N.S.W. Treasury. The Gregorys
are the Australian Graces. The four brothers—Ned,
Charley, Dave, and Arthur—have played in interprovincia’l
matches ; and in ’7l Ned, Charley, and Dave played their
victorious and historic single-wicket match against Vic-
torians Wills, Conway, and Costick. It was in this match
Dave checkmated that wily old bird, Nat Thompson.
Nat was standing umpire, and “ no-balled ” Dave’s
deliveries one after the other. Gregory ran up as if to
deliver a ball; “ no-ball ” came from Nat, before the ball
left the hand, and Dave merely dropped the ball on the
ground and walked back. Dave played in interprovincials
from ’66 to ’B3, and would probably have been playing
still had not the powers that be dropped him a gentle
hint to go slow when he began to hold responsible’ posi-
tions in the service.
* * * *
Tote divs. at A.R.C. meeting, Adelaide, Feb.
6 £5 195., £2B 165., £7 Bs., £2 Bs., £4 35., and £9 Bs.
* * • •
Lyons, playing for Norwood against N. Ade-
laide, Feb. 6, hit a ball which landed 133J4yds. from the
crease. He, however, beat this at Lords against Middle-
sex with a hit which landed 143§ from the crease—the
world’s record.
* * * »
A Melb. paper says that pressure by jealous
civil servants has made Tommy Horan give up the three
guineas a week he got for writing on'cricket, as “ Felix ”
in the Australasian. ’
* • * *
At Auckland (M.L.) Amateur Athletic Cham-
pionship meeting on Saturday, a fresh world’s record of
58 4-5 sec. for the quarter-mile hurdles was made by
A. H. Holder, of Wanganui. The previous best was
60sec., by the same man.
* * * *
Australian Billy M‘Carthy was defeated by one
Tommy Ryan in the States last month. Rank cruelty
Poor old Billy’s eyes were none too good before he left
Sydney many years ago.
* * * *
A recent wire from Hobart announced the result
of a championship yacht-race : “After a most exciting
race, the Ailsa beat the America by nearly two miles.”
* * • ■ »
In the 28-footer race aforesaid, the America
heeled over in a squall to such an extent (writes a corres-
pondent) that a pair of boots belonging to one of the crew
floated out of the cockpit over the combings.
“ On 3rd inst., at Melbourne, Miss Belle Russell
to J. Parsons.
When Cupid Flies in
Fame shuts the door of the house with a slam
Exit the bicycle—enter the pram.
* * • *
“Malahide” Talbot, owner of Hobart Cup-
winner, Benedict, is a burly, clean-shaven, British-looking
sport who ambles among his live stock in boots and
breeches and a blue worsted waistcoat. He talks con-
tinual horse, punctuated by occasional dog. His favorite
amusement is coursing water-hens on his extensive river-
frontages w!th a pack of Irish terriers. When started on
the flats, the fowl runs straight for the river, and, if the
distance is not more than a furlong or two, it takes a
smart terrier to secure even a mouthful of tail-feathers
before the game and the dogs tumble into the water with
a splash. The ponies of the huntsmen are trained to
prop suddenly on the bank, and sometimes a new-
chum visitor, imbued with an excitable hunting soirit
and suffering from a disability to stick to fee pigsMn
under all circumstances, takes an involuntary header
over his pony’s ears into the flowing stream. Then the
burly boss of Malahide shouts savage threats at the dogs
arid the misbehaved pony, but those intelligent animals
wink a knowing wink apiece and smile a knowing smile
in concert.
* * » *
“ A jock, can do a lot of funny business, riding
for Mr. Money Bags, gentleman. It’s a different thing
when he’s riding for Mr. Oats, trainer. The stewards
think so, anyhow.”
* * * *
Twenty-shillings a week and percentage on wins
is the vast sum paid by a very big jumping-stable to its
leading jock. Besides, the death-and-glory rider has to
do all schooling.
* * * *
Louis Pulley, a W.Q. “ringer,” shore 33,825
sheep last season.
* * * *
The connection between amateur athletic club
management and the manufacture of silver trophies
seems to be a matter for nasty remarks in divers Aus-
tralian places. As a rule, the amateur athlete toils for a
“pot,” or a medal, which represents about 30 per cent,
of its nominal value to the winner, and 70 per cent, of
profit to some jeweller who sits on the council with a view
to supplying the goods at highest possible rates. In a
multitude of councillors there are so many jewellers that
they amount practically to a league for the sweating of
trophies and violent denunciation of cash prizes. The
scandal, nevertheless, could be checked by a general reso-
lution of muscular young Christians insisting upon a
re-arrangement of the trophy system on modern “art-
union” lines. Why shouldn’t the victorious amateur's
reward be a plain silver pyramid or a polished gold
nugget ? * t *
H. : “ The bicycle is a peace-maker, as well as a
pace-maker. How much more so than cricket, which
links monarchic England and republican Australia, but
not America. Nor is baseball a succedaneum. The bicycle
is the real Christian thing that appeals with equal power
to Britain, America, France, Germany, Russia, Australia—
everywhere.”


B. R. Wise is hopeful about Federation.
During his recent country tour his meetings were
splendidly attended by the young Australians
under 30, who rarely come to the ordinary political
gathering.
Alex. Lindsay, bookseller, Pitt-street,
Sydney, reports that only a small number of the
famous Sunlight Year Book for 1897 remain un-
disposed of. A half-crown book for 6d.—post-
free, 10d.*
The guggle-guggle of Franz Josef Pilsener
Lager Beer is sweeter than the laughter of white-
winged houris on the gilded peaks of Paradise ;
the frothy nectar itself is more delicious than the
hug which Prince Albert used to aver Queen Vic-
toria gaye him on the historic morning when she
asked him to share her heart and throne. It is
tonic and invigorating : no better beer is made.*
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of GBoft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue. *
Freeman Kitchen, of the N.S.W. anti-
Federation party, writes to the Telegraph to
state that he and Heydon are perfectly disin-
terested in their efforts against Federation. They
admit themselves, in effect, to be a pair of pure
and noble-hearted patriots who are fighting the
importers’ battle from motives that are above sus-
picion. The spectacle of Freeman Kitchen reluc-
tantly acknowledging, in the Telegraph’s corres-
pondence column, the absolute purity of his own
motives is a touching spectacle. When a man
rises and openly admits that he is a noble and
beautiful character there is nothing more to be
said.
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener [ager gear.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
M6ipber - -
DicycU&
Are PERFECTION.
Sole Australasian Agents :
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENGY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT HAS ARRIVED !
IT HAS ARRIVED!
IT HAS ARRIVED !
The FOWLER.
The FOWLER.
Acknowledged by Experts in America and England
to be without rival for Elegance, Lightness,
Rigidity, and especially Easy Running.
When you see a High-Grade Bicycle with a
Truss Frame you will recognise
The FOWLER!
Australian Agency :
Hoffnung’s Buildings
171 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and see us, when the various improvements
will be exhibited to you.
To the ooaf.
A Gentleman who cured himself of Deafness
and Noises in the Head after fourteen years’
suffering will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy Post Free. Address —A. BILTON,
Queen Anne Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
Brandt’s REFRIGERATOR,
For Keeping BUTTER, MEAT,
MILK, &c., COLD.
The Hotterthe Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. 6in. x 6in., 3s. ; lOin. x
lin., ss. ; and upwards. By post,
Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS, LAMP
MAKERS, 236 Pitt-st., SYDNEY
& 422 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
LATEST
PINCE-NEZ
GREENFIELD
BARRACLOUGH’
Greenfield . .
&
. . Barraclough,
OPHTHALMIC OPTICIANS.
PRIVATE CONSULTING ROOMS:
371 Seorge-st, (A.J.S. Bank Buildings), Sydney.
AnH BRTSP ANF.
CYCLISTS
SHOULD
HAVE THE
DIIILOP T9RE.
COMBINES
Speed with Strength
Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
(LIMITED),
486 Kent Street , SYDNEY.
Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Christchurch.
W. W. GREENER'S
CELEBRATED
<a(ll)S& Rifles
Can now be purchased through
all the principal dealers in the
Australasian colonies.
Mr. C. H. KERRY won the
100-guineas Hordern Pigeon-shoot-
ing Trophy with a GREENER gun.
This trophy is the most valuable yet won in Australian
pigeon-shooting. Mr. Donald MTntosh, who has recently
been astonishing England and Europe with his shooting,
also uses a Greener gun.
Address : C. W. BUCKLAND,
16 Curral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne
(Victorian representative); or Box 326, G.P.0., Sydney.
WHY NOT HAVE
ONE OF THE BEST?
“ HeQlcy Bicycles,”
(For LADIES or GENTLEMEN)
may be purchased for £2l 10s. cash.
No Better Bicycles Built.
Another Good One.
Tbc fi interchangeable.’
STRONGEST WHEEL IN THE MARKET.
Price £2l 10s cash.
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR ROUGH
ROADS and HARD WORK.
Discount to Trade Buyers.
A Lot of First-Class ENGLISH BICYCLES
being Manufacturers’ Samples, from £l2 10s.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY
(near the Town Hall).
THe ACME
tojiirv* '
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
67 LIVERPOOL ST., SYDNEY.
importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
Ascot: Racing:Cl(ib,
MELBOURNE.
November 1897 November
SOVEREIGNS
in Stakes.
1033
SOVEREIGNS
in Stakes.
1000
THIRD, 60 Sovs. ; and FOURTH, 40 Sovs.
Offices: JOSEPH WEBSTER,
Maritime Chambers, Secretary and Proprietor.
135 & 137 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
66 DOWRI DGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
J3F" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YuU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. I.W Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the addrooo ’> K9s t-.Uov «»»
Election Notices.
TO THE FEDERAL ELECTORS OF
VICTORIA.
Gentlemen, —
I beg to state that I am a CANDI-
DATE for a SEAT in the forthcoming
FEDERAL CONVENTION, and as it will
be impossible for me to personally address
you, except at one or two of the large towns,
I desire to place my views briefly before you,
as follows :
1. The Colonies to be federated under the
Crown, with a HS-overnor-General appointed
by the Queen.
2. The Federal Parliament to be composed
of a Senate elected by the vote ©f the rate-
payers, or, as proposed in the Commonwealth
Bill, by the Parliaments of the several States
for a term of six years, and a House of
Representatives, elected by the vote of the
people for a term of three years.
3. The Federal Parliament to have full
power to make laws dealing with foreign
affairs, defence, Customs, bounties, and other
matters of national importance to be speci-
fied.
4. The States to retain all their present
powers, except those to be expressly vested
in the Federal Parliament, to be entirely
independent in their local self-government.
5. Intercolonial Freetrade to be estab-
lished by the Federal Parliament.
6. The public debt to be consolidated for
the purpose of making large reductions in
the interest now paid by the several States.
7. The control of the railways to be left
to each State, except in so far as the exi-
gencies of defence may require.
8. Seeing that in Canada, though serious
faults in the Constitution are acknowledged,
the people are still thoroughly satisfied with
Federation, and believing, as I do, in the
immense national and commercial advantages
to be gained by Federation of our States,
I will, if elected, give it my warmest support
as far as possible on the above lines, and I
trust that my career as a public man for
more than 20 years may justify me in asking
for your support.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
SIMON FRASER.
JJIEDERAL CONVENTION ELECTIONS.
As professional engagements will prevent me
from leaving Sydney during the sittings of the
Court, I take this means of making my views
known to the Electors of the Colony.
1. As an Australian, I put the Union of Aus-
tralia before all other questions ; and I am pre-
pared to trust the people of Australia with the
decision of all matters (such as the tariff, provision
for defence, etc.) which affect Australia as a
whole.
2. As a native of New South Wales, I will be
no party to any proposal to diminish the legiti-
mate influence of the Mother Colony, or to lessen
the power of her citizens to deal with matters of
purely local concern.
3. I do not now approach the question of Fede-
ration for the first time, having become acquainted
with its general aspects by long and intimate asso-
ciation with Sir Henry Parkes, and having been
privileged (on the invitation of Sir Samuel Griffith)
to be an unofficial member of the drafting com-
mittee of the Constitution Bill of 1891.
4. I hold that the railways ought to be worked
as one system and under one control, because the
advantages of intercolonial Freetrade cannot
be secured if each colony be at liberty to
make up for the removal of protective duties
by imposing prohibitive railway rates upon the
produce of its neighbors. Whether this control
can be best secured by an inter-State commission,
to be established by the constitution, or by the
Commonwealth taking over the railways, is a
matter upon which I shall be greatly guided by the
opinion of railway and financial experts.
5. I think there should be one Federal Franchise,
and that the senate ought to be elected (as a
guardian of State rights) directly by the people of
each State.
6. If elected I will view all questions impar-
tially without holding myself bound to any cut-
and-dried opinions.
7. I believe that each colony must share in a
general prosperity, and that each will progress
best in the degree in which it is bound up with the
prosperity of all the others.
Yours, &c.,
B. R. WISE.
Feb. 16, 1897.
/--THE- 1
Ballet £irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
M ADAM E S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
“ The Last of Six/*
Election Notices.
10 THE ELECTORS OE NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Gentlemen,— As a candidate for election to the
Federal Convention I desire to submit for youi
consideration a brief outline of the principles
which, I hold, ought to be observed in framing
the Federal Constitution.
The Federal Legislature. —l favor a two-
chamber Parliament, believing it to be necessary
that there should be some provision for revising
legislative work and some check upon those en-
trusted with that work. The second Chamber—
or Senate—to be elected upon the same franchise
as the Lower House, but for larger districts and
a longer term, with a proportion of members re-
tiring periodically. Being amenable to the popular
will, a second Chamber so constituted would never
become the citadel of class privilege. It would
represent the mature judgment of the people and
general rather than local interests.
State Rights. —l am altogether opposed to the
proposal to give the States equal representation in
the Senate, and I deny that such a procedure is
necessary to protect State rights. State rights,
so far as they are State rights only, can be suffi-
ciently protected by the Constitution, which would
ensure each State absolute and inviolable free-
dom with regard to matters concerning itself ex-
clusively. But, with regard to Federal matters,
the mere act of transferring them to the Federal
Government is an admission that they are national,
and not local, and ought, therefore, to be deter-
mined by the nation in the interests of the nation.
But to grant equal representation to the States,
irrespective of their population, would be to set
up the machinery by which the interests of the
whole Commonwealth might be subordinated to
those of a section.
The Franchise. — l advocate adult suffrage,
but if it is not possible to get that included in the
Constitution, it would, in my opinion, be better
to leave the framing of a uniform Federal fran-
chise to the Federal Parliament, otherwise if a
less liberal franchise be adopted it would require
an amendment of the Constitution before a more
liberal one could be brought into operation at any
future date.
The Railways. —The free flow of trade between
the colonies being one of the principal advantages
of Federation, it is essential that the railways
should be placed under Federal control. To per-
mit the continuance of the war of differen-
tial railway rates would be to perpetuate in
another form all the evils of the present
antagonistic border tariffs. By Federalisation
many economies will be possible, while, by allow-
ing trade to flow to and from its nearest port, the
waste of carrying it two miles where one would
suffice would be saved, and the profits of the rail-
ways augmented without any additional charge
being levied upon railway patrons. To uncon-
ditionally “ pool ” the more profitable lines of this
colony with the less profitable ones of Victoria
would, however, be manifestly unfair to the
former. To overcome this difficulty, the several
railway systems should be valued upon the basis
of their returns, and taken over at that valuation
by the Federal Government, which could make
payment by taking over an equivalent amount of
the public debts, as a distinct Federal debt, apart
from the mere consolidation of the loans of the
various colonies, which I also advocate.
Finance. —Regarding the revenues to be sur-
rendered to the Federal Government and the ex-
penses of which the States would be relieved, it is
manifest that—outside of Customs and excise—in-
equalities exist which would require adjustment.
Ought this adjustment to be an annual one, subject
to all the influences of unforeseen contingencies,
an uncertain and disturbing element in both
Federal and State finance, or ought it to be a
definite and final adjustment, made at the
commencement of the Federal partnership ? I
advocate the latter, on a plan approximately
that adopted by the Canadian federation. Each
State would thus enter into the union with a fixed
annual obligation between it and the Federation —
which could even be determined before union—
outside of which the finances would be absolutely
independent of federal finances and federal policy;
while the Federal Government would be under the
obligation of raising the revenue it desired to
spend, instead of being in a position to expend
money properly belonging to the States, and upon
which the State Governments might be depending.
Yours truly,
E. D. MILLEN.
Business Announcements.
Extract from Australian Farm and Home.
COCOANUT CAKE.
“ Cocoanut cake and meal, a fodder new to
Australian stockowners, was fully described in
our December issue. This fodder is now on the
market. That it will come into general use, and
very quickly too, is the verdict of everyone who
has seen the fodder, either in cake or meal form.
“Mr. Herman Olsen, the representative of the
De Laval Separator Company, Stockholm, who is
a high and practical authority on dairying, has
just returned from a visit to Sweden and Den-
mark, and assures us that cocoanut meal has come
into extensive use in those countries, being re-
garded as indispensable where stock are kept.
Mr. Olsen states that it is now more largely used
than linseed cake or bran, and is regarded as a
most valuable fodder, not only for dairy cows,
but also for horses, pigs, and poultry. Mixed
with skim milk or other preparation, the meal is
splendid for fattening calves and pigs, giving the
veal and pork both flavor, good color, and firm-
ness. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why
Danish bacon is so popular in England. Young-
poultry fatten very rapidly on this fodder, which,
when fed judiciously, gives better results than
grain.
“Every stockowner ought to give cocoanut
meal a trial. It is sold in cwt. bags at f>s. per
cwt. We. want, to .see it thoroughly tested in
Australia, both on the score of economy and
feeding results. Milkgrowers, feed it to some of
your cows, and compare the results with the
returns from cows not fed with meal. Pig-
breeders, get some of the meal, and ascertain for
yourselves what its fattening value really is. Now
is the time to make the experiments.”
JSIEVE^
INDING
Pleasure to
KROPP
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
REAL GERMAN
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& 00., London, W.
HOLLO GROUND
RAZOR


Health and Strength
RESTORED
BY THE USE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Cumming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, Says:
Hf
“About a year ago, I had a severe
attack of Influenza, which left me
very weak, without energy, appe-
tite, or interest in life. Obtaining
little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recom-
mended to me, I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and from that time,
began to gain health and strength,
I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very
great pleasure in telling my friends
of the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use. I
consider it the best blood-purifier
known.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS
for Constipation
and Biliousness.
Sugar-Coated, Mild but Effective
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
Wheu added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England,
WANT *
Catalogue?
MTy POST FREE
Watches* Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
weddii\lc z CHristeiMc Presents
H NEWMArj*I7SSI77-FII7ARFTH St.
OPPOSITE C-.P.0. .
MELBOURNE-
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Plaoe,’’Nichols-on Street., MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.-Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “T ie Dental Board of Victoria.
Send for circular, Australian Answers Bu-
reau, 35 _Castlereagh-st., Sydney We will reply
on scientific, educational, mining, business, sport-
ing or private matters for Is. ; other subjects by
arrangement. Letters, speeches, articles, &c.,
written, translations any language. If you want to
invest in mines or property, consult us. It will
pay you. We act in any way as your agent.
Ladies, why bother with your 1001 troubles ? We
hold cures for debility, neuralgia, indigestion,
piles, &c. We relieve all, and cure many cases
asthma and lung affections. Consult us.*
Toothache cured by applying “Denticura.”
A small instrument. Price 5/- ; to be had from
Washington Soul & Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
The most beautifying, soothing, healing, and refreshing
niilk for the skin ever produced ; it removes Freckles’,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness, and Roughness, soothes and
heals all irritation, and produces soft, fair, delicate skin,
and a beautifully pure and healthy complexion. War-
ranted harmless.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
Nourishes, Preserves, and Beautifies the Hair.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA,
A Pure Toilet Powder in three tints—White, Rose, and
Cream.
Ask Chemists and Stores for Rowlands’ articles, of
20 HattonGarden, London, and avoid cheap poisonous
mitations.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ O- .EOLDEIJ3G-E .& GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STKliliT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
PARIS BALM (Dr. Marceau’s), sweetty perfumed.—
. The roughest skin made silky, soft as an infant’.,;
every blemish harmlessly removed ; complexion ma k
indescribably naturally beautiful ; one bottle means look
ing years younger. Worth a guinea a bottle. Post five,
postal note 3s. 3d. MORIER & CO., Sole Agents, 37
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
u JL» 'W A TEC D S*
WORLD-RENOWNED
fcir Producer # gedtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Inaredients.
1 /-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ "HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
207
'
m
Z
—th e
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Coolp %+ - Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
(a^n\w^
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A USTMALIA V
A EE I) LEIVOO I)
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234 — 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
Pi 207, 7/6 P 56, 7/6
FROM
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD WHOLESALE
JSEW ZEALAND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin ii; Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—■
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street.
Mr. Isidore Wartzbi, 149 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q.
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
GOUTINE.
A New Scientific Remedy for CHRONIC GOUT
RHEUMATIC GOUT, RHEUMATISM, and
SCIATICA. This wonderful discovery has now been
i \ • "xt ' , in use 8 months; during this time 180 persons (mostly
cripples) m Victoria have been cured of the above horrible complaints. It gives immediate Relief
Ihe only known cure. Prescribed by the Medical Faculty. (Reference is kindly permitted to Mr .Alex’
empioye of the Vic railway locomotive shops, who was cured of Rheumatic Gout by
, after five years of suffering, and after the failure of leading Melb. physicians to effect cure
In Bottles at 55., 7s. 6d., and 12s. 6d.— posted, 6d. extra. City Agent, M. SKOGLAND & CO., Elizabeth-st Melb
and from the holder of Australasian rights, OSCAR LAWSON, 17 High-st., Prahran, MELBOURNE ’’
the Celebrated
Cabinet Organs
<» Story* Clark
CHICAGO.
Send for price list.
22T>' tT coW^ s
V MIEIUBWIRNr. A
d
hL.Jki : jL^r
Sou Agent for
BESSON *C®?---
CELEBRATED ------
"PROTOTYPE BRASS
BAHp INSTRUMENTS
as usby Hie -
PREMIER BANDS--
all over the world.
m
ELB
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING;
Per Post, Is. 3d.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
INFANTS
lls?*
9
■ :■
I
Benger’s Food is sold bj
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.’’
British Medical Journal.
DS
AND
The aged.
Viator: “How is it the Roman Church
has got all the best Australian hill-top sites ? ”
Maoriland politics are violent and personal.
There is nothing of gentlemanly repose or dignified
culchaw about them. Lately a Tory paper, in
making mention of the amount expended in charit-
able aid to natives during the year, asked quite
casually if Premier Seddon or Minister Carroll
had embezzled any of the money for their own
private uses. It didn’t suggest that anyone sus-
pected them of doing so, or that there was any
evidence that they had done so; it merely asked
the question without prejudice, as it were. By-
and-bye someone will probably rise on the other
side and inquire, for absolutely no reason, if
Russell or Stout was ever in gaol under another
name for larceny. These little things keep politics
from growing absolutely wearisome.
Melbourne Australasian, in a recent
issue, points out that in Victoria imported
seed - drills are taxed 15 per cent, whereas
in N.S.W. they come in free, and that the
N.S.W. price is <£36 and the Victorian price <£4o.
Fifteen per cent, duty on £36 is £5 Bs., and yet
the difference in price is only <£4. Therefore, by
the Freetrade paper’s own showing, something
goes wrong, for the thousandth time or so, with
the theory that the duty and 60 per cent, profit
thereon are charged to the consumer. The <£s Bs.
duty ought, by the great Max Hirsch theory, to
add £8 to the price, and even the Argus, when it
is allowed to carefully select its own sample of
evidence, can only show an addition of ,£4.
In England lately an engine-driver shut-
off steam, put down brakes, and cut his throat—
with a razor. He had been driving for 25 years
with but one holiday in that period, of a “day or
two,” when his son died. The co. (London, Chat-
ham, and Dover) said that the steam-steerer might
have taken an annual holiday had he cared to, but
“his pay would have ceased.” A doctor said
deceased had been under his care for a year for
nervous debility, and a month previous had been
advised that he must step off the footplate, as he
was “ a danger both to himself and the travelling
public.” Had the selfish suicide but tied up his
fireman and gone full steam ahead with a direc-
tors’ picnic on board preparatory to slitting his
throat, he would have slept ’neath the prayers
of the poorly-paid, capitalist-cursed railway-
men of Britain.
Dear Bulletin, —You say it’s a policeman’s
special duty to keep his temper, and that he mostly
does so. Unfortunately, a policeman is not neces-
sarily an angel. Inside more than one lock-up I
have seen men—particularly those who have bat-
tered the arresting “ traps’’—bullied and cuffed
by half-a-score of constables until the sergeant in
charge has had to interfere. If this is done in the
presence of outsiders, what may not happen in the
cells ? Complaints are made to magistrates daily
insomeN.S. W. courts, but they are listened to with
plain incredulity or indifference. Years ago,
Maorilanders were startled when practically the
whole constabulary force of one of the larger towns
was shunted in consequence of the discovery that
arrested persons had been tied to iron rings fixed
in cell floors, and treated to more or less salutary
turns of the bastinado.—T.D.


Nss.^
H;rr Eassmussen,
Till CELEBRATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND ERODDiETOR
oe The most
fetJCdESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING- PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfalme Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice ; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies,' should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W. A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common?” Ihe
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the utt.enrw.ul-. port.u rtf t-.be earth
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Tlxem.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your -Ofaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
succtss, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney BolijEtin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCK.HAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1896.
To Herr R»ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies dtlririg my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, ahd I consider theth invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yotirs very truly, B. HUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Peker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
ivere of great benefit to Uie and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers Were travelling about
the rkngeS near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his tnates intended taking hiin in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To W ERR RaSSMUSSF.N.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates oan
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I hare much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your w’indow, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the biessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
gi r> I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, X was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in mv case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J- KILLERIDGE,
K Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent, and Tobacconist,
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfalino Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press: —
Sydney Bnlletln. —“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies."
Bally Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
B. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bonafides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Itrnggist Journal, Melbourne. —
“ Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depdt at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufao-
tuting botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut>» —“ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r- quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times. Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
Tlir Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints whioh were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Aiistralisclic Zell ling, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
jy ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, o/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street.
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus —PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
fl AWARDED.
TWO COLD
as** 5
w
xr
ofH
f
ALFA LINEPILLSr
CORED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD fc. NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affection!
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 23a. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment —Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Viuor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL. DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - 150 Bourke-street.


Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager . . Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards's New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
CO High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £ 1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSER MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Aot.ing Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO-
ty Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
TJTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
BroCigb CoippaQy.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20,
First Production in Australia of
“ _A_ White Elephant.”
A Farcical Comedy in 3 acts by R. C. Carton.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers:
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS and EVERY EVENING at 8, and SATURDAY
MATINEE at 2,
The Romantic Play, in a Prologue and 4 Acts, adapted
from Anthony Hope’s famous story by Edward Rose,
entitled,
“THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.”
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies. Day Tickets at
Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre CafA
Business Announcements.
N
ATIONAL ART GALLERY OF
N.S.W.,
DOMAIN, SYDNEY.
ART LOAN COLLECTION, 1897.
Sanctioned by the Hon. the Minister of Public
Instruction.
Possessors of
OIL PAINTINGS
WATER-COLOR DRAWINGS
OTHER DRAWINGS
and
ETCHINGS
of DISTINCTIVE MERIT
are invited to apply for a copy of the General
Regulations, and for other information they may
desire, to the Secretary, at the National Art
Gallery.
The LOAN EXHIBITION will be OPENED
on HER MAJESTY’S BIRTHDAY, 24th May
next, by
His Excellency LORD HAMPDEN,
to inaugurate the first completed portion of the
Gallery.
For the Trustees.
E. DU FAUR,
GEO. E. LAYTON, Secretary.
IHaclame Rodney,
mHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consult ed either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
High-Class Tailoring.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
<a€otl€fl}€Q’& SClitil)gs.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed.
—Vickerman’s Ssrges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application.
Ladies’ Tailoriog AT REFORM
Ladies 9 Walking - -
or Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’ Trades.
CYCLING- SUITS Made to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. 6d. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. are the Sole Agents
for Cellular Clothing.
CELLULAR PYJAMAS.
The most comfortable that can be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellular Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Pitted, with Short Fronts
for every-day wear. Dress Shirts, &c.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Braham and 00., 384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sole Agents. Sydney.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George and York Streets).
Madame Sl>«lky j - Healer
1 (UNDER SUPERVISION M.D.)
Specialities. —Consumption, Paralysis, Hip Disease,
Pi-vcrs, Sciatica, Rheumatism.
dona fide Testimonials on application. Personal refs.
CONSULTATION on Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
DAYS OF TREATMENT —Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday. Hours—2 to 5 o’clock each day.
4V JHARGA R RT-MT.. ITVRVA RT> &QTTARK
Amusements.
CALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
” (Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre),
237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
115 THOUSAND PEOPLE, 115,000, TO DATE
Have witnessed the Incomparable Exhibition, and still
the public come in the same splendid proportion.
The superb New Pictures, just arrived from Europe,
and including THE SWANS AT WINDSOR CASTLE.
Creating a new sensation.
JAMES M'MAHON.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
BLAND HOLT’S
THIRD GREAT SPECTACULAR NOVELTY,
“ The Derby Winner.”
“ As a Pageant it is Vast and Gorgeous and
Stupendous.”— Bulletin.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Amusements.
HRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
0 Lessee and Manager, Frank Thornron.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING.
FRANK THORNTON,
Supported by his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES of Miss BROWN
Prices —ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
L. J. LOHR.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Tl>« Silver KiOg.”
THEATRE ROYAL, Saturday, February 20 >
“A MOTHER’S SIN.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
HAROLD ASHTON, Business Manager.
T
H E
LAST
O E
SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
“Newer tbao tb* New Year.
99
Our very latest Novelties in Art Jewellery, &c., just unpacked
Our Xmas trade far exceeded our most sanguine expectations, for which we return sincere thanks to our
numerous patrons.
Our efforts to please are seemingly appreciated by a discerning public, and our utmost endeavours will be
as heretofore, to deserve a continuance of their esteemed favours.
We supply all goods direct from the manufacturers, saving purchasers
from 25 to 50 per cent.
Our prices are unapproached for cheapness In Australasia.
W//M
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Companies Act 1890 . Twelfth Schedule.
The Fenteman’s proprietary Gold Mining
Conjpaov No Liability.
I the undersigned, do hereby make APPLICATION TO REGISTER “ The Fenteman’s Proprie-
-9 tary Gold-mining Company No Liability ”as a No-Liability Company under the provisions of
Part 11. of the “ Companies Act 1890.”
1. The name of the Company is to be “ The Fenteman’s
Proprietary Gold-Mining Company No Liability.”
2. The place of intended operations is at Maldon,
Victoria.
3. The Registered Office of the Company will be
situated at Prell’s Buildings, 60 to 70 Queen - street,
Melbourne.
4. The value of the Company’s property, including
claim and machinery, is Ten Thousand Pounds.
5. The number of shares in the Company is Forty
Thousand of five shillings each.
6. The number of shares subscribed for is Thirty
.Thousand.
7. The name of the Manager is Albert Edward
Langford.
8. The names and addresses and occupations of the
Shareholders and the number of shares held by each at
this date are as follow :
Dated this 9th day of February, 1897.
Witness to Signature—Feed. C. Wainwright.
Name. Address. Occupation. Shares 01
James Northcott, Bendigo, manager 850
W. B. Gray, Maidon, gentleman 500
Conrad Mohr, Maidon, tobacconist 850
James Baxter, Maidon, miner 850
John Edwards, Bendigo, engineer 850
R. D. Oswald, Maidon, gentleman 250
Hannah Rees, Bendigo, grocer 850
James P. Madden, Melbourne, legal manager ... 500
James P. Lonergan, Melbourne, gentleman 500
George Moore, St. Kilda, gentleman 500
Charles Edward Packer, St. Hilda, inspector ... 500
J. W. Packer, St. Kilda, publisher 100
A. E. Langford, Melbourne, legal manager 500
A. E. Langford, Melbourne, legal manager (in trust
for Shareholders) 25,650
A. E. Langford, Melbourne, legal manager (in trust
for the Company) 10,000
40,000
A. E. LANGFORD, Manager.
1, Albert Edward Langford, do solemnly and sincerely declare that—
X. I am the manager of the said intended company.
2. The above statement is, to the best of my belief and knowledge, true in every particular. And I make this
solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of
the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt
perjury.
A. E. LANGFORD.
Taken before me, at Melbourne, this 9th day of February, 1897 —Fred. C. Wainright, J.P.
Langford and Madden, Legal Managers and Accountants, 70 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Federal Election Notices.
Chief Secretary’s Office,
Sydney, 12th February, 1897.
THE following List of Persons Nominated for Election as Representatives of New South Wales
in the Convention is published for general information, in accordance with Section 8 of the
Australasian Federation Enabling Act of 1895 :
Name.
Abbott, Tbe Hon. Sir Joseph Palmer
Abbott, William Edward
Armstrong, Andrew
Ashton, James
Barton, Edmund
Bawden, Thomas
Black, George
Bridge, John
Brunker, The Hon. James Nixon
Carruthers, The Hon. Joseph Hector
Copeland, Henry
Crick, William Patrick
Cullen, William Portus
Dawson, Henry
Dowel, William Springthorpe
Eagar, Arthur Geoffrey
Ferguson, William John
Flowers, Fred
Foran, Harry
Griffith, Arthur Hill
Grimley, Frank
Haynes, John
Heydon, Louis Francis
Holman, William Arthur
Hughes, William Morris
Lyne, William John
M'Gowen, James Sinclair Taylor
M‘Millan, William
Martin, James
Millen, Edward Davis
Miller, Gustave Thomas Carlisle
Moran, His Eminence Patrick Francis
Norton, John
O’Connor, Daniel
O’Connor, Richard Edward
O’Sullivan, William Edward
Parkes, Varney
Reid, The Hon. George Houstoun
Reid, Robert William
Renwick, The Hon. Sir Arthur
Robertson, Archibald Nugent
Schey, William Francis
See, John
Sleath, Richard
Smith, Bruce
Spence, William Guthrie
Walker, James Thomas
Watson, John Christian
Wise, Bernhard Ringrose
Residence.
“ Tarella,” North Sydney
Wingen
5 Spring-st.,Sydney, andMosman
Sydney
Carabella-st., St. Leonards
Grafton
Glen Innes
309 Cleveland-st., Redfern
West Maitland
Kogarah, Sydney
N ewtown
“ Fernleie'h,” Randwick
“ Tregoyd,” Mosman
Cavendish-st., Enmore
“Chiswick,” Five Dock
Glebe Point, Sydney
Rockdale
Cooper-st., Redfern
223 Macquarie-st. South, Surry
Hills
Victoria Chambers, Sydney
Woolwich, Hunter’s Hill
Meadowbank, Parramatta River
Hunter’s Hill
Newtown Road, Sydney
37 Annesley-st., Leichhardt
Katoomba
Botany-st., Redfern
Randwick
Burwood
Woodcourt-st., Marrickville
Cooma
Manly
Marine Parade, Watson’s Bay
Sydney
Glen Eric, Robertson Road,
Moss Vale
Randwick
Liverpool
Burwood
355 Pitt-st., Sydney
Abbotsford, Sydney
33 Darlinghurst-road, Sydney
357 Abercrombie-st., Redfern
Avoca-st., Randwick
76 Old Parramatta Road, Forest
Lodge
Burradoo, and 149 Phillip-st.,
Sydney
Park Avenue, Drummoyne
“ Rosemont,” Ocean-st.,
Woollahra
Clarence-st., Sydney
Edgecliff Road, Woollahra
Occupation.
Solicitor.
Farmer.
Agent.
M.L.A., journalist.
Barrister.
Agent.
M.L.A., storekeeper.
Wool-broker.
Stock and Station Agent (Chief Secretary).
Solicitor (Minister for Lands).
M.L.A.
Solicitor.
M.A., LL.D., M.L.C., barrister-at-law.
Solicitor.
Architect.
Public Accountant.
M.L.A., Engineer.
Painter.
Gentleman.
Patent Agent.
Merchant.
Journalist.
Solicitor.
Cabinet-maker.
Mechanic.
Grazier.
Boiler-maker.
Merchant.
Merchant.
Journalist.
M.L.A.
Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney.
Journalist.
M.L.C.
Barrister.
M.L.A., Journalist.
Architect.
Barrister.
Wholesale Druggist.
Medical Practitioner.
Barrister.
M.L.A.
Merchant.
M.L.A., Miner.
Barrister.
Gen Secretary Australian Workers’ Union
Gentleman.
Compositor.
Barrister.
1 n 3
CRITCHETT WALKER,
Principal Under-Seeretarv
and
■R of limit! sr Offlnor for Oolony
The Testimony of a Templar .
DRIVEN FROM WORK BY DISEASE-
ORDERED TO THE LIVERPOOL
ASYLUM.
A “CHRONIC AILMENT” CURED.
WHEN DOCTORS AND ALL REMEDIES
FAIL.
THE REMARKABLE CASE OF
TEMPLAR TERRY.
An intimation having been received from Mr.
Charles Terry, of 455 Kent-street, Sydney, that he
had been suddenly cured of a chronic ailment
when doctors and various medicines had failed to
effect any benefit or alleviation of his sufferings, a
representative of the Australasian and Interna-
tional Press Agency was reguested to conduct an
impartial and independent inquiry into the case.
The following is his report:—
On arriving at Mr. Charles Terry’s residence, at
485 Kent-street, Sydney, it was stated that he was
taking part in a temperance meeting at the Church
of England Schoolroom, corner of Bathurst and
Kent-streets. There Mr. Terry was discovered
arrayed in the regalia of a Good Templar. He
was then actively engaged in the cause he has at
heart, but on mentioning the object of the inter-
ruption he courteously consented to accompany
me to his home. Having explained to a comrade
his reason for leaving the Harmony Lodge, we
walked away. Mr. Terry certainly did not look
like a man who had suffered severely from the ills
that flesh is heir to. On the contrary he was
vivacious and voluble and owerflowing with
vitality. On reaching his home Mr. Terry pointed
to his bunk and remarked : “ That bed could tell
a tale of agony more than words can convey.”
Mr. Terry was asked a few preliminary ques-
tions. He gave his age as 66, and his calling as
that of a cook and baker. He is well known in
Sydney in connection with temperance work. He
has labored hard in this direction for a period of
20 years. From infancy he has been identified
with the temperance movement.
“Now, Mr. Terry, will you give the particulars
of your case ? ”
“Well, about the middle of August last I was
working with Messrs. Macgrath Brothers, fell-
mongers and wool-scourers, Emu Plains, when I
was suddenly seized with a fit of coughing and
blood-spitting.
“The coughing was very violent, and the loss of
blood weakened me terribly. I had no rest, not
even for a moment, and could not sleep a wink.
The only food I could manage, and that with diffi-
culty, was eggs and milk beaten up. Of course, I
could not work ; I could hardly walk. The men
advised me to get away quickly or I would die.
One of them was very kind to me, and got me to
inhale hot water and eucalyptus. He also rubbed
the lotion on my forehead and chest, but this did
me no good. There was not the slightest relief.
At the time I was suffering the tortures of the
damned, and was rapidly becoming weaker. I
came on to Sydney, and after taking chlorodyne—
five bottles during ten days—l felt a little
better. Eight weeks ago I managed to speak at
a temperance meeting. But shortly after I left
the Protestant Hall, and when proceeding along
Bathurst-street, I felt something fall in mystomach.
I could not make it out. That which fell rattled
about in my inside and shook me up. About 2.30
the following morning I awoke with the shivers,
and for the life of me could not hold my limbs
steady. I had no control over myself. I thought
it was something like paralysis, but a different
malady. The perspiration poured out of me, cold
as ice. It was like a shower-bath in winter.
These symptoms continued for two hours, and
were succeeded by a violent fit of coughing and
spitting of blood. On the Monday morning I
sought a doctor. He told me to strip, and then
sounded me.
“ I could hardly bear the touch of the instru-
ment, and cried out from sheer agony.
“ The doctor placed the instrument to my right
lung, spine, and under the right rib, and he said
that I had gone to a shadow. He told me to put
on my things, and said that a man would come
directly and put me in a cab and take me to the
Liverpool Asylum. I asked him not to send me
to Liverpool Asylum, but to Little Bay Hospital.
He said I was suffering from a chronic ailment,
and he could not send me to Little Bay. I de-
clined to go to Liverpool, and the doctor said I
had better go, as it was a bad case with my lungs.
I came home to Kent-street, fully convinced that
I must die. But I thought I would struggle to
save my life, and took a variety of medicines, none
of which did me the least pood. When all hope
was abandoned and I was sinking fast and in un-
speakable pain, a friend brought me a copy of the
Australian Workman containing particulars of
the cure effected in the seemingly-hopeless case of
Boiler-maker Jarvis, of 45 Crown-lane, Ultimo,
who had been given up by the doctors, but who
had been rescued from a death-bed by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. My friend said he and
“U wne had derived great benefit from them.
Without a moment’s delay I sent for a box of the
Pills, more m desperation than confidence. Judge
how astonished my friends and I were when I got
complete relief before I had taken many pills.
I he blood disappeared from the urine, the burning,
like a fire at the heart, left me, I no longer was
racked with the cough ; sleep, the first I had
known for months, returned, and once more I had
an appetite.
Fhe malady mysteriously and magically dis-
appeared.
“ There was no more spitting of blood, and I
held again control over my limbs. Well, I con-
tinued the pills. I took one more than the direc-
tions recommend. I took five boxes in all, and I
feel that lam completely recovered. Before I took
the pills I could scarcely move in the bed. Now I
could walk any distance, and, although 66, feel like
a young man again. I can conduct the temper-
ance "work as tirelessly and enthusiastically as
? v ®£ My voice is as strong as ever. While lying
m that bed a little while ago, however, I could
scarcely be heard, so weak and indistinct was the
voice. While ill, I could not take solid foods ;
now 1 can eat anything.
l am gaining in weight wonderfully, and can
sleep like a top. In fact, they have to rouse me
up in the morning now.”
Restatements can be borne out by Mr. G.
i l Chief Templar; Brother Jones,
late District Deputy of the 1.0.G.T.; and all the
°f the Crystal Spring Lodge.
( 7, r- U? r, y was very enthusiastic in his praises
ot the Dink Pills, and remarked that he loses no
opportunity at public meetings and in private con-
versations to testify to their miraculous merits in
his case. Having concluded the inquiry, Mr.
ierry, who was full of vitality, returned to the
temperance meeting at the Church of England
School-room.*
Missing Friends.
T ETTER for B. C. at Bulletin Office.
A rHaaaa forward oddroa* 4io fiho TVf an Agar.


STOCKTAKING
CLOSING-OUT SALE
AT
FII)DE!I. ISLES $ CO.
is NOW ON.
GOODS IN EVERY DEPARTMENT
be Substantially Reduced
For this Closing-Out Sale.
Orders should be sent Early, with a careful descrip-
tion of requirements, naming prices wished to be paid and
enclosing remittance to cover amount. Any change over
after executing orders will be at once refunded, and
Country Customers may rely upon getting the benefit of
all Reductions and goods nearest in price to those men-
tioned.
DRAPERY goods
to the value of £2 and upwards that can go by Parcels
Post, with the exception of certain heavy or bulkv low-
priced lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office in
the Colony POSTAGE FREE. Goods are thus delivered
to all parts of the Colony at Brisbane Closing-out Prices—
a boon which country residents will fully appreciate.
During CLOSING-OUT SALE it is often useless to order
from Samples; when once lines are sold they cannot be
replaced. In sending samples, therefore, first, second,
and third choices should be made in each instance ; and,
in the event of all being sold, authority should be given
to us to substitute the nearest. Our best judgment is
always used in substituting, and goods the nearest, both
as regards price and pattern sent.
Post Office orders, Postal notes, Bank drafts, and cheques
should be made payable to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Hrisbaue.
9
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous.
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
tree on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
4?
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant caße
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
?+.
¥ Z°»O Streep
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
Lonsdale Street
(next Law Courts),
MELBOURNE.
Under New Management. First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
TDHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
* 409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
—THE-
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Ste uners)
MELBOURNE.
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible variety of rooms to
Beds, 2-to 10 - per night. TWO
LINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -to £3 3s. per week
Write for terms for Families.
Missing Friends.
THE Undersigned fellow-passenger is anxious
to learn the address of GEORGE ANDER-
•^ U ci’ '’ l,n ’ or ) » passenger bv the Oruba, arriving
l" Sydney about 3rd January, 1892. 8.0.,
Kutxwttn Office.
In Seoule, Korea, is published a paper
ln English and partly in Manchu dialect.
1 he Gazette appointments in a recent copy which
somehow happened this way include the follow-
mg of the Temple of the Royal Ances-
JSP’,, Yun Sang ; Royal Grave Keepers, Pak
Chu Hon and Paik Nam Chul.
P ear Bulletin, — Apropos barking lizard. 1 •
Whilst moving quartz from an old heap at Norse-
man (W.A.), I unearthed one of this species,
which rushed out and barked quite willingly
(though hoarsely) like a young puppy with a weak,
relaxed throat. Unlike “C. H. T.’s” specimens,
this was not beaver-tailed, but like the common
sand bzard (lacerta agilis) in that respect,
fjength, 8 inches; skin, black-brown and velvety
with chrome-yellow blotches on back, not striped ;
head, very broad ; eyes, large and set far back
and protruding ; tongue, thin, flat and rounded at
tip. It bit forcibly (for its size) at the blade of
the shovel, and, far from retiring, became more
aggressive at interference. Being interested in
the little creature, I subsequently went carefully
through the Adelaide Museum for a specimen';
but could find none. How would L. cants sound
tor hmi. I had not been drinking when I saw him.
—Tinopener.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply feulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles, Made in London,*
A tale of a honeymoon is reported from a
town in northern N.S. W. The bride was an inno-
cent, blushful bush girl of 18, born of poor parents,
about whose honesty there is no present evidence.
Ihe bridegroom was a selector of indefinite age
and origin unknown. They were married and
departed in the buggy to do a few days’ blissful
happiness. That evening in the hotel the new
husband got wildly drunk in the bar, and his
young wife, hearing him swear for the first time,
fled to her bedroom in affright and locked the
l It was still locked when her inebriated
lord came up, and a scared voice inside besought
him to go away. Outside the voice of husband'
Bill was raised in dashes and asterisks, and a
crowd collected in the passage to see the com-
motion. The bride said through the key-
hole that she would go home to her mother,
and Bill in the passage dashed more furi-
ously than ever. The crowd made remarks,
and the husband adjourned for a few minutes and
licked three of the commentators in succession.
The landlord arrived and ordered the bridegroom
not to dash so terribly on his premises, and hus-
band Bill licked him also. Then he made a
general offer to lick everybody, and no one else
coming forward he got an axe and reduced the
bedroom door to flinders, and ordered the bride
to come forth and explain her conduct. She
proved to be absent. Scared by the violence of
her new lord and master she had escaped by the
window while Bill was licking all comers in the
passage, and had fled homewards over the dark
roads on one of the buggy horses. When Bill
realised the situation he expressed his feelings by
breaking the wash-basin and jug, and then went
out and started to lick the policeman. A homeric.
combat ended in the capture of Bill, and next
morning the J.P. assessed the trouble at 15s. for
the door, <£l each for three assaults in the pas-
sage, -6110 s. for damage to the hotel-keeper, £1
for profanity, 7s. 6d. for broken crockery, £2 for
a frenzied attack on the constable, £l for torn
uniform, .£1 Is. professional costs, 14s. lid. costs
of court, and £5 for threatening language and
other things. And thus ended Bill’s honeymoon.
His name wasn’t Bill, by the way, but Augustus,
only as no one would believe that his name was
Augustus he is herein alluded to as Bill in order
to give the story the needful air of probability.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
CAPILLAffIE!
Posted (under cover)
to any pa i t of Austra
lasia orNewZealand.
price, 10. G
‘lll Try It. Sole Agents: The esu lt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st, Sydney
Publications
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Georok Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
TTENRY FARMER S Operatic selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Luerezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“ Friends no Longer/’ SO B N ouß b /jum Bl ''
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
lid. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
Paxton & Co., LOSIIKIIV,
And 203 Swanston-street, IUEIJSOIIKKE.
-THE-
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They areperfectin
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fe ition that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearingC.B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents—J. K. NEWI’OItT .1 SONS,
Ohisholm T,»ne, Svr>Nltv, * Flinders T,nn«, MBi.KOtTRNW
Axle’s
-gA'ccc!
INFANTS,
CHILDREN
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Iteolf.
ICeeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS EOR NEW
SOUTH W ALES :
Elliott |res., limited,
SYDNEY.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
a
»
m
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
. Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
TEE MTMI STORE, [M.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOUENE.
Universal Providers.
&3" Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIItIdfESSFItS ANI» AVIIiMAKKKS
To the Trade.
I Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
| HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c,
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
«80 «i 882 Cieorge Street, Sydney.
Whitehead’s HeJ””.?* 0 *
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store: Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street. vQllipcllly.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furnilu) o, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne,
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “Arbenz,” with trade
mark “ A ” in Swiss cross for first quality, and “ B ”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
monarch of all
I Survey,
MY VIRTUES there Is none
to dispute,
From the land all round
to the sea,
NO DISEASE will reign
over me.
AAA
RHEUMATISM
GRAVEL AND KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
COLDS - - FEVERS
INFLUENZA
AAA
POSTED TO ANY PART OP THO
WORLD ON RECEIPT OF P. 0.0.
COLEMANE & SONS'
WORLD-FAMED
EUCALYPTE ™‘r‘;r
• •
Brawlin nearCootamundra
* I flfoO I • New South Wales
Price, 16 and 2/6
DU. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLORODYN E.
Caution. —Genuine Ohlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKONOHITIS,
DIAKEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlouodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
im
=s*3
TH * drum
N POSITION
Peaffycss
TO HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
Relieved
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String-.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
: at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tam worth, N. S. W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. H EARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
H
E ARNE’S PILL
DON’T CURE
EVERY DISEASE, but
THEY DO CURE by ONE DOSE :
S
Headache, Fulness and Throbbing of Head, Dizziness;
Constipation and Bilious Disorders ; Remove Impurities,
and cause a cheery feeling of Health and Vigor.
“Dear Sir,—One dose of your Pills completely put me
right, and I have given the rest to my friends. Send me
another box. I wouldn’t be without them on any account.
Postal note enclosed.—Yours truly, R. M’Donald, Blen-
heim, N.Z.”
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Price, Is. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. For-
warded by post to any address when not obtainable
locally.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri}brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnpbrocatioi)-


Rerpipgtoi) Blty(l , s _
THE REMINGTON,
owing to its special method of construction, is by far
the STRONGEST MACHINE for its weight made.
The Running is Perfection, and a High Gear can be
used on a REMINGTON with more ease and less
exertion than a low gear on most other Machines.
4
w
STOTT & HOARE, l
Sole Importers,
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY ;
428 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
RESPECTFULLY DESIRE TO KNOW.
If Not, ‘OTHy Not ?
Visit their Establishment, and Do So.
DO WANT SAVE MAKE
YOU TO AND MONEY?
Pastry of Zephyr Lightness is ensured by using “A. ER S BAKTNE
POWDER,” 6d. per tin.
PERFUMES that spread a fragrance on the desert air. “BERTRAND’S”
Assorted Bouquets, 2s. 6d. each.
A Cool and Mild Aperient “DR. PETTIFER’S ” Re-Carbonated Fluid
Magnesia, Bd. and Is. 6d. each bottle.
A Cool and Clean Head by using Dr. E. Wilson’s HAIR TONIC, Is. per
bottle.
PILLS, MEDICINES, TRUSSES, BANDAGES, &c.
Dr. Thompson’s COUGH LINCTUS, Is. per bottle.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO.,
DISPENSING AND PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS,
160 & 268 I*itt-3treet, Sydney, and at
CHURCH & PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Call and Inspect our Twin Fountains. Cool and Refreshing Drinks, 3d. Each,
i
••
m
m
TRY
To
o
Extra Large Caßes 6 d &/ / s
So/eAge/?fe HOME RULE TOBACCO^
6 t
T»OOK OF NATURE
—and —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by l>«- Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, I 9; by
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, Ss.
Zola’s Famous Novels, Is 6d each ; post 2s.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free, Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, illustrated, 3s.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d._
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready-made for every occasion;
public speaking made easy, Is 6d, post free.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is. Bobbery Under Arms, post free, 2s lOd.
How to Dance, new' work, Is, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRA
UP-TO-DATE
Conventional Lies of our Civilisation, by Max
Nordau, post free, 2s 6d.
Fortune Telling Cards, full directions. Is 2d post.
Raphael's Almanac ; or the Prophetic Messenger and
Weather Guide for 1897. Post free, 9d.
A Woman of Fire, posted 2s. Mademoiselle de
Maupin, posted 2s.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards excliined,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Reciter, latest American Gems. Post free, Is.
I'Gersoll’s Latest Lectures, from 3d. post free.
Send for list.
Great Detective Chase, a thrilling American story.
Post free, 6d.
story of Primitive Man, by Edward Clodd ; 88
illustrations. Post free, Is. 6d.
DE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, “TX.nsSS.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
EM®.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.) ■■ ■■■
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all I EL Li
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken--..
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute,-and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
•c:
•r 4;
m
0 &
' 5?
VS-'
*
a, h. m
: wi: Brian:
n:
■
SOAP
AND SAVE THE WRAPPERS
FOR COLD A SILVER WATCHES.
Sydney Soap & Candle Co. L t p
Sydney & Newcastle.
o(i?€i)SlaQd International Exbibitioo-
Under the Special Patronage of the Queensland Government.
Committee of Management: Thomas Finney, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman; Messrs. J. D. Campbell,
J. Forsyth, J. Greaves, J. T. Isles, T. Welsby. Secretary : Henry C. Wood. Auditor :F. A. Muller.
This EXHIBITION will be OPENED in BOWEN PABK, BRISBANE,
on sth MAY, 1897, for 3± Months.
AND BE DIVIDED INTO TWO DISTINCT SECTIONS—NameIy,
1 INDUSTRIAL embracing FINE ARTS, MUSIC, EDUCATION, FURNITURE,
POTTERY GLASS JEWELLERY, PAPER, PRINTING, TEXTILE FABRICS, LEATHER,
FOOD CHEMISTRY ELECTRICITY, LIGHTING, HEATING, CUTLERY, CARRIAGES,
MACHINERY PRIME MOVERS NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING, MINING,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, FISHERIES, Women’s INDUSTRY & Artisans WORK.
_ HOR g E g, CATTLE, SHEEP SWINE, DOGS,
POULTRY, WOOL, SUGAR, FARM and DAIRY PRODUCE, HORTICULTURE.
N B.—For Schedules, Entry Forms, and all particulars, apply to .
JULES JOUBERT, General Manager, Courier Building, Brisbane.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS 5
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
Ironmongers.
\\rn™ DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depdt. 484 George-Street, Sydney, for photos and
) particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will’ effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \compared with'buying them from dealers.
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made bv the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
ioints. ft can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thus the Piano will not lose tone^
wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.B3 wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
srold ensrraving, with
carved panels, pilastu9 and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, ‘elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in tho treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent jrnusicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 Georg©
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South \Vale3.
BEALE & GO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.-
THE
‘ Plum *
THE
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEIn who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
jt Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p . f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rlce \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* l in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
HUD’S marvellous HAIR RESTORER
.^53
mm
vs
c/2
i
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest the premature decay and per-
manently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
%
da
Read the following Genuine and unsolicited Testimonial:—
Dear Mr. Holland, Lansel Road, Toorak.
I shall be pleased if you will pack securely two 10s. 6d. bottles of your Marvellous
Hair Restorer. I want them for a gentleman residing in Sydney. lam pleased you are
doing so well with it. It is the very best preparation I have used. I have used many kinds
of restorers, and I could not get my hair to grow. Since I have used the Marvellous Hair
Restorer my hair has improved wonderfully.
Yours truly, Mrs. M. M'Pherson.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight' in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Pottle —3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. —9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND,
FfA 1R SPECIALIST, . . .
. . 193 CollinM-ftt.. Melbourne.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only ONB
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F McDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
A Nod is as Good aS a Wiok
to a Blii)d Horse.”
MARK FOY’S.
%m Schober §r'] CHELI
[jIRD :
s§i
ptDE
*7
PROOFS
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
tysneHTBROS. # oo
limited.
m
<:
m
m
&smte**&*?m** ** rr;*
—,. -■■ ‘-'-■’“Viafaj.in ijf i jT|'it~' l | |l l
*2
Hi
soS
m
PRO OF yj/^r
0/v o' v>
Fhe Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices —
Bligb Cban>bcr£, Bligb>&t., Sydney,
V orlts —
CbiSWick, Parranjatta Riycr.
Some Broken Hill Affairs,
The issue of the B.H. Prop.’a half-yearly report
to the end of Nov. was belated ; the document was not in
most shareholders’ hands until three days before the
meeting, on 28th ult. It is, however, an “ off ” issue,
the comprehensive annual report being sent out in the
middle of the year. The only important announcements
relate to the extension of sulphide-treating plant and the
development of sulphide ores. The co., as long since
stated here, finds that, after all, the imperfect concentra-
tion, roasting, and smelting process, as generally pursued
by Block 14, is the most reliable offered up to'date. In
addition to the mill of 5000-ton weekly capacity (with
arrangements for duplication, if required), four big roast-
ing furnaces or kilns, and nine 120-ton smelters are
planned. The mill, which the Mays are building, will be
running by April, and two of the roasters are already in
hand. The furnaces will, of course, be at the seaboard
(Port Pirie), and smelting on the mine will, when the plan
is complete, pretty well, if not entirely, cease—to the
regret of the Tarrawingee people. The refinery plant will
be almost doubled, to cope with the increased output of
low-grade bullion. Until the 10,000 ton milling plant is
available only four of the big smelting furnaces will be
built; and by the time they are in blast it will probably
be found that some chemical or chemical-cwm-electrical
process has been evolved that will give better results.
The nine-furnace idea is, therefore, we may take it,
largely provisional.
People who ought to know profess surprise that
no mention is made in the B.H. Prop, report of the
Kohler process just made public. Kohler is assistant
general manager and chief metallurgist; and it would be
at the least peculiar if he patented so widely what is in
his opinion (presumably the best at the co.’s command) a
process inferior to others well known. It doesn’t, then,
seem very ridiculous to doubt that the full plan of ex-
operations set before the shareholders will never
be carried out; and, seeing the enormous loss of metal
which it involves (all the zinc, 40 per cent, of the silver,
and 20 per cent, of the lead remaining unrecovered),
shareholders will not be wise to press for its completion.
It is just as well to remember the awful failure of the
Holly concentrating plants, and, later, of the huge
amalgamating mill. To the latter not a ton of ore has
been sent during the past 12 months ; altogether it ran
only three years.
The advantages of a chemical leaching process
have certainly been further demonstrated during the last
half-year ; it is the only one of the many processes tried
which shows during any period of three years a persistent
advance in either quantity of ore treated by it or quantity
of silver produced. From 10,514 tons of ore leached in
the first half of ’94 (the first period during which the pro-
cess was tried on ore), the quantity has risen to 39,460
tons in the half-year lately closed, and the quantity of
silver saved has gone from 79,7860 z. to 356,5110 z. More-
over, 12,340 tons (of the total of 39,460 tons) consisted of
carbonate tailings carrying only from 6oz. to Boz. of re-
coverable silver per ton.
When General-manager Stewart submitted his
memorable estimate of the quantity of sulphides, the
worthlessness of the calculations was the subject of a par.
Mr. Stewart now admits it all. “The cross-cut at the
No. 5 level from Dickenson shaft has proven a width at
that point of 140 ft., whereas all the information available
from the work done on the upper levels only warranted a
width of 50ft. to be taken as proven, and from this latter
width the estimates were formed. Again by the cross-
cut on the No. 4 level at Stewart shaft a width of 130 ft.
has now been proved, as compared with 60ft. taken for
the estimates presented in June last.” And so on.
Plainly they were good “bear” estimates, whether inten-
tionally so or not. Generally, in fact, things underground
have gone well lately : besides these big sulphide develop-
ments the free-smelting lead ores and the ironstone faces
are stronger. The improvement in the ironstone outlook
is important; for if silver-bearing ironstone isn’t avail-
able then equal space has to be taken up in the furnaces
by pure ironstone flux.
Some Broken Hill Prop, figures to Nov. 30 last:
Total cash paid in divs. (the mine was opened in ’B4),
£6,848,000; total silver produced, 83,910,6130 z.; ditto
lead, 313,631 tons; net amount received, £16,280,625 ;
total expenses (including depreciation), £9,261,963 ; net
profit last six months, £152,944; divs., ditto, £144,000;
silver recovered in the six months, 4,028,2920 z. ; lead,
10,065 tons ; copper, 209 tons ; gold, 25040 z. The co. paid
in the half-year in wages and salaries, £236,565 ; for coke,
£75,203; coal, £31,336; limestone, £31,795; timber,
£22,260 ; and freight and charges, £49,500.
Although B.H. Prop, directors don’t indicate
how they hold their “ £125,000, reserve-fund,” they don’t
forget to mention that “ Consols to the extent of £30,000,
forming a portion of the reserve-fund, were realised
during the early part of the half-year at £ll2 21-32, your
directors considering that this price and the outlook of
political affairs in Europe at that time rendered such
a course advisable. The original £50,000 invested cost
£9B 17-32.” The “ interest and profit ” from the fund for
the half-year is stated in the profit and loss account at
£5523. This, by the way, is the first report sent out from
the co.’s new head office in Collins-st.
* » * *
A fortnight’s milling work at the British :
Carbonates milled, 2941 tons, yielding 907 tons first-grade
concentrates and slimes, assaying 64 per cent, lead and
9oz. silver ; and 104 tons second-grade concentrates and
slimes, assaying 49 per cent, lead and 9oz. silver; sul-
phides milled, 2937 tons, yielding 455 tons first-grade con-
centrates and slimes, assaying 68 per cent, lead, 220 z.
silver, and 7J4 per cent, zinc, besides 131 tons seconds,
assaying 63 per cent, lead, 14oz. silver, and 10 per
cent. zinc. The quality of the work done by the mill is,
however, not deducible from these figures ; it would be
necessary to know the metallic contents of the ore. But
for purposes of comparison the value of the product and
yield of concentrates per ton of ore may profitably be set
alongside the South’s. In its last week (the British return
was for a fortnight) 1632 tons sulphides at the South gave
533 tons concentrates and 40 tons zinc product, assaying
in bulk 69'2 per cent, lead, B'2oz. silver, and 7’5 per cent,
zinc. This practice of lumping concentrates and zinc
product or slimes is, by the way, most objectionable. In
this case, if there be any object, it is probably to magnify
the quantity of silver, which is possibly much smaller in
the concentrates than in the slimes ; but in the latter its
sterling value is reduced on account of the greater quan-
tity of zinc present.
Investors ought, in fact, to insist upon a uniform
mode of presenting these mill returns. At present, each
company sends them out in just that form which best
suits its own book. If it isn’t doing clean work, it doesn’t
mention what the ore which is being put through assays ;
in other words, it doesn’t say what is going over the mul-
lock-tip. If, on the other hand, most of its silver is going
in with the little-valuable zinc slimes, it makes the silver
contents of the concentrates appear better by bunching
slimes and concentrates together. In the end, no common
basis of comparison can be found, and investors poke
about in the dark —a thing that ought not to be when the
batteries are telling the truth and the whole truth.
* * * * j
The “new era” at Broken Hill shows itself,
too, in the machinery-import returns. In 1894, £14,187
worth ; in 1895, £16,963 ; 1896, £41,070.
The bigger B.H. mines’ timber bill steadily de-
creases. In 1894 it was £104,727, value at seaboard ;
1895, £77,902, value at seaboard ; 1896, £85,369, co'st
landed in Broken Hill. This notwithstanding a much
greater consumption in the unstable Junction and
Junction North. Yet, owing to the larger amount of
filling-in with mullock done, Chief Mines Inspector Slee
reports that the properties are safer than they were when
the bills were heavier.
Notwithstanding that the electric-light is in-
stalled at surface and underground in nearly every
B.H. mine, a trifle of 428,3731 b. of candles was used up
last year. A few other important items : coke, 43,017
tons (£134,831, landed on the mines); coal, 615 tons
foreign and 62,038 tons Newcastle ; salt (used largely in
some metallurgical processes), 4600 tons ; soda-ash (ditto),
15,337 cwt. These do not include the stores consumed at
the Pt. Pirie and Pt. Adelaide works.
Carmichael and Kohler’s new sulphide process,
which is to make a stir presently, includes a preliminary
slow roasting with common salt, then a leaching treat-
ment with ammonia for the extraction of the zinc. The
zinc is recovered in the form of an oxide, marketable at
from £6 to £8 per ton. The silver-lead ore remains—more
or less tractable by ordinary smelting. Schnabel investi-
gated a process like this, but set it aside on account of a
difficulty he found in saving the silver and the expense of
recovering the ammonia. Schlapp looked in the same
direction, as indeed nearly all the metallurgists on the
mines have been doing.
* * * •
A globe-trotter writes to the Financial Times
(London) declaring the British B.H to be the next best
mine to the B.H. Proprietary, but sadly mismanaged;
divs., he says, seem as far off as ever. Wherein he will
presently be agreeably disappointed. The mine was
shockingly mismanaged, else that most disastrous creep
would never have occurred ; but the charge against it
now is not justified. Especially is the management to be
commended for the way in which it keeps its prospecting
work well ahead of mill requirements.
Hooley (sacrament served on the gold
plate which he presented to St. Paul’s
Cathedral is, says a London paper, to be known
as “Hooley Communion”) has, it is cabled,
promised to subscribe £15,000 a year for the
support of the aged poor of Derbyshire. It is now
cabled that this aggressive Hooley will stand
for one of the Derbyshire divisions at next British
general election.
“ Melbourne, Friday. —A sad discovery
was made at Baldhills, near Creswick, to-day,
when a man named James Daly was found dead
in bed, with two little children in the house, the
wife being out at service to keep the family. One
of the children, two years of age, was found with
its arms round the neck of the corpse. From the
appearance of the man, it is supposed that he had
been dead since Monday. He was an invalid, and
the family was in poor circumstances.” — Daily
Paper.
Fitzroy (Melb.) appears to be a paradise
for the dyspeptic larrikin. The other day one
Gribaud, head of a local “ push,” was convicted of
promiscuous assault on a decent elderly citizen
whom he knocked down and kicked on the head,
for the “ push’s ” entertainment. Seventeen prior
convictions having been proved against Mr.
Gibaud, he was fined £5 with' the option of a
month. Which suggests that he must be an
Ancient Druid, or something else that gives him a
secret society claim to magisterial consideration.
Among the 24,000 cattle on Bloomsbury,
St. Helen’s and Jolimont, Mackay district (Q.),
there cannot be found a “ clean beast ” (says A.
M. Masterton, a Jolimont selector). “You will
see strong cattle standing with their heads down ;
in 10 days more they are mere skeletons. Over 50
have died round my paddock—all of them a seeth-
ing mass of ticks—and the grass on the ground
around them covered with ticks. . . . The farmers
there (Scrubby Greek) have all lost heavily. One
man, 400 out of 600 ; others from 40 to 100 and so
on. . . . This station will lose 3000 and perhaps
5000.” Masterton claims to have discovered a
cheap cure: —Coal tar, Boz. to 12oz. : wash-
ing soda, Boz. ; common soap, 4oz. Soap is jellied
by boiling water, and boiled with the coal tar and
soda in 5 gallons of water. Applied by hand,
warm. A “ dip ” can be filled for «£3 ; cost of
dipping per head, |d.
A Coolgardie Battler,
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
We were just a dozen “swampers,” spread out
round the fire at Keen’s Soak, the first night out
from the Cross.
A sleepy-looking W.A. native had just mads
the remark that “ you t’other-siders is alright
battlers,” when a devil-may-care sort of youth on
the other side of the fire pulled out half-a-crown
and held forth as follows :
“ I suppose you coves won’t believe me, but I
started from Adelaide without a stiver, and, so
far, I'm just this much ahead of it.
“ Want ter know how I done it, eh? Well, I’ll
tell yez.
“ I stowed away on a Howard Smither fer a
lead-off, an’ didn’t show up the first 24 hours.
When I did, the captain roused round an’ sed ’e’d
jug me at Albany, but he changed ’is mind, and
only ’unted me orf the boat. As it ’appened I
just nicked the Gabo a couple of hours after.
When they found me the captain wasn’t ’arf bad
about it—just tells me I’ll ’ave to turn to, and
then, when we gets to Fremantle, gives me five
bob to go on with. After that come empty trucks
and sleepy guards, so ’ere I am workin’me way up
with Mick Carroll for tucker.
“ How’ll I get on when I’m there? God knows !
But, anyhow, I don’t stand ter lose anythink.”
Three weeks after that he was down with
typhoid, and in another five days he had lost the
greatest stake of all, and was stowed away for
ever in the Coolgardie burial-ground.
Q-
SPINIFEX.
Same day that the French proposed to
celebrate the bi-centenary of Dupleix, news came
that the troop-ship Warren Hastings, named after
his successful enemy, was totally wrecked off
Reunion Island.
London Times reports that in 33 civil
cases which it investigated, in all of which plain-
tiff won, the average amount recovered was =£4l
and the average costs were =£9o. And the law is
built just like that in Australia.
Talmage, the roof-raising snufflebuster who
bellowed through his nose at Australian audiences,
under the management of the Much-Travelled, is
(American papers say) going to marry again.
This will be his third offence. The lady is a mil-
lionaire’s daughter.
Dear Bulletin. —Re General Gordon’s
statue here in Melbourne, and the project for
hanging it round with vegetables : I discovered
two young women throwing wreaths at the effigy
the other afternoon. Excusable, perhaps, seeing
that there is no beauty-actor in town just now. —
S.S.


Gentlemen, —We have now ready for free
distribution our complete price-list of gentlemen’s
boys’, and youths’ clothing, underclothing, water-
proof clothing, mercery, hats. Write to us for
one; it is bound to come .in useful, especially if
you live in the country and unable to personally
select your requirements from us. Hordern
IXv • ■ ■ 209 ' 311 Pilt - s ‘ reet (o ”'“
The ONLY GOLD M
ft
sa
%
m
REPUBLIQUE
FRANCAISE^
m
PEARS
& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
The Reunion .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not a mere rhyming fable,
But a fact you may read and note.
1 sat at the luncheon table
Of a P. and O. Company boat
Vis-a-vis to a tinted lady—
No jewels aboard like hers—
\ !! i l eel ! tripping around on her lively “ own,”
And 1 heard her converse in an undertone
With one of the officers.
The mariner, bronzed and chubby,
Asked : “ Glad that the time is near ?
I guess that your faithful Hubby
Will be waiting to greet you, dear.”
Then the cleverly-tinted matron,
i e Afade savage by vain regret,
o'ioth : “ O, I suppose I’ll find him there.”
A-*d as though on her knees at prayer :
“Thank God ! I am not there yet.”
The officer went on eating
In an affable, hearty way,
And pictured a tender meeting
Of Hubby and Wife next day.
She said : “ It is two years nearly
Since last I beheld the bore;
Our parting sounds long, but the time seemed
short,”
(1 lie johnnies at ‘ home ’ had been just her sort)
“I wish it were two years more.”
I spotted the meeting tender
’Twixt Hubby and Wife next morn ;
I saw how the fair pretender
Dissembled her silent scorn
For the dupe who had paid the piper
The while she had danced abroad.
1 1 1 gleaned not the truth from her crafty eyes ;
And I thought: In such folly such fools are wise,
For love is its own reward.
’Tis she who has missed the pleasure,
’Tis she who has lost the joy
And the comfort, beyond all measure,
Of treasuring one best “boy,”
All passions burn down to ashes
In a heart which admits no lord,
But there’s happiness true in an untrue kiss
lor fools who trust women as he trusts this—
All love is its own reward.
Melb.
E.F.
From the “ Sermon on the Mount ” :
If any man will sue thee at the law, and take away
thy coat, let him have thy cloak also.”
To which may now be added :
“ And if he will sue thee in equity, let him have thy
breeches likewise and all that is in the pockets thereof.”
Dr. William Walker has died in Scotland
in his 83rd year. For 30 years or thereabouts he
practised as a chemist in Sydney and Parramatta.
He had studied medicine in Scotland for three
years, and after 30 years of chemistry he returned
and completed his medical course, taking full
degrees.
The eternal tragedy of the backblocks. A
drover perished with his flock while travelling
recently from the Flinders. His horse was found
dead a few miles from his body; a sheep whose
throat had been cut for a draught of blood lay
beside the dead man, and 14,000 merinoes, all
victims to thirst, were scattered over the ridges.
Ye Gods—what a holocaust!
A Woman Reckless.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The heavy clouds of dust raised by the coach had
drifted with us all day under the influence of a
gentle, following breeze. So dense was this im-
penetrable mist that sometimes the horses were
hidden from view, but when a turn in the track
brought the wind abeam they would show as if
stepping through the edge of a russet mantle
which waved sideways off the track,
The road wound like a huge brown snake through
great belts of mallee. At the side of the track
tiny, brown-frilled lizards would scuttle over the
bare ground to some vantage place on a fallen log,
swinging round to blinkingly face the intruders.
Iguanas flurried up the larger bull-mallee, clinging
close to the farther side of the trunks, and moving
their heads slowly from side to side as they pro-
truded their long, forked tongues.
In the open country the ground was covered
by a sward of white daisies with a little trefoil
m the lower places. The roly-poly was beginning
to break and collect under the warm breath of the
early summer. A great mirage followed in our
wake ; and here and there in the offing clumps of
belar showed their roots—surrounded, as it seemed,
by broad expanses of water.
So the day wore on. Night set in still and
cloudless. At 8 o’clock we changed horses at the
billabong, and by 10 pulled up at the township of
Lignum.
As the driver swung his whip on the roof of the
coach and the groom unhooked the leaders, I
stepped into the bar. A woman—young, fair, and
very pretty—stood outside the counter. She was
dressed as though for travel, and was pulling on a
pair of dainty light gloves.
My God! Mrs. Brent ! what brings you
here ?
As she glanced at me I saw her face was tear-
stained. She raised her hand as if in protest;
then sank on to a rough stool and covered her face
with her hands.
“Are you going on in the coach ? ” I said, to
break the awkward silence.
“No.”
“ How did you come here? Can Ido anything
for you ? I asked, astounded to find a woman I
believed to be living in affluence with her husband
sitting sobbing late at night in a tap-room in the
dreary West.
“ No. I’m beyond it. Don’t talk to me. Get
to your room and don’t bother.”
1 stood silent for a moment. I could not leave
a woman—a pretty one, too—in trouble.
“ Tell me. I might be some help. ”
111 tell you ; but don’t offer any advice or
preaching—l can’t stand it.”
Then she told me of the unjust suspicions of her
husband—how she had left him a fewmonths before
determined to earn her own living, buried where
not a whiff of the old life would come, as a bar-
maid at Lignum. How she had been true to him
even though galled by his brutal charges. How
she had found the life harder than she thought
and had written telling him if he wished her to
return he must come for her; if not—and that
very day was the limit of the time—bis chance
had passed.
“ I’m going to Wilan to-night to start in my
new place as housekeeper,” she concluded de-
fiantly.
“ Good God ! don’t. ' There will be no hope
then. ’
“ There’s none now. I can’t stand this place.
I gave him ample time, but he has not come.”
“ No decent woman ever kept house in that
hell ; and you ”
“ Why should I be an exception ? ” she inter-
posed. “ I’ve thought it all out as far as I care to
look. Beyond that—well, I’ll be over the Divide
—that’s all.”
I stood silent.
“Mr. Spencer,” she continued, “I’ve struggled
against it. I know what it all means. No, don’t
advise me,” as I essayed to speak. “ Good-bye.”
A buggy clattered from the back yard. The
ponies uneasily pawed the ground and champed
their bits when checked in front of the pub.
Young Shearey called out:
“ Come on, Fairy.”
“ Don't go ! It’s absolute ruin, Mrs. Brent!
Do hear me ! Your husband has perhaps searched
everywhere for you. Your letter may not have
reached him.”
“ Too late ! ” she answered petulantly, as she
brushed past me.
I followed, and by the light of the sign-lamp I
saw her luggage was strapped into the tray.
“ Mrs. Brent! ” I implored. “ Give him
another day ! Just one ! ’’
But she was already stepping into the buggy on
the other side.
I sprang forward with no defined idea except
that she must not go. Young Shearey kicked
back the break ; loosened the reins ; and the ponies
were off in a cloud of dust.
I sat smoking on the rough verandah. Far on
in the night the still air was broken by the heavy
crack of a whip and a voice as a man urged on his
fagged horses. The buggy pulled up. Jack
Brent was driving; but the red bull’s-eye lights
from young Shearey’s buggy had sunk out of sight
a couple of hours before.
GLENORA.
Fourteen weeks ago The Bulletin printed
and paid for an original story by “J. Jingle,”
called “A Blue Funk.” Seven weeks ago that
cheeky thief-paper, London Evening News, re-
printed it as original, with the title changed’and
the author’s pen-name omitted. Last week
Sydney Evening News reprinted it under the
heading, “ A Terrible Pursuer,” with acknow-
ledgments to London Evening News. And this
is not the first such case.
“The Australian mail arrives in London
usually on Monday,” writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent, “and on the following day London
Eve™ News prints a tale under the heading
ot Our Short Story ’—which is stolen from The
Bulletin. Neither author’s nor paper’s name is
mentioned, and usually the story’s name is
changed. This is not done inadvertently, but
merely because the Evening News wants The
Bulletin to know that it can steal without fear of
consequences. In the same way a Bulletin par.
is stolen and enlarged into a column story and
printed m Tit Bits with ‘ The following in-
teresting and cleverly-written story by Jemima
BJoggs, 17 Bodkin s Building's, Bermondsey ’ (or
some such address), ‘ has been awarded our Special
Prize of £2 25.” Only for The Bulletin, the
much-stolen Argonaut, and some other foreign
papers, a number of the London evening papers
would not exist a month. Some English papers
including Reynolds’s, are more scrupulous. Thev
reprint from The Bulletin, but acknowledge
both writer and paper.”
Lines .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Run slowly, Time ! ” cried Faustus,
When his hour of doom drew near;
“ Run slowly, Time ! ” I murmur,
“ Because my Love is here.”
I made a way of wishes,
I made a path of sighs,
And so came my Beloved
Out of the purple skies.
She came in a flood of starlight,
Throbbing, wave upon wave . . .
Oh, God ! Thou hast smitten sorely !
I kneel beside her grave.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Illegitimate children possess, at any rate,
one advantage over their fellows. Under the ex-
isting British law they cannot be compelled to
contribute to the support of their parents.
The doddering Argus, writing down At*
torney-General Isaacs :
He is unpopular and distrusted on both sides of the
House. So much is kindly conceded. All great men we
are told, occupy this unpleasant position. Indeed 1 Was
Walpole distrusted by his own friends, or was Pitt ?
Now, what could suit an ambitious politician’s
purpose better than comparisons like these ? The
Argus is bile-blind in its hatred of Isaacs.
British Colonial Secretary Chamberlain
reports that things are so fixed that the British
Government has no power to sub-divide Queens-
land. If this is so, it is waste of energy for the
North to petition any more on the subject, and it
must either wait till increase of population gives
it a better show in- Parliament, or else raise the
banner of red revolution, or else wait till Byrnes
is 1 remier and then get the Pope to excommuni-
cate that “humbly prostrate” individual till he
grants Separation.
Re the “Godless system of education”:
Phillips, the self-confessed murderer of Brady in
Melbourne, was a church-going cherub, and wore
a nice white surplice, which looks lovely in his
daily-paper portrait. Butler, the alleged Glen-
brook murderer, proved himself, on his voyage to
San Francisco, to be a man of great piety. Stephen
Bosher, doing two years for bigamy, and also
being tried for the midnight butchery of an old
man and woman at Petone (M.L.), was a devout
Salvationist. Lyfield—accused, in Victoria, of
the murder of his wife and two children, and the
seduction of his daughter and granddaughter—and
his daughter who says she lived immorally with
him for about 30 years, both belong to the old days
when education in Australia was conducted on a
strictly religious basis. Where does the “ Godless
education theory come in among this latest
batch of horrors ?


AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
Purifies, Vitalizes, Enriches the Blood; Gives
New Life, Health and Vigour.
tM9
s
Mr. Alfred C. Jolliffe, of Granvi.le, So. Australia, whose portrait ve
give above, writes:
Aiiat l^iiv, Sec^A'£‘^ r s Sarsaparilla in England for years before coming to
Australia. At times Ewas much troubled with boils and other eruptions
of the skin, caused, the doctors told me, by down T 5
system and general debility. The only medicine that has eve? done ml
good is Ayers Sarsaparilla, which has always cured me— purifying
my blood, and giving me new life and health and vigour.” V y *
The wonderful success of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in purifying the blood and
restoring health and strength to systems enfeebled by disease, or the enervat-
ing effect of awarm climate,, has led to the placing on the market of other
pieparations called Sarsaparilla. Remember that imitation is the sincerest
form of flattery, and be sure that you get AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
which has stood the test of time, has won the highest awards at the world’s
great expositions, and has been a blessing to the people of Australia, and
all civilized countries, for more than a generation. No other medicine operates
so effectually m removing general debility, languor, and all outward symp-
toms of the grave mischief caused by disordered nerves and impure blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Known all Over the World for Its Excellence.
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated—Mild but Effective.
e
MISFIT PARLOR,
REGISTERED, *
IS THE CHEAPEST PLACE IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR ALL YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
siioppingr toy Post.
ALL GOODS TO THE VALUE OF Is. AND UPWARDS SENT. CARRIAGE FREE TWROTTPErnTinn
NEW SOUTH WALES. PLEASE NOTE SOMR OF MY WONDERFUL BARGAms™ GH ° UT
LATEST IMPROVEMENTS, 603., worth £lO.
MOSELEY S BALANCED HANDLE TABLE AND DESSERT KNIVES, PINNED
THROUGHOUT, 9d.
MENS WATERPROOF COATS, BEST BLACK OR BLUE PARRAMATTA CLOTH WITR OR
WITHOUT SLEEVES, OR VELVET COLLARS, GUARANTEED SEWN THROUGHOUT
17s. 6d.. WORTH 60s.
WATCHES AND CHAINS.
REAL GEMS, AND GUARANTEED PERFECT TIMEKEEPERS, 7s. 6d.
STERLING SILVER WATCHES, WITH CHAIN ATTACHED, FOR LADY OR GENTLEMAN
15s. 6d„ WORTH 60s. ’
TEA. TEA TEA .
BEST QUALITY PANYONG, DELIGHTFUL FLAVOR, 30s. THE HALF-CHEST, AND 10s THE
SMALL CHEST. THIS TEA IS WORTH as. 6d. A LB.
PLEASE READ WHAT MY MARVELLOUS BALES COMPRISE •
£2 BALE. MY WONDERFUL £2 BALE.
£2
Comprising One Complete SUIT OF CLOTHES out of the Best Material, anv size
Two OUTER SHIRTS (White or Colored), Two UNDERSHIRTS (Flannel or otherwise)
Six Pairs MEN’S SOCKS, Two NECKTIES, Two COLLARS, Six HANDKERCHIEFS
One Set of STUDS, One HAT (either Soft or Hard Felt).
One Pair BRACES or BELT, One Pair BOOTS or SHOES.
A GENTLEMAN’S RIG-OUT FROM HEAD TO FOOT FOR TWO (2) POUNDS.
£2
£1 MY WONDERFUL £1 BALE. £1
EO. I.—MY DRESS BALE contains THREE DRESSES and LININGS as follows 2 Dress Lengths of New
Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-wool Serge and Nun’s Veiling, 12 yards of Good Print, 8 yards Silesia, 2U vards
Body Lining, and 6 yards White Calico, 20s. the lot, 73 "
NO. 2.-—MY WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL, containing yards White Twill Sheeting 80in. wide ■
1 dozen yards Good Household Calico, 1 yard wide ; 6 yards splendid quality of Flannelette, wide width, soft finish •
2J yards Cream Linen Damask ; i dozen white Turkish Towels ; 6 yards Linen Apron Dowlas ; a grand 20s worth ’
NO. 3. —MY MARVELLOUS LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING BALE, comprising a Complete Outfit of Really Nice
Garments, Two Chemises, Two Nightdresses, Two Pairs Knickers, all pure longeloth, beautifully trimmed with Swiss
Embroidery ; All-wool Singlets (summer weight). One Pair Corsets (state size), One Large Holland Apron One Fancy
Apron, Two Pairs Cashmere Hose, or Four Pairs Stainless Black Cotton Hose ; the lot for 20s.
No. 4 BALE ECLIPSES EVERYTHING, BEING MY EYE-OPENING DRESS PARCEL-Contains 7 yards
double-width of any of the following fashionable materials : New Alpaca Effect, All-wool Tweed, Hopsacs Serve
or Cashmere, Figured Lustres; also very elegant patterns in All-wool Nun’s Veiling. In fact, from materials
costing over 2s. 9d. per yard double-width. Together with sufficient of any Fashionable Trimming desired and
all Linings, Buttons, and extras required for making a really superior dress. The ENTIRE BALE FOR £l. ’
No. 6 BALE FOR £l, WORTH £3 AT LEAST, comprising Table Cutlery, Spoons, Forks, etc., etc. Read
Mark, and Inwardly Digest 6 Balance-handled Table Knives, pinned; 6 Balance-handled Dessert Knives, pinned •
fi E.P. Page’s Best Table Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Forks ; 6 E.P.’
Page’s Best Table Forks; 6E. P. Page’s Best Teaspoons; 1 Mustard Spoon; 1 Salt Spoon ; 1 Pair Best Carvers.
No. 7 BALE—A SMOKER’S OUTFIT, comprising 1 Box, containing 100 splendid Cigars ; 11b. Best Tobacco
12 plugs; 1 Meerschaum Pipe (in case); 1 India-rubber Tobacco Pouch; 1 Plated Match Box; 1 Briar Pipe •
1 Pocket Knife, two blades; 1 splendid Razor ; 1 Shaving Brush ; 1 Razor Strop. THIS LOT, WORTH £3, FOR £l’
With Amazement I Read On. No. 8 SERVICEABLE BALE contains—l Oak-frame Clock, 8-day, strikes
i-hour and hour, Cathedral Gong, visible pendulum, worth 30s. ; 1 Cloth Brush ; 1 Hair Brush; l’Comb;’l Tooth
Comb ; 1 Tooth Brush ; 1 Purse ; 1 Adelaide Corkscrew ; 3 Packs No. 4 Jumbo Playing Cards; 1 Box Gold Paint •
6 Boxes Assorted Perfumed Soap, each containing 3 Tablets. THIS MARVELLOUS LOT, WORTH £3, FOR £l.
&T DELIVERY FREE THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WALES to where RAIL or BOAT CAN TAKE THEM.
Nathan Herman,
Universal . .
. . Provider
9 WYNYARD STREET (next Bank of New South Wales), SYDNEY.
i.
0
Have been before tbe Public for more than
50 years, and have now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This has been achieved
without the publication of testimonials,
the convincing fact is, that Beechams Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
FOR ALL
BILIOUS I NERVOUS DISORDERS,
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
Annua! Sale, SEX MILLION ttOXES
Sold everywhere in boxes, 9\d.,
and 219 each.
IVlick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRITSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS ; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
oheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
_ _ 7
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMAEKET, SYDNEY.


EPPS'S
GEATEIUL—OOMFOBTINa
COCOA
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Bust Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAV'D 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Not “Made in Germany”!
*
*
yUMSo
THE FINEST
ENGLISH MAKE.
m DE COLOGNE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting and
very much More Refreshing
than the German Kinds.
use ATKINSON’S only
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONB.
Only Genuine with Shield-shape Blue and Yellow
Label and usual “ White Rose ” trade Mark.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St., London.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CTJTLERTf
—ABB —
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 York Street, SYD3XTEY,
“THE BLOCK,*'
Street, MiELBOURKTE.
Collin
WortbiQgtoo POrppiog EijgiD* Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON _
32 Clarence-st.,
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, X.S.'YV
VICTORIA: _ Mephan Ferguson, 475 Collins - street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: McLennan & Co,, Alice and Albert-sts.,.
BrisbftUG.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Mephan Ferguson, Hay-street,
Perth ; and Imperial Chambers, Coolgardie. v
Agencies:
j'NEW ZEALAND:
TASMANIA:
E. Pobtbb & Co., Queen-st., Auckland
J, Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
T. Bateman &
Son, St. Johna-atowt,
Worthing’ton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACH INERT throughout! the World*
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION,
SINKING,
MINING,
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-PILLING,
BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application »
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LT
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBUUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Everywhere. H. PATES ON, MANAGER.
Ropp Furnace.
Huntington MilL
Frue Yanner.
Challenge Feeder.
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Gates’ Rockbreaker.
Knowles’ Pump.
Ingersoll Compressor.
Tngersoll Rock Drill.
Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulveriser.
Roger Rolls.
Engines, Boilers.
All Fittings.
«
®!
>
<LOi
2J
ft.
■A. A
Prospecting Outfit*- £lg|]
Consisting of
3-head‘Prospector’ Battery
(2851 b. STAMPS),
with AMALGAMATING TABLE and PLATES.
4 H.-P. VERTICAL ENGINE.
UPRIGHT MULTITUBULAR BOILER,
WITH ALL FITTINGS AND CONNECTIONS.
Z3OXJBXi£!-A.OTIMO *=» TT MP.
BeltiQg, Pulleys, Tools, etc.
/■s
'w'
Parke & Lacy Coropaoy Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER SEW
For every Class of Work. Agents Everywhere.
Batho’s
Baking p owc f eri>
Scale
u
or Advertising
-IN-
THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTRA DISCOUNT of 6 per cent, allowed for cash in advance
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
P. 9
CIGARS.
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
3 - Popular Remedies - 3
BoQI)il)gtOI)’s Irish Moss
For Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BoDQiQgtOQ’S Li</'r Took
For Indigestion and Nervous Debility.
Boi)QiQgtOl)’S Pills
For Biliousness, Sick Headache, and
Liver Complaints.
