

McEWAN’S ALE.
UAJULIU wHlsky.
LAMiifc> JkUxk.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
XS. Gr. WATK.XMS «Sfc GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ anp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SEAS
TOBACCO
■ FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
I-
■■ Tg, ?
<RAci<ArocK>
C jtS/Oj*
mi
v ' l__
•: S .s ■,. Ovv-fr^Y^
R. A. lIEItVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Svdxev.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S €n)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n;brocatioi).
ROBERTS’ Wipe & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons,, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE A ACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAYORITE “FOUR CROWN ” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER'S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A. Splendid LuncU fox* Is. 6d,
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Kesidence 10/-per day.
Before vijifing The Of/ write »Ke Manager for
Caw «f Tariff (orrejpondence prompfly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISEtA-KTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
_ WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST !
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
BED B
THE
B
est
icycle
uilt
/£v\V.
m
m
Australian 3ranch:
64 King Street,
Sj' dney.
Dupjfci'
/'MELBOURNE.
{ ADELAIDE,
tWELLINGTON, N.Z.
Ageats Everywhere.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., Ilea., is.
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
I
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street <Only), SYDNEY.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
—Melbourne
Should Stat at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £l per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
IIKI.ISOIIt.VE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
'X'JEaiiE:
PITT and HUNT Pit
STUKPTri,
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. E3P” Write for Terms.
HOBART.
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. O. Hadley, Proprietress.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
il Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Trawisllers
TO
Europe and America.
CHEQUE BANK
CHEQUES
ISSUED FROM £l UPWARDS.
CASHED BY OYER 25,000 BANKS ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
- SUXIJ Foil HANDBOOK.
JAS. MALCOLM,
General Agent.
135 Pitt-st. (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
VOl 18.—i So. 899-j
[Saturday, May 8, 1897.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Publishers’ Notices.
“BULLETIN” STORIES.
JUST PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS.
Price, 1/6; post free, 1/9.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO., SYDNEY.
PARLIAMENT
is in SESSION.
S'h “ D ““' y ’"r n ? “ »•«■
« » AXtfiSfi Sr
CAAIEO CIGARETTES.
THE RED PAGE.
It seems that Aubrey Beardsley will always re-
main more fantastic than forcible. Yet, apart
from the technical skill they display, there is real
power in the fifty drawings which he has just col-
lected m a volume. Not only are many of his
conceptions strikingly artistic in idea, but they
nave nearly always mental suggestion and value.
Characteristic beardsleyism does not lie in the
mere mingling of black and white in dense masses
and strong contrasts—as some of his imitators
sepm to suppose. Nor does it lie altogether in his
exaggerations of draughtsmanship, though these
are indeed distinctive. It is the spirit, savour
emanating from all his drawings which gives them
that quaint air of intellectual other-worldliness.
Urdinary artistic conceptions become refracted
and distorted in passing through the strange
medium of his mind, and leave upon ordinary
the kln d of impression made by a face
which looks at you from a curved mirror. But
Beardsley is neither to be denounced for his
eccentricity nor praised for his nonconformity.
wv®/ a,ued , for his originality, to which
much latitude may be allowed in a far-too-con-
ventional age. His embodiment of the ideas of
merlin and Herodias, here reproduced, is well
worthy consideration.
• * .
Much of the best of Phil May’s work remains
embalmed in The Bulletin. It was while in
Australia that he perfected his fine talent, and
lor humor, vigor, and effective ease he has never
surpassed some of those earlier drawings. So the
not-long-ago published. ‘Sketch-Book’ was in
some degree disappointing to his Australian
admirers, in that it did not show an advance in
capacity and achievement commensurate with the
artist’s advance in sphere and reputation. ‘ Gut-
ter-Snipes ’ —a series of fifty sketches of London
children—leaves a better impression of May
in the maturity of his powers. Perhaps
his result comes rather from exaggeration than
from pure caricature—which consists not in
emphasising individual and local peculiarities to
an unnatural point, but in accurately representing
the subject in an actual or probable situation
which is, however, incongruous with the subject’s
chief or usual aspects. The two examples chosen
for reproduction on this page do not illustrate
this suggested tendency of ‘Guttersnipes,’ but
are charmingly natural examples of clever illus
trative art. And the picturing of life and character
throughout the whole series of drawings is mosl
able and admirable.
* * * ,•
Le Gallienne’s ‘ The Quest of the Golden Girl ’
is meant to taste like Sterne, with a difference—
and achieves the difference. The author, in fact, is
beginning to beat his gold a little too thin. Yet
the book has enough of pristine charm to make it
pleasantly readable, though the woman-elements
on which it largely relies for effect have no par-
ticular piquancy. There are occasional quaint
conceits and captivating phrases—
... the cunning little frieze of Bacchus and Ariadne
followed by a troop of Satyrs and Bacchantes, which the
artist [of a decorated stocking-top] had designed to en-
circle one of the white columns of that little marble
temple which sat before me.
. . . fed from my youth upon the honeycomb of,woman.
... the wild white peace of those silent hours when
we lay thus married and maiden side by side.
No silken madam, by your leave,
Though wondrous wondrous she be,
Can lure this heart—upon my sleeve—
From little pink-print Hebe.
And so on.
* * *
Some little items—
Paperknife: “Tile attractive undercurrent of ‘Rob
Roy,’like that of Rousseau’s • Social Contract,’ Cooper’s
‘ Last of the Mohicans,' St. Pierre’s ‘Paul and Virginia ’
Borrow s ‘ Lavengro,’ and much in the books of Sand
Ouida,’ Schreiner, and other f, male authors, is the hinted
superiority of savage life to civilisation.”
C.S. : ‘ Did you ever see an Arab donkey-boy on
the way to the Pyramids, pricking his unhappy pro-
perty with a vicious little stick ? And did you learn
that the Arabic for donkey is borak? If so, you
need no light on the origin of the expression, ‘‘pok-
ing porak enlivening the butt who has tem-
porarily or permanently identified himself with
Brother Donkey.’
Cripps Clark: ‘Re a recent Bulletin statement,
rhere is no blood - relationship between " Marie
Corelli ” and poet Eric Maekav. Dr. “ Cheer Boys
Cheer ” Mack iy, the father of Eric, married’ in his
old age, the mother of “Marie Corelli,” and
“Marie” married Eric.’
The critic should stand between the author and
h.s public, to the former giving advisory comment,
suggestions, justifiable censure, honest praise • to
the latter the explanation of the new talent, the in-
troduction to the fresh young mind, the key to ils
merits, the clew to its claim of distinction.’- * S F
Argonaut
Poets, you say, are irreligious. No !
Their creed is love. Can you a better show?
B.D. in'The Freethinker.'
The little story about Dot and Carry in last issue
was written by Maggie Kennedy, of N.S. v.
Paper knife : ‘Alleged Olive ‘schreine'r wanted to
marrv Rhodes one time. Hence the vestiges of
her flame illuminating the new book.’
C.S. : ‘You are wrong abdut Buchanan and the
be 1v.,,,d-l,ck allileration. I, „„
SUE? v "'*' " ho ” “•«
'Her whole being seemed to un
close, in the freshness of the sea ai
in the coolness of the summs
evening, like one of those magnif
cent night-blooming flowers, whio
only open the heart of their petal
as the sun passes and sets.’— D' An-
nunzio.
* * * *
To all outward seeming G. O
Craig’s “ The Federal Defence
of Australasia ” (Geo. Robert
son and Co.) is a Book. It
is paged and chaptered like s
book, printed like a book, bounc
like a book. In reality, how-
ever, it is only a series of news-
paper artioles, and to throw
r ‘hese into consecutive and co-
herent shape the author has
lacked either art or oppor-
tunity. Thus to stand under
his shower-bath of hetero-
geneous facts and impressions
is like standing under the tilted
cornucopiaof the goddess Flora.
You may expect to be hit with
normal powder or a pumpkin,
Federal forts or a plum, a
bunch of grapes or an item about
Australia’s chances against in-
vasion. So Mr. Craig’s seem-
ing-book is more tedious and
less effective than it should be.
But he has much knowledge
of his subject, and much
capacity to treat it; so his
seeming-book is more inter-
esting and more effective than
it might have been. And he
tells us, as an expert, that
our arms and our ammunition
are obsolete ; that our defences
are of doubtful virtue; that
“our naval squadron ” would be practically use-
less in war, because as a fleet tt cannot steam
more than 10 knots an hour or so, if so much, and
would thus be outclassed and out-manoeuvred by
Russian vessels of similar type, while the 20-fenot
French, German and Japanese merchant cruisers
would whenever they sighted it add eou.iderably
to the multitudinous laughter of the sea.
* * * *
It is pleasant to turn aside from the push of
superficial and pretentious books to the modest,
but very fine and faithful studies by Charles
Grant published in Macmillan’s Library (“ Stories
of Naples and the Camorra”). They have keen
psychological and natural interest, and seem to
leave a more exact and truthful impression of
phases of Italian life than the work of either
Ouida ot Marion Crawford. Grant, indeed-
he was a valuable man of letters with wide
Jturopean experience, born 1841, died 1889-deals
with Ins subjects in quite a scientific spirit, and
his_effeet comes not from rhetorical exaggeration
or dramatic contrast, but from his talent for com-
posing and lighting a simple human picture.
* * * .
oydney School of Arts doesn’t seem extrava-
gantly prosperous. Raised subscription and book-
sellers’ competition have decreased revenue and
membership. Reading-room and library together
are doubtless cheap at 225. 6d. per ann., but
many people don’t want reading-room, and can
get not a better, but a more attractive library for
<£l. If the S. of A gave it* „„u ..
chance to take library onlv nr Ji!,v BUbSCnbers *
at a reduced rate things might improve^A™ ° nly
the institution wallows in a slouch f Any * a F.
The “nice ” books, the new books fL u r ? ut,DO-
- wants seem nearlv *1 ’ books die
You .WfeTtf *7l “I 01 *? 0 * 1 ’ 1 *
average sjbsoriter ' dWt "an, ‘T
The committee badly wants ehancrinr* c assics ;
the members have petrified in = S ? me °!
the S. of A. has petrified along with a “ d
thena ’
‘ The Dead March of th» , ■
to show the pretty talent A P , r ® printe< l
whose verses, including ‘The Dead^M - ’ ° f
appeared in The f March, have
his soattered' 2fads in I^ l^ ndwb< ,’ novy threads
by iud SMe,
PHILADELPHIOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tb . ere . 8 * feeling half-Platonic born of longings embryonic
And with scintillating passion subtly starred ;
» s a kind of stopping-station 'twixt esteem and
adoration,
And the name of it is ‘ brotherly regard/
It is absent with your sister, and (no matter how you’ve
kissed her)
With the girl to whom you specially belong ;
But whenever it is present, it’s superlatively pleasant,
And it possibly is demi-semi-wrong.
Now in certain circumstances—moon-
light, supper, sundry dances—
The cosmic forces gain an added
power:
But she mocks your voice unsteady
when you hint that you are
ready
To forget the bars of friendship for
an hour.
She won’t raise a blush to please you,
she will torture you and tease
you
Till you wish that you were any.
where but there;
Then— O wonder past all guessing !
you will feel her fingers pressing,
And the merest maddening tickle of
her hair.
Soon (it’s puzzling that you started
so indifferently-hearted)
You grow insanely anxious and
, intense:
Yonr veins begin to quiver, and you
swear you won’t forgive her ,
If she calls you back again to com-
mon-sense.
But at last the blush comes trembling,
and she stops (or starts?) dis-
sembling—
You have given up pretending long
before—
The little Cupid-devils troop to mingle in your revels,
As she says she’ll never face you any more.
TThe Pagan
THE DEAD MARCH OF THE
WATERS.
By the blazing messmate seated as the
skies begin to darken,
And the eager flames ascending seem to
flout the tempest’s din,
Swells, mysterious and mournful, over all
a surging . . . hearken! . . .
’Tie the Dead March of the Waters . . .
and the tide is creeping in.
Near the headland, where the she-oaks
swing their melancholy tressee,
And the ti-tree turns to twilight all the
sultry glare of noon,
Where the wrack in clinging clusters every
basalt crag caresses,
Broods, in solitary silence, Desolation
Point Lagoon.
There, when youth’s brief course grows
sluggish, and its lures have given
over,
Are the merry mountain waters to the
bitter ocean wed,
And the tides roll heavy laden with the
gages of a lover,
And in secrecy and sorrow doth the sea
give up its dead.
Evermore from furthest ocean drift wan
garlands to that wooing ;
Stiff and twisted, bruised and broken,
are they oast upon the strand;
On each face a p illid calmness, half a smile
at its undoing,
Half a shattered hope of rescue, and a
clenching at the hand.
Though I’m aging to that music, I shall
never cease to fear it;
Still I draw up to the fireside, happy but
to tie within.
Think it foolish? . . . Listen ! . . . there
now ; that low moaning ! can you
hear it?
T ■t i ■ Dead March of the Waters . . . and the tide is
creeping in.
W.A.B.


Medical,
»r. freeman.
W x
-.v
yoOQg fico,
if you are troubled with
exhausting complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Mail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away from
the city and unable to come to his office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth o.nd Bathurst sis. , Sydney
Correspondence P.O. Box; 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD
Fee, 21/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 2G Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
L A 3D X B sT"
Don’t Fret or Worry, hut remember that 3Z>r.
invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street, Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
■“■of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MORMON ELDERS.
SPECIFIC for the recovery of HEALTH,
STRENGTH and VIGOR. Price and par-
ticulars sent free (sealed).
HARVARD agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney -
Medical
Dr. SPEER,
29 Yorls: Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life arid tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retaih
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
Alii, CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
ease which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To Those tvho Wish to Marry.
Mumford’s Vivifying Herbal
Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills
'Vi!' positively restore you to health ami vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how hart the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the Wood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Suffereis say, 1 wish I had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per Case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MDMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibitiou), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
■
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Ms, or four quantities in one for HGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Austr alasia —Perry db Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“A BORA PHYSICIAA”
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE —Posted, Sealed —
£l, including ONE MONTH'S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
s
%
m
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not linfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints,
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. \
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price £2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering. New edition of my latest work, “ Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men.
N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this Paper.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
which is a complete cure for Nervousness aud Failiug
Viiror in young and old men. All letters scut sealed.
Address— Dr. IRVING CO., co'-'or Hunter and Bligh Sydney.
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp’eted his New and Centrally-situated
lElectrical A Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking, cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH ST RETT,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferied—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.Q., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMMHOOO.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among- men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other causes, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions, etc., sent free on
receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
< /7 5\
assS.
Mr. J. H. WEHE, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes I cap-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four'
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
nij’self, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you fight,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi*
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. \V, AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes :
—“Gentlemen,—I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more , and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make whab
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over 1200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and_ anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick , Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ha FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
- 76iuw»o.
i
*'■s'


MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
V.
BIRTHDAY C.
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5»
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
MAITLAND C
June 21
10,000 Subscribers el t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
Waterloo Co ursine* C. July 22 & 23.
o «/
100,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name.
Tattersall’s Great XDist-i*ilouLt:iorx
—OF THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, Y.S.AY.
Uo.OGC S-aris a: £1 2a:h Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116.000 Scares at £1 Za:h
Ist Prize —Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres. Junee ... ... valued at £10.065
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution till, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead, or
Cash equivalent, of £10.065. For full particulars, see Prosjrectus.
Tattersalls
Second Distribution
—OF —
City ar)d SObCirbao
Freehold - Properties.
Ist Prize. Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Road, and large l)welling-H«>use.
AVoollahra ... £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses.
Cleveland-street ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1.500 dow n to £2O.
For fitU particular* ap/Ji for Protpcctus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SGitcd.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern &S ons
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
; in curing affections of the Throat
< and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
s ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
flo ||ot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
-HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Laivler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 6,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
]VEa,d.a,me Rodney,
THE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
8»t
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
' It
u
iK&gffiii
The “Korting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market,
tt is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
,anta«-e. It takes water at a temperature of 150 deg.
Fahr. °lt is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
“I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. Oil.
Sole Agents :
Ihe Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st,, Sydney.
MASCARA -HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEbS CICAREITES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA W!NE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to ail Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
TRUTH
appeals to all, and a trial of my boots and shoes
proves the truth of what I say about them.
THE CELEBRATED HALF-GUINEA BOOT
IS STRANGER
than a dream ; in the latter your pleasure is mythical,
in the former it is real. It is a pleasure to admire
them, a pleasure to wear them, and a pleasure to
reflect that fact is more substantial
THAN FICTION,
and that you have grasped the fact. They are made
in any size or shape, in black or tan, with broad or
narrow toe, suitable for Town or Country wear, the
broad toe being especially recommended for tender feet.
WEAR WELL AND LOOK WELL.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS and BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Comer GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
WaSbiQgtoi) N- SoGl & Co.
“What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.”
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars —that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC —sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO., M’sP-S.,
158 & 160 Pitt - street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Pitt -street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRO’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
j'he best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Balling and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Bessorfs Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Siperior to any Other Maker in the World-
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
;o e s is o uxr ’ s
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
_ B. m 9 B riji
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Every
Variety of
0*
and each of unrivalled excellence, delivered free by
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
GT SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, m
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LOCUST-THING.
There comes a voice from tall gum-trees,
A shrill or sleepy sound,
When Spring serene with fingers green
Quickens the underground :
What wind-swayed minstrel sweetly sings
In unison with all green things ?
It is the locust, caged so long
In the damp and silent mould,
Till its shape was grown and life had sown
Its wings with green and gold,
And it heard in the rustle of leaves above
A voice that wooed it in lyric love.
The locust may sing a song to-day,
And to-morrow sing it again ;
But ere a week has gone its way—
Quickening, killing on tree and plain,
The song shall cease, fine wings decay,
And green and gold turn brown and grey.
Yet, though the minstrel’s life be brief,
’Tis free of all distresses ;
Care cometh not, nor wet-eyed grief,
To its green leafi nesses ;
And while it lives it pipes its need,
And when it dies it dies indeed.
The moral is—when love looks bright,
Lend ear to what the ages sing :
“ It lasts a noon, it lasts a night,
For love it is a looust-thing.
Beware, beware red lips ! brown hair !
It dies upon the grave of Spring,
For love it is a locust-thing.”
RODERIC QUINN.
BY THE SEA.
A sullen sky, a dull, dark sea,
A single seagull screaming,
No gleam of light to left or right.
And I alone a-dreaming !
A sweep of sand, a ridge of rock,
A line of billows breaking
With muffled roar along the shore
That sets my poor heart aching.
For so against a vessel’s prow
The self-same sea was beating—
The self-same sea—but then to me
A sweeter song repeating.
For then it sang that Love is long,
And now that Life is lonely ;
There’s little music in the song
That falls on my ears only.
Ah me ! Ah me ! that summer sea,
Those days of sunny weather,
Those moonlight nights upon the deck.
And you and I together !
While steaming down the rocky coast
We watched the red sun sinking,
And, like a kindly eye almost,
One star was winking, blinking !
The golden splendor faded soon,
That night in sweet December,
And then arose the mellow moon,
Ah, friend ! do you remember?
We talked of books, we talked of men ;
You with sarcastic jesting;
Till, falling into graver strain—
Some thought your sneer arresting—
You dropped your cynic mask outright,
Your words were true and tender;
I think I saw your soul that night
That night of moonlit splendor !
The waters flow, the wild winds blow,
Those halcyon days are over ;
I do not know—’twas long ago—
If you were friend or lover.
The wild, weird waters ebb and flow,
Their constancy derides us ;
And here am I, and there are you—
God knows what sea divides us !
I do not dread that you are wed —
I guess your situation :
While smoke-wreaths curl around your head,
You, lost in meditation,
Under a bunya-bunya’s shade,
Forget that sweet December ;
For men forget with scant regret —
’Tis women who remember !
Well, shipboard is the place, we know,
For holiday flirtation ;
You only did as others do
In such a situation.
But fun to you was pain to me ;
Changed is my whole existence;
There haunts me yet a strange regret
With shadow-like persistence.
I linger in the sullen South,
This dreary sky above me ;
Regret, and pain, and dreams are vain,
For, oh ! you did not love me.
O stormy sky ! O dull, dark sea !
O sea-gull, wailing, screaming !
There is no light to left or right;
I am alone, and dreaming !
M.L.
DORA WILCOX.


AOStraliai) HGUial
Established 1849.
Protfidcijt Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A
BONUS EVERY YEAR
Directors :
J.
BENJAMIN
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions
Accumulated Funds Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling. „
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually J? s ®.FY es ) araounted t 0 over
yieldinar Reversion; ry Bonuses of about £860,000.
I? .£ T T STDEET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office :
8 7
il§l!y§l
HATES :
12 6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag-h -street, Syd ney
BRYMT rMRY’S WAX V€STAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 ]p r i ze MJedals fox* Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A IJSTRALIAN BRANDY
(Joshua Bros . “Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
KS" Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. UJi
So d by all Wine and Spirit Merchants,
S. HOFFNUNJ & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
ZRO-A-D
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
&}
n
■ -
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street 9 SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Qondon m (Delbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR STOCK
is selected from the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example:—
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 50s.
Serge Sac Suits 50s.
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 455.
S. M. BAUMASCHB, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QUALITY
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Bail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. Cd.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
these na\e itiisiiou i/uuiop cvi 1 * • •" r . « , . * • c 11 J
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
T■&:
A Revolution in Dentistry.
COMPLETE set one guinea
A
THE
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEE'I'H
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION. _
The Most Complete System of l # aii*H‘ ss
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HAOKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . • I* l ®
scale on which they work enables them to employ notn
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ me
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pltt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
E_>oclall a. Che ese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
’Dodalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
' | oda 11a. Hams
■“ ”■* In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge, of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BO DALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
220 SUSSEX STREET, SYONEY.
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
ZSL
y
Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible v ariet.y of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2-to 10 - per night. TWO
DINING BOOMS. Boarders, 30 -co JS3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRA LI AN COMPANY
—THE —
CSTy MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : Ua Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman: The H -n. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Kutpirt'■ Jltiilrti ii(/s, 4Ui Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Ye rs - £130,000
iT-r INSURERS SHARE m Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Eire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS <>f 20 per cent,, on (.re-
mi orris for the year 133o —divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
ltiaW ins £597.733 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates,
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,009.
Progress of the Society, 1873 1893.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring .. £22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £'450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccideni
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOnip. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. MWlillan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, .T.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ o. ELIDRIDGE & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOJSK STItEICI', 8 Y DNIOY
(Opp. Centenary Hall),
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
at'eii'icd to.
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yankee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a time. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
CooqCieror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South A ales
PixSoo’S New CoQqtieror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
Cl)an)pioi) Arorpatic-
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothin g can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DAEK TWISTS Uncle Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DAEK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AEOMATIOS— CoIden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties.
AGENTS FOR
CIGARETTES.
Mooopole RotbScbildS, La Rosiija, Flor d« ViSto Cigars-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Von. 18.—No. 899.
SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1897.
Prick, 6d.
DIGNITY VERSUS DUTY.
“I will endeavor, sir, to conduct myself—I fear as to dignity, Mr. Mayor, I shall always fall short—but, putting dignity aside, I will
go Home,” &c., &c. — Premier Reid's banquet speech.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. V ales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ... ® L j, b ,-.
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay try Post Office Order, Postal bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
4 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Rlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humoro us or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in, Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland ‘will be £1 6s, 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
77^$ull£&7l.
SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1897.
The Boom That Never Came.
Last week the usual unemployed deputation
waited on Premier Reid, of New South
Wales, with the usual request that work
should be found —almost any kind of work
at almost any kind of wages—to keep them
and their families alive through the coming
winter. A little over three years ago, before
the latest outbreak of Foreign-trade in New
South Wales, the same Reid proudly an-
nounced that he would settle the unem-
ployed difficulty, and abolish the unem-
ployed, and make it possible for every
worker to find work, within a few weeks
after his assumption of office. This was all
to be achieved by the blessed influences of
Foreign-trade and free competition, and by
the dumping down of vast quantities of
foreign goods on the Sydney wharves. And
the country half believed him, quite obli-
vious of the fact that it had already enjoyed
forty dr fifty years of Foreign-trade without
any of these desirable things happening. It
was almost persuaded that Foreign-trade was
some beautiful new experiment which it had
never attempted before, and it returned a
fat and foolish jester to office by way of
giving the panacea a trial—just as -if it
hadn’t been already tried and found want-
ing a dozen times or more. Yet the old,
melancholy unemployed deputation still rolls
up. and this time Premier Reid states that
he has abandoned all hope of ever finding a
remedy for the trouble, so the panacea is
dead, and the great remedy is exploded, and
things are just as they were.
* * * *
After nearly three years of the new order
of things it is about time to ask why the
promised boom doesn’t come, and when its
arrival may be expected. Three successive
financial statements have been delivered
under the Reid regime, and each one of the
three has shown a huge deficit. The Govern-
ment, by various quaint juggles and devices,
has professed to call each one of them a
surplus, but the fact glares forth conspicu-
ously in the pages of the State Statistics,
published by the Government’s own official
Statistician and issued from the Government
Printing Office, that they were deficits, and
the attempt to deny the fact is merely add-
ing falsehood to incapacity. The same abso-
lutely reliable authority proves that the
Reid deficit, for the 2h years covered by the
last three financial statements, is five times
as large as the Dibbs deficit for the three
years of Protectionist administration. It
also shows that apart from railway expendi-
ture, which is mainly under the control of
the Commissioners, and for which the
Treasurer is scarcely responsible in any
sense, the economical Reid Government
spends almost exactly as much revenue as
the wildly extravagant Dibbs Government
which preceded it, and spends quite as much
loan money. The great aggregate fool of a
public, unfortunately for its own political
soul, doesn’t read the Statistical Register
of New South Wales. It takes its facts from
the city newspapers, and the city im-
porters’ organs have lied so persistently and
so circumstantially about Dibbs as a frantic
spendthrift and about Reid as an economist
and a financial genius, that all the evidence
in creation would hardly suffice to obliterate
the popular fixed impression on the subject.
Nevertheless, the figures, printed in large
type by State authority for all who care to
read them, show that the Reid era has been
one of heavy expenditure, lavish borrowing
and constant deficit, and, in this respect at
all events, the promised boom hasn’t come,
and shows no sign of coming.
* * * •
It hasn’t come, either, in any other direc-
tion that the public is aware of. The amount
spent in relief to the poor is larger now than
it was in the worst days of the Protectionist
Administration. The railway revenue has
diminished, which is a tolerably reliable sign
of lack of prosperity. The population of
Sydney has decreased by 11,000 under the
beneficent influences of the Foreign-trade
system. The population of the province at
large is still increasing, but it is not increas-
ing nearly so fast as it did in the brief period
of partial Protection. The wail of the un-
employed is as loud as ever it was, and the
authorities of Sydney Benevolent Asylum
announce that the present period is the very
worst in all the long experience of that insti-
tution. New South Wales has had the
largest harvest on record—one quite large
enough to supply all local requirements—and
meanwhile foreign grain pours in by the
dozen shiploads, and renders the local pro-
duct practically unsaleable. Yet bread is no
cheaper, despite this enormous foreign
supply. Neither is anything else notice-
ably cheaper; the large amount of cus-
toms revenue which was sacrificed has
produced no visible compensating advan-
tage whatsoever. The value of property
is lower than it was before the blessing
of Foreign-trade returned to New South
Wales, and the municipal valuations show
that it is still falling. Also money is so
cheap that even the spendthrift Reid Govern-
ment can get more than it wants to borrow
at 3 per cent., and unusually cheap money is
an invariable sign of depression.
* * * *
In the commercial columns of the Sydney
papers the statement appears from day to
day, and has appeared almost every day
since the great Foreign-trade revival was
due and didn’t come, that “ business is de-
pressed,” “there is little doing in the
market,” there is “no demand”—the changes
are rung on every variety of phrase that can
express the utter hopelessness of that boom
which has been so long promised. The
reports of local financial institutions grow no
more cheerful. There are whole days when
there is hardly an advertisement for an able-
bodied man in the Sydney papers, while the
list of houses to let often spreads over eight
closely-printed columns. If these things are
the signs of the promised Foreign-trade
boom, then it is a strange, insane, upside-
down boom, and strange heralds go before it.
The reply which the Sydney importers’ organs
make to all criticisms on these matters is that
“ things are worse in Victoria,” which, even if
it be true, and its truth has never been proved,
is wholly and utterly irrelevant. New South
Wales is more fertile than Victoria, if agri-
cultural statistics count for anything. It is
twice as old a settlement, therefore it should
have more industries and more accumulated
wealth. It has 3| times the area and practi-
cally the same population, therefore it has
far more room for expansion. It produces
nearly twice the mineral wealth of Victoria,
and has thus another great and solid and
continuous advantage over its neighbor. By
reason of its greater area the New South
Wales Treasury obtains £1,500,000 a year
more land revenue than that of Victoria,
which relieves its people from a tremendous
burden of taxation, and saves the necessity
of making the income-tax ss. 3d. in the £
instead of fid. The question at issue is not
whether New South Wales is better off than
Victoria, with which there is no point of
comparison. It would be just as much to
the point to demonstrate that Sydney is
richer and more progressive than Pinchgut.
Nor is it even a question whether New
South Wales is as well off under Foreign-
trade as it was under Protection. The party
now in power promised that it would be in-
finitely better off, and the result, so far,
showsjthat that party lied in every separate
item of its statement. It climbed into power
on the false pretence of a great and marvel-
lous restoration of prosperity, and a resur
rection of the dry bones of the boom, and an
abundance of employment, and not one of
those things came to pass. Even if it could
be proved, however, that things are as good
under Foreign-trade as they were under Pro-
tection, which is not easy of proof, and say-
ing nothing at all about the false promise
that they would be vastly better, the case
for the party now in office is a bad one. Ihe
importers’ policy has been tried in New
South Wales for about half-a-century, so it
has had abundant time to do all the good
that is in it. Protection was a mere casual
interlude ; it had a trial for barely three
years, so it never had an opportunity to really
show what it was capable of. If Protection
also had a fifty-years’ trial, and showed no
better results than Freetrade, it would then
be a fair thing to toss up, or to draw lots out
of a bag, and thus decide which policy to
adopt. If one policy, on a fair trial, can
only show as good results as the other, then
there is no more reason why one should be
adopted than the other. But, so far, there
has been no fair trial. The Protectionist
Government was crushed by the Sydney
press, principally by continuous lying about
a mainly-imaginary “ Dibbs deficit.” The
present Foreign-trade Government is kept
in office by the same press, which, marvel-
lous as it may seem, has managed to keep
three successive Reid deficits out of sight
despite the positive proof of their existence
afforded in the State Statistician’s report
merely by denying their existence. But
even the most enthusiastic organs of the im-
porting interests can’t quite obscure the fact
that the Foreign-trade boom, so long pro-
mised and so long waited for, shows no more
sign of arriving now than it did two years
ago. And, considering all the time which
has elapsed, it is a fair thing to ask when it
is likely to turn up.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Court of Appeal.
After a bitter fight the Convention resolved to
stand by the decision of the judicial committee,
and abolish appeals to the British Privy Coun-
cil, making the Federal High Court the last
resort of the local litigant. The lawyers in the
Convention were pretty evenly divided in the
matter. The barristers, who may become
Judges of the Federal Appeal Court, and who
will have the work of arguing appeals there,
whereas, when they go before the Privy Coun-
cil, the work and the fees are scooped by
English barristers, were mostly in favor of the
proposed reform. The solicitors, who aren’t
eligible for judgeships as things now are, and
who were mad right down to their boots to see
all the loot going to the other branch of the
profession —the supercilious branch which wears
the tail of the dead horse on its head and looks
down on the common six - and - eightpenny
functionary—inclined the other way. But the
laymen and the common-sense of the Conven-
tion were against the ridiculous practice of
sending an Australian judge to the other end
of the world to hear Australian cases, and send-
ing the plaintiff and the defendant and the
grievance there after him; and the solid
phalanx of solicitors and the inevitable Dobson
were extinguished by a big majority. The
arguments advanced in favor of the Privy
Council system were mostly weird affairs.
Probably the weirdest slab of ignorance
of the lot was Joseph Abbott’s plea that
the old circumlocution should be maintained
because “ it would be a calamity if, throughout
the British empire, we had a uniform law ex-
cept for Australia.” In advancing this plea J.
Abbott lost sight of four important points. In
the first place, the law isn’t uniform even now,
for the Britisher himself has no appeal to the
Privy Council; that institution is one of the
things that are good enough for the beastly
colonial, but the Britisher doesn’t take any.
Therefore, by abolishing the ’Privy Council
appeal we are getting nearer to uniformity with
the dear old mother country, instead of going
further away from it. Secondly, the Britisher
doesn’t have to drag his case to the furthest
ends of the earth to get a final decision, and by
ceasing to do so we are again getting nearer to
uniformity. Thirdly, there is no such thing as
uniform laws in the British empire ; there are six
different sets of laws eveninside the British isles.
Fourthly, there is no visible calamity. Most of
the speakers who upheld the ancient way of
doing things wailed bitterly about depriving
the litigant of the “ right ” of carrying his case
to England, and not one of them even men-
tioned that that equally implied the wrong of
dragging the other litigant to England along
with him. There was also a lament about
“ imposing a barrier between the people and
their sovereign,” which beautiful irrelevance
quite ignored the fact that the sovereign
has no more to do with appeals than has
the hangman or the Warden of the
Cinque Ports, and that a litigant may
appeal to the Privy Council all his life with-
out his sovereign even hearing of his exist-
ence. Also there was a bitter cry from Joseph
Abbott to the effect that the Federal High
Court, there being no appeal beyond it to a
Hinglish authority, “could do just what it
liked.” The fact that the last court of appeal
can always do very much what it likes, and
that the Privy Council does what it likes now,
and that there must be some final authority
that does what it likes if there is to be any
finality at all, is a very plain and visible fact,
but apparently it was beyond Joseph Abbott’s
range of vision. Altogether the debate tended
to show that an eminent legal authority can
be made out of very unpromising materials, and
that a very narrow and illogical mind is no bar
to the accumulation of much six-and-eight-
pence.
-
Self-Indicted.
“The spirit of paganism”—according to Car-
dinal Moran —“is increasing in our midst,”
with a result which he professes to have dis-
covered in a growing iniquity of the present
generation. The Cardinal is right in his ante-
cedent. What he calls the spirit of paganism
is rapidly on the increase amongst us—after l{j
centuries of bell and book and candle and
Cardinal ! and by the swiftly-growing “ indif-
ference to divine ” —which is to say, priestly—
“ authority,” a decaying despotism is being
forced to substitute fudge for fulmination
and to fall back upon assertions which spell
either ignorance or mendacity. But since
the priest essentially a professor of fig.
ments—has always been consequently a more
or less audacious juggler with facts, nobody
need take much to heart the Cardinal’s assur-
ance that the world is growing worse—in the
teeth of the most direct possible evidence that
it is steadily growing better. Better, too, not
in spite of, but by reason of that anti-sacerdo-
talism which the clergy find it convenient to call
paganism. But true paganism, like Christi-
anity, was priest-bossed and bamboozled ; it
hadn’t those side-lights upon the alleged super-
natural which are fast rendering it evident that
any one man knows exactly as much as any
other—which is to say nothing —about post-
mortem possibilities, and that, by conse-
quence, the pretender to any superior
knowledge on the point is not only
a fraud but an impertinence. The
world grows—and must grow—more moral-
as it grows more enlightened, and sacerdotalism
—which, for the sake of its own very existence,
has been, all along, the consistent enemy of
enlightenment—has been therefore also, with-
out any figure of speech whatever, the con-
sistent enemy of morality. The more facts
men are acquainted with, the fewer fetishes
they will worship ; and, if science—which is
simply knowledge of provable facts—is destruc-
tive of priestly arrogations, then the denser
the ignorance, the better for the priest. There-
fore, to know —which is to investigate, which
is to withdraw the intellectual nose from the
sacerdotal fingers—is to be guilty of the sort of
paganism which is not so much demolishing as
unbuilding the brain-prisons of the ages, and
driving a doomed ecclesiasticism to cringe where
it would rather crush, and maunder where it
used to thunder.
Turk and Twaddle.
If the Greeks who are faring from Australia to
the fray had looked at the matter right-side up
they’d have stayed quietly where they were
and cabled home the amount of their passage-
money. The services even of Achillks and
Ajax wouldn’t be one-tenth as valuable, six or
seven weeks from now, as would be at the pre-
sent moment the wherewithal to equip the
Spiridions and Dkmftris already on the spot.
For—putting aside the possibility that, by the
time the couple of dozen heroes arrive at the
“ theatre of w'ar,” the curtain will be down and
the lights out —want of coin is almost certain
to rob Greece of whatever little chance lack of
men might have left her. Even equal-num-
bered with the enemy, her prospects wouldn’t
be resplendent —for the Turkish Tommy Atkins,
besides being about as brave “ as they make
’em,” is patient as death and stubborn as a
stone wall—and, as things are, if the “ Great
Weaknesses ” don’t intervene there will simply
be no more Greece. And The Bulletin—
sympathetic though it is inclined to be
with the little-’un in every encounter —
would be in no wise violently afflicted at
that consummation. The hysterical diatribes
of mountebank Stead and windbag Glad-
stone are responsible for an infinity of twaddle
about Turkish brutality and bloodthirst, and
the British evangelical estimate of the Moslem,
as compared with the Eastern Christian, has
long been the laughing-stock of those who
haven’t to take their Turk upon trust. As for
the “ sons of the Greeks,” who are at present
“arising” to such very foolhardy purpose-
globe-trotting has badly discounted theßyronic
legend, and no creedless observer who has had
modern opportunity of balancing Crescent
against Cross can have much sympathy with the
cheap British fire-eaters who wanted the Syd-
ney Greek Consul the other day to forward
them forthwith to the slaughter of the Un-
speakable. The Turk, when he overthrew the
rotten and emasculated Lower Empire, was,
ipso facto, the fitter to survive, and no amount
of race-rancour or creed-clamor can blind those
who really know anything about him to
the fact that he is by a long way
the fittest to this day. It isn’t Eng-
land, in any case, with so huge a slice
of her army disabled by sexual disease —
that can best afford to abide by the traditional
presentment of the Ottoman as a polygamy-
enfeebled sensualist. Not one Turk in a thou-
sand has more than one wife ; not one in ten
thousand is given to strong drink; and there
isn’t a regiment in the Turkish army that will
not, stature for stature, compare favorably in
physique with any regiment of any service in
Europe. The sick man may be pretty bad in
his head, but his limbs are yet lusty enough to
give serious trouble even to the Russian Giant,
single-handed. Not till the nations definitively
join hands against him will his hour strike, and
against that he is for the present tolerably well
safe-guarded by their mangy jealousy of each
other about the disposal of his carcase. When
that interesting little matter does come at last
to be attended to, the Great European shindy
may be looked for in short order.
The “ Telegraph ” Gets Something off
its Mind.
Sydney Telegraph has one of its chronic re-
lapses into virulent Toryism :
Lord Onslow has been telling the London County Coun-
cil that if the Progress!vists of that body are given much
more rope there will result such a very costly triumph of
democracy as has taken place in Maoriland. There,
the ex-Governor said, “the politicians began by petting
the workingman and making jobs for him. Now he holds
them in the hollow of his hand. Ministers cannot make
any serious retrenchment in public expenditure. At the
first attempt their majority would desert them.” This
may be a trifle overstated, but it is substantially true.
The direct Labor representative does not now flourish so
well in Maoriland as formerly, but the voting influence
which made him possible has a firm grip of the. Gover-
nment all the same, which is enough for practical pur-
poses. The way that works have been rushed ahead, the
Trades-hall kind of legislation in which the Government
are always dabbling-, the return to a borrowing policy,
and the baits held out to agricultural landowners in the
form of cheap loans, are signs of political decadence
which support Lord Onslow’s case.
What a lot of beautiful morals stick out just
here. Borrowing, according to the Tele-


The Society of Artists.
The most artistic thing in the N.S.W. Society of
Artists’ exhibition (Sydney) is a water-color—
“ Showers by R. Sydney Cocks. It is a study
of a flat landscape glistening with rain—delicate,
skilful, and true. The treatment of the sky is
remarkably good, nevertheless the sky is dispro-
portionately large for the composition—though
this seems designed chiefly to show sky-effects.
There is almost as much technical skill, but much
less artistic value, in Mr. Cocks’ exhibit “Surf.”
Miss Alice Muskett’s head-and-shoulders study of
a girl (“ The Red Ribbon ”) has also some charm ;
and there is in the treatment a sense of power
given by hardly anything else in the exhibition.
F. P. Mahony’s “ Waiting ” has a touch of the
artistic meaning which one looks for in his work.
The careful pains taken by D. H. Souter in “ In
the Smithy ” produce a result from the realism of
which the purple tint somewhat distracts. Frank
M‘Comas’s work has promise, but remains at
present a little photographic.
G. W. Lambert’s clever pencil-sketches would
arrest a craftsman’s attention anywhere.
In proportion to the number of exhibits, no sec-
tion shows merit as “Sculpture.” Nel-
son Illingworth’s statuette, “ For Honor’s Sake,”
is a strong and attractive piece of work ; and the
modelling of Miss Cowan’s “Dancing Girl,” of her
allegorical group, and of Geo. W. Hirst’s character
study (126), is noticeably good.
The oil-colors are disappointing—often “ nice ”
and “ pretty,” sometimes technically clever, and
as a rule artistically valueless. F. P. Mahony’s
“ When Centaurs Meet ” leaves the impression of
a promising sketch which should be developed on
a much larger canvas. Emily Meston’s flower-
studies are charming, and her chrysanthemums
seem as well painted as it is possible for chrysan-
themums to be ; but the artistic potentialities of
flower-subjects are limited. Walter Gabriel’s head
of “ Marie ” is clever ; but mere heads, unless ex-
alted to the nth power by idealisation or character-
isation, have little human interest or artistic value.
J. R. Ashton’s “ Arrival of the Steamer ” is a
pleasing, natural little picture. For the rest,
there is plenty of promise, and not over-much in
the way of performance.
After all, performance rests very much with the
leisured, wealthy class who should be patrons of
Australian art. Many of the exhibitors have to
struggle for bread-and-butter before they can
begin to embody artistic ideals—which, if realised
at all, are only realised at a great cost of labor and
time. Surely, when one cannot be an artist one’s-
self, there is no more satisfactory way of spending
money than in trying to make someone else an
artist.
At Seymour (Vic.) Free Library, the other
day (local Telegraph report) :—
A suggestion was made that the subscription to the
Town and Country Journal be discontinued, as it did hot
appear to be much used by subscribers, and Mr. Chittick
suggested that The Bulletin be taken in its place. Mr.
Moorhouse objected on the score that The Bulletin was
a disloyal paper, and said that he would not care to act
on a committee that sanctioned the purchase of this pub-
lication. Other members of the committee thought that
as it was constantly being asked for it should be placed on
the library tables, and Mr. Chittick gave notice that he
would move at next meeting The Bulletin be subscribed
for.
The Bulletin implores Mr. Moorhouse to persist
in his objection ; it also implores the other mem-
bers of the committee to retain the T. & C. Jour-
nal and to keep out The Bulletin from their
reading-room. As The Bulletin is out after
dollars, and not in business merely for the good of
its health, it absolutely loathes people who read it
on the cheap. For that reason, the paper is never
supplied free to any public reading-room ; the only
persons placed on the free list are those who, like
the Rev. Mr. Moorhouse, succeed in having it
excluded by reason of its po ,; tieal principles from
free libraries, &c. Should Mr. Moorhouse succeed
itt-having The Bulletin shut out from Seymour
public library, a free copy will be posted to him
for one year. By the way, the fact that The
Bulletin is “ the paper most asked for at public
reading-rooms ” carries with it a certain amount
of antidote : it is also the paper most frequently
stolen from public reading-rooms.
graph’s inference, is distinctly a sign of labor
predominance in politics. Where there is no
Labor-party in politics Governments don’t
borrow ; therefore, Gillies and Parkes and
M'llwraitii never borrowed, and Forrest, in
Westralia, where labor in the main has no
vote at all, isn’t borrowing now. Also,
the working class, though it is a very large
majority of the people, shouldn’t hold the
Government “in the hollow of its hand ” ;
as some party must do that, it should be
done by the propertied minority. Then
the fact that the Government is supplying
cheap money to landowners shows that it is
solely bossed by the working classes—who, in
the main, are not landowners. Likewise an
attempt to reduce interest is a sign of deca-
dence—though attempt to reduce prices
by Freetrade isn’t. And when a Government
legislates as directed by the Labor majority
which returned it to power it “ dabbles ” and
“ holds out baits,”but when a N.S.W. Govern-
ment legislates as directed by the Freetrade
majority which returned it to power it doesn’t
“dabble” or “hold out baits;” it “nobly
fulfils the mandate of the people.” And when
a Reid Government is at the mercy of a Free-
trade majority that is quite a different thing
from a Seddon Government being at the mercy
of a Labor majority. In the Seddon case the
working class “holds the Government in the
hollow of its hand ”; in the Reid case the
Government “enjoys the confidence of the
people,” which sounds better, but is exactly the
same tiling. In each case it means that if the
Government doesn’t do what the people want it
will be rushed out on its ear and its political
skull be banged on the pavement. And it is a
quaint circumstance that the expenditure of
£400,000 on Maoriland public works in one year
should be unduly “rushing” them forward,
and should prove the horrors of Labor domina-
tion, while the expenditure of more than three
times as much in N.S. W. doesn’t show the hor-
rors of Freetrade domination worth a cent. The
Telegraph, presumably, can’t help these
occasional outbreaks of frantic Toryism, but
Lhey are eminently unfortunate. It makes pain-
ful efforts in its leader columns to look like a
liberal and progressive and large-minded
journal, and then a sudden blast of National
Ass adjectives like the above gives it away
hopelessly. Yet it must blast now and then,
or else explode through the inward accumula-
tion of gas.
The Coming St. Blanky.
Even in the eyes of his bitterest enemies —and
The Bulletin certainly isn’t his warmest
admirer— John Bull has hitherto had it
counted unto him for righteousness that he is
comparatively free from the miserable little
clannishness with which Pat clings to Pat and
Sandy to Sandy. That the Anglo-Saxon, as he
persists in miscalling himself, is the salt of the
earth and the hope of the human race, he has
personally no doubt whatever. He blows his
own trumpet with a lusty lung, and preaches
the great Gospel of Bull upon the house-tops
of the world. But at that he leaves it. If
you won’t accept him at his own valua-
tion—why, so much the worse for you ;
he isn’t going to get angry about it.
Neither does he confound theory with practice,
or sentiment with business. The Englishman,
in the relations of every-day life, is no more
favored of the Englishman than is the French-
man or the Fijian. He must hang by his own
tail, and be judged as entirely upon his indivi-
dual merits as if he were a Portuguee or a
Patagonian. Also, over so-called national
commemorations J.B. has not been hitherto
inordinately given to whooping. About St.
George’s Day, for instance, he has in the
past concerned himself so little that probably
not one Englishman in a thousand could specify
the date sacred to that uncertain Cappadocian
person. But a change looms. The fore-cast
shadow of the record reign imbecilities has
fallen upon the Sassenach in our midst, and the
annual Hibernian and Caledonian cantantrums
are moving his bovine soul to unholy emulation.
“The great enthusiasm with which the Irish
Catholic societies have celebrated the feast of
their Apostle has become,” according to Car-
dinal Moran, “ contagious with their English
friends.” But their English friends could not
be congratulated on a very noble or imposing
celebration, since they had merely signalised the
occasion by devouring a big dinner to the
honor of a holy man about whom none of
them appeared to know anything whatever.
“ A good dinner, however,” added the blandly
sarcastic Patrick Francis, “was a great en-
couragement to Englishmen ; and, no doubt,
by the next celebration they would know some-
thing about St. George.” In which respect,
The Bulletin opines, they won’t be any the
better citizens of a community which has
already a lot more than it has any use for in
the way of saint, and shamrock, and bagpipe,
and bare leg, and small, sub-national cock-a-
doodling generally. And when, in due course,
Taffy catches on with his legendary lies, and
his leek, and all the rest of it, there’ll be
nothing left for Australians but to set up, in
self-defence, a tutelary saint of their own.
And the name of that saint will be “Blanky ! ”
Sydney Hotel Servants.
“A barmaid from the Bush” to The Bul-
letin :
One of the mysteries of N.S.W. is why the powers that
regulate such matters allow so-called leading- city hotels,
where fresh air is necessarily scarce, to pack four and five
people into little windowless boxes, lit only by tiny sky-
lights, and which, in the event of fire, would be mere
death-traps ; while country hotels, where good air, as a
rule, is gloriously abundant, must give each lodger about
80 square feet and have all rooms properly windowed,
ventilated, and provided with fire-escapes. Many of
Sydney’s “genial hosts” would be prosecuted for cruelty
to animals were they to confine a brace of pigs all night
in the so-called rooms into which they cheerfully crow’d
four or five country visitors at Easter time. Instead of
hotels being exempt, as I am told I hey are, from the pro-
visions of the Factory Act, they should be dealt with most
strictly. The ordinary factory hands do get a breath of
fresh air going to and coming from work; they do not
have to camp on the premises, and can at least secure an
airy sleeping-room ; but the unhappy hotel assistant has,
in the majority of cases, to work exceedingly long hours
and then rest in small, stuffy rooms reeking with the
stench arising from the grog-soaked bodies of dirty
drunkards. I know of one hotel where four beds
are ranged round the walls and leave only a narrow
passage into the room and enough floor space for
one person to dress at a time. In these four beds
sleep five women, and when they sleep late one dresses on
the floor and the other four on the beds. And the open-
ing-up of the bedrooms ! No noxious-trade factory could
produce a more hideous stench than that of the vast ac-
cumulation of all the various breaths, that drifts from the
hermetically-sealed sleeping-boxes, and rolls through the
cavernous passages, driving the lingering lodger in horror
to the bar for revivers and the chemist for disinfectants.
In such hotels the adipose old cat who nigger-drives the
show expects the assistants to be going at full steam from
5.45 a.m. till midnight, and later if necessary, and then
start afresh before 12 o’clock same morning. An outing
of a couple of hours one, or at the most tw'o, nights per
week is deemed quite enough for the human machines
whose labor gathers in champagne, chicken-pie and other
luxuries for these pampered bungocrats. Perhaps when
N.S.W. women and females obtain the franchise, a strong
domestic union may be able to exercise sufficient pressure
to compel the gang of selfish talkers called “ our legis-
lators ” to transform the present system of household
slavery and slow murder called “ domestic service.”
—— «♦
Bishop Goe in a Lenten lecture :
Few publications have done more to kindle the love of
our country, and to stir the noble feeling of patriotism,
than “Deeds That Won the Empire,” which should be
circulated far and wide.
Slab from the latest gory mess of “ Deeds ” :
Almost at the same moment the finest soldier in our
battery, and the best artilleryman I have ever known,
Sergeant-Major Alexander Lamont, had the whole of his
stomach carried away by a round shot. He looked up to
me for a moment with a piteous expression, but had only
strength to utter two words, “ Oh ! God ! ” when he sank
dead on the road.
One wonders whether it was Parson Fitchett
and Bishop Goe’s God to whom poor Lamont
cried out in his death agony. If it was the
Moloch in question, then very evidently Ser-
geant-Major Alexander Lamont wasted his
last breath. It would be interesting to know
how Bishop Goe would like to have his right
reverend stomach carried away for the glory of
the Hempire. Even supposing that he survived
the shock, life, to him, would not be worth
living afterwards. A Bishop without a stomach
would be a hideous and intolerable anomaly.
When will susceptible Woman become wide-
awake to the worthlessness of the good-looking
young man who talks love preparatory to apply-
ing for a loan? Never. Barmaids are not the
most artless angels on earth, nevertheless their
small savings are considerably at the mercy of
any flash borrower, armed with a glib tongue
and an ardent expression in his whisky-bright
eye—else, how could some actors live whilst
they are “ resting” from engagements ? To the
male sex it is clear that a genuine lover would
rather eat his girl’s boots than ash her directly
or indirectly for a sovereign. To the female
sex, on the other hand, Romeo’s unblushing
appeal for assistance doesn’t seem at all con-
temptible. Tenderly spoken, it sounds like evi-
dence of Romeo’s fine, manly desire not to be
under an obligation to anyone save his own
little Juliet, whom he is proud to “trust”
by asking tick from her. It passes for a
proof of his passion’s sincerity, so, on the
principle that one good turn deserves an-
other from the same quarter, Juliet buys
her bitter experience in instalments, and
is, as a rule, very little wiser by the time she
is cleaned out. Miss Juliet M‘Keown, who
lately came to Melbourne with £lOO cash, with-
drew her confidence from her “ tall, good-look-
ing young man ” when he applied for the final
£2O worth. She said, “ Why, you want all
my money ! ” and her suspicions were aroused,
with the result that John Swales has gone to
gaol for twelve months. John made the acquain-
tance of Juliet aboard the Oruba, where he
talked love and started to borrow money. On
arrival at port he talked more love and increased
his debt to £BO, at which point the lady’s
credulity stopped short. This prudent pause
was the one astounding incident in the case—
from a male point of view. Flash John was
such an obvious scamp that a woman who could
be bamboozled by him at the outset of their
“ engagement ” seemed bound to remain his
victim evermore.
♦
The Women’s Council of Maoriland thinks
of petitioning its beloved Queen to create an
order of merit for women similar to that of the
Bath or the Star of India. But the Women’s
Council must be aware that all the existing
“ orders ” are mainly for women, and would be
much less often accepted if it were not for the
insensate yearning to be called “ my lady ” im-
planted in the bosom of the average female by
the tommyrot of the Family Herald and the
Young Ladies’ Journal. Probably the new
order is demanded in the interests of the frozen
spinster, and the elderly, weak-eyed, pink-
nosed female who renounces man every morning,
and seeks hopefully for him under the bed every
night. The Bulletin rathers favors the idea
of a special order for women. It might afford
a means of escape for the Radical Premier who
is married. He could pass the inevitable title
on to the missus, and remain himself plain Jim
or Bill.
Proprietor David Syme, having undertaken
to pay the cost of sending a Vic. rifle team to
Hingland, the Age proceeded to explain how
accuracy in target-shooting tends to improve
mankind at large. “ It has been said that in a
perfect civilisation there would be no war. The
question arises, however, whether civilisation
does not owe some of its triumphs to war.
After all, progress has only been accomplished
by the forcible subjugation of inferior by
superior races.” Just here, by the way, arises
the same old question as to the bearing of
“Christianity” upon civilisation. Brotherly
love, saith the preacher, is the master
principle of “ Christianity ” from which
sprang modern civilisation. And civilisation,
says the organ of the journalistic potentate
who “shouts” the riflemen’s trip ’Ome, is
largely the result of human slaughter by hired
assassins. Therefore, brotherly love is blown
from the cannon’s mouth, so to speak, and the
sword is mightier than the pulpit, and the first
duty of every Christian missionary is to wipe
out all obstinate heathens who decline to be
subjugated by the blessed Worrd. And seeing
that the emissaries of Christian civilisation in-
variably accomplish the destruction of the pore
heathen by rum, we are brought to the satis-
factory conclusion that drink is not an accursed
thing, after all.
The other day a portrait of the insufferable
Sargood was presented to Vic. National
Gallery, and accepted and hung by the trustees,
so that this Tory rag-merchant, the open enemy
of the democracy, has his inept face with its
expression of a baffled Angora hung amongst
the portraits of the people’s heroes—real and
imaginary ! The scandalous impudence of this
is felt when it is recollected that the inflated
and decorated draper has just been refused
with scorn by the people of Victoria, to whom
he offered himself as a Federation candidate,
and that nothing was known of the disgusting
job until it had been accomplished in the pre-
sence and at the instigation of a couple of score
of fatted councillors and empty, moneyed hum-
bugs, who will all expect him to do as much
with prints of their dreadful faces some
day. It only remains now for Gillies, and
Fitz Gibbon, and Tom Bent, and Benjamin
Benjamin to hire someone to break into the
gallery at dead of night and hang their portraits
on the line.
Ed. Bulletin, —Who will not say that women
are protected? See the following sample of
what may happen to a man in Melbourne.
Strictly legal, perhaps, nevertheless an en-
couragement to the “ designing miss ” to entrap
a foolish fellow into marriage. I suppose such
legislation is an answer to the cry of the shriek-
ing sisterhood—“ protect our young f girls ! ”
B.
A respectably-dressed young man, named Denis
M‘Namara, was tried before Mr. Justice Hodges, in the
Criminal Court, yesterday, on a charge of having crimi-
nally assaulted a girl, named Mary M‘Dermott, aged
about 18 years. Mr. Finlayson prosecuted, and Mr.
Eagleson appeared for the defence. The case for the
Crown was that the girl was formerly employed as ser-
vant at a house in Hotham-street, Fitzroy, where accused
was lodging. Early on the morning of New Year’s Day he
entered her room, and improprieties took place. On the
evening of 3rd January the two went out for a walk together,
and entered the Edinburgh Gardens. There accused
forcibly assaulted the girl. Next day M'Dermott told her
married sister what had happened. The latter called on
M‘Namara, and asked him what he meant by leading her
sister astray. He replied that he would marry the girl.
He failed, however, to keep an appointment to call at the
married sister's house that evening, and a warrant was
issued for his arrest. Accused denied the girl’s story. Mr.
Justice Hodges, in summing up, told the jury that if they
believed the evidence for the Crown they might find
accused guilty with mitigating circumstances. The jury,
after a short deliberation, foynd the prisoner guilty of the
offence, but with mitigating circumstances, and strongly
recommended him to meroy. Prisoner was remanded for
sentence. (Age 30/4/97.)
M‘G. to The Bulletin
The perfervid loyalists of Melb. propose to celebrate
Queen Victoria’s 60th year of reign by building a fever
hospital, and, at a first glance, this would appear to be
the very best outlet imaginable for the crawlsome
hysteria of “ Fat ” Melb. For its own sake, Charity
might howl aloud before the pockets of Toorak would
disgorge ; but with prospective knighthoods for the big
donors and reflected honor for the little ’uns, there
appears to be a very fair chance of the fever-hospital
being an accomplished fact. Very few people indeed are
aware of the full facts of the subject, though one
and all know the fearful condition of the pre-
sent accommodation for infectious diseases, so even
the reddest Republicans are inclined to give tacit
support to the scheme. As a matter of fact no further
accommodation is required. It is, the want of mainten-
ance, and not the want of capital, which is responsible for
scarlet - fever patients, diphtheria patients, typhoid
patients, and plain delirium tremens patients being
crowded into the same tents in the grounds of the
Melbourne Hospital to contaminate each other and
present more hideous complications to the surgeons
every day. In the grounds of the Alfred Hospital,
which should certainly be the principal hospital of
Melbourne, is an isolated two-storey wing containing
all equipment for hospital work, and beds and bedding
sufficient for over 100 patients. This building was erected
some years back, but up to now not a case has been
treated in it, and to-day the beds lie slowly rotting. The
huge wing is locked up and deserted for the sole and sim-
ple reason that the Alfred Hospital has not sufficient
income to keep it going. And, instead of applying the
sum they raise to the maintenance of this wing, the
jubilee whoopers purpose frittering away the cash
in some flash architectural triumph, and, after pro-
viding accommodation for perhaps as many patients as
the Alfred wing could take to-morrow, will airily accept
their knighthoods, &c., and go to London leaving a big sur-
gical and nursing and managing staff totally unprovided
for, and another charitable institution to worry along on
a public dole about half enough for its needs.
Kirton, M.L.A. (of Victoria), has at last got
his Old Age’Pension Committee sitting, and
hopes to draw up a workable scheme for pen-
sioning all indigent Victorians over 60. The
committee which sat on the same question in
N.S. Wales was a failure, because it lacked the
courage to make the scheme large enough for
the emergency, and even with regard to the
very small scheme which it did evolve, it hadn’t
the pluck to suggest means for raising tha
necessary funds. The mystery is just this :
To give 10s. a week to every impoverished in-
habitant aged over 60, and, say, 15 years resi-
dent in the province, would cost probably
.£150,000 a year. How is the money to be
raised—by a tote - tax, State lottery, State
drink or tobacco monopoly, tax on absentees,
patent-medicines, foreign fire-insurance co.’s, by
running a State Fire-insurance Department, or
how ? Half-a-dozen of these together might
yield the required revenue. The essential is
that some new method of money-raising must
be devised or the Pension scheme is impos-
sible.
Law reform in N.S.W. is again postponed, the
Govt, alleging that it wants to see how recent
reforms in the other provinces and in England
are answering. Meanwhile, legal procedure
in N.S.W.—on account of its intricacy,
slowness and cost —is stinking in the nos-
trils of a long-suffering public. And no re-
form will be acceptable to that public,
unless it makes court procedure and deal-
ings with property simple, expeditious and
cheap. Such a reform, however, cannot be
palatable to the legal monopolists—and there
are two barristers and two attorneys in the
N.S.W. Cabinet, and plenty of both varieties
of Shark in Parliament. A commission, com-
posed of nine-tenths business men and one-tenth
lawyers, might do some good by threshing the
matter out, and suggesting reforms.
Two New Statues.
No. I.— William Bede Dalley, P.O.
“ William Bede Dailey, P.C., Scholar, States-
man, Patriot.”
So runs the graven legend to the pediment that
holds
The effigy of a man of many attributes. And
there he stands
Turned from the church he should have
cherished, and maybe did ;
From fields of boyhood’s pleasure ; from the
broad seas he loved,
Facing the Imperial North as though to catch
approving glints
Of Her Most Gracious Majesty and goodly
Consort Albert.
Well might the Little Boy at Manly ask :
“ Why stands Bill Dailey thus? ”
Scholar; and yet what native inspirated with
thy great erudition
Echoing thy words of wisdom proudly saith :
“ Thus said the Master ? ”
Statesman ; that rang the changes on the
“ Silken Bonds,” and
Giving lip-loyalty practical effect established
deadly precedent.
Patriot; whose love of country swayed to the
magnetic power of those
Who loved thy land better than thyself. And
so you stand—
The Orator whose golden tongue clarioned the
note untrue,
Thy life the saddest monument of one who
should have been Australian.
No. 2.—Governor Phillip, the First Aus-
tralian Gaoler.
Phillip; thy brazen figure, type of a brazen time,
muffled thus,
Bespeaks in thee more sense of fitness than in
thy brazen originators.
But, Phillip, where are thy bold cobbers of the
present age ?
Who are thy pals in spirit that thus desert thee
in thy dark hour ?
Leaving thee a muffled guy for unresponsive
scoffers who assert
Thy pose is perfect, and hidden thus is thy
appropriate guise,
A cruel reminder of a crueller past canopied
from the present ;
A type that has been seen, but should not be
again.
And who the man of brass that dare unveil thee,
enthuse upon thy times,
Extol thy many virtues, and bid us emulate
them ? There is but one,
The bravest he; in his veined runnels flows the
blood of all the Howards ;
Boldly, and with quick despatch, he’ll execute
the pleasing function
For transient glory of a fiver. Who else in
daring earnest will essay the task ?
We wait the hour. We wait the man. For
echoing songs shall glorify the hero
That shares the fame of Phillip. Worthy alike
of our appreciation
And swift Imperial honor is he who lifts the
torch to convict days.
Sydney.
D. HEALEY.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ’
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES
any other Life Office in the World.
on every standard of valuation LARGER
than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims)-
WILLIAM Hgi. Hg®Y MORT, M.L.G.,
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. DARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
S.A. Register comps, are resigned to the
montjf ble " The linotype arrives in about a
Greece will soon want a new king. How
King of Grease ' d ’ wh ° is to Europe, as
The Corbett - Fitzsimmons battle will
shortly be reproduced with faithful details at
the Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-st., Sydney
H was cabled that the great fight was recorded
all through by the Kinetoscope, and the colonial
branch of the Edison Laboratory before the fie-ht
took made its arrangements for securing the
record. The Edison Vitascope, Kinetoscopef and
Kinetophone and the wonderful X-rays are still
p o ubii'°T„LV s h t e . parlor ’ and
L O M B A R 1) IA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPFPTtrn
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr Aid™
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says : ’
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Quality
Tells
the Tale
And quality is what we
offer. Quality first and
foremost. Our prices
are just as low as the
lowest; but in quality
IDEAL PORTRAITS
are the standard which
all aim to arrive at.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,'l
wit.i Beautifully Finished Enlarge- (
ment in Permanent Bromide or/
t'pal. Anystyleorpose. Noextras)
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stairs.)
OPPOSITE
ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ private Secretary.”
Her Majesty s “The Sign of the Cross.”
Roy.al ••••• Stoltz’s Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Skipped by the Light
of the Moon.”
TiyoLi Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Lelamine."
£ r 0 *' AL “ In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Bracy Opera Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Melville Stoltz’s company opened at Syd-
ney Royal on Saturday with a great boom. All
the sitting and standing room was occupied, and
by 7.40 the management was reluctantly turning
away good dollars and cents at the front door,
and by 7.55 the American eagle had screamed
himself hoarse explaining things to people who
wanted to get in and couldn’t. The eo. on the
whole justified the boom. Some of it is very bad,
but the most of it is above the average. Vir-
ginia Aragon, the wire-walker, is probably the
cleverest performer of the crowd, though the
Jordans are very close up. This lady walks on
her wire, waltzes and step-dances on it, canters
back and forward along it, hops along it on one
foot, lies down on it, and has sprints and jumps
and convulsions on it, and altogether conducts
herself in a dreadfully reckless fashion at her
giddy elevation. She is a graceful little creature
with the bright, wide smile of the profession, but
as she doesn’t say anything it is impossible to
decide whether she talks through her nose like the
rest of the co. or not. Regarded as an individual
who earns her humble crust on a thread up near
the roof, Miss Virginia is an unqualified success.
The five Flying Jordans are remarkably clever
trapezists, and the triple somersault which the
most utterly reckless Jordan of the crowd turns in
mid-air while going from one end of the big
theatre to the other via the ceiling, is a really
wonderful performance. There is an entire ab-
sence of any effort about their acts ; they skim
through all manner of remarkable doings in the
off-hand fashion of a syndicate dashing off a lying
prospectus about its reef.
* * * •
The Jordans and Miss Aragon put together
lift Brother Stoltz’s show out of the ruck, and
make it something above the ordinary level. The
two Marios, though decidedly clever acrobats, are
less novel ; they are almost exact duplicates of
Wilton and Stack, lately at the Palace. They do
the same tricks to a hair, and the smaller man
once missed his footing on Saturday and sat down
suddenly, which was exactly what the smaller
man of the other pair did on his first night in
Sydney. Also, he sat down on the same side
of the stage with a whack which sounded just
like, the other man’s whack preserved in
spirits. Among the infantry funny men of
the show, the Olifans are really funny, and
have a lot of original ideas. John Burke is
moderately amusing ; John Howard is just good
enough to escape immediate execution and that is
all; and the remaining humorist, Petrie, is dreary
beyond description. Each of these hilarious per-
sons is accompanied by a lady, and they ask the
lady conundrums about soiled underclothing, and
things like that. At least, one shriekful comedian
asks his. particular lady how long her brother
wears his shirt, and she replies “ About three
days,” so The Bulletin assumes that the shirt
will be considerably soiled by that time. If Brother
Stoltz doesn’t want to bring his country into con-
tempt he should suppress this unpleasant in-
formation about how long an American lady
thinks a shirt ought to be worn. The first-night
audience kept up a roar of applause right through,
but the d.c. in this country is a trifle particular
about its shirt, and when it has more time to
think over this item it may cool down somewhat.
** * *
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon ” is
going at Sydney Palace in the presence of
slim audiences. There is very little en-
thusiasm about the individual either, and
so far “Skipped” has fallen flat. The co. isn’t
so good as the one which expounded the griefs
of Obadiah Dingle and Felix Crackle in the days
of the Gourlay and Walton combination, and
the stage is so small that it can’t riot round in
the irresponsible fashion that the case requires.
“Skipped” is mostly riot and sprint, and as
the co. hasn’t room to stretch its legs to the utmost
Gourlay’s musical comedy loses a lot of its force.
When Policeman MTntyre furiously pursues the
two fallen roysterers round about the oyster-stall,
he can’t let himself go for all he is worth for lack of
space ; he has to spurt cautiously round the corners
of the stall for fear of raking down the side-scenes
with his feet; and in many other ways the show
suffers from scarcity of accommodation. Obadiah
Dingle is as bright as ever ; and there are many
good points about Felix Crackle and MTntyre ;
also Miss Dora Mostyn, as Mrs. Dingle, has a lot
to recommend her. As to the rest of the co., this
paper drops a silent tear and heaves them into
well-deserved oblivion.
** * *
The “Prisoner of Zenda ” closes on Friday
night after a run of only three weeks, and the
“ Sign of the Cross ” follows on Saturday. It is
a dangerous thing to venture into the regions of
prophecy, but The Bulletin hereby risks a copper
on its conviction that the “Sign ” will either be a
very big success or a monumental frost. There is
hardly anything that is more uncertain than the
religious drama ; even a red-headed woman or a
stiffened horse or a Reid surplus is reliable by
comparison. There are times when a hysterical
city will pawn its boots to see a religious drama,
and there are other times when it is unanimously
not taking any. The religious sentiment of any
community has more ebbs and flows, more cold fits
and hot ones, and more intervals of blank indiffer-
ence in between than anything else. Or, to be
more accurate, it is not so much a case of having
occasional fits of religious enthusiasm, as of the
community getting occasionally into a receptive
condition which may develope into religious
enthusiasm, or a Soudan Contingent, or a desire
to hang Butler without trial, according to which
inducement happens first. Anyhow, this paper
offers its best wishes for the new venture, and ad-
vises the management to work the advertising
parson vigorously.
** * *
A week of “Private Secretary” is to
follow the present outbreak of “ Charley’s Aunt.”
The reverend gentleman with the cold feet arrives
to-night (Saturday), and his hilarious bath-bun —
the most interesting piece of pastry m modern
drama—has already been shifted down to the
Criterion on a dray in readiness for the occasion.
Manager Lohr has also overhauled the good little
man’s goloshes, so that everything is in an ad-
vanced state of preparation.
** * *
Phil. Newbury is making a longer stay at
Sydney Tivoli than originally intended. The
rotund Philip’s beautiful voice has proved a
powerful attraction; the upper-crust of Sydney
society may not be really musical, but the lower
and cheaper section of it, when some genuine
melody is thrown at in between the burnt-cork
man and the horizontal bar person, appreciates
with all its might. Otherwise, Rickards’ show is
in its ordinary robust state, and is paying shixty
per shent dividends as usual.
** * *
James MacMahon, who has more wiles
concealed under his big hat than there are in a
truck-load of monkeys, was the one Sydney show-
man who made anything out of Hospital Saturday.
He handed over the whole establishment to seven
or eight beautiful collectors and only stipulated
for half the takings, and all day they ran the pas-
sing population into James’s cinematograph for all
they were worth. Naturally these enthusiasts
told everybody that James’s “cin.” was the only
genuine one in the city, and that the rival ones
were only fit to be burnt by the common hangman.
Therefore James smiles underneath the big hat
and is content.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou the setting up of
Nemesis ” in the place of “The Beggar Student”
is a satisfactory change. Ramie’s musical farce
dates back to an olden time, but the harmless
little joke has not outlived its usefulness ; also the
music, which was selected from various popular
composers in the first instance, is none the worse
for wear nowadays. Another enduring feature of
“ Nemesis ” is the ballet. The ballet ladies
perform one or two irrelevant gambols in
garments that commend them to favorable
notice, and give full play to the imagination
of a grateful public. The ballet is a com-
plete success. Bracy, the automatic and ever-
youthful tenor, provides a fragile plot for “ Neme-
sis ” by becoming engaged to two girls whose
respective fathers glare at one another across the
top of a garden wall, and carry on a somewhat
comic struggle for the coveted son-in-law. Some-
times the rival parents suspend hostilities and
burst into song, assisted by Bracy and the rival
girls. Finally a second young man comes along
to take one of the damsels off the other fellow’s
hands, and although the new arrival is pal-
pably a female in disguise, the opera, or
whatever it may be, appears to end quite
happily. John Forde and Knight Aston per-
form the pair of rampagious fathers between
them, whilst Miss Mabelle Darley and Miss Julia
Spencer play the tuneful daughters in a fresh and
hugsome spirit, Miss Darley, as the prima donna,
being rather more tuneful and hugsome than her
fair competitor. An awful blot upon Saturday’s
performance was a chorus (unaccompanied) of
waiters, from which the discordant notes of the
chief offender rang out until the audience added a
laugh to the tumult. “ Nemesis ”is preceded by
an operetta, and Mr. Rebottaro, a presumably
Italian gentleman, takes the chief part in this
unimportant trouble.
** * *
Mrs. Potter and Bellew started their final
week at Melb. Princess’s with the old story of
how Shylock was victimised by a legal quibble
and reduced to the awful necessity of embracing
Christianity to save his life. It was always a
painful narrative, even when Shylock used to
appear as a greasy, ranting Fagin in a second-
hand gaberdine. Bellew’s performance (copied
from Irving) heaps further infamy upon those
laws of ancient Venice, whereby a justly-irritated
financier of most gentlemanly character and con-
spicuous eloquence when roused could be robbed
of his revenge, his ducats, and his religion at one
fell swoop, simply because he didn’t consult a
solicitor before entering into a bargain with the
Christian larrikin who had voided rheum upon his
beard. The poetic injustice of Shylock’s downfall
was feelingly expressed in last Saturday’s show
and the unfortunate apostle of Thrift‘left the
court accompanied by The Bulletin s sympathv.
Mrs. Potter, Cecil Ward, Miss Ireland, Keigbtley
and others concerned in the shameful attack upon
a picturesque Hebrew, did their best to put their
Christian meanness in a becoming Shakespearian
fight. Probably they were successful. Anyway
a crowded audience didn’t hoot them. It is one
of the peculiarities of classic plays that nobody
seems to take an intelligent interest in the plot or
care a button about what happens to the hero
Ihe average patron is content to sit there and
listen to measured diction as though the immortal
tragedy were an organ recital.
* * * »
The effect of Mrs. Potter in a rapid round
of plays is as variable as the success of the com-
pany generally. Bellew, alone, appears pretty
well suited to his character every time. Mrs.
Potter and the others are good, bad, or indifferent
in their acting, just according to how they barmen
to be placed, with the result that two amateur
critics, discussing the merits of the co. from two
different experiences, snort scornfully at one
another’s notions of histrionic art. “ Francillon ”
showed all, or nearly all, of them to advantage.
“The Ironmaster” showed them mostly other-
wise.
• • * •
Mrs. Potter, likewise Bellew, present
themselves in “David Garrick” and “Caval-
leria ” to-night (Thursday), and to-morrow they
will positively farewell as Juliet and Romeo, so
that the last curtain of the season may descend
upon their double suicide.
* * * *
“ Lelamine ” follows this solemn event on
Saturday. “ Lelamine ” has been looked for with
considerable interest and grave misgiving. It
is an untried comic opera in three acts,
and the company engaged to work it for
six long nights is so strictly unprofessional that
the Earl of Shaftesbury has graciously consented
to play the leading tenor part. A chorus of 80
voices and a reliable amateur ballet will assist this
desperate enterprise, which is in aid of the Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Therefore
children— The Bulletin presumes—will not be
admitted on the opening night. It were kinder
for the management to wait and see whether the
entertainment is likely to give them pain.
** * *
Nothing has inclined to blight the trium-
phant career of Bland Holt’s latest production at
the Royal. The Panther still entertains the cream
of the demi-monde in her gilded den, and her hus-
band goes on firing the premises as before. Like-
wise the gas is always turned off at the very
moment when that poor inebriate seems about to
brain Cosgrove with a bottle. “In Sight of St.
Paul’s ’ ’ is not a drama that deserves to be studied
three nights in succession for the sake of its literary
merit, but it is certainly a thing to be seen about
once a month, and regarded as an extraordinary
spectacle at the prices.
** * *
In a casual way The Bulletin calls atten-
tion to the fact that the Rickards Variety Co.
prospers as usual at Melb. Opera House. The old
notification has grown so monotonous that it is
occasionally omitted from these columns, in which
cases silence can be accepted as meaning the same
thing. Chirgwin, Jessie de Grey, Whitburn, and
Bellman and Moore are principal names on the
programme just now, the very latest name being
Pat Melton, who seems to have arrived direct
from London, and can show reasonable cause for
his present engagement.
** * *
Charlotte Hemmings’ benefit-concert, atthe
Masonic Hall, provided a large display of enthu-
siasm, floral tributes and powdered shoulders;
another conspicuously naked item being a very
exalted magnate’s shiny head. The benefitted
one marked her gratilude to the Irish party by
giving as encores three foine pieces with a “ divil
mend the rest ” abandon. Regina Nagel, sore-
throated and distressingly nervous, left the critics
concerned about the weakness of her medium
notes. Colonel Bingham simply executed “ Kil-
larney,” Signorina Vollugi let off her high-class
but decidedly hard soprano in Italian opera style,
and showed disposition to laugh outright when
the sassiety Johnny, who was obligating her
second number, broke a string, and dived precipi-
tately from the platform. The obligatist, by the
way, secured another instrument, and turned up
again like a bad penny before the singer had quite
finished. Gladstone Wright, thinner and younger-
than of yore, gave the prologue from
Pagliacci ” with all due force and expression.
Later on, the returned wanderer shared with
Walter Kerby the task of singing the fashionable
mob off the premises with a duet which didn’t
start until long past the usual closing time for
concerts.
* * * *
Miss Hemmings, who is starting business
as a reciter in London, seems to be a much more
promising exportation than Joe Blascheck. Miss
Hemmings has a strong, melodious voice, bright
elocution, and a turn for humor, which is such a
rare thing in women that she is obliged to let her-
self oiU upon subjects intended for male treat-
ment. The supply of funny female recitations is
very limited. When she has somewhat sharpened
and polished her accents this entertaining Vic-
torian girl should—in the language of farewell
banqueteers—“ do credit to the province at ’Ome.”
** # *
A year ago The Bulletin published a
photo, of Miss Regina Nagel (the warbler of
Ben Bolt, in Trilby ”), with sundry remarks
on her splendid vocal possibilities. Nagel the
Nervous is no nearer to what she might be as a
contralto singer than she was then. After several
months of Ben Bolting around Westralia the mis-
guided damsel turned up again in Melbourne the
other night, at Charlotte Henllnings , concert, and
sang a couple of songs in spiritless style, holding
her notes back as though she were afraid of falling
over in the attempt to do herself justice. And
yet she did well enough to fetch an encore. Miss
Nagel needs a Svengalic enthusiast to take her in
hand. Properly trained and encouraged, her ab-
normal voice would rain “rubies, and diamonds
ami pearls ” for herself and manager, but mean-
while she wastes her time in hardening the voice
to a bad method of production and giving her
services to benefit programmes. The Melbourne
public soon loses respect for any promising voice
that performs gratis.
Hayseeds walking through towns at show,
time pass a monumental-sculptor’s yard at dusk"
Says one, “ My word, Tom, the graves is prettv
thick here.” y
Nautical speed-record put up by new
British torpedo - boat - catcher Star, about 371
miles an hour (32£ knots), which means a mile in
l.m. 37 3-10 s. Compare Superb’s Doncaster Handi
cap mile (A. J.C.)—lm. 40|s. Star’s contract speed
was only 30 knots, or about 34 miles an hour.
Item from Wide Bay (Q.). Twenty-eight
head of fine cattle were safely conveyed from
Fraser’s Island and landed on the north head of
the Mary River. They stampeded into the water
and swam towards south head. Two incomine
steamers and one outgoing ditto were passing and
the cattle swam for them and got smashed to bits
Only four escaped.
The Tasmanian delegates put in a day or
two in Melbourne before returning to their caves
in the island of political troglodytes, and seeine
several of them together most people took them
for the Eight Hours’ “ identities ” out for an
airing. Two only of the Raspberry contingent
have not run to the sear and yellow, the others
range from 82 to 68. Politically, the tight little
island is prematurely grey.
The recent collapse at the Junction mine, Broken Hill
so scared some of the miners that they attended the Salva-
tion Army in the evening and became converts.
Though the sorrow and compunction
Of the miners of the Junction
For their lives mis-spent and sinful was the fruit
of sudden scare,
Yet no more in godless revel
They’ll indulge, and the grim Devil
Will be mad when for their souls he comes, with
saucer eyes aglare,
And finds them all at prayer !
Oscar Wilde was not released from prison
a few weeks ago, as stated. Latest advices give the
converted sensualist a prospect of freedom this
month (May), when he will, perhaps, make up his
mind not to leave England after all. Oscar’s new
life is an interesting subject for conjecture. In his
old days he scoffed at the idea of “ taking exercise
or becoming a useful member of society,” but now,
after a period of compulsory exercise and prison
discipline, it is possible that he has developed a
grand ambition to turn his talents to the benefit
of British literature. Who shall say what effect
such a punishment has had upon such a man ?
“Ernie” Parker (managing partner of
Huddart, Parker and Co.), speaking at the
luncheon given on board H.P. & Co.’s new S.B.
Westralia in Melbourne the other day :—“Onsuch
an occasion as this I must express the gratitude I
feel towards Sir Frederick Sargood, for I entered
the firm of Sargood, Butler, and Ewen as a boy,
and whatever success I have achieved in life I
owe to that gentleman.” In other words, had
there been no Sargood there would have been no
steam-co. manager Parker. Which explodes, at
one fell pop, the theory that dapper Ernie rose to
eminence on the strength of his moustache. Un-
less, of course, it was Sargood who gave the
moustache its early commercial training.
Some day the Westralian post and tele-
graph department will assuredly fall down and
break its neck through excessive velocity. Not
long since a Condon man wired to a friend at
Cossack that the local steamer was just leaving
for that port. It was an aged and rather asth-
matic steamer, and the telegram had 2h hours
start on a 200-mile journey, nevertheless the vessel
wheezed in abreast of the message and they made
a dead heat of it. At Roebourne the post office
put up a still better record by successfully deliver-
ing on 20th March, ’97, a letter postmarked “Lon-
don, 31st March ’96.” The W.A. department isn’t
at all inflated by these achievements; it does them
with the unobtrusive dignity of an office which
could be a great deal slower still if it wanted to.
Accompanying are designs of the new
N.S.W. postage-stamps, which represent pious
Postmaster Joseph Cook’s own particular little
grovel in the dust of the record-reign. It isn’t
officially known whether the old original pious
Joseph ever put Mrs. Potiphar’s head on a stamp
when he was member of the Egyptian Cabinet,
but, if he did, the stamp was probably a much
more attractive one than Joe Cook’s. Mr. D. H.
Souter, the designer—chief artist of John Sands
and Co.—has on the 2d. stamp actually and
artistically represented Queen Victoria in all her
native ugliness ; and that 2d. stamp is one of the
best arguments yet advanced for the abolition
of monarchy.


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100%, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, fur cheaper than Orug
Houses.
Hy.Markwald,
U Pitt-street, Sydney;
178 William-st., Melbourne;
Peel-street, Adelaide.
m
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little Giant”
Prospectors' CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SIB. JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
„ , |P. MacMauon
Sydney \ Lucas Bros .
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Hogan, Mooney & Co., Melbourne ; M‘Bean, Bowker
& Co., Perth ; Wm. Lennon & Co., Townsville.
Assay Office Sc Chemical Laboratory,
TELEPHONE - ]
2444. I
5 Moore-sb., SYDNEY
SUNLISHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
The Simpson jjuckboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Backboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth—W. B. Gordon & Co.
Gbraldton —W. Meadowcroft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Premier Reid has made a statement of the
N.S.W. finances as he expects them to be for the year
ending 30th June next. The estimate is as follows
Expenditure ... ... ... £‘9,635,718
Revenue ... ... ... ... 9,306,669
Deficiency ... ... ... £229,049
This is the result, after collecting two years’ income-tax
in one year. Under ordinary circumstances, with only
one year’s income-tax, the shortage would be £160,000
more, or £389,049. Premier Reid, however, puts it dif-
ferently, thus: —
Revenue ... ... ... ... £9,306,669
Last year’s alleged surplus ... ... 333,514
£9,640,183
Expenditure ... ... ... 9,535,718
Surplus ... ... ... ... £104,465
This is a gross outrage on the famous “cash
basis ” system by which each year’s revenue and expendi-
ture was to stand by itself. Also, by this device, the
alleged surplus of last year is counted twice over. Premier
Reid’s logic is that he had last year a surplus of £333,000.
This year he spends £229,000 of it, leaving only £104,000 ;
therefore he again has a surplus of £104,000. And even
by his own mode of calculation he would have a deficit
but for the expedient of collecting two years’ income-
tax in 12 months. Yet his press supporter, the S.M.
Herald, remarks proudly that there have been “ two
successive years with surpluses”—two surpluses, be it
observed ; not merely one which has already been mostly
used up—and that “ his pledge that he would never be
associated with a deficit has, so far, been faithfully kept.”
Just how it has been kept is shown by Coghlan (Statisti-
cal Register for ’95, pages 24 and 25), and by the present
estimate :
Expenditure. Revenue. Deficit.
1895 (* year) ... £4,844,299 £4,478,515 £365,784
1896 . ... 9,524,343 9,059,607 464,736
1897 (estimate)... 9,535,718 9,306,669 229,049
£23,904,360 £22,844,791 £1,059,569
Premier Reid has put in three financial terms of office,
and presented three financial statements. Two of them,
according to the State statistics published by his own
Government, showed a huge deficit. The third, by his
own estimate, shows a deficit also. The total shortage,
as shown above, is £1,059,569 for years. And Premier
Reid, in the face of his own published statistics and his
own estimate for the current year, has denied the exist-
ence of every one of his three deficits, and pounds a
paean of joy on his own inflated stomach about his
“ surplus.” The Bulletin fully recognises that deficits
will come now and then in times of special depression,
but anybody who was worth calling a Treasurer would
acknowledge them when they come, and not lie about
them and attempt to juggle them away.
• * * »
The same authority (Coghlan s statistics for
1895, pages 24 and 25) tells this story about the late Dibbs
Administration :
Expenditure. Revenue. Surplus.
1892 . £9,931,411 £10,065,602 £134,191
1893 . 9,931,658 9,499,370 (def.) 432,288
1894 ..t 9,178,706 9,300,711 122,005
£29,041,775 £28,865,683 (def.) £176,092
It thus appears, on the evidence of the official statistics
issued from a Government department by a Government
officer, that Dibbs, in three years, compiled a deficit of
£176,092. Also, it is shown by the same authority as
concerns 1895 and 1896, and by his own estimate quoted
above as regards 1897, that Reid in 2£ years piled up a
deficit of £1,059,569. As the Reid Government has never
sacked Statistician Coghlan for gross misrepresentation,
or called his figures in question, The Bulletin presumes
they are correct. Therefore, the country is invited to
consider the picture of the man with the one million
deficit talking pityingly about the finance of the man whose
deficit was less than one-fifth that amount; and howling
ceaselessly about the “ Dibbs deficit,” and calling Dibbs’s
£176,000 a shortage of a million, and describing his own
million shortage as a surplus. Also, Reid’s press sup-
porters, the Herald and Telegraph and Evening News,
howl in exactly the same key. And by dint of much
howling all these authorities have actually persuaded the
country to believe that Reid has a big surplus and that
Dibbs had a huge deficit, the officially published evidence
to the contrary notwithstanding. As an instance of
what unlimited cheek and boundless stomach can do in
the face of adverse circumstances, this is a unique record.
* * • *
Premier Reid, who insists on saying that he
has a surplus of £104,000-though the accounts only
show that he has that amount remaining out of last
year’s alleged surplus of £333,ooo—adds that he is
going to save £250,000 of expenditure next year, and to
levy £lOO,OOO more taxation (by increasing the probate
duties), so his next year’s surplus should, by his own mode
of computation, be £454,000. Query : If G. Reid has any
faith in his £104,000 surplus this year, and he is going to
save £250,000 next year, which would make the surplus
for’9B £354,000, what does he want the additional £lOO,OOO
taxation for, seeing that he doesn’t propose to give up
borrowing and to construct public works out of revenue ?
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph, paving the way for a whoop
•next July, remarks that this is the “ test year” of Free-
trade finance. That is just the one thing which it cer-
tainly is not. This year’s revenue will include two years’
income-tax and receipts from a number of Protective
■duties which are being gradually extinguished, but which
•won't finally disappear for several years. When Reid
gets down to his own tariff, and presents a year’s accounts
with only one year’s taxes in them and with none of the
mysterious “fakes” he has hitherto indulged in, then
the test will come, but not till then.
* * * *
N.S.W. revenue for the 10 months of the finan-
cial year (up to end of April): Revenue, £7,540,424 ; ex-
penditure, £8,115,278; deficiency so far, £574,854. A
month ago, at the end of March, the shortage was
£418,330, so Treasurer Reid has been going to the bad
lately at a high old rate. As he promises that the deficit
at the end of June will be only £229,000, there is a lot of
leeway to make lip in two months, or else a great deal of
hard misrepresentation to attend to.
N.S.W. Tax Commissioners report for the
severalth time (through the mouth of Premier Reid on
this occasion) that their policy of charging “arrears” of
income-tax is strictly in accordance with the Act. What
these monotonous commissioners never explain is—which
clause or clauses of the Act give them the authority they
claim to have. If they have anything like such a good
case as they profess to have, they should at least be able
to show where it comes in.
* * • •
Item from Premier Reid’s financial statement:
Large sums of money were sent over from Victoria to
buy these (N.S.W.) 3 per cents.” Yet Victorians only
subscribe for the 3 per cent, stock of their own State
Land Bank in very small sums. The moral is that a 3 per
cent, stock which has no definite currency and is liable to
be repaid any day isn’t popular; the investor doesn’t
want his money thrown back at him just when he thinks
it is safely planted. The sooner Vic. Government notes
this the better.
* * * *
Premier Seddon says that he will, probably this
year, give up the practice of borrowing the sinking-funds
on local loans for general revenue purposes, and make it
illegal by Act of Parliament. This particular borrow was
the shady, disreputable and shiftless device which Trea-
surer Ward introduced into Maoriland finance, and it
can t be suppressed too soon.
* * * *
According to the Maoriland balance-sheet now
published, the surplus for the year just ended is £125,000,
and £215,000 brought forward from previous surpluses
makes £340,000 in all. £200,000 goes towards public
works, and £50,000 for land purchase and improvement;
and the new year starts with a credit balance of £90,000.
Maoriland and Westralia are the only two provinces which
haven’t a huge accumulated deficit to struggle with. At
June, ’96, the (admitted) shortages were : Victoria,
£2,744,941 ; N.S.W., £2,270,452; S.A., £1,254,728; Tas-
mania, £840,257; Queensland, £292,972 (plus about IJ4
million turned into funded debt). And the lovely total
of the five deficits is £7,403,360.
* » » *
Joyce, member for Lyttelton (M.L.), proposed
that Premier Seddon should spend part of his time in
London in selling the Bank of N.Z. bodily to English
capitalists. But no one took any notice of him except to
remark inwardly that Joyce was the prize fool of the
House.
* • * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
presents a seriously alarming balance-sheet, accompanied
by the usual congratulations about the progress of the
office. So far as mere revenue is concerned the progress
is right enough. Renewal premiums (£282,839) are £224
more than last year, which is a slight increase, though
not much. New premiums (£24,858) are £3491 more than
last year’s figures. The total income for the year is
£392,705, out of which £117,137 is added to the accu-
mulated funds, making them £2,040,972 —a very large
and solid-looking item. Expenses (£78,180) are equal to
nearly 20 per cent, on total income or 25 per cent, on
premiums—practically the same as last year, and a very
heavy percentage, though much less than the figures for
1894 and previous years. The total revenue is thus about
£lOOO less than it was last year ; the amount added to the
funds is about £13,000 less ; and the expense rate is just
now practically stationary.
These, however, are matters of comparatively
small importance, and show chiefly that times are bad
and competition severe. The utterly disastrous-looking
feature is the interest on investments. Last year
interest received amounted to £89,702. This year, with
£117,000 more funds, it is only £'81,147 —a decrease of
£8555. This means that the rate has fallen in one year
from £4 16s. per cent, to something like £4 ss. Two
years ago the rate of interest realised was over £5 per
cent. There has been a steady decline for a number of
years past, but in this respect the Colonial Mutual has
merely shared the experience of other offices ; it is the
unprecedented slump of the present year which is alarm-
ing. Such a fall, in most cases, signifies that there are
heavy losses not written off, that a considerable propor-
tion of assets represent only losses unprovided for, and
consequently return no interest, and thus drag down the
average. When the Mutual of Victoria had written down
its assets to what was considered strictly their present
value, they yielded £5 Is. 6d. per cent, interest,-and
if this test was applied to the Colonial Mutual it would
require to write down its assets by about £350,000. Last
year the Widows’ Fund realised £4 16s. 9d. per cent.—
considerably more than the Colonial Mutual does now.
Then it proceeded to write off losses and depreciation to
such an extent that the rate of interest on its investments,
at their written-down value, was over £5 6s. per cent. If
the Colonial Mutual applied this test to itself it
would mean writing off nearly £4so,ooo—more than one-
fifth of the entire assurance fund. It certainly looks
absurd, by comparison with the results of other offices,
to suppose that assets which only yield about 4} per cent,
are not put in the balance-sheet at inflated values. The
Colonial Mutual, in five years, has written off £13,299 to
cover bad debts, depreciation, and wear and tear on nearly
two millions worth of property, and has reserved another
£47,865 for the same purpose ; total provision for losses in
the most disastrous five years Australia ever saw. £61,164.
The Widows’ Fund, which is about two-thirds the size of
the Colonial Mutual, wrote off £125,000. The Mutual of
Victoria, which is not quite half the size, last year made
provision for losses to the extent of £102,000. Consider-
ing the internal evidence of the balance-sheet, it certainly
looks as if the Colonial Mutual was only playing with the
situation. If it isn’t, then it is the luckiest society on the
continent.
At the end of 1893 the Colonial Mutual had the
enormous sum of £55,743 “ interest and rents outstanding
and accrued.” This certainly looked as if a lot of the
securities had gone bad to such an extent that the interest
was practically irrecoverable —in which case the principal
is often more or less irrecoverable also. This was a far
worse showing than that of any other large assurance
office in Australasia and certainly suggested that the
Colonial Mutual was in a worse state than any of its lead-
ing contemporaries. The Bulletin drew attention
pointedly to these alarming figures, and thereafter the
item decreased so rapidly that at the end of 1895 it was
only £L7,705. (This year, by the way, it is only £16,178.)
This in itself was re-assuring. Then the Mildura trouble,
and a small dispute with the defunct Mercantile Finance,
Trustees and Agency Co. seemed to reveal as plainly as
possible the astounding circumstance that on certain
small advances, amounting to only about £31,000, the
arrears of interest due to the Colonial Mutual were no less
than £12,750. The Bulletin asked that society (in its
issues of May 9 and 23, 1896) if it really meant the public
to believe that, while there was £12,750 owing on £31,000
advances, the remaining £5OOO shown in the balance-
sheet covered all the rents and interest due and accrued
on the other £1,700,000 or so of investments. This impor-
tant question evoked no explanation. The inference
which many people will draw in the absence of explana-
tion is that the “ interest and rents outstanding and
accrued” as shown in the balance-sheet are not the
whole of these items (the society, by the way, doesn’t
say they are), and that the remainder are lumped
in with the advances. In that case no one can
tell how much the remainder is, or how good or bad
things may be.
The Bulletin knows nothing of the Colonial
Mutual’s affairs beyond what appears in the Mildura
liquidation report, in the reports of its case against the
Mercantile Finance, Trustees and Agency, and in its own
balance sheets. Among them, however, they suggest
that this big concern would be none the worse for suc-
cessfully passing through an independent State audit and
a valuation of its securities.
« # * *
The Metropolitan Bank (Melbourne) sheds a
gleam of light on the dreary path of liquidation. A year
ago the sad, busted Metropolitan owed £307,000; nowit
owes only i 260,000. It sold £18,183 worth of property
during- the year, and, as the property in question fetched
£5500 more than it was valued at in the books, the Metro-
politan is agreeably surprised. It has still 700 suburban
properties and 970 acres of country land, and by a judi-
cious process of swapping properties for deposit-receipts
it reckons that it will ultimately settle with all its credi-
tors and come out with a balance for distribution among
the shareholders. Under these circumstances, the Metro-
politan is getting so beastly inflated with pride that it
will hardly recognise another busted bank when they
meet in the street.
• • * •
Melbourne has five trustees’ and executors’ com-
panies, and only business enough for two or possibly
three, therefore the proposal to amalgamate the Per-
petual Executors and the Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. is a decidedly good one. The Perpetual has £30,000
paid-up capital, no reserve-fund ; its shares (£1 paid up)
are practically unsaleable, and its last year’s profit (£460)
only equalled per cent, per annum. The T.E. and
A. Co. has £60,000 paid-up capital, £40,000 reserves ; its
£1 shares fetch 125., and its last year’s earnings (£3481)
were just about equal to 5£ per cent, on capital. The
Perpetual makes an enormous loss on its trustee business,
the expenses swallowing up almost all the interest on in-
vestments, while T.E. and A. makes very little. By com-
bining the two all the profits will remain while the ex-
penses should be reduced at least one-third, which would
mean making one good concern out of two bad ones.
* * * *
The full dimensions of the Queensland National
Bank trouble seem to be that, after all the writing-down
of capital and reserve funds, the assets are still £1,673,000
short of the liabilities, and the institution promises to
make this amount good out of future profits. Therefore,
if the Q.N.B. has £50,000 a year profit to apply to this
purpose, it will get square and become a solvent institu-
tion in 33 years—provided nothing else goes wrong in the
interval. Think of 33 years spent in working off a dead
horse—33 years of sackcloth and ashes and repentance
and strict sobriety ! In less than ten the Q.N.B. will be
tired of the weary contract, and will be howling to the
Boodlewraith’s grandson for State assistance.
* * * *
Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent
Building 'and Land Investment Association, Limited
(here this paper comes to the surface to breathe), issues a
desolate report. One of its principal assets is accumu-
lated loss £54,364, which is £1204 worse than it was a year
ago. As the capital is £98,542 this means that most of it
is already gone, and when things are realised the rest will
probably go too. The 3 per cent, deposits are offering at
10s. 9d. in the £ without results. In a year’s struggle
with its shareholders it managed to collect just £6l, and
it paid off about £llOO of deposits during the year, at
which rate it will finish settling up with its depositors in
1957. Altogether, the concern with the name that ex-
tends into the next world is having a bad time of it.
* * * •
The Druids’ “Art Union,” in Melbourne, has
thrown some much-needed light upon the length, breadth
and depth of the shilling-show ticket delusion. On the
morning of the draw it was officially announced that all
tickets would be regarded as sold, and therefore entitled
to a chance of winning the precious Golden Druid. The
draw revealed a sale of tickets up to 236,000 at least, so, if
the prizes be accepted at the Druids’ own valuation of
£l5OO, it appears that each shilling ticket represented ljd.
as a lottery-investment. One pound sterling risked in
Adams’ sweep is worth 15s. 6d more than the same coin
squandered upon 20 “ bob ” chances in the Gala gamble.
The Druidical argument, that the show itself gives a fair
return for the ticket, doesn’t answer the objection that
not more than 50,000 tickets were presented at the gates
during Easter week. Something like 200,000 tickets, it
would seem, were bought by the public for the sake,
solely, of their gambling value, which was unknown at
the time, but is now proved to have been each, or less.
200,000 tickets at retail price represents £lO,OOO, and that
amount invested in an Adams sweep would have returned
£9OOO to the g.p.—(g.p. stands for general public and also
for general paralysis, which means idiocy.) The Bulletin
now awaits with interest a statement of the amount re-
turned to public charities by the Gala management.
* * * *
Will someone explain ? In Adelaide wheat is
quoted ss. 4d. a bushel, flour £l2 ss. to £l3 per ton ; in
Sydney, same date, wheat is 4s. 4d. and flour £l2 10s.
Does gristing cost more in N.S.W. ? Of course there is
not such a thing as a millers’ ring or trust. Freetrade
was to make that impossible—“ are not our markets open
to the world?” But it works out curiously. In one pro-
vince the farmer gets 4s. 4d., in the other ss. 4d. for his
wheat, and in both the consumer pays the same price per
loaf.
* * * *
The wild west coast of Tasmania has just had
its first land-boom. At a recent Govt, land sale at Queens-
town (Mt. Lyell), building lots, a long way from the
present business site, brought up to £lO4O per acre.
* * * *
Victorian State Land Bank has just made its
third issue (£20,200) of 3 per cent, bonds. The public
subscribed £7150, and the Savings Bank took the other
£13,050. Last issue the public took £3200 only, so it
would seem that the new investment is growing in popu-
lar favor.
• * * *
Queensland revenue for ten months of the pre-
sent financial year, £3,052,174 ; expenditure, up to date,
£2,544,360 ; surplus so far as things have gone, £507,814.
* * m •
The erection of a lager-beer brewery in the
neighbourhood of Sydney inspires the question : what sort
of Freetrade is it which imposes 6d. per gallon on imported
beer and will only charge 3d. excise on this locally-made
article, so that the local industry is protected to the ex-
tent of 3d. per gallon ?
♦ • * *
The report of the British B.H. directors, issued
in London and covering the term to the end of December,
declares that the profit made was £18,293. The shilling
div. will consume £15,000.
• * » •
The striking absurdity among daily papers’
mining notes at present is the booming of the B.H. Ex-
tended—as before said—a little lead show several miles
out of Broken Hill. The directors are every few days re-
porting this wonderful thing or that marvel about the
deceptively-named concern ; but the crisis was possibly
reached when, the other day, it was announced that, in
consequence of the extraordinary developments, two
more miners were wanted !
* * * *
Randolph Adams, manager of the B.H. Cen-
tral for the Ashcroft Corporation, has resigned. His
successor is Courtney, recommended by Mr. Stewart,
the B.H. Prop.’s superintendent. Mr. Courtney suc-
ceeded the latter in the management of the Tharsis, in
Spain.
* * * *
“ Rackarock ” says the writer’s reference to the
Hongkong co. operating at Mt. M'Donald, N.S.W., is not
quite correct. It seems it is working a mine on a different
line of reef to that on which much money was wasted by
a former Hongkong co. But is it not practically the
same co. ? Surely Mt. M'Donald cannot boast of two Hong-
kong mining co’s. Is it that, having failed to make the old
Balmoral mine pay, the co. reconstructed and is now try-
ing to pull out with another show in the same camp? If
so, The Bulletin sincerely wishes it luck.
* * * *
The gorgeously - advertised Birthday mine,
Parkes (N.S.W.), has had its first crushing : 100 tons for
640 z. A disappointment. First crushings usually are.
“ Locally the crushing has given much satisfaction. The
drays were backed into a heap of 700 tons at grass.” But,
100 tons is no test of a low-grade mine.
Mt. David mine, N.S.W., making regular
monthly calls of a shilling. What, then, has become of
the 10 per cent, of the total capital required by law to be
in hand before registration ?
* * » *
Re par in last issue referring to the Australian
institute of Mining Engineers, the sec. writes :—“ The
adjectrre ‘languishing ’ is inappropriate, though it
IV'mi 1 " have been applicable twelve months ago." Also :
. If. strictures upon some of our Westralian members
might be made with as much force on the members of
any kindred society or institute who reported on shows
over there. No doubt, but 20 wrongs don’t make one
r'Kht- It should always be clearly understood that the
institute does not set up to be a degree-giving society,
the rules expressly disclaim any such assumption.” All,
P.?5,.^P S ’. true > kut, if the institute accepts no respon-
•*' It , niUBt a,sr . b - prepared to suffer for the want of
it. lne farce consists of members who are not mining
engineers, and have no hope or intention of becoming
such, putting M. A.I.M.E. after their names and reports,
and tne institute has been disgraced accordingly.
Westralia’s gold exports for the first three
months of 1897 were 113,2080 z., against 45,3570 z. for the
first three months of ’96. Looks as if the gold was coming,
as usual, just when the gold-boom is dead.
* * • *
01^ es^r^'? ,n yielders : Great Boulder, 1061 tons,
3171 oz. Only 10 per oent, of the profits go to the
directors as a bonus. Lady Shenton, 340 tons,
13840 z Burbank’s, 340 tons, 7660 z., and a Is. div.
declared. Q. Menzies, 129 tons, 5380 z. Boom dead;
shares a reasonable price. Desirable, Norseman, 390 tons,
4950 z.
* * * •
Bayley s United — a Coolgardie mine once known
as Bayley s Reward. Manager’s report: “ Reef in winze
4ft. wide and well mineralised, but shows no improve-
Ij™. ease^^ —reef 2ft. wide in winze, average assay
•jiil I lf r ' P er on - K drive, 120 ft. level, reef average
width 2ft., but low-grade. No. 1 shaft—slight improve-
ment noticeable the last few days, last sample giving
return of per ton. Next week exploratory work
commences.” About time.
* * • •
Kalgoorlie and Glenorchy, one of the many
moribund Q.-owned shows in W.A., is gasping. A 3d.
call for machinery evoked a miserable response. Now
they propose a penny call; failing that, the usual thing.
• * * «
Fraser’s, 890 tons, 4480 z. ; Fraser’s South, 366
tons, 2730 z. These are the low-grade mines of W.A., and
like that kind of mine anywhere, they are the most con-
sistent.
* * » *
“But for the depression created by the war-
scare, Great Boulder shares,” says a London paper,
“ would be standing at £20.” Rot 1 Why shouldn’t the
war-scare similarly affect all other big mines ? It is not
owned by Greeks or worked by Turks. It is not the little
war that has begun, but the big W.A. boom that has col-
lapsed, which has brought these shares to a fair value,
and as soon as the developments of the mine warrant it
they will go to £2O with or without any war-scare, and
not before.
* * » *
British Flag, Mt. Margaret, W.A.—“ A yield
of soz. to the ton all through is anticipated. The results
so far obtained have been so good that the owners are in
no hurry to float a co.” Truth gets out at times quite
accidentally.
♦ * * *
A Dr. Laver furnished Menzies Miner with a
glowing account of the marvellous richness of the Mount
Margaret mines : “At Crawford’s Patch the surface stuff
even is very rich, and the owners of it have asked £25,000
for the claim. The Great Britain has been taken down
50ft., and the shaft discloses a reef 50ft. wide with good
gold throughout. The richness of this country is really
not known. Of course, lam interested in it, but I assure
you I have not exaggerated its value one iota.”
• * * •
Golden Zone, Kalgoorlie, reports the sending of
24 tons of ore to Wallaroo for treatment, assaying loz.
13dwt. per ton. Of course, more than half the 'gold will
be absorbed in freight and other charges.
• * * •
South German, Vic., 922 tons, 1181 oz. A con-
sistent div.-payer for years, and to all appearances will be
for long to come. But a sensible, sober market rules that
it should pay at the rate of 25 per cent. In the boom
market of Westralia, many mines that, never had a crush-
ing, and only wanted to crush to go into re-construction
or liquidation, had a far greater value.
* * * *
Meerschaum mine, Glen Wills (Vic.), owners
Judge and others : 114 tons, 700 oz.—average 6oz. 15dwt.
The Gippsland ranges are now being prospected in earnest,
and probably from this part of the province the bulk of
Victoria’s gold will come in the distant future.
* * * *
Big Queensland producers : —Brilliant, 2868
tons, 38860 z. No wonder shares in all mines that have a
show of getting this lode some day are in demand.
Clark’s Brilliant Worcester and Victory, 492 tons, 20630 z.
Columbia Smithfield, Gympie, 870 tons, 26460 z. Very
fine, but how many more ? Said they are already within
a few feet of the North Smithfield boundary—the next
mine to take up the running.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell output for four weeks ending April 8:
Copper, 136 tons, 7cwt. lqr. 251 b. ; Silver, 12,6500 z. ldwt.
4grs. ; Gold, 803ozs. 18dwt. llgrs. It is claimed that the
recent slump in shares is due to nothing more serious
than the end-of-quarteradjustment of speculative accounts
and consequent unloading of financial institutions.
* * * •
Federal Bank notes to the face-value of £100,235
were burnt in Melbourne, the other day, by order of the
court. One of the bank’s best assets turned to dust and
ashes. The spieling fraternity of Australia would have
given half-a-crown in the £ for those notes.
* * * •
Cheerful New Guinea news : “ Men are dying
on the fields like sheep. Parties have gone out never to
return, and their friends do not know whether they have
died of fever or at the hands of the natives.”
* * * *
The city of Auckland, M.L., has just been pass-
ing through the phases of a well-defined boom. It started
some two years ago, with the discovery that cyanide was
adapted to the working of the various long-neglected
gold-reefs in Coromandel Peninsula. The whole country-
side was pegged off, and every available chunk thrown at
the head of Bull; the great majority of Auckland’s
citizens occupied themselves in buying and selling one
another’s shares—with great mutual benefit —and declar-
ing that in ten years Auckland would be the boss city of
Australasia. Hopes and house-rents rose enormously.
Dozens of bank-clerks started in business as brokers;
plans were prepared for a new £15,000 Stock Exchange.
For 18 months the town painted itself rose-pink, with
spots of acute scarlet. Then, of course, the end came.
The shares had been passed round till they couldn’t go
any further. Now they’re stuck. Some of the brokers
have already left for parts unknown ; others would like to
go if they could. Men who, six months ago, were fabu-
lously wealthy—on paper—now find it hard to pay their
calls. The new Exchange, if built, will probably be
utilised as a Salvation Barracks or Diamond Jubilee Home
for Incurables. The town, as a whole, is now occupied in
holding its head together and asking itself, “ Where was
I all last night ? ”


DURABILITY AN D ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRURTK.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILI)
X Gr JFL S,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO-6d. Each.
See tlut name CORTO on the hands, and beware of imitations
Society
Chief Justice Dobson, of Van Dobson
Land :
Her Majesty was a good woman, she had all the charac-
ter that constituted it, and on that quality her higher
qualities had been based. There was no great accident or
ill but you found her sending messages or telegrams giving
expression to her womanly sympathy. Some years ago,
when he was in England, and suffered something in a
railway accident —it was not much —he received two tele-
grams from Her Majesty and one from her Private Secre-
tary, General Ponsonby, inquiring about his state. And,
a few months later on, when he had the honor to appear
before her in person to receive from her the honor of
knighthood, seeing his arm in a sling, her first regard was
for his health. She expressed her regret that he had suf-
fered so long, and hoped he would suffer no permanent
injury. The woman first was manifested, and then the
sovereign. It was this character which made her so be-
loved by her subjects.
The question that comes in here is : Did Victoria
take a direct personal interest in Judge Dobson of
Van Dobson Land, whom she didn’t know from
a crow ? Or does secretary Ponsonby simply enter
in his big book the name of any distinguished
official who arrives in England so as to keep track
of him, and did he add a memo. “ damaged in
railway accident” in a column headed “remarks,”
and get a sub-flunkey to order a sub-sub-flunkey
to send perfunctory telegrams as a matter of
course? And when Dobson of Van Dobson Land
was about to be “ presented,” did the secretary
put the memo. “ damaged on railway ” against
his name on Her Majesty’s list of engagements
so that she might know what to say to him ? Dob-
son’s self-satisfied assumption that Victoria carried
his bruise in her head rests on no legal evidence
at all. A lady who receives so many hundreds of
loyal subjects can hardly be expected to remember
which one was smashed on the railway and which
was run over by a fish-cart.
* * * *
Mayor Strong, of Melt)., fancies himself as
a preacher. While addressing the J übilee contin-
gent prior to its departure—and while the eyes
of the warriors were fixed in a burning glare on
the champagne-bottles ranged on the Council
table—he observed unctuously that “ there was a
MRS. DUCKFIELD : “ George, dear, have you any objection to my wearing bloomers? ”
GEO. DUCKFIELD (a real sport) : “I regret to state I have, my dear Mary, for you know you’re
rather ba[?]dy and a bit down on the off hip! ”
credit also to the soldier who wore the Christian
armour,” and that “if they had the colors of the
Queen and that armour they need have no fear
whether in battle or elsewhere.” Brother Strong,
it will be observed, places the Queen’s colors first.
But that is only natural—to a Mayor who lives in
prayerful expectation of being made a Jubilee
knight.
And here is some more Strong:—
He hoped they would walk circumspectly while in Eng-
land, and show people there that they had been trained
in a good school in Victoria. When in London they
would, in his opinion, be the Queen’s Life Guards, and he
was sure they would act vigilant!y in that capacity. They
had an account of the attempt upon the life of the King
of Italy, and it was possible that during the Queen’s
jubilee fanatics would be abroad in the streets of London.
They must therefore be on the alert, and see that no harm
came to her Majesty.
Arise, Sir Joseph—or whatever he is. Probably
Jedediah.
Butler arrived in Sydney on Wednesday
afternoon last, and the evening papers of that date
and all the metropolitan papers of the following
day were filled with astoundingly sensational and
prejudicial yarns relating to his case. On Friday,
however, the daily press dropped Butler entirely—
not one word concerning him appeared in print.
The reason for this sudden change is that on
Thursday the editors of two Sydney papers had an
interview with the Attorney-General, who asked
them plainly whether they really wanted to go to
gaol. They laughed, but were told that it was no
laughing matter; that the conduct of the press
with regard to the accused was outrageous ; and
that King Jack was thinking of proceeding against
them for contempt in prejudicing the fair trial of
accused. Hence the Friday’s silence. Under the
circumstances, Butler’s attorney will have strong
grounds for applying for a long postponment of
the trial.
A little story in this connection. In Sergeant
Ballantine’s reminiscences it is related that Justice
Hawkins, after a prisoner had been acquitted by
the jury, remarked to the man that he might con-
sider himself lucky, as he (the Judge) had before
him on the bench a record of many previous con-
victions against him. Here an official whispered
to the Judge that the acquitted one had yet to be
tried on other charges. Whereupon the Judge
apologised, and said that the trial would be post-
poned, and that accused would meanwhile be
liberated on bail. So keenly did Judge Hawkins
feel the injustice he had unwittingly done that in
the end the man was not further tried at all.
• If we are going to have civilised law, all right.
But if we are going to have lynch-law, let us
grease the rope and ring the bell for the hanging
of some editors. Also, some advertising deteo-
tives.
* * * •
Considering that Butler has been a con-
siderable expense to the N.S.W. Treasury, and
that it is a fair thing to get the money back if
possible, The Bulletin suggests that he should be
tried in the Theatre Royal, with a full orchestra,
admission 10s., 7s. 6d., and ss. It could appear on
the programme that he was tried “by arrange-
ment with William Holloway, Esq.,” as almost
all sensational dramas are produced nowadays by
arrangement with Billolloway. The jury could
be ranged along the wings, and the Judge could
sit with his back to the bit of mountain scenery
which Westmacott used in the “ Enemy’s Camp ”
—that being sufficiently like the Blue Mountains
to pass muster ; and Butler could be confined in
the stage-box that Attorney-General Want had
the long litigation with Moss about. When any
particularly horrifying exhibit was held up, such
as the clothes found in Lee Weller’s grave, the big
drum could give a soulful bang, and there might
be an anguished wail on the violins and a howl
from the trombone. This would emphasise the
horrifying incident. Then the detective could
give his evidence to slow music played in
a breathless undertone, and when he came to the
place where the body was dug up the wind instru-
ments could blow a sudden shriek of agony, fol-
lowed by that impressive dead silence in which
you can hear your hair growing. Then as the
other detective stepped in to give evidence about
Butler’s arrest in San Francisco Bay, a new back-
cloth should come down—the one with the ocean
view in “ Saved from the Sea ; ” and when he ex-
plained how the accused was handed over by the
Californian authorities there would be a pause
while the band played “ Taken from the County
Jail.” If Butler is tried without an orchestra to
throw in the musical accompaniment, it will be a
great waste of effect. Think how much more im-
pressive the burial certificate of the alleged victim
would be if, just as it was handed in, 40 instru-
ments struck up a fierce roar to the tune of “ John
Brown’s body ! ”
NOT TO BE INFERRED.
HE : “ She looks very innocent .”
SHE: “ Oh, yes; but you mustn’t think she’s green just
because she is a grass widow
S.M. Herald’s elephantine effort to gush
over the vice-regal wedding was a most dismal
failure. The “ leading daily’s ” long yarn allegedly
descriptive of the procession and ceremony seemed
to be the work of a set of police-court shorthanders
whose every attempt at ‘ ‘ splurge ” ended up in a
soul-jarring anti-climax. For instance: “The
bride’s toilette was” —well, what do you think
came next? Well, it was “arranged so as to
heighten her beauty. ” At which point that par-
ticular police-court reporter evidently fell down
dead, leaving the great task to be continued by
the next “ Fined AOs.-or-seven-days ” litterateur.
But the Herald’s weekly edition, the Mail,
isn’t built altogether that way. Hark :
Paint to yourselves a woman in the bright light of youth,
traced with aristocratic lines—woven of the ruddy rose
and favorite lily—give the finest proportion to her form,
let a soft and happy smile play around her lips with every
charm tempered with dignity ; paint all this, and yet you
have scarcely a shadow of the bride as she was seen on
her wedding-day in her shimmering robe of satin, which
became her happy face so well. It was not only the varie-
gated colors of the flags, the cheerful sounds, and the
warm breezes of the air. ... It was a true wedding-
day, a day with the sun’s warm rays shining on every-
thing as it passed, and making the uniforms, jewels, and
pretty faces glitter like the morning stars, so full of life
and splendor and joy. The winds had not started work,
and the air (? bed) was well shaken and tempered even to
suit the most fastidious individual.
“ The most fastidious individual ’’—alas, The
Bulletin fears that it was the police-court re-
porter after all.
* * * *
On the whole, The Bulletin is sorry for
Sydney’s statue-boom. The latest effigies set up,
those of Dailey and Phillip, are as unpoetic as the
average Ballarat statue. Anyone who asks him-
self “ What is Art ? ” can get some sort of reply by
first gazing at the unidealised presentment of
Dailey and then marching on to inspect the fine
bronzes of the Prince Consort and Queen Victoria
and those most charming of all Sydney street
ornaments, the - lamp-statues outside the Hotel
Australia.
* * * *
“ At Bundaberg (Q.),” writes a Bulletin
correspondent, “the cheap and reliable Kanaka is
going round town blowing a powdery substance
into white women’s eyes as they pass by. Said
powder is intended as a love-philter, and is used
as such at the islands. Whether it has proved
successful in Bundaberg is not yet known, but a
friend of mine was a few days ago appealed to by
a respectable girl for escort home, alleging that
she was overcome by the smell of the stuff blown
into her nostrils by a Kanaka as she was going
home from work.”
* * * *
A bit of local color from a Melbourne
drowning report: “ The deceased wore a black
skirt, a red silk blouse, and a green straw hat
trimmed with blue ribbon and with a pink flower.
A small yellow dog, which she had left on the
bank, whined piteously, and refused to leave the
body.” There is a lot of pathos in it, and yet, if
the present writer ever drowns himself in a green-
and-blue-and-pink hat and a red blouse, he trusts,
with all due respect to the dead —which will be
himself—that a dog of some more subdued tint
will be waiting for him on the bank when he is
fished out.
* * *
A bewchus swindler, convicted recently in
Melb. of obtaining cash by false-pretences from a
girl he had become engaged to under equally men-
dacious circumstances, had been but six weeks
out from England, yet, when his baggage was
searched, no less than 33 love-letters from local
women bearing eight different signatures were dis-
covered. In the same box, half-a-dozen photos,
of Australian damsels of various shapes, sizes and
ages were unearthed with the device “ With love
from Tottie,” etc., on the back of each.
» * * »
The Sydney R.C. authorities hope to clean
up £lO,OOO from their big fair—counting in the
presents to Card.,Moran on his jubilee.
“ Hermes ” to The Bulletin re
the bowelless parents who outrage help,
less children : A woman, hurrying
across Hyde Park (Sydney) to catch
a ’bus, beat a little tot of about five
years in the face till the flesh looked
like liver and the little nose streamed
with blood ; all because the poor mite
could not run as fast as the female
animal that was apparently her
mother. Another hunk of female bru-
tality beat a boy of about seven years
over the head and shoulders with a
pebble - mounted umbrella - handle for
accidentally treading on her skirt. At
a band performance in Hyde Park a
she-devil, when her infant in arms
cried, covered its mouth with her great
paw and pinched its nostrils, so that
she might enjoy the touching strains
of “ Auld Robin Gray.” In Yurong-
street, a girl of less than 12 fell and
broke a jug containing beer, and her
ruffian protector rushed up, knocked
her half-way across the street, and
carried her home over his shoulder by
the leg, head downwards. Children
obey your parents !
* * *
A Sydney park episode. A
drunken man staggering across Hyde
Park, followed by a gaily - dressed
siren, who watched what path he
would select. At last he headed for
3tanley-street, and the siren made a
detour, sat down on a seat which he
would have to pass, and began to
weep. When the drunk came up he
looked at her pityingly, and in a voice
full of sympathy: “ Wot’s up? wot
ver cryin’ for? Bootiful park—hie—
lovely sky, grand stat-yoo, pretty
flowers ; wot yer—hie—cryin’ for?”
Then the siren sang her song. Said
the drunk : “ Money ! Never mind ;
I got plenty—hie—money ; ’ere yer
yar,” and he threw two or three
crumpled notes into her lap. Persuad-
ingly : “ Don’t cry ; nice garden,
pretty flowers, bee-ootiful sky—hie.”
And he rolled on, looking up and
waving his arms about, while the
siren, tieing the notes into a hand
kerchief, went off like a dynamic
cartridge across the park.
A female Yarra-banker before Melbourne
City Court for vagrancy the other day spun a tear-
ful and wondrous story of her downfall, until the
usually sceptical bench seemed to soften. Then
the prisoner maundered on unwittingly about how
she had two daughters well married and “ society
ladies ” living in big marble mansions in a high-
class suburb, and the bench suddenly wakened up
and cut her short with a shout of “ Twelve
months,” and had the aged one hustled to the
cells. The lady was obviously on the point of
rending local sassiety to its foundations by giving
the married names of her two daughters and the
address of their marble halls. Hence the rush to
get her safely into the cells.
* * » *
Times are better inHawkesbury (N.S.W.)
district. Working 20 hours a day, a wood-carter
earns 10s. a week, and, as a few months ago he
could barely pay horse-feed, this is a distinct
gain. Also, the Benevolent Asylum is now
paying parents for the keep of their own children
ss. a week each, so that the larger the family the
greater the affluence. Previously it was necessary
to board other people’s offspring to get the grant,
and many a poor cocky family lived on that. For
12s. will buy the week's tucker for a bush family
of six, and if your neighbor grows pumpkins on
his flat and ’possums are plentiful, you can manage
on less. Orchardists have received upwards of a
shilling a case for fruit ; as the case is included
and costs 9d., there is a net gain of 3d. This
encourages thrift. Altogether, things are looking
up. If the God-fearing bogus-Freetrade Govern-
ment would only grant ss. a week for board-
ing the “old woman,” and ditto for head of
family, it would inaugurate the Golden Age.
* * * *
The surgeons of Alfred Hospital, Melb.,
have demanded new surgical instruments. The old
ironmongery they have been using is, they say, fit
only for the marine stores. One of the instru-
ments, produced as an exhibit, had its handle—
which was in two pieces—tied together with string.
* * * *
The Warrnambool women have challenged
Vic. Assembly to a charity game of cricket. The
challenge has been accepted, and the match comes
off sometime this month If the women win, it
is understood woman’s rights will have received an
emphatic lift in Victoria. It is the intention of
the she cricketers to challenge the Leg. Council.
New Woman versus the Old.
* * * *
The Vic. prayer-for-rain party has just had
a bit of bad luck. It petitioned Minister Best to
obtain Govt, sanction for a day of humiliation and
prayer, There was some desire to fix Sunday,
April 25, as the day, but for some reason the fol-
lowing Sunday was selected. Then, as chance
would have it, rain began to 'fall on Monday, April
26, and continued till Wednesday, whilst the
righteous gnashed their gums and abused their
luck. Had the day wished for, Sunday, the 25th,
been fixed upon, here would have been a proof of
the efficacy of humiliation and prayer that would
have curled up the most confirmed sceptics.
Truly, those whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth.
* * * *
Influence is working to have Gov. Phil-
lip’s statue in Sydney Domain unveiled on June
22—when loyalty is expected to crack the ther-
mometer.
* * m *
Grafton Assizes, which were timed for the
day after the Brand-Ferguson wedding, were post-
poned to enable Chief-Justice Darley to attend
that function in Sydney. Jurors, prisoners, and
the Grafton public generally felt sore but are still
loyal.
* * * *
A Brisbane firm advertised for “ two young
ladies as attendants at Exhibition.” An hour
earlier than the time specified 70 applicants,
mostly well-dressed, rushed the office. All in
search of a Silas Harding ?


Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“ The Patentees—Maoniven & Cameron—deserve
A NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen.
The Owl Pen.
Sold at all Stationers.
The Pickwick Pen.
The Hindoo Pen.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection —
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
•DOSE’S CELEBRATED
" LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Timers.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations, &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. If. .4. ICO* II, Chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
LADIES’ BLOUSES,
; REAL FRENCH CAMBRIC.
TO ORDER only. Price, Bs. 6d. EACH.
Patterns and directions for Self-Measure-
ment forwarded to any part of Australia on ap-
plication to
B'. MOUNTOASTLE & SONS,
BRISBANE.
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33 /- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
BUCKLEY & UUUU Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “ Victoria ” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... *l6 and £2l
LADIES’ ... ... *lB and *2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 189(5 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
Common-sense seems to be percolating
even into divorce-procedure. Judge (G. B.) Simp-
son, the other day, discharged a respondent who
had been in gaol since January last for non-pay-
ment of costs. His Honor said (in effect) that,
though the law forbade the release, under six
months, of an attached divorce-respondent, he
was in this regard much of Mr. Bumble’s immor-
tal opinion about said law, and had been recently
acting upon the opinion of the English courts that
there was no use in trying to get blood from a
stone by locking up a man who couldn’t pay until
he should pay. Which is indeed a truly astound-
ing discovery.
* * * *
It is suggested that the signal for starting
the simultaneous hymn to be sung on next Queen’s
Birthday should be the letter “ S ” telegraphed
from London along every wire in the empire.
“S” in this case stands either for “sing” or
“shriek.” Considering how few of Victoria’s
loyal subjects can sing worth a cent, it most pro-
bably stands for “ shriek.” The Bulletin has an
idea, by the way, that a really imposing Jubilee
row could be made if every man in the empire
who owns a dog stood on its tail, and every woman
who owns a fowl chased it with a stick, and every
child who owns a cat held it up by the ear, and
everybody who has an infant swung it around by
the leg, all at the same moment. The simul-
taneous yelp and cackle and caterwaul would be a
celebration the like of which the Hempire never
heard before.
* * * «
Besides the parsons, the Isaacstein and
Cohen crowd, w'ho are interested in the manufac-
ture of waterproofs, fervently prayed that a second
deluge would speedily come. The slump in
macintoshes during the last two years of dry
weather has been something abnormal.
» * * *
At Elmore (Vic.), the other day, an
Italian was committed for trial on a charge of
“ unlawfully knowing Mary Madden, a domestic
servant, aged 21.” Which suggests that a very
large percentage of the policemen on this vast
continent ought to be charged with a criminal
offence.
* * * *
S.M. Herald prints this among notes of
dresses worn at Rand wick Autumn Meeting:—
Mr. C. B. Fairfax wore a beautifully-embroidered pink
zephyr made over yellow satin, the waist encircled with a
folded belt of green satin, which was most effective.
It must have been—but is this the New Man at
last or a printer’s error ?
* * » *
The Parramatta company of N.S. Wales
Lancers, which mounted guard in the Cathedral
at the vice-regal wedding, was smartened up with
new flags, spurs, and trousers for the occasion.
The co. was dined by Capt. Ferguson same evening
at Paris House.
* * * *
The bold N.S.W. warriors who camped
out in Victoria Barracks at Easter are loud in
praise of the methods of modern Major-General
French, who broke up camp early on Easter
Monday and let the dandies on parade get home
in time for beauty sleep ere starting out next
morning as plain citizens. General Hutton
always sent them home saddle-worn and weary
just in time to take in the morning milk.
It has been suggested
that it would be a really affect-
ing grovel if the female popu-
lation of the Empire cele-
brated the record reign by
going back to the dress-
fashions of 1837. The pro-
posal, however, fell as flat as
a patent tombstone. In 1837,
the British young female per-
son wore her dress out low in
the streets, and showed an
acre of unclothed back to the
casual passer-by, and very
often she wore no sleeves, and
hung out for public inspection
two red arms that had been
blighted by the cold east
wind. Even the most loyal
she-person isn’t prepared to
have her back blistered by the
sun when it stands at 120 deg.,
or blown upon by the cold
southerly-burster on a bleak
July morning, though the
blessed throne depended on
it. ;
* * *
At Brisbane (Q.) Salva-
tion Army temple. Soldier
doorkeeper: “Yer carn’t go
out, I tell yer, till the Com-
mandant’s done talking.”
“ But I’ll lose my train.”
“ Carn’t help it. That’s Com-
mandant Booth, come up
special, and yer carn’t leave
till he’s done.” “But it’s
the last train.” “ Carn’t help
it. Stay yere an’ be saved,
or you might lose the larst
train to ’Eving.” Then there
was a catch-as-catch-can, a
battering-out of the door, and
THREE UNDERGRADUATES.
(Sketch in Georg e-street, Sydney, Ist May. University Commemora-
tion day.)
the Unsaved caught the train to Sheol.
» * * *
At St. David’s Cathedral, Hobart, it is
proposed to get over the scarcity of choir-boys
who don’t use cigarettes and bad language, and
cheek the organist, and carve the initials of their
latest Flossie on the seats during the sermon, by
swearing-in a surpliced choir of girls. Parson
Haweis, the cocksure little London oddity of
morals celebrity, is quoted as the necessary II
lish precedent. This paper predicts a big rush of
girls of all ages to join that choir. A surplice
covereth a multitude of angularities.
Q. Works Department excused itself for
not calling for looal tenders for the construction of
a tank at Bowen on the ground that it did not
think there was anyone in Bowen capable of con-
structing a tank ! Why, nearly every man in
Bowen is a tank*
A trumpery little fire at Perth, W.A., the
other day, got the chance of growing into a =B7OOO-
- because the firemen wouldn’t turn out till
the boy who brought the alarm had signed a
statutory declaration that the fire wasn’t merely a
figment of his youthful imagination. If it had
only occurred to these ardent spirits to examine
him in the multiplication-table and make him pro-
duce his baptismal certificate, there probably
wouldn’t be any Perth by this time.
* * * *
R. : If the rain would only fall on the pro-
perties of the “little flock,” and thus teach the
unregenerate a lesson, the goatee brigade would be
happy. Prayer for rain is a sure thing: rain is
bound to come some time —waiting for it is only a
matter of faith.
* » * *
A Stanmore (N.S.W.) lady lost by bur-
glary, among other things, a small box from her
dressing-table, which the robber evidently thought
held jewellery. The box, however, was filled with
relics and old letters much valued by the owner,
who despaired of ever seeing them again; but
they came back by post clumsily wrapped up in a
sugar-bag with an envelope taken from one of the
lost letters (on which was written her address)
pasted on the outside. The lady quite forgives
that thoughtful burglar.
R. : “Canon Potter in defence of fined
Chinese washermen, remarks: ‘ After all, my
work does not differ very widely from his. I try
to show you how to keep your souls clean, and he
helps you to keep a clean shirt to your back.’
Well, if Canon Potter cleans souls to ‘ whiter
than snow ’ by spitting large mouthfuls of water
and saliva over them, even as the pigtailed
heathen does over the shirts, then Canon Potter is
welcome alike to his souls and his cleansing
methods.”
Some of the tricks commonly
resorted to at Australian police-courts.
Complainants can delay or
taking out summonses or warrants,
so that the cases will only he heard
before certain magistrates. Thus,
the beak who is known to hold
“ decided ” views on any sub-
ject is seldom given an oppor-
tunity of adjudicating in such
cases. They are held over'
for the favorable jaypee.
The touting-solicitor nuis-
ance is also growing all the
time. It is now the custom
with many people having
frequent police-court busi-
ness—more especially
those engaged in the time-
payment line —to give a
tout the address of defen-
dant. The solicitor gets
the unhappy defen-
dant’s case —bleeds
his client as much
as possible, and,
at the same
time, really does his best for the other side, for
putting the work in his way, and as a means to
secure further favors.
* * * *
An article in the Vie. Summons gives in-
teresting comparisons between the amounts
charged by barristers, &c., 30 years ago and those
charged now. Instructions for brief were then, in
ordinary cases, £5 for a jury of four, and .£lO for
a jury of twelve. They are now very frequently
£5O for the one, and £lOO for the other. The fee
on brief to such men as Michie, Ireland, Dawson,
Fellows, and Wood was 30 guineas, where 50
would be demanded and got now. Advice was
two guineas then and is five guineas now. Yet
common-law clerks got then £8 per week where
they get £4 now. What is responsible for such
differences ? It’s certainly not the calibre of the
present bar. Is it the Judicature Act, or the
personality of the taxing officers, or both ? A
patient public waits the reply of the Law Com-
mission.
* * * *
In reporting a recent Glen Innes (N.S.W.)
wedding the local Guardian says: “ The bride’s
travailing dress was of” &c., &c. This should
stand as a record for quite a while.
“Stephen Bosher, come with me a minute,”
were the words of hangman Long, at Wellington
(M.L.), the other day, when the last scene of all
came to the cruel murderer of the old couple at
Petone. A minute ! And after Bosher had spoken
unbornbastically from the gallows he met his
death with fortitude. After repeating the
“Miserere” after the priest, the latter ex-
claimed : ‘' Au revoir, mon cher ami, au revoir. ”
Bosher replied, “Ait revoir,” and the hangman
then chipped in with a rough “Say good-bye,
Bosher. ” Bosher said “ Good-bye,” and was killed
at once. If at all imaginative and a believing
Christian and sufficiently versed in English, how
the difference between his countryman’s “Au
revoir ” and the man-butcher’s “ Good-bye ” must
have comforted him ! Hell is the place for hang-
men. It also would seem to be the right place for
people like Bosher who, as a Salvationist bands-
man, followed to the grave the grey-haired couple
he had slain for the sake of gain, and offered prayer
at the graveside, and asked God to deliver the mur-
derer for justice. And the prayer was heard.
Bosher it was who first informed the police of the
crime, and gave them the suspicious points,
which led to the arrest of Shore for the crime;
Shore, a slaughterman, had been drunk on the
night of the murder. At Shore’s trial Bosher
gave damning evidence, but the knife couldn’t be
found ; and, as other things favored Shore, his ac-
quittal followed. It would now almost appear
that the police only arrested Shore to put Bosher
off the scent. Lawyer Wilford defended Shore in
the murder-case —got him off, and then, after
helping to put the net around Bosher by his insinu-
ations when the murderer was under cross-exam-
ination at the Shore trial, defended him also.
\aduj once al' evening- tide,
/l\>rnde upon b\Ke 1 spied,
\ fa nci svva How- like she s>wifHc| hied .
\ tr\ er P Cc * 2> 's wkirhn<g .
I
,j breexes blew m their mughj'
f a limb docking bn<2 h T
j withey) to ik> Sc]mnr>efrc|
, j neck and neck, we rode at la*-)!’,
j $ tqrnecl cindfaced her as I pc»s>ed
r j j t,t head-witch | 1 cried
j 1 4 *' ®h- get - tkec to a n'urinerc] !
, true ih is that - neal-
©■ffodd their <gpace fe "faces svveeh.
dk-idge-not in haste -fee-
t her* onh_| witcfhercj
CYGMET
Answers to Correspondents.
—— -♦
:Mo notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Neranga : There are enough difficulties in the
way of Federation without throwing dreadful blank
verse at it M.S. (Narrandera): T. Smith’s poem is
best buried in oblivion C.W.O. (Wilcannia): (1) The
addition to note circulation, Govt, deposits and current
accounts isn’t an addition to the bank’s “ resources ” but
to its liabilities. (2) The reduction of fixed deposits is
an addition to the resources, not the other way about.
i(3) The reduction of cash on hand is nothing. The
figures only relate to Victoria, and the institution may
have another half-million or million cash in other provinces.
You have the whole thing upside down .... M.R.A.: Can’t
;fix your picture in our mind’s eye. It wobbles too much.
Bamboo: Thanks G.P.B. : Poem stating how
the man should be skinned alive and then boiled without
itrial duly received. What a lot of gory butcher poets
There are in this world .... E.B.H. : Not good enough
Quiz: Thanks Flong: Can’t you sue the sweater in
question and sell him up ? J.L. (Rotoria): The idea of
offering a £50,000 prize for the biggest Record Reign grovel
has some points about it. The Bulletin hereby competes
with the suggestion that Victoria be created the Deity
by Act of Parliament Marie B. : Can’t use
J.D. : “Religion” will do Yarrum : The drowned
Freethinker hardly good enough P.R. : The social
function over the new hearse is out of date now. Dead
things won’t keep in this climate. Our own par. on the
subject had to be kept on ice till publishing day, and even
then it was a little gamey B.M. : Dreary Scotch joke
;in kilts—and breathing whisky Corn hill (Tas.) : Your
anecdotes are very old literary deadbeats ... A.S. (Bris-
bane) : Will tackle the smellful problem Ediwekawa :
•Can’t spare half-column to discuss the chance of Simpson
beating Thompson at Geraldton election Mac F. :
“ Brusher ” under consideration J. White: Long
Scotch narratives of the time of James I. are off our track.
R.M. (On an Island): A feeble piling-up of agony
about nothing A.T.B. : Send along the good story. So
far you have only sent the weak pun G.P.B. : Eleven
pages of tremendous verse about the dewy village maid
who was led astray by a lord, and four pages of tear-
sodden whoop about a “ tomb.” Do you take us for Mil-
ton’s “ Asparagus Lost ” ? Zeph. : You shed a lot of
bright gloom on the subject Esa K. : Will probably
print, if you drop in and re-touch the end A.E. : The
only thing feminine about your “ womanly ” sketch is the
bent hairpin with which you have fastened it Melb. :
Graham Berry, as Vic. Premier, laid down that no abori-
gine must be compelled to work on the stations, and that
every one of them was entitled to food for nothing
Rusticus: No local market for butter Kate A. : You
take too many verses to tell your thought in. But will
consider H.H. (W.A.) : Doubtful Nerna : Rather
more doubtful G.C.N. : Very flat ballade. Did the
steam-roller go over it? D.H. : Not up J. M‘R. :
Practise on the local paper for seven years, till Jacob is
a bit fitter for Rachel H.H.H : Tame reflections in
commonplace language. Burn’em P.M. : You think
that “ the general brainlessness of artists would be quite
sufficient to account for their alleged lefthandedness,”
and ask, “ How is it that draftsmen and musicians are
usually deficient in every faculty outside their professional
pale?” Some Sydney newspaper-correspondents might
ponder this. After all, what is an artist? Is it the man
of manual dexterity who turns out a monotonous series'
of pictures and drawings, technically correct, and with-
out one atom of feeling, one gleam of inspiration, in the
batch? Or is it the man who can’t draw a dog's leg
crooked, yet whose brain reacts to every stimulus ot
color or form, not mechanically, but poetically, by trans-
fusing it with thought, and bringing it into instant rela-
tion with all the underlying facts and principles of Life
and Art ? In a word, is it the brain that makes the artist,
or the hand? Boko : Don’t want a bald statement that
a person, unknown to the general public, is dead—or still
aliVe. You must justify your reference to the individual
by telling something of interest about him A. 0.8. :
Well, as so much of a woman’s stock-in-trade consists of
her beauty, it grievously hurts her under such circum-
stances to mention her age; so better have no controversy
as to when that clever and industrious actress was born.
Gestor : Mostly childish puns. Try some severely
English paper Barcarole : Mere nonsense. The Carl-
ton Club is sufficiently plebeian. Why, Salmon Wilson
was a member —and so is Henniker Heaton Yarrah-
min : Thanks Al. D. : “ Rev.” excellent. Can you
oall? H. : Now, do you really think a surgeon of such
good repute, or, for that matter, any sober surgeon would
“ use the same instrument on six or seven patients with-
out ever washing it ? ” It is absolutelj’ dangerous to have
written statements of that kind in the same street
as a printing press W.R.F. : Do you solemnly
guarantee originality of both ideas and drawings?
M.F.: Write to Mr. T. Garrett, Supreme Court, Sydney.
......D.A. : No man behaves “naturally” (as you put it)
in the presence of either a clergyman or a woman whose
favor he seeks Abo : One reason why the much-talked-
of third morning paper for Sydney has not yet caught on,
is that no newspaper can buy into the present cable and
interprovincial-teiegram association without the unani-
mous consent of the members, and correspondents of
existing papers would not be allowed to accept the agency
for a new journal. All the same, the newspaper that can
afford an independent cable service has a good time
ahead Moses : If, as you say, flogging is a good
deterrent, it should deter all-round. As much real misery
has probably arisen from the doings of fraudulent trustees
as from any other sort of crime. If flogging will deter
the “ cold-blooded brutal assaulter,” it will no doubt also
deter the cold-blooded brutal fraud of the Geake order.
Let us then flog the next nice, respectable family solicitor
who betrays his trust by spending the estate of the widow
and orphan on his harem. What are your objections?
F. : Eight slips each referring to a single separate sub-
ject, and each slip fully covered. Do you really think it
is necessary to write 12 lines about every subject you
mention?.*....J.H. : You send four stories (“Madcap,”
&c.) at once, and no clue on any one of them as to your
name and address—which should be written on at least
the first and last page of each Automosa : So glad to
discover the identity of the thief who palmed off on us
as original the verses in question—and who has now the
cheek to loftily offer a lot of advice. Had you asked for
payment we could have got you gaoled for attempting to
get money by false pretences. Just chew that over.
Also, please tell us whence you stole the things you now
send J.M‘B.: The “ emu calling in a mournful strain ”
is new, anyway. Our emu used to be rather a cheerful
caller, ’specially round about dinner-time J.B. (Melb.):
Considering P.M. : Will use R.P. cavil on opportunity.
“Vive Les Amours”: Some facility: no print-value.
Our Sisters : The lady with the elastic step has just
stepped elastically in E.B.H. : “ Crouching down on
the matted floor in her chemise, streaked with the blood
of her victim” No, thanks! J.E.H. : Denounce
as much as you please ; if it’s good copy it ’ll be printed.
There’s no other criterion we care a straw for. You can
get Evans’ book from Geo. Robertson and Co.


SbocS Differ.
It’s so
with
Callaghan Shoes.
Callaghan & Son,
396 George-8t M Sydney.
They are different from any shoes you see
elsewhere. That is, they contain more style
and wear, and the price is little more than
you pay for
vastly inferior
shoes
PRETTIER
tbai) a FLOWER.
Real Maltese Lace Handkerchiefs, with
silk centres, at Is. 6*d, 2s. 3d., 2s. 6d
and upwards. These exquisite goods are
marked at less than half-price. Please
order early as the stock is limited.
w. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
WANOO!
More Unsolicited Praise.
Buck St., Adamstown, N.S.W.,
20th April, 1897.
Manager, Loa3by’s Wahoo Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-streefc, Sydney.
w?’r7,L^ ve much pleasure in recommending
your WAHOO to any who suffer from Indigestion
and Liver Complaints, as it completely cured me
before I had taken two (2) bottles. To-day lam a
better man in health and spirits than ever I was, and
f,watt™ ~h e chan £ e in my condition to LOASBY’S
WAHOO.”
Yours truly,
ROBERT NICHOLS, Jun.
WAHOO!
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loisbfs « Wahoo " Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 4, 1897.
Mr Dear Myee—
About Hospital Saturday onslaught the general
impression seems to be that the girls are tired of
collecting; this year they begged languidly and
without much enthusiasm. Several of them stood
as if under protest grasping an umbrella firmly in
one hand and a collecting-box in the other, and
said no word. A man offered one of these mute
appealers half-a-sovereign if she would only ask
him for it, but she still kept her mouth tightly
shut; she got the coin all the same, though.
Numerous men facetiously “ tossed up ” with the
box-holders for theexpected shilling—-it was always
on the “ heads I win, tails you lose ” principle for
the collecting-girl. One woman at a crowded
city-stand thrust her box under the nose of a haw-
hawish looking person, and rejoiced when he
pulled out about =£s in gold, two threepennies
and a copper, but she disgustedly saw him sort
out the gold and throw the rest in with a re-
sounding clank. Ha’pennies were the most popu-
lar tribute of all, particularly from women.
Sometimes a beneficent-looking man approached a
box unasked, gave an extra polished smile in with
his money and lifted his hat politely. But men
who smiled the widest didn’t always part on the
same scale. Perhaps the only persons who
thoroughly enjoyed the day were the neglected
elderly bachelors, too dry and crusty to be taken
any notice of as a general rule, who laid in vast
piles of pennies the day before, and had an un-
accustomed plethora of smiling blandishments all
day long at a penny an ogle.
’Varsity “ sugar ” dropped into the collecting-
boxes from the eapped-and-gowned hobblede-
hoys on their way to Commemoration at
the Town Hall took a liquid form : they
essayed to drop sweet sticky stuff down the
slots. _ At the speechifying the principal
diversion of these dreadfully unoriginal persons
was the loud rustling of a multitude of news-
papers, which made one speaker give in and
sit unheard. A girl-student who received a silver
medal was the most marvelled at by her sex in the
audience for excelling in a long string of jaw-
breaking ologies. The local ’Varsity anthem isn’t
as good as that of Melbourne, where an audacious
fifth-year medical writes fresh verses every year
ridiculing profs., and is regularly “ploughed” at
at every exam. But then there is no Marshall Hall
here. This month there is to be a week of
academic gaiety, including a ball in honor of the
visiting football clubs from Melbourne and Ade-
laide “ shops,” an inter-university boat-race, and
other contests.
The requisite thrill of sympathy with tuber-
culous sufferers was set in motion by the
Govt. House meeting last week, which was
largely attended. It pushed the movement
for establishing hospitals for consumptives one
step further by resolving to hold a public
meeting in the Town Hall, presided over by His
Ex., to advocate the raising of a fund. The
speakers deplored the increase of consumption in
Australia, but none of them noted that consump-
tives from ’Ome who are sent out for the long sea-
voyage and the mild climate really require quaran-
tining as much as small-pox patients and much
more than lepers, if all that latter-day authorities
say is true. _ A phthisis-infested English guest on
a visit for his health has been sometimes known
to more than decimate an Australian family.
The microscopic pictures at the Society of Artists
Gallery in George-street are evidently offered as
samples for buyers to say, “Yes, this is what I
want, give me some of it.” Or perhaps the artists
are merely playing “ Boyne Water ” softly to see
how much impression the public will stand. Any-
how, minute back-block scenes are an inspiration,
for the bush ought always to be taken in homoeo-
pathic doses. A bold, original design showing
Souter pursued by infuriated cats, and another of
Sid. Long cursed by critics are frescoed, “ not for
publication ” behind the red curtain. The show
itself is like a fashionable millinery-shop in color,
all purple and green. A tree with curly blue
trunk in a vague cream-colored landscape looks
like A. Streeton in an unguarded moment. Among
women-exhibitors are Florence Fuller, with a
Frenchy method of expressing feeling in her work,
Alice Muskett, whose cornflowers are true blue,
and Theo. Cowan, our only woman who sculps.
It is an understood thing now that at the
jubilee in June there are to be no fireworks. As
the idea of rejoicing is not complete unless some-
body is prepared to pay up, citizens are requested
to back their loyal feelings by large donations to
all sorts of charities. An autograph circular
signed ‘ Susan Hampden ” is the latest one issued,
inviting subscriptions from one shilling upwards
to the Queen’s Jubilee Fund, inaugurated ten
years ago to relieve distressed women. The annual
meeting of the charity was held last week,
and the report showed that practical help has
been given to necessitous women since March,
’B9, to the extent of over £6OOO. The report
states that in a very large number of cases the
relief given has taken the shape of mangles, sew-
ing-machines, type-writers, &c. The fund seems
to be well-administered; it would appear that
none of it goes to the professional cadger, the
object of the directors being to help those who
desire to help themselves.
At the University on Monday night the girl-
graduates invited many guests to a conversazione,
which long Italian word means that you mustn’t
talk when the music is going on. The programme
was a good one contributed by Mme. Kellermann
Miss Britton, Mr. Strauss, Miss E. Deane, and
others. Miss Macdonald, principal of the women’s
college, shook hands with all comers as hostess.
The authoress of a smart topical novel, who is also
a biking enthusiast, displayed a close crop of hair
topping a clever, strong face with a square jaw ;
her gown, like most University women’s'garments,
was droopy. B.A.’s are never careful about curl-
ing their bangs, and their skirts have a classically
limp hang. Greek eliminates gores and the bino-
mial theorem is the death-knell of a good figure.
Some of the learned damsels don’t altogether de-
spise Man, for I saw one furry-hooded and be-
gowned girl talking confidentially to a man-student
in a hidden corner. The male guests seemed also
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought. Alto-
gether it was a cultured function, and the neces-
sary “sweetness and light ” was attained both by
the company and the refreshments.
For one of the forthcoming charity hops the
committee is busily planning fancy “sets” of
Lancers, and, as a brilliant novelty, four
courageous couples are to face the music attired in
costumes copied from popular posters. Girls are
now anxiously studying the fashions on the
hoardings to see whether they can go dressed as
the bicycle-girl in the bathing-suit or the lady in
the Panama-hat and the purling stream. “ Nes-
tle’s Milk ” is fixed on for one set of costumes, and
the men are seriously thinking of personating the
calves.
The city lately has become one vast vice-regal
ad. Photos, of every aspect of the recent bridal
are in some windows, wedding-gifts incite admir-
ing women to flatten their noses against the panes
of other shops, and music named after or dedi-
cated to the bride and bridegroom exhibits on its
covers little cupids fluttering and wedding-rings
tied with true-lovers’ knots, throwing a rosy tint
of Hymeneal blushfulness around the usually
prosaic George-street. Perhaps the most attrac-
tive show of all is the village-cart drawn by a
Liliputian white pony frequently driven by lively
Mrs. Freeman-Thomas. Occasionally her small
son gets an airing in the cart, but his father has
not been much seen about. The Captain is on
the sick-list just now, and at all his public appear-
ances has hobbled in the Gov.’s rear with the aid
of a stick.
Sir William Robinson, Governor, mine-pro-
moter, and talented musician—he composed “Re-
member Me No More ” —has, it is cabled, died in
England of a throat-affection. He had many
Australian friends, and was a thoroughly good-
natured man. Sad to relate, his brother, whose
memory as Sir Hercules Robinson is still green in
Australia, is also dying—of dropsy consequent on
a complication of diseases.
Jewish ladies are again at the top of the tree in
the Hospital Saturday collections. From which
it would appear that the law of Moses is more
benevolent than the Christian laws which, as in-
terpreted by the Balmain clergy, strictly forbid
collections being made for charities on the Chris-
tian—that is to say, the Balmain clergy’s—
Sabbath.
Last year a gigantic tea-meeting, in aid of the
Church Society of Sydney, with Lady Hampden
at the head of affairs, was held in the Town Hall.
This year there will be a repetition, and women
are tumbling over each other in offering their ser-
vices at Govt. House. As Bishop Smith is away
enjoying himself in England, Dr. Camidge, of
Bathurst, will boss the show. Dr. Camidge is the
delight of elderly Christian ladies just now.
Florence Mack, sister of Louise Mack, the
well-known writer, possesses a soprano voice, and,
with Ruby Reynolds, contralto, intends to give a
concert in the Town Hall on May 20th.
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon,” at the
Palace Theatre, gave its first hop on Saturday
night. The Palace stage is so small that Gourlay
can’t skip very far, and when he has all his checks
on there is hardly room for Mrs. Dingle’s crino-
line. She still wears that crinoline, and Obadiah
Dingle is as airy as ever, and wrestles in obscurity
with the wee bit puppy as before. The new
Crackles, Will Watkins, goes in for the fashionable
Elphberg hair —a stage without a red wig looks
strangely cold now we have all become so much
accustomed to the hue. Harry Shine, as the
bobby, wears his crimson on his nose, and has a
beautiful brogue. First night, a hospital girl
walked round the circle and collected moneys
between the acts.
Miss Maud FitzStubbs has given the fashion-
able orange-blossom and wedding-bell effect to her
new waltz by calling it “ The Bridal.” By invita-
tion a select company of connoisseurs listened to a
performance of the new dance-tune scored for
piano and orchestra at the Broadwood Rooms last
Thursday. It is a cheerful and brilliant strain in
the new, lively style of waltz, and has a good
dancing swing. The old wailing and sadful
strains have been quite superseded in all the
“ new ” waltz music.
Tobacco isn’t a circumstance on the bicycle as a
smasher-up of the suburban evening. “Small and
early ” musical agonies are now rapidly wilting
away under the blighting influences of the vagrant
jigger which attracts the youthful swains out into
the fresh air away from stuffy best parlors and in-
digestible coffee-and-sandwich snacks. Girls who
cycle don’t feel the desertion, but the great crowd
who haven’t the necessary coin to pay the weekly
instalments for. the tin gee-gee are learning to
look upon machines as their hated rivals, and long
to express their feelings by unexpected punctures.
The new theory of mind-healing seems to be
making great headway: the cult has been preached
by its prophets all over Australia, and now select
little coteries are to be met with in dainty draw-
ing-rooms, discussing over afternoon tea the new
struggle to make matter subservient to mind It
is noteworthy that the latest cure hails from U.S.
—the acid of hurried and flurried Western civilisa-
tion has had to go for its neutralising alkali to the
immemorial East, for the idea is not new, but an
eclectic blend of the acquired calm of the Asiatic
yogi, combined with Horace’s “equal mind”
under all circumstances and Christian fortitude of
patience on a monument. It is a beautiful and
intellectual notion. Pain can be conquered by
simply making up one’s mind that it shall be, and
there is an immense deal of truth in the idea. If
Mrs. Dombey had made that effort, she might be
living still.
But I fear me that mind-healing is too much in
the regions of pure and abstract thought for ordi-
nary mortals to master effectually. The average
man can’t thrive on mental processes ; his mind
can t assimilate intellectual vol au vent ; he wants
mutton-chops and plenty of them. Besides
though nervous worry induces disease, nervous
agitation means feeling. Quiescent calm marks
the lower organisms. A jelly-fish in all its exist-
ence never has such a bad quarter-of-an-hour as a
lashed ’bus-horse straining up William-street hill,
but I’d rather be a gee-gee than a jelly-fish, for
all that. “Cease to suffer,” says Schopenhauer,
“if you cease to feel.” The true prototype of the
modern man is Prometheus with the vulture gnaw-
ing at his vitals ; he brings down fire from heaven,
but suffers terribly from his liver.
Sydney is all agog over the Gore-Gillon divorce
case, in its way the liveliest that has happened for
a long while.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Mrs. Turner holds the Premier in wonderful
honor and reverence as the administrator of all
good—public and private—to the people of Vic-
toria. She gave the women-clerks of the post-
office a bad freezing-up a little whde ago when
they roundly refused to buy tickets for a concert
in which she was interested. ‘To think,’ said the
buxom matron, sweeping on them a look of indig-
nation, ‘ to think all of my husband, the Premier,
has done for you ! ’ A prominent official, who was
escorting her over the apartments, hurried the
august lady from the presence of the ingrates lest
she might explode.
“ Mrs. Henry Bracy, hostess at the Salon last
Monday (May 3), had not visited the Club since
that dreadful day when Madame Sterling, who
had been expected at 3 o’clock, bore down
on the rooms at 5 and stayed until 8, harangu-
ing Salonites on religious topics. Nobody
got home to dinner, and when the gushing guest
left she kissed everyone in the room, including
one solitary, hungry young man who had strayed
there somehow and got hemmed in. This victim
bore the same name as a famous poet, and Madame
kissed him, so she said, because she fancied he was
related to his great namesake. However, any
excuse is good enough for kissing a nice young
man. The other day when Mrs. Bracy, after so
long an interval, re-visited the Salon to arrange
for Monday’s tea, she left her son downstairs out
of harm’s way.
“Be the Diamond Jubilee : there are bound to
be jealousies and heartburnings among the Pre-
miers’ wives over the suites assigned to them in
the Hotel Cecil. A competent authority tells me
she has already cast the horoscope of the estab-
lishment for the month of June, and that there
are neither ways of pleasantness nor paths of peace
to be found on the chart. A prominent member
of the feminine contingent said before she left,
‘ Hif they don’t know oo Hi ham in London, Hi’ll
make them know oo Hi ham ! ’ London may put
up with that sort of thing, but sister-premieresses
probably won’t.
“ Some time ago an Australian Governor
visited a ‘ Newsboys’ Try Class ’ in his district.
After inspecting and speechifying, he suffered
from a generous impulse. ‘ Send up to Govern-
ment House to-morrow,’ he said, ‘ and I will
make a little addition to your library.’ The little
boys and their leader were delighted in expecta-
tion of a choice assortment from the Governor’s
innumerable collection, and next day borrowed a
horse-and-trap so as to bring home the books com-
fortably. At the House, a lady came out on the
door-mat and gave them two copies of ‘ The Voyage
of the Sunbeam. ’ Only that and nothing more.
“ The chrysanthemum craze is nearly over—as a
craze. The monstrous blooms that the devotion
of a life is able to produce are no longer the am-
bition of every suburbanite. Canaries dwindled
from being a religion into being merely a sect—
and the chrysanthemum is doing ditto. What is
wanted to revive the interest is some startling
novelty, such as a blue chrysanthemum would be.
The gardener who could find the secret of such a
flower would be able to visit Queen Victoria with
the proceeds, and would barely escape knighthood.
There is a ’mum with the perfume of violets,
called the Mrs. E. W. Clarke, or something like
that, but it has not the capacity to make a whole
suburb yearn. Melb. show people, with lop-sided
balance-sheets and boom assets, are sighing for a
blue chrysan’.
“ People of the snob variety in Melbourne com-
ment on the goodness, generosity, &c., &c., of
Swilliam Clarke and his energetic little wife in
not joining the Jubilee mob who have gone ’Ome.
They have stayed in Victoria to do their share of
entertaining in June, but will visit England next
year. The Clarkes felt it to be their duty to be in
the country in June, and so exercised self-denial.
The tone adopted, however, is as though all Vic-
toria ought to join in a loud Song of Thanksgiving
because the lanky Bart, and his wife are staying
‘to look after the house,’ as it were. Probably
there will be a national movement to add to the
National Anthem a verse beginning ‘ God bless
dear Swilliam Clarke.’
“According to Mr. T. Palmer, M.A., the re-
muneration of lady _ assistants in the ‘ seminaries ’
and ‘ academies ’ in and around Melbourne is
about Is. 6d. a week, with a bonus of Is. for each
new pupil brought to the school. If any of these
Miss Nicklebys has a gift of description she should
be able to pen-paint a nice, squalid companion
picture to that of Dotheboys Hall as drawn by
Dickens.
“ The brother of a popular healer—himself also
a healer—has just wedded the pretty housemaid,
to the great chagrin of many local eligibles.
“ The triumph of Worth in Mrs. Potter’s Melb.
stage gownery is a confection where the frock-
master tries how expensive he can be over the
imitation of a housemaid’s brown holland.
“ The wife of a prominent councillor and mer-
chant turned up to St. Vincent’s Hospital meet-
mg the other day at the Town Hall in a most
elegant and appropriate costume. A cape of the
shweetest ’ emerald green surmounted a gown of
an eye-smarting, purple - embroidered silk—the
±t.V. clerical color for ‘Passion ’-week.
“The whirlsome wife of a Southern sassiety
man has decided to refrain, for the future, from
striking up a promiscuous friendship with every
breezy wheel-girl who may happen to be pedaling
in her vicinity. The other day, this affable matron
came across a couple of the most engaging crea-
tures, and, after an animated discussion re punc-
tures, gears, and similar matters of mutual inte-
rest, she took them home with her to dinner-
hubby not being expected. The dinner a trois
revealed no cause for suspicion, except that the
guests were more thirsty than might have been
expected in cool weather ; but, just as they wera
wishing their hostess au revoir, and not good-bye
preparatory to leaping into the saddle, three or
four young men, friends of the family, trundled
up the carriage-drive, caught sight of the depart-
ing lydies, and gasped unanimously. Then the
young men held an informal meeting on the lawn
and deputed the gravest of their number to tell
the mistress of the house in gentle tones that
‘ Scotch Annie ’ and her companion were unde-
sirable visitors to have about the premises. The
astonished innocent, blushing right down to her
boots, implored those young men not to breathe a
word of the awful story to anyone, and, Heaven
forgive them ! they swore they wouldn’t. ’
“ The congregation of St. Mark’s, Fitzroy
(Melb.), has presented the incumbent with a
bike. Religion is losing all solemnity. An in-
cumbent who travels the narrow' road to righteous'
ness mounted on a jigger is bound to be followed
by the younger ladies of the Church Guild i n
‘ rationals.’
“ The proposal to abandon khakee uniform for
the Vic. militia, and revert to the old Hinglish
red jacket, is an awful satire on the alleged growth
of military spirit in Australia’s most warlike pro-
vince. ‘ Red,’ says Sir Holled Smith, ‘is needed
to attract young men to the service.’ I n other
words, the soldier’s first object in joining the
ranks is to do a ‘ mash.’ There’s nobody to ‘ kill ’
except servant-girls, therefore put him in gaudy
raiment and leave him to dye, if necessary in
defence of his country.
“A German matron, resident in Melb., lately
testified to the worthiness of her hired linen-
cleanser with a nicely-written ‘character.’ The
document stated—* Mrs. Blank was quite pleased
with this lady for what she done the washing.
She is very honest. I can scent her in any place 1
The English language, in German hands, hi a fine
opportunity for unconscious humor.
A Nice man nowadays wants as elaborate a
wardrobe as a toney woman does. He must have
different costumes for “ riding, walking, driving
shooting, golfing, tennis, bicycling and cricket’
dining, smoking and lounging, football, racing’
and yachting, to say nothing of uniform and court
suit, besides the now developing motor-car cos-
tume.” The above is the clothes-limit placed by
“ Madge,” of London Truth, who has issued a
g - u , ld ? f?„ the wa y B of the Perfect gentleman, en-
titled Manners for Men.” Without all these
changes of raiment no man can aspire to be
considered a sassiety person. Madge’s Manual
describes fully the “scope and limitations
of the tweed suit,” and gives full direc-
tions for dress on all occasions. She depre-
cates the growing carelessness of even high-
toned youths, and shudderingly describes how a
courageous man appeared one night in the stalls
of a London theatre in boating-flannels and a
straw hat. She doesn’t say whether the curtain
was instantly rung down and the audacious
offender cast into the deepest dungeon beneath the
castle moat. The offence naturally happened in
the autumn when all the “ best people ” were out
of town, so sensitive feelings were not lacerated so
much as they might otherwise have been.
One quarter of this guide to society is devoted
to the etiquette of feeding, especially at that
stodgily. British entertainment, a dinner-party.
The aspiring Johnny is begged to have a supply of
small-talk on hand. That, and his many suits,
seem to compose his entire social stock-in-trade.
If he takes ladies to a restaurant his conduct must
imply paying for them to the uttermost farthing,
even if he has to run round the corner to pop his
watch. “Madge” says she has known some
heroes do this, rather than own up to a lack of
small change. Pathetic little side-notes along the
page-margin decree “at a restaurant the man
always pays, though he cannot afford it.” Men
are also solemnly warned never to offer politeness
or an umbrella on a wet day—to a strange
woman. A “ lady ” would inevitably snub
the profferer, and the “ other sort ” might never
return the gamp. The authoress shows a true
Londoner’s distrust and hatred of a stranger ; in-
cidentally, she warns girls to be always on the
offensive in the streets, and to “ fear and dread a
prowling man.” As a matter of fact, the girl
whose mind is constantly on the alert against the
“prowling man,” is bound to be the hysterical
screamer who has an adventure with one of the
dreaded monsters. If a woman has a grain of
common sense, she can go about her business
alone, even in huge overgrown London, and be
quite unconscious of a prowler. Besides, there is
always a policeman, and a Loudon bobby is as
perfect a gentleman as if he h. . got “Madge’s”
little maxims by heart.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Melb. Champion shows its superior wis-
dom by the reflection that Major-Editor Reay’s
voyage to England will convey to him the “ useful
and essential lesson that the world is not a small
piece of land bounded on the north by the Hamil-
ton Spectator, and on the south by the Melb.
Herald.” Seeing that before drifting into jour-
nalism, Reay served before the mast on a
steamer, and saw, probably, more of the world
than Champion has seen, the remark rather lacks
point.
Gov. Brassey, who prides himself on being
hardly ever interviewed, was surprised to find a
five-minutes’ chat with a youthful-looking under-
grad at Melb. University sports result in three
columns of interview in the Australian Cyclist.
Among other things, it is stated that the Gover-
nor’s lately-broken collar-bone has not properly
set, so H.E. is unable to part his back hair, which
function is performed for him by a cold, proud
menial. The Governor prefers tennis to cycling,
but thinks he could do 60 miles a day easily with a
rest after each 20.


EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
UF THIS
Liverpool & [ondon & Globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates,
Head Office for Australasia: 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ...
Total Claims Paid
Total Claims Paid in Australasia
Income for Year 1895
£9,708,495
32,796,549
2,259,404
2,339,622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Hbad
Office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
M'm
rn'inu
il!‘ M ll
iiit.
tn
mm
«
■CHIIIK
‘I’IHHIIIIII'i
III''!
V
N
vA
IK
OP
ILHi
lIL'III
U.,1,;..inn
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
. . . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
It ought to be generally known that Rose’s
Lime Juice Cordial supplies a delicious cooling
drink in water —effervescing in all mineral waters
—and an excellent stimulant blended with spirits,
wholesome and refreshing in summer. It is en-
tirely free of spirits. Recommended by the
Lancet. It possesses valuable medicinal pro-
perties, cooling and purifying the blood, stimu-
lating and assisting digestion. Purchasers should
be careful to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others
being imitations.*
A
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Personal Items.
A N.S.W. aboriginal took legal advice in
Sydney last week as to the steps to be taken to
obtain a divorce from a giddy gin.
Premier Kingston effected a reconciliation
with one of his bitterest enemies—Edwin Smith,
M.L.C. —prior to his departure for England.
Olive Schreiner, of the “African Farm,”
recently explained why she married Kronwright:
“ Kronwright laces up one’s boots with so much
broad human sympathy.”
S.A. Chief-Justice Way has been sum-
moned to Windsor to kiss Queen Victoria’s hand
on his installation as P.C. He can now die hap-
pily. The Bulletin fears he will simply explode.
Barton and Isaacs are spoken of as the
persons likely to be commissioned to take the
Commonwealth Constitution Bill “home.” W. C.
Wentworth and E. Deas-Thomson took “ home ”
the N.S.W. Constitution Bill.
Edward Fairfield, of the Colonial Office,
whose death is reported by cable, was the brother
of the Jeames (Charles Fairfield) who writes
“Vanity Fair” from London in Melb. Argus.
Hence the amount of gossip about official persons
in that occasional column.
Premier Kingston cannot yet be accused of
deserting his friends. He signalised his departure
for ’Ome by wearing the aged terai hat so familiar
to even the oldest citizens —the old felt which has
loyally stuck to him through all his troubles. It
was a diplomatic triumph. “ Stick to the felt hat,
Charlie, and they won’t nobble you,” said a West
Adelaide admirer in the crowd. The democratic
future of S.A. is centred in that aged terai.
ANXIOUS TO PLEASE.
THE DONA ( scornfully) : “’Course I’ve chucked yer. Zif I was
goitern ’ter marry a lad what couldn't lick me!"
NIPPER PETE : “ Gerrout! Ain’t I bin takin’ lessons off a pug?"
Miner Wentworth, uncle of the lately-
admitted barrister W. C. Wentworth, of Vau-
cluse, has entirely lost the sight of both eyes. He
was mining on the Murchison (W. A.), and put in
a charge which exploded prematurely. Medical
treatment failed, and the old man is now blind.
From the circulated police description of
an absconding Vic. bank-manager :
Very corpulent, red, fat face . . . top of head bald ...
Bhort fat neck, lobes of ears very thick.
A dreadful warning to intending embezzlers who
are unbeautiful.
Amicable relations have been resumed
between Premier Kingston and S.A. Register
editor Finlayson. Register, April 27
No great problems press urgently for solution inParlia-
ment .... there will be a general wish that Mr. and
Mrs. Kingston may thoroughly enjoy their holiday.
Even the hospital question is not now a “great
problem pressing urgently for solution ” ! ! ! !
The whole population of the Island of
Tonga is in a ferment over a rumor that its fasti-
dious King is about to take as wife the
whitey-brown daughter of a Samoan woman
and a German trading on the island. His
Majesty has a rival in a European store-clerk em-
ployed in his dominion, but in the betting the
King is well-backed. The lady, who has been
“ finished ” in Sydney, flashes an orthodox dia-
mond engagement ring, keeps half-a-dozen sewing-
machines going on her trousseau, and won t tell
whether her future bridegroom is to be white or
brown.
Demise : A. J. Smith, very well-known
Melb. bookseller —died on a recent Cook’s excur-
sion to Adelaide. His shop was the local Wes-
leyan centre. Smith underwent agonies of torture,
as a profoundly religious man, in fixing the line
at which he ought to compound with the Zolaistic
and Balzackian tendencies of the age ; but he was
brave.
After the fact 1 A Sydney palm-reader
claims to have foretold to Lee Weller that his end
would be sudden, and to have earnestly cautioned
him against mining ventures. At all events, she
exhibits a pair of fancy bottles, inscribed to her
by defunct, “ in appreciation of her skill in palmis-
try.” Credulity seems to have been poor Weller’s
weakness.
A Brisbane barrister was briefed in a case,
to be heard in a country town. Without enough
money to pay his fare, all he could do —and did—
was to walk the distance, 100 miles. And if that
country solicitor had been like his “ professional
brethren ” in Brisbane, he would have had to walk
back. Broadly speaking, only the Crown Solici-
tor thinks it necessary to pay juniors the fees
they earn.
The first woman barrister has just been
admitted to practise in Maoriland. Her name is
Rebecca Benjamin, and, barring the fact that it
might have been Sarah Cohen, this is just what
one naturally expected. Does a promising billet
open anywhere on this earth without some
one of the agile and brainy race of Benjamin
getting there first ? Even in England, which has
more heaped-up capital and more monish out at
interest than any other country, it isn’t John Bull
himself, but his Anglo-Semitic second cousin,
Benjamin Bull Moses, who has the thick end of
the wealth.
Prof. William Crookes be-
lieves in “thought transference.”
Having ascertained the relative
strength of air-waves necessary to
produce light, heat, sound, color,
etc., he has tabled an elaborate
calculation, showing how “ brain-
waves ” can establish telepathic
connection between persons in
close sympathy, but between
whom numberless “solid” ob-
stacles exist. Brain-waves pene-
trate these just like the Rbntgen
rays, which are only another variety
of “ wave ” forces. Crookes (re-
putedly a spiritist) is no mere wild
dreamer. He is one of the most
illustrious scientists of any epoch.
He got the Royal Society’s gold
medal as inventor of the radio-
meter ; and Rontgen’s great dis-
covery is based on the Crookes
tube. He is a pasty-faced, corpse-
like personage, with an eternal-
cigarette in his mouth, and he
works over a wide scientific area,
which includes gold - saving pro-
cesses.
One day some years ago,
when the late Anthony Hordern
was alive, a traveller for a, big
European perfumery house visited
him, gave him his bed-rook prices,
and solicited an order. The old
man was apparently not anxious
to do business, and kept the drum-
mer on the string for a day or so.
At last he remarked : “Now, sup-
pose,l take £5OO worth, can you
cut your price 10 per cent. ? ” The
drummer demurred, said that the-
price quoted was dead bottom,
but, of course, for such an order a
reduction might be made. Would
Mr. H. share the cost of a cable
to enquire ? “No,” said Anthony ;
“ but you cable to them and say
we’ll take =£lo,ooo worth at 20 per
cent. off. Money in London to-
morrow if they want it. ” The flab-
bergasted commercial sent the
cable and the deal eventuated.
That good old Tory, Hon. Henry Scot-
land, in Maoriland Leg. Council: “ The Soudan
Contingent tended to the glorification of one man,
an impudent Irish adventurer named Dailey, who
got the whole thing up.” And yet the average
Uppah House person is never tired of dilating on
the coarseness and want of taste of the average
labah membah.
Those who have said that Attorney-
General Isaacs has his eye on the next vacant
iudgeship, do not know the clever and ambitious
little man (writes an allegedly well-informed
Bulletin correspondent). His sharp, clear eye is
fixed on a political goal for the present, if J ustice
Williams were to resign to-morrow, Isaacs would
not take the vacancy. He gives up everything for
politics, and must have lost thousands from his
once enormous bar income during the past few
years.
Premier Kingston has just received from
Sydney the copy of a memorial addressed by his
maternal grandfather, Col. Cameron, m 1817, to
the British Commander-in-Chief, praying for pro-
motion. It set forth that the colonel, who, more
than 60 years ago, commanded the drd Buns m
Sydney, was present in every engagement m
which his regiment took part from 2nd Oct., 171)9,
when he was wounded in Holland, until the occu-
pation of Paris, after Waterloo. He claims to
have been the first British soldier across the
Douro on 12th May, 1809, and, sad to say, he
makes a boast that, as major, he carried the town
of Plattsburg against the soldiers of the United
States on 6th Sept., 1814. Col. Cameron s daughter
married, in 1841, Sir George Kingston who
had three wives at various times, and Charles
Cameron Kingston appeared on the scene in 1800.
A N.S.W. District Court
Judge relates how, one morn-
ing in the country, he found
before him in the dock a smirk-
ing person with whose face he
seemed familiar. Soon it
struck him that this was the
man who, at dinner the pre-
vious day at a wayside accom-
modation-house, had carved
the leg of mutton, and had
given him (the Judge) a huge
first cut and all the gravy.
“ But I gave him three years
all the same,” adds hisßhada-
manthine Honor.
Australia’s greatest orator
has been at it again, this time
at Gunnedah. A black gin
took possession of a stage-chair
reserved for Dan during a pub-
lic meeting at a recent Minis-
terial visit, and when Dan
asked her to shift he was bar-
racked by the “ blokes at the
back,” Then he ga,ve the
audience a sample of his glow-
ing style of eloquence. ‘ ‘ Young
men,” he said, “it ill becomes
you to laugh at this faded
flower of your fellow country-
men. You should be ashamed
of yourselves, as Australians,
to laugh at one of the fast-
dying race, from whom we
have taken this fair country.
Pity her, don’t jeer at her.
Had she our intelligence and
our education most likely she
would be a princess instead of
a despised black-gin.”
as the orator finished, Sarah
(the gin) chipped in, “ Do’an
yer mine ’em, boss ; wat yer
’avin’ ?—l’m a beer ; come on ”
—and kept beckoning to him as
she was escorted to the door
amid the uproar of the crowd.
That gin received a first-class
education (moral and other-
wise) at La Perouse, Sydney.
David Murray, old time S.A. politician,
lately returned to Adelaide. Murray, when he
became Chief Secretary in the Downer 85 Govt.,
in the first days of economy, electrified the public
service by abolishing barrel pens. But it was
similar Scotch finance which helped to make
Murray a semi-millionaire.
If the poor, lame Ricciotti Garibaldi had
gone filibustering with 10 times his 250 heroes, he
couldn’t have counted for much with the Turk.
As it is, he is a painfully superfluous circumstance.
But Ricciotti always was a bit superfluous. It’s a
terrible thing to have to live up to such a fighting
reputation as old Giuseppe’s 1
SPORTING—STRUCK THE DOUBLE.
(Sketch by Hop's understudy.)
Judge Cooper is one of the three six-feet
judges of the Q. Supreme court, and the dandy of
them all. He is the fairest-minded of the Southern
judges but as fussy as a clucking hen with a china
egg wherever his dignity is concerned, which same
dignity, by the way, he jumped from an attorney-
generalship. Cooper travels his circuits like an
Oriental potentate, wears goodness knows how
many white shirts in a day, and holds the hanging
record—this chiefly because he was for many years
the sole Northern Judge, and capital crimes are
much more frequent in N.Q. than in S.Q.
A RETRENCHMENT ITEM.
1ST CIVIL SERVANT: “Hullo, Fweddie, wot'a up?"
2ND CIVIL SERVANT: “ Just undergone a very disagreeable opera-
tion, old boy."
1ST C. S. : “ Gwacious; wot teas it? ”
2ND C. S. : “ The Commissioners have just cut my allowances off!"
Rev. Dr. Bruce, the new moderator of the
N.S.W. Presbyterian church, is not popular with a
big section of the “ fathers and brethren.” It was
he who caused something like consternation, a
couple of years ago, by stating that he did not
disapprove of dancing or theatre - going and
kindred amusements, provided they were kept
within judicious limits. His liberal views were
not shared by many of his clerical friends, and
there was talk of his being asked to resign ; but
as he is not dependent on his calling for bread
and butter, and is exceedingly popular with his
North Sydney congregation, the unco guid thought
better of it.
Peacock’s wondrous laugh is now
figuring in advt. thusly : “Why does
Peacock laugh ? Because he smokes Puf-
eni’s cigarettes. ” “ How to laugh like Pea-
cock ? Drink Boosem’s whisky,” and so on.
The council-clerk of Marsfield (N.S.
Wales), a poor, struggling municipality,
unites the duties of council-clerk, inspector
of nuisances, inspector of works, inspector
of slaughter-houses, and inspector of dairies,
also, in his “ spare time,” he is “expected
to work on the roads and do anything else
that may be required of him.” Salary
(when available) i;B4 per annum ! !
Melb. crape-and-coffin biz. has al-
ways had members with curiously appro-
priate names. The boss suburban under-
taker is Raven. A few years ago Dedman
was the chief tombstone-maker in the
Northern suburbs, and when he became a
real dead man he was succeeds A by Church-
man. Also in Carlton the timber-supplier
to most shell-factories was Grieve.
The average rate of speech of the
’97 Convention delegates wvb 135 words
per minute. Deakin rattled along at
about 165, Barton, Zeal, and Glynn aver-
aged about 150; Gordon, Cockbum, Fysh,
O’Connor, Wise, Turner, Isaacs, and Dob-
son were in the 140—145 brigade. Reid,
Symon, Quick and Trenwith formed a
quartette of deliberate speakers. In the
main debate they averaged under 110
words a minute, but all of them warmed
up to about 125 in committee.
Once, when Governor of Wcstralia,
H.E. “ Bill ” Robinson visited Bishop
Salvado’s NewNorcia Mission and doubted
the statement of the Bishop that there was
a black gin on the mission who was an
expert telegraphiste. “ Try her,” said
Dr. Salvado, and forthwith His Ex., who
was unknown to the black girl, had a wire
sent to Govt. House, Perth, inquiring for
“ Si r W. F. C. Robinson,” and received a
bad set-back when the girl gave the answer
from the wire : “ The Governor is out of
town.” Whereat the aged Bishop laughed
up his sleeve, and helped himself to two
consecutive pinches of snuff.
All the Conventionists in Adelaide affixed
their signatures to morocco-bound copies of the
roll of membership, one of which was given to
each member as a souvenir. The most remarkable
signature of the lot is that of which a copy is
appended. It defies reading, unless one is told m
advance what its running rings are supposed to
stand for. The scrawl is as follows
It is the signature of the Tas. Treasurer, P. 0.
Fysh.


THE BICYCLE TRAFFIC.
A NEW CITY BY LAW.
Councillor Buehan said that with refer-
ence to t}ie crossings, it was necessary that
some more stringc-Dt by-law should be
-adopted. He thought riders should be re-
quired to dismount and walk across certain
- crossings in the city, and also walk round
certain comers.
x l
» i&U V
} \xi \ f
/ . 1 X , \(rl ~ \7 S
The Keacl
(WcTo,-'«< ever la'
'traveller.-/*? £%“*/**<* */ * e "%"
-r;rrr.~ y
Bl cc <£■•/-
18, f //.---r
Sunday, the 2nd of May, is to be pro-
claimed a day for humiliation and prayer for
rain. The Acting Premier was requested-
by a deputation from the Council of the.
Churches yesterday to have such a day pro-
claimed consented to do so.
ke/oz-e. ~Th*-
Mo'inTetf -ii/n *- 6eafjSf*n»™2
EfF/cficrf
sAoe £~~ofcl
rtf
Sir Frederick,Tn his reply, re-
gretted the want of interest noV displayed
in politics by property-owners and men of
independent means. If they werd as anxious
as he desired them to be for the «clUw
'of their country, they would follow' the well-
'established rule, "Vote, vote, vote.
earner.-
v
o
77/7? e 5 '
Sir John M'lntyre iras /nayor of Bendlgo-i
when the festivities in djonour of the mar-3
riage of the Prince of *Wales were cele- 11
‘brated there; lie aPo filled that office
during the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh
BO years ago, and he was one of the few re-
presentative Australians who were in Lon- j
don when the jubilee reign of Her-Majesty
was celebrated 10 years ago. He is, there-]
fon\tnalurally anxious to be present on this.
yu , o/y/i-e r ? r ai'mi /y<~ 1
72m />*./>/*
Sfrot-l ? / vr
v-v- -- /It was pos-
sible that during the celebrations some
fanatic might attempt the life of Her Ma-
jesty, and he trusted that the members of ;
the contingent would look this
way and that way, and.see- that no hatin'
Came to our gracious Sovereign.
' MA. 1
MELBOURNIANA.


(If f T T N G|
Fm u n f x
f'%
„ f '\\V\f I'
/yt/fc c 2 A, '->ey' , ar/y ZTiese ft ere /yfisfa/’s ant/o.
7iffle <yo7c( />*int \ou Ccctc <p
ftrcuZar #aay7o foc/ffry .
7a7e £&7ef of f/rt tftisQncf j
Zfeyrs fbr
ail 7je TYorlcS^^
ZtAe Coders':
*/&!
/( ??< Joy/'
j, Pz-oHne., V'oure anjai- hjorc
f" l tLL,d, Ijs
I'"2Wr V-
b Vo tL ~
cotY r^ 6
*8
He
AO7VV
~J> tj CfUjjE sj L/SELE j~s
■i 4> I ''
T W '
(jRCuyvtTN
FISHERS OF MEN.—SOME HOSPITAL - SATURDAY NOTES.


Granuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
Homah for the very best of Bread ;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea,
A n d — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Granuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Does this mean you ?
How many people are there who seem to lack
ambition, life and healthful vigor. You can tell
it by their looks. They shiver with the cold when
the weather is bleak. They have a pinched, sal-
low appearance. They complain of feeling run
down. Their symptoms plainly show that their
blood is thin and poor, that it does not circulate
properly, and that their liver and kidneys are in a
very bad state. That is why they have these
miserable symptoms and complain of
Stomach troubles,
Constipation,
Nervousness,
General weakness,
Headaches and backaches,
Chilly sensations,
Dizziness,
Despondency.
Are you one of this vast number who suffer from
the miserable wearing feelings above described!
If so, why not try to overcome them and get into
a good state of health? You can easily do so.
All you need to do is to take Warner’s Safe Cure
regularly, and it will make you strong and well.
Take it just for a short time and you will soon
notice a change for the better. Every bad symp-
tom will disappear. Your blood will become rich
and pure, your circulation improve, and your liver
and kidneys will do their work. This great
remedy, in short, will put new life and vigor into
you. It will make you feel better than you have
felt for many a day. Will you try it ?*
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liter
and Kidney Disease.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive —
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEM I NG’S RELIABLE BUGGTBS
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
p
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.,
DONOASTEE, ENG-., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents—
Kingston,
f* V" ■ V,™’ ; DENNYS, LASCELLES, AUSTIN & CO,
BOWKER ; & G CO' p 5t GI WA* * °°** Ad#laide : JOHN GRICE & CO.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. unemployed haunt the Go-
vernment offices. Cabinet chorus : “ Whist !
whist!! whist!!! Here come the Bogan men ! ”
The Times spent £5O a day in having the
Federal Convention proceedings cabled to London.
No other English paper went to the expense of
cables.
The first joint parade of Australian mili-
tary forces took place in Adelaide last week, when
the S.A. and Vic. detachments now 7 on their way
to England marched through the streets together.
The Age, in its diatribe against the railway
privileges extended to all and sundry, conspicu-
ously omitted to make any mention of press rail-
way concessions. On one memorable occasion
“ Tommy ” Bent, as Minister of Railways, at-
tempted to wipe the press privileges out, and the
Age never forgave him for it.
In Adelaide, candidates for Parliament
receive from the dailies one report of half-a-
column free of charge; but they can have as
many subsequent speeches reported as they like if
they choose to pay for their insertion. Thus the
public gets an idea that the remarks of a rich
man are always considered of more value by the
press than those of a person whose bank-balance
is either slender or on the wrong side.
Robert Stout, the Cold-Tea agnostic of
Maoriland, objected to Seddon’s surplus, not on
the ground that it didn’t exist, but because it
shouldn’t exist. “Itis a bad thing to have a sur-
plus,” said Stout, “because it leads to reckless
expenditure.” Which is equivalent to saying that
Stout shouldn’t make money, lest he should spend
it foolishly. Yet the hairless Robert, despite his
fast-approaching old age, toils as hard as ever at
accumulating a surplus for himself.
The senior member of S.A. Parliament is
James Martin, M.L.C., who w 7 as 76 years old on
St. George’s Day, April 23. By placing the business
of his firm in the hands of a limited liability co. he
has been able to retain his seat, despite the fact that
he has received tens of thousands of pounds for
building locomotives for Govt. Yet the other day
Willcox was unseated from the Assembly because
he ; had chaff and mail contracts with the Govt,
amounting in the aggregate to not more than ,£3O
or i£4o a year.
The Age rages about the Melb. May Day
people, declaring in so many words that they cele-
brate a day of dynam'ite. The Age is curiously
like the Argus, and speaks just so, in its thoughts
on socialism, communism, and anarchism—mixing
them all into one hell-broth. It does not see that
May Day is a sign of the solidarity of labor.
And its suggestion that Eight Hours Day is
enough for Vic. ! As if the Eight Hours celebra-
tion were anything but a mad dance on the grave
of dead hopes !
At the first division in the new M.L. House
of Representatives, the Seddon Government mus-
tered 44 votes against the Opposition’s 26, and
only three votes were unaccounted for. Unless
Premier Dick grows too overbearing, his Ministry
would seem to have a long life before it yet.
But Seddon put the first spoke of the session in
his own political wheel by declaring that the
grovelsome address to Queen Victoria, with its 26
repetitions of “ your Majesty,” should go whether
the House approved or not. He carried his point,
and the loathsome thing goes, but Seddon will
wear out the loyalty of his supporters if he hurls
his 16 stone of solid brawn on top of them in this
fashion too often.
Premier Reid guffawed wildly at the sug-
gestion that he should leave his resignation behind
him in case of accidents when he went away to
join in the Jubilee flop. Yet both he and every
other absentee Premier certainly should do so,
and if they don’t their conduct (in the language so
dear to the late Parkes) is unconstitoosh’nal. The
Premier is the only man who can send in the
resignation of the Ministry. If he doesn’t leave
the necessary document behind him it seems that
the Ministry will hold office until his return
even in the face of a unanimous vote of censure,
simply because there is no way by which it
can get out of office. If this isn’t unconsti-
toosh’nal what is the constitoosh’n for ?
Britishah : “Conceive the national de-
lirium of joy over the accession of His
Majesty Edward the Seventh, King of England and
of Greater and Little Britain, and Emperor of
India! The press, for once, will be unanimous re the
enormous benefit of having a sovereign to counter-
act the Czar and German Emperor, confound
their politics, frustrate their knavish tricks. The
newspapers will be brimful of the achievements of
Our Gracious Sovereign, his rapid progress through
the universities as a young man, his unparalleled
ability in working up to the distinction of Field
Marshal, and, above all, the true source of Eng-
land’s greatness, the purity of his domestic life.
Take away this, and the nation dies, on all news-
paper showing.”
The tentacles of the Boodlewraith are far-
reaching. Glassey has been Tozerised, and now
Hoolan— the Hoolan —states that he has seen the
error of his ways, and a soft seat is waiting for
him on the Treasury benches. Q. Opposition will
soon consist of lawyer Drake and wharf-laborer
Turley.
A pathetic person
named Hawken writes
to S.M. Herald about
the ad visability of creat-
ing an Australian peer-
age, so that the gilded
Australian girl who
wants a title can marry
a local Lord Boggabri
or Lord Wollongong,
and thus satisfy her
craving without the
money going out of the
country. Hawken may
as well give up hope.
It takes a century or
two before a new nobil-
ity gets over looking
ridiculous, and can
hang its weak nose out
into the world above
its retreating chin with
even a semblance of
dignity. The first thing
the new peerage would
want to do would be to
fly to England with its
rich girl, and take its
coronet into a more
congenial atmosphere,
where a man can be a
peer without everybody
knowing that he is a
perfectly new peer, and
talking about his old
uncle who got lagged,
and his father-in-law
who kept the low grog-
shop ; so the money
would go out of the
country just the same.
A fine Kingstonian
Oonventioh phrase :
“ It would be very hard
to keep an elected Go-
vernor in his proper
place, and induce him
to take the advice of his
constitutional advisers with the appropriate hu-
mility connected with the discharge of his vice-
regal duties.”
Sargood, Melbourne’s martial garter-mer-
chant, has started for London to represent himself
at the great Imperial corroboree. MTntyre has
gone on the same lay. Australia is witnessing an
exodus of its C.M.G.’s and K.C.M.G.’s. If the
lot could have been induced to go, there would
have been a grand opportunity for imposing a
prohibitive duty on titled persons, or passing an
Alien Titles Exclusion Act.
TOO BISKY.
VISITOR: “ No, mum, I hain’t done a hand's turn for four year
come Christmas."
HOSTESS: “Poor fellow —will you cut up a hit of wood for a
shilling?”
VISITOK : “ I’d like to, mum, hut I carn’t-whilst I’d be wurrking in
yer yard someone might come along wantin’ a man for a
LONG job! ”
The rumors about N.S.W. Principal
Under-Secretary Walker’s retirement or trans-
ference to the Agent-Generalship originated, ac-
cording to a Ministerial confidence, in the expressed
anxiety of the Government to recognise that
officer’s services in some exceptional manner. Par-
liament would not stand increasing his salary and
he cannot be promoted to a higher office.
The 200,000 Greeks who are ordered to be
out of Turkey by the 10th of May ought to be a
godsend to the fatherland at the present pinch ;
but, judging by their unwillingness to shift, they
don’t seem to be taking any patriot at present.
There’s more money in fried fish than in the
Leonidas business!
QUITE IN SHYLOCK’S MANNER.
MISS COAXER: “Oh, here’s a nice, big, fat man; he looks as if he could
spare a little!” —(Not known how many pounds he lost.)
Nelson and Byrnes, at present voyaging
Grovel wards, are the two ablest but laziest mem-
bers of Q. Ministry, while Tozer, romancer though
he be, is the only real toiler of the gang. Nelson
and Byrnes will return from the Grovelee fatter,
and lazier, and more Tory than ever. Meantime,
Tozer, it is said, will placate the Labor-party and
the derelict Opposition by an Electoral Reform
Act, and by despatching some of the disappointed
Ministerialists to the Convention will strengthen
his handin that direction. Whattimethegrovellers
get back Tozer, who is greedily ambitious, reckons
he will have opened a really fine political oyster.
Sydney Telegraph :
“ The country the (Transvaal)
republic occupies is British
country to which it obtained
a slender possessory title
through the incompetence of
English politicians.” When
the D.T. starts out to do a
really good British grovel,
history and small things like
that are not allowed to stand
in the way. The Boers started
their republic hundreds of
miles away beyond any Bri-
tish boundary, and their pos-
sessory title came the same
way that the white man’s title
came in Australia—by efflux-
ion of time —and is of just
about the same value. And
there was a time when British
authorities informed the Boers
that they were not British
subjects or on British terri-
tory, and therefore they must
skirmish for themselves if the
Zulu or any other black
marauder chanced to come
their way.
Townsville (Q.) munici-
pal council recently petitioned
Acting-Premier Tozer for the
release of prisoners serving
sentences for offences commit-
ted during the strike of a few
years ago. Tozer dodged the
appeal on the ground that
“ the Legislature had not em-
powered local authorities to
make requests of that nature,”
and therefore the petition
couldn’t be received. Which
was a weak and foolish excuse,
even for Tozer. There is no
law authorising Tozer to go to
bed at night, so by his own
logic that is illegal, as well
as almost everything else
that he does. The theory
that a thing is unlawful unless
it is specifically permitted by
Act of Parliament is a new
version of things. Where is
the Act of Parliament author-
ising Tozer to have indiges-
tion, for instance, or to wear
a macintosh when it rains ?
It seems like the uprising of the ghost of
a very old dead friend to see in the N.S.W.
Ministerial programme for this session the old
familiar item “ A bill extending the area of
Local Government.” It is probably 30 years since
a session opened in N.S.W. without some refer-
ence to that Local Government Bill which has
never got through to this day.
Premier Reid, in the course of his finan-
cial statement, remarked proudly on the enormous
increase in shipping at Sydney under Freetrade
during the last nine months. Of course there has
been an enormous increase of shipping. Some-
thing like three dozen vessels loaded with foreign
grain alone have arrived within the last year, and
dumped down their vast cargoes on the Sydney
wharves to make the local farmer’s produce un-
saleable. The mere arrival of ships isn’t neces-
sarily a sign of prosperity. It is very often a
sign of famine. And quite a phenomenal ship-
ping-record has been put up by a foreign fleet
dropping in and bombarding a place.
Last year, Maoriland’s population showed
a larger percentage of increase than that of Vic-
toria, N.S.W. or S. A. Including Westralia,
which had the phenomenal advance of 36 per cent.,
the average increase was 2 per cent, all round, and
Maoriland, with nearly per cent, was well
ahead of the average. Considering that Maori-
land has tried more ‘ ‘ mad socialistic experiments ”
than all the other provinces together, including
State Bank, State Land Bank, female suffrage,
drastic factory legislation, Protection, graduated
land-tax, absentee-tax, resumption of land for
closer settlement, State life insurance, &c., and is
now preparing to experiment on old-age pensions,
a fair-rent system, and other things, this is not
a bad result.
Premier Seddon, when in London, is going
to “confer” with the debenture-holders of the
busted Midland Railway, and endeavor to fix up
an “amicable settlement.” Which means that
the financiers in question will bite the ear of some
influential person, and he will diplomatically bite
Seddon’s ear, and at some appropriate time
perhaps when Seddon has just been made a
K.C.M.G. —they will “ confer ” through a genial
haze of champagne and cigar-smoke, and come to
a settlement. Considering that the Midland Rail-
way syndicate broke its contract in a dozen places,
and that arbitrator Blake decided it had no
shadow of a case, Maoriland has everything to
lose and nothing to gain by conferring, unless it is
done on a hard, business-like basis. And no Pre-
mier can be trusted with such a matter at Jubilee
time. Jubilee and business don’t go well together.
Liberty, the organ of N.S..W. National
Ass, sees a dreadful bad time coming when the
people who owe money to the State Land Bank
will be a majority of the voting power, and will
consequently decide that they needn’t pay interest
or repay the principal unless'they like. Similarly
the people who owe the public debt and who own
the railways, being the whole voting-power, will
probably enact that they will travel free, and that
they will pay no more interest, and that the princi-
pal may go hang. Also, the people who owe mnnev
privately, being far more numerous than timoe
who have money owing to them, will pass a law
that all debts shall be irrecoverable. But as the
people show no inclination to swindle the foreign
creditor, the assumption that they are always
lying in wait for a chance to swindle themselves
when they are their own creditor is pretty thin.
Also, it is pretty stupid.
Maoriland Parliament’s special Jubilee
grovel:—
To the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty. Most Gracious
Sovereign, —We, the members of the Legislative Council
and House of Representatives of the colony of New Zea-
land in Parliament assembled, desire to render to the
Almighty an expression of our gratitude for so prolonging
your Majesty’s life that your Majesty’s reign has exceeded
that of any of your predecessors on the Throne. We beg
your Majesty to accept our heartfelt congratulations on
your having occupied that Throne for sixty years ; and we
rejoice that upon this anniversary of your Majesty’s
accession your Majesty's subjects in all portions of your
dominions are afforded an opportunity of expressing
their feelings of loyalty and affection. The colony of
New Zealand, which was founded shortly after your
Majesty’s accession, is the first-born of the colonies of
your Majesty’s reign ; and we desire to assure your
Maj
Sudden stoppage just here while The Bulletin
has convulsions on the floor. There are 26 “ your
Majesty’s ” in the document altogether.


While retrenchment is the watchword, why
do Australian Parliaments continue to maintain,
in all his opera-bouffe dignity, the functionary
known as “ Black Rod ” ?
Britain pays half-a-million a year for
Queen Victoria and her relations merely because
it rejoices that she is as honest as every other
woman ought to be.”
PREVENT FEVERS^
And destroy all noxious or infectious odours from Closets or offensive refuse, by uslnTthe
ONLY reliable Disinfecting Powder,
cc
/H ed 15 SZ° mt ‘ ? ALVERT ’ S No - 5 Carbolic - the strongest Disinfectant known.
use J ‘ (< ° dred^at 2/6 and 4/- eaeA, at Chemists, Ac.
r»" s
Acid supplied by^es^.*Ct§yert&^at°«eita^^opinSn,^McAwp«rioj^ cmy^^^rmnicfactur^^
F * C * CALYERT &. CO., MANCHESTER.
TATTERSALL’S
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
HOTEL.
Superior « ~
Accommodation,.
Private Suites.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and
BELLS throughout
the House.
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
TERMS :
From Bs. per Pay.
11l- 0- Idams,
Manager.
m
M
- * -
B
**v.
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 in Daily Use.
Easiest Running
Typewriter known.
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
(IN
MfG^r
smith
r Hflw
p «e«,r the
*"• * Cr < TYPEwmIE* B *
Corrections Easily
Made.
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Direct Interchange-
able Platen.
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
The SOUTH PREIDIER TSPEMRITER SHIES
- - EXCEED ALL OTHERS . .
The keyboard is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable. The platen is self-feeding. Line-spacing automatic, adapted for column-writing.
Automatic right and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The only typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carriage. Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing.
NOTE. —Second-hand Machines, of various makes, from =£3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Varnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons for all
machines.
. . See Our Special Typewriter Table . .
Fisbcr&Liogban),
Sole Importers for Australasia,
1* 2 & 3 Victoria Arcade* Sydney,
THAT i d - p er ib -
NO U
3 »/!
Sale Days:
We have secured
the services
of
Many woolgrowers still believe that the £ is now done
away with. Such is not the case. Let any wool-
grower ask any wool buyer, and judge for himself.
The J is still charged to the buyer by the wool broker,
and although not appearing in the account sales —is in
reality paid, by the grower.
is charged to the Buyer, that is to the Grower, by
The GO-OP6SHTIUE
WOOL S PRODUCE CO., Ltd.
(Registered under Companies Act).
Warehouse : CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Secretary : OSWALD M‘MASTER,
39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
who are now doing the Wool business at the CONSO-
LIDATED RATE of 3 PER CENT., which covers
all charges.
Hides and Tallow, FRIDAYS. Sheepskins, TUES-
DAYS and FRIDAYS. Tobacco Leaf, MONDAYS.
Marsupial Skins, &c.. WEDNESDAYS. Bark,
TUESDAYS. Horn, Bones, Hair, Wax, &c.,
SATURDAYS.
Liberal Advances when Required.
GEORGE
W.
H. MOXHAM, Esq.,
Late of Pastoral Finance Co.
ROBERTSON, Esq.,
Late of New Zealand Loan and Agency Co.
XjeSj
WE ARE THE LARGEST IMPORTERS OF
PIANOS,
ORGANS
and all kinds of
Musical--*
Instruments
IN AUSTRALIA.
We buy for cash at the Factories ! This is the reason
we can give our Customers such good value, at least
20 per cent, less than other Houses. We guarantee
all our Instruments and exchange free of cost if
Customer not satisfied. We have been established in
Sydney 50 years and our guarantee is valuable. We have
the largest and best selected stock of high-class goods.
If you send your order by post you can rely upon
our giving the same careful attention as though you
were personally present to select. Catalogues sent
post free on application. Easy Time-Payment Terms
can be arranged for any Instrument.
PALING & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
SPECIFY
DUNLOP TYRES
WHEN ORDERING
vouit NEW MACHINE.
THEY ARE
THE BEST!
SIMPLEST!
A.3NTID
MOST DURABLE!
Guaranteed for 12 Months .
First in 1888 —Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent-street, Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Blouey to Lend.
TllMlll.lt IMIDKKI) KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ Sohool, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities ioi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,*00,000
Paid-dp .. .. .. £2,050,311 58.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Me,'ires, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.0.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant r. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopstfote St reet Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulcock, Esq.; G. C. Harstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Macg’reg’or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Cable Address— RlEMSElL. Tei.EPHONE No. 095.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, eta Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
or VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £41,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Ulients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. ,T. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited. >t
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. ... .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up ... £1,660,032 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 89,967 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman ; John Grice,
Else.. Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Auditors: W.H.Tuckett,
Esa.; Anarew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Sir W. P. Manning, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:—Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
BALLARAT.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHA REBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
Mining Notices.
are desired by the Directors of the Big- Hill
Gold-mining Company, No Liability, from persons
willing to LEASE the Company’s MINE at Bateman’s
Bay, New South Wales, on Tribute. 10-head Battery and
Steam Engine, Assay Plant, and necessary Buildings are
on the property.
Tenders must be lodged on or before the 18th MAY,
1897, with the undersigned, from whom full particulars
may be obtained.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
R. N. KIRK, Manager,
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
N.S.W. of WiQeS.
IVTOTICE is hereby given that a PUBLIC
MEETING will be held on FRIDAY,
MAY 21st, at the Equitable Buildings, George-
street, Sydney, at 4.15 p.m., at which it is pro-
posed to duly form a N.S.W. CHAMBER OF
MINES.
Provisional Committee :
Messrs. Alexander, Batley, Bensusan, Boucher,
Buzaeott, Cohen, Dodds, Eisler, Gainford, Howell,
Inglis, Kirk, Low, Malcolm, Marks, Massey,
Mullens, Danvers, Power, Robson, Samuels,
Tarleton.
ARTHUR J. CHAPPELL,
Sec. pro tern.,
Equitable Buildings,
George-st., Sydney.
April 30th, 1897.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Leura, Saturday, May 8, 12 noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 15, 12 noon.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Leura, Saturdaj’, May 8, 12 noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Hubbuck (from Sydney), Tuesday,
May 11, at 5 p.m., and no tran-
shipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, May 8, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, May 11, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Peregrine, Saturday, May 8, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 15, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger’Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, May 8.
'S.S. Wallowra (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, May 18.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, May 8.
S.S. Wallowra (from Mel-
bourne) Tuesday, May 18.
ESPERANCE BAY Steamerfrom Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. South Australian, Tues-
day, May 11.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields .
G. S. YIJILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parker § (Jo’s Qine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Boohed Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offloes : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing: Agents.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A, ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBAN Y
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, atid Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £2o to <£7o, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES
ENGLISII SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Shipping,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company wit
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney,
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay'
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES-Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
Business Announcements.
EVERY VARIETY OF
in
II Iflll'
m
m
m
m
m
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
High-Class Tailoring.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. t
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
<*€Qtl€n?€i)’& StiitiQgS.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed. '
—Vickerman’s Serges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application.
Ladies’ Tailoriijg AT REFORM^
Ladies 9 Walking - -
or Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’ Trades.
CYCLING SUITS _ Made to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. 6d. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRA HAM & CO. are the Sole Agents
for Cellular Clothing.
/CELLULAR PYJAMAS.
The most comfortable that oan be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellular Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Fitted, with Short Fronts
for every-day wear. Dress Shirts, &o.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Braham and Co., 384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sole Agents. Sydney.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George and York Streets)


Pubicatlons.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
Public Notices.
pUBLIO SERVIC E BOARD.
60 Young-street, Sydney,
9th April, 1897.
The Public Service Board hereby notify that the next
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION for JUNIOR CLERK-
SHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE of the colony will be
held on the 28th, 29th, and 30th days of JUNE next, at
various centres, which will be fixed to suit the conveni-
ence of candidates. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made during the year is 50. Candidates must
be over sixteen and under twenty-one years of age on the
first day of examination.be of good moral character, in
sound health, and have resided in the colony for at least
three years at the date of application.
Every person who desires to submit himself to examin-
ation must forward to the Secretary to the Board, to
reach him not later than the 7th June, 1897, a statement,
in his own handwriting, giving his full name and address,
and his age, and notifying in which of the principal towns
of the colony he wishes to be examined. He must also
submit, with his application, an extract from the register
in which his birth is recorded, or other satisfactory evi-
dence of his age ; a certificate to the effect that he" is of
good moral character, signed by his teacher, if he is at-
tending school, or has ceased to attend school for a shorter
period than six months ; by a clergyman or Justice of the
Peace or other responsible person' if it is more than six
months since he left school; and a certificate from a repu-
table person to the effect that the applicant has resided
in the colony for at least three years.
A list of registered candidates will be advertised, with
the times and places of examination ; and, in addition,
every candidate registered will be personally notified of the
time and place when and where he must present himself.
Every candidate whose name is not registered by the
Board will be so informed, with the reason why registra-
tion is refused.
The subjects in which candidates will be examined are
—Handwriting, English (dictation, grammar, and com-
position), Arithmetic (full course), Geometry (Euclid,
First Book), Outlines of Physical and Political Geography,
and the Geography of the Australasian Colonies in
moderate detail, English History from the middle of the
Eighteenth Century to the present time, especially with
reference to the colonies and dependencies. Candidates
will also be allowed to take any tw’o, but not more than
two, of the following subjects : —Mathematics, English—a
prescribed author—(the same as that prescribed for
the Junior Examination of the current year), Latin,
French, German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary
Geology. Every candidate who wishes to be examined in
the extra subjects must give notice of his desire in his
application.
The fee for examination will be 10st, which must be paid
to a Clerk of Petty Sessions or into the Treasury, and the
receipt lodged with the Secretary of the Board 10 days
before the examination. Every successful candidate must
produce a medical certificate to the effect that he is in
sound health, and free from physical defects, before he will
be allowed to enter upon his duties.
The regulations governing the examinations appeared
in a supplement to the Government Gazette dated Ist
April, 1897.
• By order-of the Board,
J. VV. HOLLIMAN-, Secretary.
9a48.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
filpkWffll’S
X 3&
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Ghemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & GO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physioian and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A ner-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with, oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency', gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
Banking Notice.
T HE EiaHTH REPORT of the Directors
O'™ NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Limited.
The directors beg to report to the shareholders as follows in connection with the business of the
Bank for the half-year terminating 31st March last: —
The net profit, less expenses of management, interest paid and accrued,
rebate, etc., amounted to ... ... ... ... ... £18,091 15 10
Balance from previous half-year ... ... ... ... ... 16,498 10 10
Total
Deduct note-tax paid in Australia and income-tax in Great Britain
... .£34.590 6 8
... 3,380 1 6
Leaving available ...
which it is proposed to dispose of thus, viz. :
Dividend at 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Carry forward to next half-year
... £31,210 5 2
... 7,644 10 0
... 23,565 15 2
£31,210 5 2
The total paid-up capital of the Bank now stands at £1,965,366 17s. 9d., being an increase of
£47,155 Bs. during the half-year.
The long-dated fixed deposits have been reduced from £3,265,633 12s. 6d. to £3,015,563 10s. 2d.
during the six months, and encouraged by the success last year in paying off before maturity part of
the deferred liabilities of the Bank, the directors have given notice of their intention to pay off further
instalments on 22nd April and 22nd July.
The ordinary general.meeting will be held on Wednesday, sth May, at noon, at the Head Office,
Collins-street, Melbourne.
In conformity with the articles of association, the Honorable Joseph Major Pratt, M.L.C., and
the Honorable Sir William Austin Zeal, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., retire from the board on that occasion.
These gentlemen both offer themselves for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The shareholders will also be called on to appoint two auditors for the year, and to fix their
remuneration. The gentlemen now acting in that capacity are Mr. W. H. Tuckett and Mr. Andrew
Burns. —By order of the Board of Directors. JOHN G. ADDISON, Acting Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, Head Office, Melbourne, 23rd April, 1897.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders of the National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
We repoort that we have have audited the accounts of your Bank for the half-year ending
31st March, 1897, and that in our opinion the balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn up in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the state of the
Company’s affairs.
The London office return to 27th February last, duly audited by Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and
Co., has been submitted to us, the assets and liabilities at the branches being taken on the certificates
of the managers and accountants.
We have received every assistance from the officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with
all information sought by us in course of the audit. —We are, Ladies and Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
W. H. TUCKETT \ .
Melbourne, 23rd April, 1897. ANDREW BURNS / Aucmors -
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
STATEMENT OF THE BANKING COMPANY styled THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED for the 31st MARCH, 1897.
I, JOHN GOLLAN ADDISON, Acting Chief Manager of THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely declare—
That I am the Acting Chief Manager of The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
That the liability of the members of the Company is limited.
That the capital of the Company is £4,000,000, divided into 400,000 shares of £lO each, of which
150,000 are preference shares, and the remaining 250,000 are ordinary shares.
That the number of shares issued is 30,578 preference shares and 250,000 ordinary shares.
Preference shares have been actually paid in money up to £lO per share ... ... £305,780
Ordinary shares have been issued, paid up to £4 per share, representing the paid-up
capital of the old National Bank of Australasia...
That calls to the amount of £3 per share have been made on the ordinary shares,
amounting to £750,000, under which the sum of £659,586 17s. 9d. has been actu-
ally and bona tide received in cash ; the calls due and in arrear amount to £42,038
7s. 3d. ; the instalments not due are £62,500; and the instalments paid in ad-
vance are £14,125 5s 659,586 17 9
0 0
1,010,000 0 0
The total paid-up capital is thus £1,965,366 17 9
STATEMENT OF THE ASSETS-AND LIABILITIES OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED BANK.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 31st March, 1897 (including London Office to the 27th February,
1897, and Western Australian Branches to 15th March, 1897), were as follow :
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET for the HALE YEAR ending dint MARCH, 1897.
£ s. d.
Dr.
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
To Proprietors’ capital—
-30,578 preference shares
paid in cash to £lO 305,780 0 0
250,000 ordinary shares
paid up to £4 per share,
representing the paid
up capital of The
National Bank of Aus-
tralasia ... ...1,000,000 0 0
Calls made on 250,000
shares, at £3 per share,
£750,000; instalments
not yet due, £62,500;
calls in arrear, £42,038
7s. 3d. ; calls paid in
advance, £14,125 ss.
Amount of calls actually
paid in cash .. ... 659,586 17 9
Notes in circulation ...
Bills in circulation
Government deposits—
Not bearing interest... 44,871 4 1
Bearing interest ... 354,129 1 9
1,965,366 17 9
288,951 12 6
454,005 1 6
399,000 6 10
Other deposits—
Not bearing interest... 2,469,339 17 3
Bearing interest . 4,043,847 3 8
6,912,187 6 7
Interest accrued and rebate on current
bills 54,683 2 8
Balances due to other banks ... ... 74,700 7 6
Profit and loss account ... ... 31,210 5 2
Contingent liability, as per contra,
£216,219.
9,781,104 13 10
ASSETS.
Cr. £
By coined gold and silver
and othercoined metal 1,593,287
Coined gold in transitu 275,000
Gold or silver in bullion
or bars ... ... 13,841
Cash at bankers ... 8,750
Government, municipal
and other public
stocks, debentures and
funds ... ... 531,568
Notes and bills of other
banks ... ... 7,164
Balances due from other
banks ... ... 45,103
Bills in transitu ... 385,793
s. d.
12 4
0 0
13 9
18 10
9 11
16 3
0 10
15 6
£
s. d.
2,860,510 7 4
Real estate, consisting of bank premises,
at cost to the bank ... .. 457,652 0 2
Other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £107,014 18s. 6d. written off 536,998 14 4
Advances, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts ... . . 4,864,281 12 4
Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts ... ... ... ...1,068,635 8 2
Duty stamps... ... ... ... 3,026 11 6
9,781,104 13 10
Liability of the old bank, in the form of
a guarantee of certain shire and muni-
cipal debentures (Victoria) sold in
London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the act authorising their
issue, £115,100 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of credit
and drafts, £101,119, as per contra,
£216,219.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 108 branches
agencies
Note and income taxes
Balance
7
.. £51,788 17 4
.. 3,380 1 6
.. 31,210 5 2
£86,379 4 0
By balance brought forward ... ... £16,498 10 10
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to premises
and rent ... ... ... ... 69,880 13 2
£86,379 4 0
That there is no reserve fund. That the accumulated profits amount to i>31,210 ss. 2d., and are
used in the business.
That there are no liabilities for debentures or debenture stock outstanding, debts due on judge-
ment, debts due and secured oti ervvise than by debenture or debenture stock, amounts due on contracts
not included in any of abovementioned items, or any other liability.
The names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are directors of the Company at the date
hereof are : —ARTHUR SEPTIMUS KING, Stock and Station Agent, Melbourne ; JOHN GRICE,
Gentleman, Malvern ; the Hon. JOSEPH MAJOR PRATT, M.L.C., Gentleman, Melbourne ; the
Hon. Sir WILLIAM AUSTIN ZEAL, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Civil Engineer, Melbourne.
That the accompanying statement and balance-sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my belief and
knowledge, true and correct in every particular.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration
punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the colony of Victoria, this twenty-third day of April, 1897.
Before me, JOHN G. ADDISON, Acting Chief Manager.
ROBERT S. INGLIS, J.P.
We certify that we have audited the above balance sheet, and that the same is correct.
We further certify that we have not observed or become acquainted during the audit with any
breach of the Companies Acts committed by the Company or any director, manager, employe, auditor
or shareholder thereof.
We further certify that all our requisitions as auditors, including our requisitions with regard to
the private balance-sheet, have been complied with.
Melbourne, 23rd April, I>'97.
W. H. TUCKETT, \
ANDREW BURNS, /
Auditors.
We, Arthur Septimus King and John Grice, being directors of the National Bank of Australasia
Limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above balance-sheet is correct, and is drawn up so
as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this twenty-third day of April, 1897.
Witness-M. J. O’BRYAN.
ARTHUR S. KING,
JOHN GRICE,
Directors.
We, Arthur Septimus King and John Grice, being two of the directors of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above statement is correct.
Dated at Melbourne this twenty-third day of April, 1897
Witness—M. J. O’BRYAN.
ARTHUR S. KING, 1
JOHN GRICE, /
Directors.
An Accident at the Sydney Docks.
A SAILOR’S NARROW ESCAPE.
HEAT) STRUCK A PIER WHILE ROWING
ASHORE WITH THE LINE FROM A
SHIP, AND FELL INTO THE WATER
BRUISED AND INSENSIBLE.
When a member of our staff went in search of
Mr. John Smith, of 4 Wilmot-street, Sydney, he
fortunately found him at home, and on his re-
marking that the object of his visit was to obtain
particulars of a narrow escape from death he had
heard Mr. Smith had lately experienced, found no
difficulty in obtaining the same.
“Yes, it is quite true that I have had a narrow
escape, ” said Mr. Smith, “ and if you want to hear
about it, I will tell you with pleasure. I was down
at Howard Smith’s wharf on the 19th of Novem-
ber last, where I was generally employed, and at
the time I met my accident was taking a line ashore
from an incoming steamer. Through colliding
with a post whilst in the boat I got thrown into
the water, receiving a severe injury to my head in
addition to being half drowned by the quantity of
dirty water I swallowed. I was take nto the
Sydney Hospital, where I remained three weeks. ”
“ Did they do you much good, Mr. Smith ?”
“No, indeed ; they only patched me up for the
time being, and it was lucky for me that I got a
bit of an easy job minding a gate at the wharf, for
I was so desperately weak and debilitated that I
could not attempt to take on hard work. How-
ever, I managed to stay on for five weeks, and
returned home for three or four days rest, which I
was badly in need of. I then went to see the
Government Medical Officer, who said my case
was incurable, and wanted me to go to Liverpool
Asylum, but this I refused to do, so I ultimately
returned to Sydney Hospital, where I remained
three weeks.
“ Did you feel any better after that, Mr. Smith ? ”
“ No, decidedly worse ; in fact, twice over worse,
and was glad to return home again.”
“How did you feel affected, Mr. Smith ?”
‘ Chiefly spitting of blood, which would keep me
awake day and night. Mrs. Rees, my landlady,
can tell you how bad I was; in fact, she thought
it was all over with me and that I should not be
long for this world.”
“ How did you hear of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
which we were told was what pulled you together
again ? ”
“ Through a pamphlet being left at the house.
I thought at first that the Pills were too expensive
for me, but Mrs. Rees persuaded me to try them,
so I got a box and started to take them according
to the printed directions. After the first box I
felt wonderfully better, the blood-spitting almost
left me, my appetite returned ; indeed, I was
better than before my accident. It is a remarkably
rare thing for me to spit blood at all now.”
“ Do you attribute this beneficial effect to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills ? ”
“ I do entirely ; in fact, it must be so for I have
taken no other medicine. Before my accident I
always enjoyed the best of health, having led a
healthy outdoor life, so it proves my accident must
have been a very serious one to knock me up as it
did. I have the firmest belief in the virtues of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills and so has Mrs. Rees, my
landlady. (Mrs. Rees here certainly corroborated
Mr. Smith’s statements in every particular.) I
have,” continued Mr. Smith, “strongly recom-
mended these Pills to all my friends and ac-
quaintances, and they have also a strong advocate
in Mrs. Rees, who is a firm believer in them.”
(Signed) JOHN SMITH,
4 Wilmot-street,
Off Liverpool-street,
Sydney.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are not
a patent medicine, but a thoroughly scientific
preparation, the result of years of careful study on
the part of an eminent Edinburgh University phy-
sician, and they were successfully used by him in
his every day practice for years before being
offered for general sale. They positively cure
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and Neuralgia,
and Influenza’s evil after effects, and are a specific
for all diseases of women, such as ansemia, poor
and watery blood, female irregularities, nervous
headache and hysteria. They are not a purgative
medicine, but brace up and permanently strengthen
the whole system.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtainable from all
leading chemists, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Coy., Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will for-
ward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post order,
1 box for 2s. 9d., or \ dozen for 14s. 9d. #
Miss E. Tweedie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbe Up-to-date FrockiSt.
T be Leadiog Pipe.
(gbd)
Wholesale Depot:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of t he
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
‘Triumph.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
lmport Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses.


Packets
7^4
trtSSAm
LJIjARS
°o A C^
£
PURE
rdgm M/ld
/panuTaoured by < s ”
jI
'PAYFRJuIZZZZm
Is.
PILES.—Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Dep6t, 257 G-eorge-street, Sydney.*
A public meeting will be held at the
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney, on
Friday, May 21, having for its object the forma-
tion of a N.S.W. Chamber of Mines.*
“ FITS LIKE A GLOVE.”
THOMSON’S
=FITS LIKE
glove;
TRADE
MARS
“CLOVE-FITTING"
CORSET
The Perfection of Shape
Finish, and Durability.
APPROVED by the
whole polite world.
Annual Sale over
One Million
Fairs.
To be had o; all Dealer*
throughout the World.
Twelve First Medals
MANUFACTURERS.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., LTD., LONDON.
See that every Corset is marked "THOMSON'S GLOVE-
EXXTING,” and bears our Trade Mark, the Crown.
No others are genuine.
h:
-7+
PWI
m
S«WiipEnn«sw6
TheDeliciousEssencenf theVinlel: itself
THE CROWN PERFUMERYC2
177, NEW BOND ST, LO NDON.W.
PiWtf
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
TW ° ° OFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SSS’™ 13 T,,E CK ®BCBMT f - situated 631
« STREET ( hand y to Railway); and the other is
KINO STRTOT" S, j eet C ° ffec Palace ’” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - . GEO. W. ELLIS
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 4o York Street, SYDNEY.
gicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
At Poverty Point.
As benefits are plentiful just now, what’s the matter
with one for poor old Hasker, the oldest of Australian
actors, not even excepting George Coppin, The Bulletin
believes? The veteran, who is now getting on towards 80,
has others dependent on him, and is in a most pitiable
state of poverty.
An Australian journalist abroad writes a Bulletin man
re two English idols, Irving and Terry : “ Their perform-
ance showed me how clever English advertising fools the
world. I saw them in ‘ The Merchant of Venice.’ Irving’s
Shylock was absolutely the stagiest performance I have
ever seen. It was a solo all through, the other characters
simply standing off to give him air. In the trial scene his
acting was positive burlesque. His exits were marvels of
misapplied ingenuity ; he had evidently studied hard to
go off as no sane man free of blind-staggers or stringhalt
ever before went out of any door on earth below. Ellen
Terry is an elderly, slouchy, faded, hoarse person, who
walks as if afflicted with confluent bunions She smiles
and smiles continuously with an indulgent good-nature
at benighted audiences that, in the name of art and
common sense, should drive her away totheold armchair by
the fireside of her sweet grandchildren, whom she is now
eminently qualified to entertain.”
“ When you play in Sydney,” said Butler to Maggie
Moore, “ send me a pass and I shall be there in a front
seat.” “ No, you shall not,” replied the actress ; “ you
shall have a box.”
Miss Mabel Hardy, one of the girls whom the ill-fated
Dacres brought out with them to Australia, and who
went back to London after the Sydney tragedy, has
abandoned the stage and taken to shorthand and type-
writing in the Big Smoke. Miss Hardy was a well-read
girl, and had brains, but not brains of the actress order.
Moreover, she hadn’t a face for the stage.
Walter Kirby’s appearance on the Melb. concert plat-
form predisposes people in his disfavor. A very sheepish
look, an aggressive forelock, pigeon-toes, ill-made
clothes, move an audience to irritability; but his tenor
fetches them.
S.S. : “ I am grateful for Mrs. Brown-Potter’s gowns by
Worth, of Paris, or whoever may have succeeded that
worthy as Mrs. B.P.’s collaborator, and she wears them
wonderfully well. The Bulletin has piled derision upon
the association of the names of 8.-Potter and Worth on
the playbill, and, as a consequence, the artist who drapes
the actress is now never mentioned in any society. Mrs.
Potter performing is sometimes irritating, and—because
of the great variety and astonishing originality of her
errors, like flea visits, and the sudden, dazzling touches
of perfection, all illusive and incoherent—she cannot be
located artistically. She worries one and wearies one,
but has charms of method and flashes of genius that deny
one the consolations of complete resentment. As an
actress you cannot love her, you cannot hate her, and you
cannot be indifferent; but as a ‘gown-trotter’ she is
invariably delightful, and surely to select and wear a
dress and take a position so as to convey to an artistic
perception that swift, subtle, living, lasting delight a’
beautiful painting gives is an ability deserving of grateful
praise and some eminence among the plastic arts. It is
an ability rare enough to be precious, Heaven knows ! I
will never forget the picture of Cora 8.-P. in the 4th act
of ‘The Ironmaster,’ coming down the broad stairway at
the back of the stage, looking like the pale maiden of
‘ Love’s Pilgrimage ’ in Melb. Art Gallery, clothed in sor-
row and contrition, and jewelled with starry tears.”
Bellew has been wearing his own hair rather freety in
Melbourne of late, so that the young heroes in recent
performances have nearly all been grey-headed, which
may account for the fact that those handsome, white-
haired fossils, the Tasmanian Convention delegates, never
appeared in public in Melbourne without a score or more
of adoring maidens in tow.
A strange fatality seems to attach to the Opera House
at Wellington (M.L.), one of the finest and most con-
venient oi Australasian playhouses. Twice have buildings
erected there been burnt down. A few months ago cus-
todian G. Coulson, w'hilst pulling one of the stage ropes,
broke a blood vessel and dropped dead; and, just the
other day, Frank Roberts, a well-known athlete, who suc-
ceeded Coulson in the custodianship, was found alongside
the same rope, also with the blood pouring from a vessel,
as in Coulson’s case. When the mail left, Roberts was
lying on the threshold of the Unknown. A Maori
tohunga is said to have declared, when the first building
was erected on the site, that it would never prosper, be-
cause it was on taboo’d ground, and the old seer saw
pretty clearly.
Neither “ Forget-Me-Not ” nor “ Thbrbse ” will be pro-
duced during the present Potter-Bellew Melb. season.
The first not being played, the public will be prevented
from seeing the play that was to accompany it—the work
of the embryo Haddon Chambers, of whom the world
hears so much and sees so little. The withdrawal of
“ Th6rfese ” will be a disappointment to many, prurient
and otherwise. Next to “ Francillon,” it is undoubtedly
the most artistic thing the pair do, and the play, accord-
ing to Wm. Archer, is the best psychological drammer up
to date —and he ought to know.
Poor old Sims Reeves figured again in the Bankruptcy
Court lately with unsecured liabilities amounting to
£1042 against assets practically nil. The financial state
of the worn-out idol should appeal to the English musical
world. He was not a worthy idol, judged by modern
opinion of the trashy ballads which he made famous, but
he sang to suit the times in which his voice flourished,
and, anyway, the original adorer of “ Pretty Jane ” and
the sympathetic friend of “Tom Bowling ought not to
be left to drag the tail-end of his career through the dust.
Lieut.-Colonel Bingham, alas 1 has decided not to appear
in the forthcoming production of “ Lelamine,” at Melb.
Princess’. The gallant Colonel sang “ Killarney ” at a
public concert, by way of testing the effect of his muffled
baritone upon an unbiassed audience, and next day he
scratched himself for the comic-opera engagement. Mr.
E. H. ShacWl is to fill the billet vacated bv the prudent
warrior.
In view of Nat Goodwin’s free-and-easy fabrications re-
garding his Australian experiences, and his adverse
opinions upon our public, some of his remarks while still
with us are worth recalling. “So far as the public is con-
cerned,” he told a Melb. interviewer, “ I have never
played before more appreciative audiences, and the pieces
I have put on have never gone better anywhere. . . .
The public gets puzzled and no doubt prejudiced by the
peculiar press notices of the plays that are published on
Monday mornings. . . . Criticism is a valuable friend
to actors when it is sound, but when it chiefly consists of
arrogant assumption, inspired by ignorance, it serves no
purpose whatever except to fill up a certain space set
apart for it in a newspaper.” Humph !
Bellew prides himself on his attention to minute detail,
and always ostentatiously displays a copy of Le Petit
Journal in “ Francillon.” But fancy the aristocratic
Comte de Riverolles reading that dull bourgeois rag with
its circulation of half a million !
Should “Charlotte Corday” be produced in London,
Malcolm Watson, or some other literary hack, will pro-
bably polish it up. At present it has only one stale, soli-
tary joke in it—about a dog being painted so naturally
that he bit the artist, who died—and that owes its birth
to the comedian who first played the painfully humorous
barber. Bellew originally intended to play “ Adam Lux,”
Marat’s big melodramatic scene only being sandwiched in
at the last moment. The Potters were specially anxious
to play “Corday” on the recent M.L. tour, but its failure
in Melb. and Adelaide put J.C.W. dead against it, so after
its one-night production in Sydney it was heard of no
more.
Biking down Mordialloc road (Melb.) the other day, Miss
Elizabeth Watson noticed a small boy seated on a rail in
an attitude of eager expectation. Just then the doomed
actress arrived at an awkward turn in the thoroughfare,
and over went the bike. “My word, you was lucky ! ”
said the boy, “ I’ve seen firteen uvvers come down worse’n
that." The awful infant had perched himself there, with
his lunch in his pocket, to watch for catastrophes, and the
idea of a “ gel ” not getting hurt was almost more than he
could bear. Miss W. left him grumbling away to himself,
“ My word, she was lucky !”
Forbes Robertson and Mrs. Pat Campbell seem to
strike, with Nelson and Lady Hamilton. In N.Y. “ George
IV.” is just staged. Edifying. The next»step will be a
play about William IV. and Dora Jordan, ancestress of
the Duke of Fife. Apropos the duke and his great-grand-
mother (Dora Jordan, the actress). Observe how Fife’s
adoption into the Royal Family has legitimatised Dora’s
kingly bastards. Thus Time’s whirligig brings his
revenges.
Melb. : “ Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’s dramatic pupils, about
60 in number, have given her a group of their photos.,
now on view. All are, or have been, stage-struck, pre-
tending they were not.”
An original curtain-raiser, by a member of the Potter-
Bellew Co., called “ A Studio Episode,” was to have been
played this Melb. season, but it is now out of the bills.
Cora P. says she hasn’t the necessary dresses. The play-
let was once performed in Melbourne, and went well, but
has, to an experienced managerial eye, the great defect
of an unhappy ending. Tragedy doesn’t condense itself
successfully on the Australian stage. “ Cavalleria ” would
have been twice as popular here had it ended with Sau-
tuzza’s wedding.
The good-hearted Maggie Moore samr to prisoner Butler
on the voyage from ’Frisco. Butler responded with
“Mother Would Comfort. -Me” and “Sweet Rosy
O’Grady,” “ and the detectives joined in the chorus.”
Pro. : “Bland Holt finds horses lucky. Yet he was un-
lucky with the first one, introduced for the ‘Union Jack,’
at Melb. Royal, a production which lost him £2000.”
Potter and Bellew have booked their passage by the
Victoria. They leave in her on the 12th prox., after a
month in Bendigo, Ballarat and Adelaide.
Melb. : “The Pottew-Belter combination, or the Bellow-
Potluck, ought to have given its ‘Thdrfese Raquin ’ just
this once. But J.C.W. is so confoundedly pious.”
“ Musical comedy mostly arises because a fool is in love
with a chorus-girl, and has half-a-crown in a syndicate.
He loses both.”
A certain Australian girl singer, of whom much was to
be expected, is said to have taken to drink. Which is
more than was to be expected.
“Nothing wrong inside the dress—judging by what
appears outside.”— Francillon.
Old friend Fred Kaye gets reprimanded by London
D.T. for foisting his brusque “take-away-the -tea”
method upon a character in Justin M'Carthy’s new
comedy “My Friend the Prince” (adapted from a
’Murkan farce). The critic says : “ Mr. Fred Kaye’s style
may, perhaps, be too boisterous, self-assertive, and noisy
for the old millionaire. It is the shout of the barrack-
yard rather than the country house, and no doubt
popularity in plays of another pattern has deadened the
actor —dry, funny, all the same —to a sense of proportion.”
Harper’s Weekly (last file) says Palmer’s Trilby co.,
which came to Australia, was superior to Beerbohm Tree
and his co.
Miss Lucy Don, a daughter of George Coppin, and
younger sister of Miss Daisy, figures in the fire drama at
Melb. Royal as “ the Panther’s ” maid.
Melb. : “ A thing of beauty and joy for ever : Eight
ladies in line with bare heads, Princess amphitheatre,
last night.”
Lilian Tree has been singing at London Palace of Varie-
ties. She sang as leading soprano with the Mendelssohn-
Barry Concert Co. She was also on in Grand Italian
Opera last season. The soprano, however, from latest
advices, is not overjoyed with her lot, and seriously con-
templates resigning secular life for a religious vocation.
Several nunneries have already intimated their willing-
ness to receive her as musical directress.
Melba and Marchesi are not the staunch friends they
were. A dispute has arisen re the effects of cycling upon
the vocal cords. Melba, persuaded by Jean de Reszke,
has taken to this pastime, against Marchesi’s injunctions.
Marchesi contends that the attitude assumed in cycling is
injurious to the chest and lungs, and that rapid pro-
gression through the air is detrimental to the throat.
The other day Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society
offered a prize of £lO 10s. for the best original march.
Delaney, Sydney Moss, and Hazon, adjudicators, are of
opinion that none of the compositions sent in are worthy
of a prize. A lack of originality and weak orchestration
seem to have pervaded the eight marches submitted.
The musical community of Sydney will welcome Mr.
John Lemmone, the famous flautist and accompanist to
Madame Melba, on his return from England, at the Hotel
Australia, this (Saturday) night, May 15.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
When the totalisator is being legalised in Vic-
toria and N.S.W., which will be shortly, at least 10 per
cent, of its profits should be devoted by Parliament to the
fund for jockeys’ distressed widows and mothers. Will
the Govt. Statists please oblige in future with the race-
courses’ annual butcher’s bill? The extent of jockey-
slaughter is simply appalling, but very little is said about
it. The poor devil is carted off in that expectant hearse,
the ambulance ; a few people say “ How dreadful! ” a few
sovereigns are collected for the 'widow or the mother at
the settling ; and it is all over but this—
DEATH.
Gardiner.— At Kensington Racecourse, Saturday,
May 1, Tom Gardiner, thrown whilst riding Idica in
Hurdle Race ; died in transit to hospital.
♦ » * »
S.A.J.C. Autumn meeting began on Saturday
last at Adelaide with some first-class racing. The New-
market failure, Staffa, is not so good or reliable as his
connections believe, for he was beaten in Goodwood
Handicap by Orient at a difference of 41b., whilst in Feb.,
at Sandown Park, he easily gave that animal 61b. Fleet
Admiral (Richmond—Footstep) carried his 141 b. penalty
to victory in S.A. Stakes, and paid £4 7s. on the tote.
Even money would have been Ikey’s best offer. Thunder
Queen accounted for the St. Leger, paying £3. Ikey, in
this case, would have wanted" a shade of odds. Hova
broke down badly in Elder Stakes, won by N.S.W. cast-
off Lieutenant.
Tote dividends at Adelaide last Saturday—.£so
Is.; £5 14s. ; £8 ; £4 7s. ; £3 ; £6 2s. Starting prices at
Caulfield, Vic., same day—7-2 ; 3-1; 7-1: 5-4 ; 7-1 • 9-2
» * * * ’
R. Lewis, the crack Vic. lightweight, rode
three winners straight off the reel at Adelaide last Satur-
day. Out of 120 mounts this season, he has been first on
30 occasions. A good horseman and a “ straight goer,”
this lad has the promise of a big future.
* * » *
At pony-racing Kensington the Leger patrons,
who pay but one shilling, are favored with a board dis-
playing jockeys’ names, &c. ; but at its next-door neigh-
bor, Randwick, the Legerite is bled for 3s. and has to
find out the names of the riders as best he can. At
Flemington, Vic., where the “ flatite ” pays nothing, an
elaborate board has of late been provided. Another
grievance the humbler patrons of racing in N.S.W. have
is the stiff charge, in almost every case, of a shilling for a
race-book. The sixpenny card could well be introduced
* * * *
The M.L. two-year-old Multiform (Hotchkiss—
Formo) has won the record sum of £2700 this season. As
his stable companion, Gold Medallist, is a few lb. his
superior, most of the chief three-year-old events should
fall to Mr. G. G. Stead next season.
Re “ Surcingle,” was not the Leviathan book-
maker Davis a Hebrew? A number of the English lead-
ing ready-money bookies belong to the Chosen ; though
the majority of Tatt.’s members are non-Semitic.
* * * *
The English Derby promises to be unusually
interesting this year, as, barring accidents, the three
cracks, Velasquez, Galtee More, and Vesuvian will com-
pete. Though Vesuvian is the worst favorite of the trio,
’tis on the cards that he will win, as he was very green as
a two-year-old, but is now reported as having developed
into a splendid colt. Wood will ride Galtee More ; J.
Watts, Velasquez; and M. Cannon may be seen’ on
Vesuvian.
* * * *
If Rebel Queen starts in Warwick Earm handi-
cap to-day (Sat.), she will probably prove that there was
reason for her being so heavily backed in the Final at
recent Randwick Meeting. Mr. Kelso, whose luck was
dead out at A.J.O. meeting, promises to be dangerous
in several of to-day’s events.
* * * *
That promising hurdle-racer, Jack Hanwell,
who won a race at the recent A.J.O. meet, has gone into
Scobie’s stable, Ballarat. If well-treated by the handi-
capper he should have a great say in the Flemington G.N.
Hurdles.
* * * *
If the handicapper at ’Oine treats the flying
Maluma in the Royal Hunt Cup at Ascot with the same
leniency he did in the City 7 and Suburban, the Jersey
Lily’s colors will likely be carried first past the post, as
the straight mile will just suit the long-striding daughter
of Malua.
■ * * *
Bathurst has the best half-mile track in N.S.W.
—level as a billiard-table and with well-banked turns—
and it was on this course Mr. Buckland brought his
phenomenal trotter, Fritz, out each day of the Show for
an exhibition mile. Mr. B. assured the writer that his
horse had only been in the sulky three times in the pre-
vious three weeks, and Fritz showed a little of his cranky
Van Cleve blood by refusing to make a start until coaxed
with a lead from a saddle-horse. Once started, however,
the wonder cut out a mile in 2.18. On the second day he
trotted the mile in exactly the same time ; but on the
third day, with a couple of galloping horses alongside, he
went over the distance in 2.16. Such a performance by
an untrained horse, on a half-mile course, makes one
begin to wonder what he could knock off in pink of con-
dition and on a kite-shaped track such as Yankeedom
makes its records upon.
Mr. Buckland turned up with a team such as
might be expected from a crack Yankee stable. Fritz;
St. Louis, his stallion, by Burlington B. ; Burlington
Junior, a great raking 17-hands three-year-old chestnut
pacing stallion, by the same sire; and Viva, Vida, and
Hark, three mares by Van Cleve, the latter standing about
13.3. Hark’s fame as a good little ’un had spread amongst
trotting men, but she did not show anything wonderful,
as, although she won the three-minute class from scratch,
she did not prove herself better than 2.50, a gait insuf-
ficient to extend little ones such as Edith or Isabel, so
well-known in the past on Sydney courses.
Dr. Slate took up Silver Cloud and his hand-
some little Huon stallion, Narragansett, and Mr. Harry
Knight had one representative in the winner of the Syd-
ney show double, Siren 11. The time-handicap race in
heats, best two out of three, was a terribly dished-up
affair, quite unworkable, and showed that the committee
is in need of advice by a practical trotting man in forming
its programme. Perhaps the greatest blot upon the
meeting was in not putting back St. Louis and Hark for
their wins on the previous day. It did not make any dif-
ference to St. Louis, as he collided with a post, throwing
out his driver, Piper, and smashing up a new pneumatic
sulky; but as regards Hark, it left her to win with ease
what might otherwise have proved an exciting race.
In the heat handicap something went wrong
with Siren 11., and she tore off a couple of her boots,
looking at one time very much like “going to market,”
but she soon settled down. In the final two-mile handi-
cap Siren was handicapped at 20sec. behind, Viva at 25,
and on performances it certainly looked as if the handi-
capper had made a mistake in placing Viva on 25 instead
of 35. But Mr. Buckland drove the mare badly, and, taking
her off her legs before she had time to settle into her
stride, she showed temper and performed more like a
green colt in harness for the first time. Siren 11. showed
her true form, and, trotting like a piece of machinery in
the style shown by her at Sydney Show, won, pulling up
in 5.29, which, taking off her 20see. handicap, makes her
record 2.34 A. Siren is by Van Cleve, and was bred by
Mr. Buckland and sold when a yearling for 100 guineas.
Had Mr. Buckland let Viva settle down, and she had
trotted up to her form, what a finish the half-sisters
would have made of it. Mr. Buckland had certainly a
great outing. Of the six events on the programme he
won five, and the sixth was won by a mare bred by him.
The jumping at Bathurst Show was certainly
very fine, and far ahead of the Sydney Show, no doubt
the splendid exhibition-ground having much to do with
it. In the high jump a boy-rider was unearthed who pro-
bably now holds a world’s record. He is a son of Mr.
Walter Riddle, a well-known Cowra man very fond of a
jumping horse. Mr. Riddle’s 12-3 7 ear-old son, Dave, rode
two horses in the high jump—Rainbow, a little horse that
performed so well at Sydney Show, and Streak-o’-Light,
a big bay owned by his father, which, by the way, was
only five days out of the paddock. Rainbow retired at
sft. Bin., an inch higher than he got over in Sydney, but
young Riddle kept Streak-o’-Light going until* only
another horse, Lawyer, was left in, and at dusk on Friday
each of the pair had 6ft. |in. to its credit. It was
decided to jump it off next morning on account of the
failing light. On Saturday morning Lawyer again cleared
the bar at 6ft. |in., but young Riddle failed to get Streak-
o’-Light over again.
♦ * * •
Druid : “ The V.R.C. has cut down its gatemen
from 15s. a (lay to 9s. Not long ago committee-man bar-
rister Coldharn, court chum of Purves, shouted, ‘ Give a
man a fair wage !’ when the paid steward was raised to
30s. a day. Sauce for the gander.”
* * * *
Many wondered who Godfrey, who batted for
Giffen’s team against Coolgardie, could be. It was <J. G.
Godfrey, now an Adelaide broker, who made a cen-
tury for S.A. against Vernon’s English team years ago.
Giffen and Godfrey were batting over-night,' with the
game against S.A., but some patriotic Crow-eater watered
the wicket during the night, and the two put on a big
score on a perfect wicket next day, and saved the match!
Godfrey’s innings was one of the finest played on Adelaide
Oval.
* « * «
Clem Hill probably holds a big-match record in
stumping a batsman off Jones, the lightning-streak.
Kelly wisely stands back to him and thus saves byes and
takes catches. Apropos .- Brunton, Jonah’s S. Adelaide
club-mate, recently put up an unenviable record by
allowing 48 byes out of a score cf 150.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—“ Melbourne ” chips into the
Artful Union discussion. He says the Druids’ Gala helps
on the cause of the “Druids as a whole,” because indivi-
dual Druids get a stiff commission (he says 33, I thought
it was 25, per cent.) out of the proceeds. He might as
well say that the cause of “Australia as a whole” is
helped on because the David Henrys-of the place get big
sums as usury. .Anyhow, why should a friendly society
have gambling privileges which would be denied to any
individual member of same ?—Gambler.
Why do some Sydney papers still speak of
George Seale as “the amateur champion ? ” According to
the recognised law the man who teaches athletics is as
much a pro. as he who lives by fighting matches.
* * ♦ *
It appears that Fitz. settled Corbett with tha
blow over the heart. This, first popularised by Jem
Smith, and often used with great effect by Black Jackson,
should revolutionise boxing. For instance, it can have
little effect on the boxer who adopts the unusual attitude
of George Seale and a few others who shape with the right
hand and foot forward.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —The following tabulation of
(effective) blows struck in the championship fight seems
to show as great superiority of skill in Corbett as of
endurance in Fitz. Corbett landed, in all, 131 telling
hits ; Fitz., 49. Thus Round I.—C., 3 ; F., 1. ll. C., 8 ;
F., 0. 111.—C., 9 ; F., 2. IV.—C., 12 ; F., 3. V.—C., 15 ; F.,
5. VI. -C., 25 ; F., 1. VII.—C., 10 ; F., 0. VIII.-C., 12 ;
F., 0(F. horribly punished ; considered licked). IX.—C.,
11 ; F., 3. X.—(Turning of the tide) F., 9 ; C., 7. Xl.
F.,6;C., 6. XII.—F., 8; C., 5. XIII.—F., 6; C., 6.
XIV.—F., 5 ; C., 2.—Corax.
» * * *
Frosty Face Fogo : “In reports of Fitzsimmons
v. Corbett, I miss the flowery language of the vore-time
Bell’s Life, with the classic aroma its vocabulary gave,
quite Choctaw to the outside world. Thus the fists were
mauleys, dukes, bunches o’ fives; the eyes, ogles, peepers;
the mouth, the gob or ’tater-trap ; the throat, the squeeze;
the nose, the conk; the head, the knowledge-box ; the
stomach, the bread-basket; and blood was always claret.”
» * * *
Mrs. Fitzsimmons occupied a box at the big
fight, and when her Robert banged J. Corbett she clapped
her hands and laughed, but when J. Corbett bathed her
hubby in gore she wept and told Robert to “go for the
body, as it was the only way to whip the hound.” Such
is the second Mrs. Fitzsimmons—who seems to have a
level head, for it is on her advice that hubby now retires
from the ring.
• • * •
Fitzsimmons has sent Mr. Larry Foley a pair
of diamond-studded sleeve-links inscribed: “From the
Champion Boxer to the Champion Teacher.” By the way,
John L. Sullivan ascribes Fitz’s victory to Mrs. F.’s excel-
lent and continuous advice during the fight—to “go for
Corbett’s ribs—it’s no good hitting him on the jaw.” The
lady evidently measured man’s jaw with a feminine
bushel.
* » * »
Cyclist Walne has a brother who is coming along
very fast and is expected to be somewhere near the Q.
top-notchers. It was Bilmartin who first discovered
Walne, and that may partly account for the Martin pro-
test against Megson when Walne dead-heated the latter.
* * * *
Porta appears to have had some trouble in
getting his £7O prize-money from the Coolgardie people,
also his £2O guaranteed expenses. Says Maximiliano :
“ Dey talk all ze time—Coolgardie de land of gold. Ver’
good, me Porta no see ze gold.”
* * * *
How about an aluminium-bike ? The metal is
strong and tough as steel, would not need enamelling or
plating, and would reduce the weight of a racer to, say,
161 b.
• * * •
A. C. Middleton intends to go prospecting dur-
ing the winter. He wants Martin to go with him, but
William says “ there ain’t no points in diggin’.”
« » * *
On the day Harris landed from Australia he
won the mile scratch at Coventry—which speaks well for
his staying form. Harris was the first to race a trotting-
horse in Australia. The result, however, was a failure,
Mystery winning both heats easily.


Many of the Hospital - Saturday lady
collectors charmed with an aroma like that of
Araby the Blest—the fact being that Pinaud’s
firm had presented each lady with six bottles of
their famous perfumes.*
The first shipment of cocoa-nut oil from
the new Sydney factory of Lever Brothers was
despatched by the Lord Ripon, and with that
noble British instinct which celebrates every im-
portant event with victuals, a massive lunch was
given to celebrate the occasion. Lever Brothers’
enterprise promises, so far, to be an unqualified
success, and it has already been decided to double
the machinery and greatly enlarge the output.
Indirectly, too, it should have an important bear-
ing on the N.S.W. dairy-industry. Cocoa-nut
cake, which is one of the bye-products of the in-
dustry, is an excellent cow-food, and in a land
where the grass-supply goes down to nothing
in the frequent times of drought the need of
some such artificial food is urgent. In Europe,
the annual product of the cow is about 500 gallons
per annum; in N.S.W., it is about 275 gallons,
and the difference mainly arises through allowing
the precarious animal to shift for itself in good
seasons and bad. A whole lot of cornstalks, who
hadn’t energy enough to start the cocoanut-oil in-
dustry themselves, despite the fact that the raw
material is at their doors, turned up to applaud
the British firm which has seized the opportunity,
and the usual remarks about the advantages of
having British capital in the country, and of
having our industries run for us by the more ener-
getic Bull, and of seeing the profits depart for
Britain, were made in the usual feeling manner.
The Celebrated
“LOUIS” Velveteen,
o<H>
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
Rich & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
Genuine “LOUIS” VELVETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine "LOUIS ”
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear .
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free? or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle.
For LADIES and GENTS.
T?MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
_ fitte 1 with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Brice, £2O.
Tbc IQtcrcb*Doable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dualop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24=.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
fiANDSOMB
Commemoration Box- of Butter Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie Hatton.
Ready Jtme lat>
•« once of confbcttener» u only a
camber -rc'TTl be fenrsd# ■*
A
St. John’s Works, W.C. LONDON.
THe ACME
m ■ "
BWPIjI
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence—have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Greville,
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
w. w.
GREEINERS
CELEBRATED
CUDS * RIFLES.
Have you a GREENER? Is it genuine? If
you wish to know, read the “ Breechloader, and
how to use it,” with notes on rifles, by W. W.
Greener —the best 2/6 book of its kind published.
It is now in the fifth edition, which proves its
popularity: it contains 373 pages profusely illu-
strated. This work teaches sportsmen all they
want to know about guns: what to buy and what
to avoid, and how to detect spurious weapons.
“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
A New Australian Novel ,
Harold EfFermere : A
Story of Queensland bush life, by M.
COSTELLO. 3/6 ; post, 4/-.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS :
THE SYDNEY HORNING HERALD.—“One of the
most faithful studies of bush life is Mr. Michael Costello’s
story, ‘ Harold Effermere ’ (George Robertson & Co.). The
ups and downs of the city boy, who is sent to a Queens-
land cattle - station and bolts, afterwards learning his
colonial experience of all kinds in company with a swindler
on the turf, as billiard-marker in a bush township, as
swagsman, and last as station-hand, manager, and owner,
are well told in a succession of easy and natural incident,
introducing many effective bush types. Evidently the
book is written from the fullness of personal knowledge.”
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH. —“ A story of the Queens-
land bush, by a new writer. . . . He has knowledge of the
bush, a sympathy with movement and adventure, an evi-
dently keen feeling for literature, both classic and modern
. . . and a large amount of very true sentiment. . . .
Harold Effermere, a waif and stray ... his father a sort
of unpolished and frankly dishonest Harold Skimpole. . . .
The pair go through some strange adventures together.”
THE EVENING NEWS. —“The hero of this story is a
town-bred boy . . . sent in an experimental way to see if
he would be likely to make anything of life on a station.
He has, as may be imagined, some rough experiences, all
of which, however, are turned to excellent account in the
end.”
THE RICHMOND AND WINDSOR GAZETTE.—“ A
well-written story of colonial life and its trials and tribu-
lations . . . should be read by all who take an interest in
promoting the growth and perfection of a literature which
should be—to paraphrase an old saying— * Of Australia,
for Australia, and by Australia.’ The book is published
by George Robertson and Sons, and is nicely turned out
indeed.”
THE TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL.—“Mr. Cos-
tello has accomplished the feat . . . with a result that will
agreeably surprise the reader. He is thoroughly ac-
quainted with the scenes, incidents, and characters of the
life he describes, and represents them vividly. Practically,
the principal personage of the story is a crack-brained
fellow who combines knavery with folly in equal propor-
tions. ... As a picture of bush and station life such as in
Queensland still retains many of the traditional charac-
teristics fast disappearing in the more Southern colonies,
no less than for its incidents or for the romance. . . .
' Harold Effermere ’ is a good specimen of the Australian
novel, being both completely Australian and as novel as
its subject allows.”
<S€O. ROBERTSON & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Toronto |otel,
Lalce
Macquarie,
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
“Raleigh"
SiOger Cycles.
Tri6n?p(> Cycles
(ENGLAND).
Rapid Cycled
(exclusive of N.S. II . & S.A .)
m
V
Melbourne—229 Elizabeth-st.
Sydney—393 George-st.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
. . FOR THE FAMOUS . .
HUMBER CYCLES.
BEESTON, WOLVERHAMPTON & COVENTRY.
THE
AITSTKAL
CYCLE AGENCY,
LIMITED.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST CYCLE DEALER.
A Post-Card to any of our Australasian Depots will be
promptly attended to, and Catalogues and Price-Lists
cheerfully furnished if requested.
Head Office : 285 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches :
Adelaide - 33 Rundle-st.
Brisbane Adelaide-st.
Berth Hay-st
Charters Towers (Q.) Gill-st.
( N. Z.)—Manchester-st.
Dunedin (N.Z.) George-st.
RALEIGH
Swift Cycles-
Ralsigb Cycles
(exclusive of Victoria).
Prcnjicr Cycles-
jfrA ni^ni
p~ i
Goulburn N.S.W.
Hobart, Tas.
Launceston, Tas.


Special Advertisements.
FRANZ JOSEF
Pilsener [agar Jeer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
WONDERFUL
Blood-Purifying Effect
—or—
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
Mr. Charles Stephenson, a well-known
Railway Employe at Kalapoi, New
Zealand, writes:
5
“About ten years ago, while en-
gaged in shunting, my foot caught
between the rails, and my leg was
fractured below the knee. It healed
in time, but I have been troubled
ever since with swollen veins, and
.have been obliged, at times, to wear
a bandage. About a year ago it be-
came much worse, and I feared I
should be obliged to give up my
work. A friend advised me to try
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I did so, and
after taking four bottles the swell-
ing disappeared, and I have not
been troubled with it since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS for Biliousness
A NOVELTY!
AT.T. KINDS OF
'SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers, xP
. or direct from <S
b \fi
Streep.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Ladies'
Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. lon«-, each ss. 6d.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllliain-st. Only, Sydney
The trustees of St. Kilda (Melb.) cemetery-
are about to establish a crematorium at a cost of
-£2000. In about ten years, N.S.W. may be ex-
pected to follow suit. It takes, on the average,
seven years for the N.S.W. courts to interpret a
new Act of Parliament, and ten years for a new
reform to reach N.S.W.
A publican out at thirsty Lawler’s, W.A.,
which is hundreds of miles from anywhere in par-
ticular, was lately fined ,£50 for Sunday trading—
that being the lowest legal penalty. From which
Thu Bulletin infers that the Act is practically a
dead letter in places where there isn’t a virtuous
policeman or a teetotal magistrate.
Figures will prove anything. For instance,
when it suddenly rains in Sydney Domain on a
Sunday, the crowd rushes for shelter into the
adjacent Art Gallery, sorely taxing the turnstile-
man, who carefully records every entrance; and
the people who run to get out of the rain go to swell
the official monthly return of “visitors to the
gallery.”
The Max of the World, a London
weekly, under the title of “The Old Man’s
Stake,” prints a column or more of verse which
originally appeared in Tmc Bulletin four or five
years ago as “ The Bookmaker’s Father.” Neither
the name of the author (Edmund Fisher) nor that
of The Bulletin is acknowledged.
Barnyard fowls have a most powerful
digestion. An ingenious French physician pro-
poses, therefore, to give some fowls large quantities
of iron in their food, which their digestive force
will render back into the albumen of their eggs.
Taese can then be administered to invalids, instead
of feeding the sick folks on indigestible iron salts
and fluids, which pass otf almost unused with the
general body-waste.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., desires to
inform intending patentees that on account of his
satisfactory arrangements with leading patent
agents in all the Australasian provinces, the prin-
cipal countries of Europe, America, and South
Africa, he is in a position to take out patents,
register trade-marks, comply lies and copyrights,
at rates very much below those hitherto charged by
expert patent agents, and which will be within the
reach of everyone. For the sum of =£20, exclusive
of cost of drawings, he will obtain a Certificate of
Provisional Protection (in the first instance) for
any invention in the seven Australian provinces
and Great Britain and full patents in any other
countries in the world at proportionately, reason-
able rates. Mr. Griffith’s office is 41 Castlereagh-
stre<“t, City, next Hotel Australia.*
At Melbourne police court, the other day,
an alleged embezzler was brought up to go through
the preliminary hearing of a matter relating to a
very large shortage in the cash. 1 le was naturally
supposed to be in rigorous custody. When lunch-
time came the bench went out to refresh the inner
beak. The prosecuting attorneys went forth to
procure victuals at some adjacent hotel. So did
the defence and the police and the rest of the
show. The prisoner, left alone and forgotten,
thought the matter out for a while, and then he
naturally went out and lunched also. He had the
grace to come back, but if instead of doing so be
had got into an ancient suit of clothes and a pair of
burst boots and a ruined hat, and covered himself
with grime, and departed out of town with a swag
and a billy, he would have caused a great and
sudden sitting-up in the Melbourne legal system
that night.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
S. M. Herald persistently sneers in its
elephantine way about the folly of M. L. and Vic-
torian factory legislation on the ground that it
prohibits an energetic man doing more than a
certain amount of work. So it does, in a sense,
but for one case where it prevents a man over-
■working himself voluntarily, there are at least a
thousand where it prevents him being overworked
against his will by an employer, and this aspect of
the case is never mentioned by the dreary Jib of
literature at the corner of Hunter-street, Sydney.
There is no law which doesn’t aggrieve somebody;
but if a law does good to 99 people and only
aggrieves the other one it is good enough. Theo-
retically, of course, every man has a right to work
16 hours a day for 16s. a week if he wants to ; also,
he has a,n equal right to bind himself down to work
all his life for nothing at all—which is the old idea
of personal slavery. One right is as indissolubly
WltVl “ of nnnt.ront ” oo
Hotels.
Pointers!
|3f“
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyons’ Palace Hotel,
SoutH B risbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
T ATT ERSALL’S HOTEL,
Filmierx-st., TtnvnseiUe.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
fT\OM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
x Dig .ers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALLs HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
London Spectator on German William :
“ He seems oapable of thanking God for a great
harvest and sending Him the order of the Red
Eagle in,acknowledgment.”
Thursday Island police-court: “What
ar-ryou?” “An English woman.” “ Oi doan'.t
mane that. What ar-r-r you ? ” “ Well, I’m not
a half-caste.”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites'.
Invigorating in Hdt Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by-all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
WRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depdt, 484 GeoFge-streefc, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands —iron-framed, trichord*in walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as compared with’buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany.
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest'point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thu3 the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
ba.BB wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than aFe ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone..
Com pass, seven octa vea.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold . engraving, with
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle coinpass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in tho treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO, LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wale 3.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
0
B
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with ali Modern Luxury. Two_
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
Forbes’s PHQSFERREN’E.
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Fleasance,
HOMCEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
12-
BOOK OF NATL UK
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MO EH THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by D * Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1 6. '
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is- by
post, Is 3d. Piping Hot, Nana, and all Zola’s Novels
posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Roc*, post free, Is 3d.
komancb of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom] price Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. (id., post free
Mysterif.s Court of London, by <;. \V. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s
Fruits op Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Madpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox's Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2s 6d each ; posted 3s.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
New Reai istic Novels:—Wife in Name Only;
Thais, or tiie Vengeance of Vends ; Decoyed; Modern
Don Juan ; With Unchaste Purpose ; IDs Last Pas-
sion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, hy Gustave Deoz, posted 2s.
How to become a Ventriloquist, p st free Is.
Madame Bovary, from the Fre' oh, pasted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Maupassant’s Contes Choisis (in French), posted 2s.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private hook. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, hy Dr. Carver, a new' work, contain-
i"tr all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement. Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
ThR VVife s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TKADE SUPPLIED
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.’
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
CJaeap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Recokd.
FOOD f <h>
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Pood Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., ever
»
ywhere.
"‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
The aged.


Herr Rasmussen,
TIIE CELEBRATED
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfaline Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The great virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice; the
very fact of their having been before the publio
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking ir.to con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but, from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, Coolgardie, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
'lowers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
I lerbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as lie possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the- face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not Been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your «Ifaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may als •
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, whioh 1 do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKIIaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Mest-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7 th, 1896.
To Herr R ssmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
I have derived arreat benefit from your celebrated Alfaline !
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. r eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:- “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives roe great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH,
tort Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
lthaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Bills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates oan
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NRRVIN.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends. —Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medioines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of jour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S. W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Files.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. J. KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bioycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEH’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important souroe has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our spaoe will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press: —
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, whioh his numerous testimonials will
prove."
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Ilaily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
B. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
t'ooktown Courier, Queensland. —“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Yictoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Bass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Droggist Journal, Melbourne.—
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depot at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Yictoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut* . — “ Herr Bassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r quire any additional praise from Tkuth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.Z. Bail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Australische Zeitung, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal know'edge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by lb rr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
&T ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 G-eorge Street.
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING.
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent, free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
'I AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
MEDALS
5®
y/
m
im
ofH
• -
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u. NERVES*
A Certain Cure for the Nerves,
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline VITALITY Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6(L
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for ■ oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “ NATURAL. DOCTOR.” A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - 150 Bourke-street
Brisbane - - - - 160 Queen-street.
Charters Towers - Royal Arcade, Mosman-st.
Adelaide - - - - 154 Rundle-street.
N.Z. - -91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Perth, W.A. - Corner Hay and William-sts.
Coolgardie - Next Coolgardie Hotel, Bailey-st.
Kalgoorlie - 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


When Premier Kingston was farewelled
by Adelaide. City Council the other day some of
the speakers said they hoped to see him come back
knighted. He made no reference to this in his
reply. Ominous? Let “ Charley ” beware of (to
quote G. Republican Dibbs) “obliging a lady.”
Many of his little troubles have arisen from that
eort of thing.
The snufflesome Kerristian party in Hing-
land must be deeply mortified at the news of the
Unspeakable Turk’s behaviour in Larissa. No
ravishing, no hoisting of babies upon bayonets,
no atrocities whatever. “ Acts of pillage by the
-troops are punished by death, and the banks and
the residences of the wealthy classes are protected
by sentinels.”
The imported Adelaide hospital doctors,
Ramsay Smith and Napier, have been called upon
by the British Medical Association to resign their
membership because they have “ acted in opposition
to the strongly-expressed feeling and opinion of
the medical profession in Adelaide. ” This highly
original charge is the outcome of action taken by
one or two of the old hospital staff, but S. A. Govt,
has instructed a London firm of solicitors to legally
prevent the B.M.A. from striking the doctors off
the roll.
& "SANITAS" $
*iVv. M
“SANITAS" "SANITAS
OUR TWO RECISTIREDTRADt MARKS
“SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.,
DOES NOT STAIN.
disinfectant, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEGDORANTcombinid.
a peoples health is a nation's WEALTH
THE SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
LE BETHNAL GREEN, LONOON-E- £1
ISINFEGT
FLUID
1/-
iufflimumi
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphur (Fu-"lga«n t )
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OF
DISINFECTANTS.
••The list of ‘Sanitas ' preparations is now so great
"as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
"armamentarium The composition of most of these
" is based on 'Sanitas, a deservedly popular, pleasant,
"and moreover active compound."
LANCET, August 24th, 1895, p. s*l.
“How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments,
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
__ „ „ „ the soul-stlrrlng Hymn, the cheer-
mi bong, and the Merry Dance, can all be played on these
c “ a n ni og Instruments, No knowledge of Music Required,
a Usefol and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good Hews and Special Offer to Readers of tlie
“ Sydney bulletin. '
Campbell’s “ Gem ” Melodeon price only 10/6
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, for the amount
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Pri vile e Price List for Musical Season 1897 now ready
150,000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & Co., Musical Instrument Makers
116, Trongate, GLASGOW. Est. 50 Years. Agents Wanted.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with eaoh
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
66 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SO KING STREET
SYDNEY _
7.
THE BEST VALUE WATCH
£2 0 0
I3XT
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, OPEN FACE
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, FULL HUNTER £2 o
GENTS’ FULL SIZE STERLING SILVER KEY-
LESS LEVER, DEMI-HUNTER £2 15
Finely finished movement, full jewelled, compensation
balance, and a most perfect timekeeper.
GUARANTEED FOR THREE YEARS. POST FREE.
Ui
ART JEWELLERS AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
NOTE
Oor Only Australian Address-
-90 KING ST., SYDNEY
eranau
Rubber Manufacturers.
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
’ COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
rARDEN HOSE SPRAYS ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
GARDEN g HOSE, N HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Post Free.
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
THE
• Plum ’
Plum
('i ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
JT Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
■“ lce \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
Sole
Agents
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
Ironmongers.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments the Finest Wood-
work, and ail the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns.
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, 6d.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE No. 14.
£9 9s GASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 87 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Amusements.
T HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Unbounded Enthusiasm and Unstinted Praise tendered
Every Evening and Saturday Matinee
TN€ FLYING JORDANS.
AMERICAN VAUDEVILLES.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 35.; Stalls 2s •
Gallery, Is. No Early Doors.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, 329 George-street.
IVOLT sTFneT
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards. '
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Marry Rich ards's New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
4i» High-Class Performers 6ft
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission —Private Boxes, El Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d'
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle’
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE. ’
rpilE OPERA HOUSE, ImELBOURNK
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
fjl HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT’S
Sensational Spectacular Success,
IN SUSNT OF St. PAUL’S.
Written by SUTTON VANE.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
•“* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THURSDAY, 6th MAY,
“DAVID GARRICK”
and “CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA.*
FRIDAY, 7th MAY,
“ROMEO AND JULIET.”
Prices of Admission —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s;
Stalls, 3s ; Amphitheatre (early door Is extra), Is.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. HENRY BRACY
ANOTHER UNQUALIFIED TRIUMPH
Achieved by the
Bracy Comic Opera Company.
The Screamingly Funny Operatic Extravaganza,
“Nemesis; or, Not Wisely, But Too Well.”
Preceded at 8 o’clock by “BREAKING THE SPELL.”
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
THEATRE,
Frank Thornton.
SYDNEY.
CRITERION TH
» Lessee and Manager
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
FRANK THORNTON,
AND HIS NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In the Great Laughing Success,
“ CHARLEY’S AUNT.”
SATURDAY, May 8—“ THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
Prices —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. L. J. LOHR.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS!
The Romantic Play, in a Prologue and four Acts, adapted
from Anthony Hope’s Famous Story, by Edward Rose,
The Prisoner of Zenda.
The most richly-costumed play ever presented in Sydney.
SATURDAY, May 8—“ THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
•pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
To-Night and Every Evening, Messrs. GOURLAY and
St. JOHN’S
MVSICAL : COMEDY : COMPANY
in the Famous Musical, Farcical Comedy,
"SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON."
Popular Prices —Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 3s; Stalls,
2s ; Upper Circle, Is ; Private Boxes, 21s.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager.
rpHE MUSIN CONCERTS.
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR!
OVIDE MUSIN, the World-renowned Violinist.
ANNIE LOUISE MUSIN, the Highest-ranged Soprano
in the World.
EDUARD SCHARF, the eminent Pianist.
CONSTANCE HATHERLY, the charming Harpist
(pupil of Oberthur, Medallist of London
Academy of Music).
ALFRED HILL, the Australian Composer (composer
of “ Hinemoa ”).
*2T FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR! ■»
E. D. WOODWARD, Manager.
Address all Business Communications to John Laure,
c/o Paling & Co., Sydney.
237 g*ALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
“ STILL THEY COME ! ”
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND PEOPLE
have already thronged the Salon in Pitt-street to witness
the GREATEST CINEMATOGRAPH IN THE WORLD.
The New and GLORIOUS SUBJECTS per S.S. Rome.
J. MACMAHON, Director.
J'MQK E/-[ BUf
-T© co .
!
©w
%
3\|k*
<r
yf
<
2P
5? cr
r
> D
\
j
X l 1 ■
pi
Station - Master : "J say, there is no smoking allowed
here l”
Gbrman Tourist (pointing to advt.) : “ Vy, you say
• Smoke Signet Tobacco.’ J ah smoking Si met.”


- - NEW - -
WINTER GOODS!
Ex Duke of Buckingham and Southern
Mail Steamers.
267
CASES and BALES,
Now being Marked off and Put
Forward EVERY DAY, making
763 BALES & CASES
To Hand for this Winter Season,
up to the present.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
• v :
Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As tlie swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
Lose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
Spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “ A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s «...
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World’s
Chief Expositions.
X
R?git)a3d R. F. f^SCirray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Music makes Cheerful Hapuy Homes!
jmL
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Co*oo’s Noted Accord^ooS,
Or call at one of our Branches ' 182 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
»r. F. COXON X CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of b per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue FREE.
POST FREE
watches-Clocks-Jew/ellery-BirtHday*
WeDDIInIg Z ChIRISTEIsIIIsIc PRESENTS
H Nev/MAIS|- 1755177-ELIZAEETH ST*
OPPOSITE C-.P.0.
MELBOURNE-
The s.s. Hoki Maro brought 93 Japs for
various Q. ports. Of what strain will be the next
generation of the Land of Mongrelia ?
We reply on scientific, mining or general
•matters for Is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you have money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
H. : “Moses, Jesus, and Mahomet are all
strong on fasting, which is quite omitted from
Protestant instruction. If a man wants a stimu-
lant to write, I say try that of hunger, on the ex-
ample of Balzac, Sand, Hugo, and Trollope, while
it is an element in the best work of the war cor-
respondents. Fasting is the Turkish bath of the
inside body. It is hygienic, too, with the great
religious leaders.” Who was it that said: “No
literary career in London for the man who break-
fasts ” ?
A butcher in a Westralian mining town
kept a black gin to mind the sheep—and sometimes
she did the cooking also. While the butcher and
his assistant were away, she was to cook some
sausages for supper, and, finding them good, ate
them all herself. To make more sausages for her
master, she took a piece of steak and cut it up in
thin strips about the length of a fair-sized sausage
and rolled them on her bare leg so as to make
them nice and round. The boss came home and
the sausages were dished up. “Rather tough,”
said the boss to Mary, “ where you bin gettem
sausage?” “Oh,” replied poor unsophisticated
Mary, “me bin makum this way,”—lifting her
dress and rubbing her skinny leg.
At Deal, in Kent (writes a Bulletin
correspondent), there are usually about 1800
marines in barracks. Most of these are mere
lads—recruits undergoing their first eight months
training before being drafted to Portsmouth,
Chatham, and Devonport. At Christmas some
considerable number got drunk and were awarded
the distinction of C.B. “ But, after all,” said an
Australian visitor to the place to a local trades-
man’s wife, “ these jollies seem a very quiet lot;
and I don’t see any women of bad character about
the place—in fact, there appear to be none.”
“ Quite true, sir, there isn’t. This is a very moral
place, is Deal. You see, sir, these ere young
marines only gets about two shillings a week, and
so we isn’t afraid of a-lettin’ our girls go out o’
nights. But in Canterbury, where them cavalry
chaps are, it’s very different. It ain’t a safe place,
is Canterbury, for a respectable girl. Why, some
of them cavalry officers gets as much as seven
shillings a week. ” Now, let a philosopher moralise
on this—two shillings a week to John Smith in
the marines keeps down illegitimacy ; seven shil-
lings a week— and the uniform —increases it. Per-
haps, therefore, there is wisdom in only paying
jollies two bob a week.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —The author, like Sir
Edwin Arnold, who complains because his verse
is sandwiched between a couple of patent-pill
advertisements, shows poor gratitude towards the
advertisers who have made and still are making
money for the writers. The pecuniary rewards
of successful writers nowadays are large because
the profits of successful newspaper-proprietors are
gigantic. The great wits and playwrights of last
century considered themselves lucky if their
works brought them but the necessaries of life
with occasional luxuries, and in those days it was
only the truly great who could earn a living by
his pen alone. Nowadays, almost any intelligent
person can exist as a professional pen-man. For
all this, thanks are due chiefly to the enterprising
advertisers who furnish the staff of life to every
popular magazine or journal published. The
general public or reading fraternity have little to
do with the modern author’s prosperity. The
public is fickle and likes variety; it will buy a
writer’s work only so long as he remains at his
best. It is the ever-faithful advertiser whose
money, invested in a celebrated publication, first
enables the author to make a successful debut
and pays him for his subsequent services,
and whose influence enables him _ to find a
market for the inferior wares of his declining
years. No single writer’s stories can maintain a
popular journal’s circulation and influence. It is
his incorporation with those of his rivals and
superiors in the advertisers’ sheet that gives him
long life and prosperity.— Laege Adveetisee.
RKrTTSC^fr?.
imm
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for is. 6cl.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
FredL Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Medical.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
IQUOR
HABIT
L
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
V s
kH
—DESTROYS—
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
I For the House, Conservatory
and G-arden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from t
Moth. >
Fids Dogs, Cats, and Fowls of c
Parasites. >
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. - Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
a
C/&
m
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s u Parrot Brand.”
The muim store, s«.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
823" Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
Hairdressers and wicmakeks
To tlie Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 682 George Street, Sydney.
The Smelting' Co.
of Australia, Ltd.
Managing Director: JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—Mutual Life Buildings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been established at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will he tested
for the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
I Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Celebrated
pOKER MACHINE
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
W CIGARS FRE
- I__T I I == I\ '■
DROP 3‘7 IN THESLO
HOME ROLE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia.
Pl'ice - £5.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.’’
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Gough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W.’’
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and w'e certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.’’—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. Gr. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
POSITION l
Peafoess
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
10 YEARS!
With an increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing’ we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Francisco, U.S.A., or W.
Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
“Dr. PIERCE’S
Galvanic Chain Belt.”
A perfect Electric Body-Battery
for curing all Diseases. It im-
parts vigor and strength where
medicines fail. “Pamphlet
No. 2” contains full information.
Write for it, enclosing 2d. in
stamps. Address: MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San
H. SOUL & CO., 158 and 268


DAWSON
STEWA
Sydney Establishment—the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. ValCie. Woi)derf£ii Selectioo.
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
Pirst ixx Elegance. rirat ixx :B,x3ixxe33 Tioao xxx-oea. Fir3t lax r-cxlpxxlexx-ity.
412 George Street, and Strand, Sydney, NS.W.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
Solid Silver'Cloth BRUSH, 734 in., 17s. 6d.
m
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
u
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH,
Bjin. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH,
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
66.
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s. ; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
to
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
ill Is.
15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Ladi s’ ALBERT, 9cft. Gold, £2 25.;
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
ISot. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Surf
fijHSHjra
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
A-
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, b.'st Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—10in., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s. ; 14in., £3 ss.
am
Uegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
lis
i/
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £6 6s
T'n’f-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ot. Gold, £8 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
Oct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Oct. Gold, £2 10s. ; lfict. Gold, £4 7s. ed.
Oct. Gold, £1155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, B}4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, ills.;
15ct. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
15ot. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d..
mSßsm
s*.i
LiZasMlifflWlfiiill
:>
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock anu
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
MWIK*WIP i *Si
llllPlnllif
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, ill ss.
n
Elegant Diamond STAR, 1 50. Similar sizes at
*.30 to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
9
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, t 7 12s. Od
©piiiiii
Q
,9L
jjjj- if
X?
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ ISct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s. ;
ditto Silver ditto, 2 ills.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE. —The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS, have never been approached.
Over Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishment is a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, KLKG AAT, and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney, JN.S.W.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of GCOft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Tl)€ Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING.
And. see tnat you get it,.
*7
PROOF
°N EY^
Uur Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
L9SHGHT BROS. * CO.
LIMITED.
m®.
■m
m
MB
mmm
UMH
m
\ PROOF//A;
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on applicawn.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb CbanjberS, Bligb-St., Sydney
Works
Cbisv/ick, Parranjatta Riycr.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
“The Wicked Flea.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Proverbs xxviii. 1.)
There’s a gully in the foot-hills, just beyond the
mountain rains,
Where the tableland is merging in the big and
black-soil plains ;
There they raise the greenish copper-stone —those
busy human bees —
Some forcible profanity and many billion fleas.
Those fat and fighting fleas ! —they nibble where
they please ;
They’re always feeding furiously —they rob you of
your ease.
Up your blessed legs they sneak and nip you till
you squeak ;
They’ve jaws like any bulldog, have the fleas of
Copper Creek.
You are speaking of your prospects and the water
that you lack,
When an old man tries to burrow in the hollow of
your back.
Then you say a little collect and you back ag’in a
post,
And you rub and pray with vigor till he antes-
up the ghost.
But his mates arrive in seas and they harry and
they teaze ;
They’re swarming in your breeches, but the deuce
a one you’ll seize.
Begad ! they’ll make you speak ; they’ll make you
preach in Greek—
They stimulate devotion, do the fleas of Copper
Creek.
Sometimes they have their races—you can feel
them start and stop ;
They’re stayers, yes, and clever —you can’t catch
’em on the hop.
They’ve a bit of blood inside ’em, and their breed-
ing can’t be matched—
And yet they’ll have a flutter, though they’ve only
just been scratched.
Then they settle down to feed—you rehearse your
solemn creed
That all hoppers go to Hades, for then it’s Hell
indeed ;
Old Nick will groan in pique for his tortures tame
and weak,
When Shed’s gates are opened to the fleas of
Copper Creek.
When you seek your bunk at evening, exhausted
by your graft,
Prepare to meet your boarders, for they’ll storm
you fore and aft;
Then you ask for many blessings that you’d never
get in Heaven,
And you catch and squeeze a lodger till you make
him chuck the seven ;
But the others all show fight, and they gnaw and
tear and bite —
You’ve only got to scratch and itch and yearn for
morning light;
For each one’s got a beak that will go through
steel and teak,
So what’s a cuticle before the fleas of Copper
Creek ?
When, perhaps, a little slumber comes before
you’re quite insane,
You dream of fleas as big as bulls, and bugs as
big again.
One has grabbed you for a mouthful and you see
his pointed teeth,
When you wake and note your bedding disap-
pearing underneath.
(From your carcase they will yank it; they will
mosey with your blanket;
And then it’s dash and blank it, and condemn the
gaudy fleas:
From your hut you rush and shank it; if Hell
opened you would thank it,
For they’ve tapped your blood and drank it, and
they’ve only left the lees.)
O ! we catch them here in traps, but we meet with
some mishaps,
For they downed a man the other day—we’ll get
his bones, perhaps.
They’re full of vice and cheek ; they’d eat you in
a week;
They’re real holy terrors, are the fleas of Copper
Creek !
CECIL POOLE.
Copper Creek, Bingara, N.S.W.
“Out Back.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Dusr-storms ? ” queried the old hand, talking to
the new-chum, as a solid-looking bank of dust
rolled towards them. “Oh, that ain’t a dust-
storm —leastways, nothing to speak of.”
Then a pause and a puff. “Now, we did have
a storm last September twelve month,” he con-
tinued. “ I was dam-sinkin’ on Netallie and
drivin’ a horse-scoop, when it come on—a cloud
like that, only thicker. We met. Of course all
was darkness. Then them horses pulled like
blazes. We kep’ goin’up and up. ‘Damn it,’ I
says, ‘ I never noticed this bank so steep before.’
Then we started to go down sharp, at a trot.
Over the scoop goes. Then down and down.
‘Strike me,’ says I, ‘this bank’s high enough to
hold water enough for the whole flamin’ station.’
Then we bottomed it with a jolt.
“ Just at that minute the sky cleared. I looked
back at the cloud still sweeping on, and stouch me
if there wasn’t our tracks clean over it ! ”
“Bad,” the new-chum said, encouragingly.
“ ’Myes ; but I had the luck to meet it, you see.
If I’d ’a’ been goin’ with it we’d ’a’ been flattened
out under it like wax matches under a injun.”
Then the storm, that was only a pretence at a
storm, came on them, and they covered their heads
with their blankets.
RED-BACK.
A Tale of Nine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a railway-camp, after the evening
meal; and a group of more or less contented men
had gathered round one of the fires, engaged in
“swopping ” yarns and burning tobacco. A lank
and sad-faced man stood a little apart—a new-
comer. He was interested in the conversation,
although his gaze would now and then stray away
from the group and seek out a lighted tent on the
other side of the creek, on the canvas side of
which a woman’s figure was clearly outlined. By-
and-bye a remark attracted his attention. He
drew near, an eager expression on his face.
“ Yes, you’re right, old man,” he broke in,
“there is sich a thing as luck. I know.” The
man addressed nodded approval ; one or two
sceptics, younger than the others, smiled pity-
ingly ; the rest of the group appeared mildly in-
terested. The new man was not discouraged.
“Aye, luck there is, all right. Listen here!
My luck as a young chap was mostly bad. It
changed when I got married though. ’Twas then
I found out I’d a lucky number. Nine it is.
Knew the missus nine weeks ; married her on the
ninth of the month ; missed the train we was
goin’ away by and had to wait nine hours for the
next ”
‘ ‘ Any porters about ? ” queried one of the young
men. The group was amused. The narrator let
the interruption pass unheeded.
“The train we missed,” he continued, “was
smashed up by another one —you’ve heard tell of
the Burro way smash-up? That proved it. Yes,
nine’s my lucky number right enough.”
The other believer in luck was interested. He
leant forward. “ Has it stuck to you all through,
matey ? ” he asked. “ How’s your luck been ever
since ? ”
The lank man reflected. The canvas in the dis-
tance reflected other figures now—two small ones
with clasped hands and upturned faces.
“ Well, no,” he admitted, reluctantly, “ it ain’t.
Leastways, I dunno. I’ve got a, good missus and
two kids—l’ve buried six ; the times has been out-
of-the-way bad ever since, that’s all.”
One of the sceptics laughed immoderately. The
man’s faith tickled him. The lank man eyed him
for a moment sorrowfully, then turned slowly
away in the direction of his tent. Luck’s advo-
cate rose and followed him. Together they
walked a little way in silence. Then the lank
man said, “ I was a fool to say anything
about it there, but I couldn’t help myself. I felt
I had to say it, but that jackass spoilt it. You’ll
understand, though.” And then he told his com-
panion that he had great faith in the future. He
had only started work in the quarry on Monday,
and the number he had allotted him was
nine. Wasn’t that a good sign? Yes, and
more! Within the next couple of days, all
going well, his ninth child would be born.
This was to be the turning-point in his fortunes.
His lucky number! In the morning he was
going to get up early and get aboard the “up
goods” that passed the quarry siding at five
o’clock —it generally slowed down a little there —
and go to the township ahead to see if he could
get a “ handy-woman ” to come and see the missus
through her trouble. Thus they came to the tent,
and parted.
* * + *
“Half the ropes on these brake-vans are
well rotten,” said the boss of the fettlers on the
length the following morning, as he superintended
the placing of a much-mangled figure on a hastily-
improvised litter. “ It’s a damned disgrace,
that’s what it is.”
The five o’clock “goods” had passed a couple
of hours ago : it had not slowed down, however ;
the piece of rotten rope in the victim’s hands ex-
plained everything. The fettlers raised the litter,
the ganger took up a position alongside, and the
little procession set off in the direction of the
camp. Halfway there they stopped to change
hands. .Tust then the figure showed signs of life.
They raised the head and moistened the dried
lips with a little cold tea.
“ Run —over —wasn’t 1 ? ”
“ Yes,” they told him.
“ By No. 9 goods,” the ganger added, with strict
Governmental attention to detail.
The man raised himself almost erect. “ You —
don’t say? No. 9, eh? Then that—accounts.
Any other—would ha’—killed me. That’s my—
lucky— number.” He sank back exhausted. The
ganger bent over and wiped the blood from his
lips.
The procession moved on. Within a few yards
of the victim’s tent Luck’s advocate of the pre-
vious night encountered it. He broke the news
to the widow.
L. R. MACLEOD.
J. Fdnie Brown, Parkes’s appointee, who
was rather unceremoniously cold-shouldered out
of N.S. Wales, seems to have settled down for a
long spell in Westralia. When appointing him
Conservator of Forests there the Govt, told him
he could remain while the timber for export lasted.
Ednie’s latest report says the supply will last 200
years.
A Frenchman, visiting London, describes
his business-call upon the head of the house of
Rothschild :
A long passage, narrow and dark, brings you to an
obscure old mansion. The lane (St. Swithin’s) reminds
one of Venice, and the Baron spends his days there.
Every day he sits at his table from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. No
chairs are provided for visitors (Arons editor Haddon’s
plan); standing discourages long interviews. The paralysis
in liis legs is in sharp contrast to the activity of his mind.
The face is a fine one, but the impression of it that abides
is of something inexorable as a mathematical calculation.
It is by gaslight that you visit this pawnshop for crowned
heads.


Deep-seated Disease and Tortuous Pain Uprooted and Hxpelled
. . BY . .
ms? PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE.
5250 ABSOLUTE CUBES EFFECTED AFTER HOSPITALS
wnd PHYSICIANS UTTERLY FAILED.
A General’s Daughter.
CURED OF RHEUMATIC AND NEURALGIC PAINS,
ANAEMIA, NERVOUS HEADACHE, AND GENERAL
WEAKNESS BY DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
(Erom the Hampshire Independent.)
“ There is nothing more interesting, nay, fascinating, than the
fta.lV of our brave defenders, who have served their Queen and
country in far-distant lands. To talk with an Indian officer,
hearing his reminiscences and
adventures, is what those who
have enjoyed it always appre-
ciate. Consequently (writes a
special reporter of the Hamp-
shire Independent) _ I was
delighted to receive instruc-
tions to interview Lieutenant-
General Shaw, who has won
his spurs in India, and is now
living in honorable retirement.
The General’s house is the
model of a haven of rest. En-
closed in its own grounds, it
rests beneath the shadow of
the sacred edifice from which
it obtains its name, ‘ The
Vicarage.’ In the trees were
nests of sweet songsters, who
are never disturbed. But there
was no time to wax poetic. I
had grasped the bell-pull and
given it one tug when the door opened and the General stood before
me. You knew he was a soldier at once. His manly, upright bear-
ing, his smile, his pleasant voice—all told you that you stood in
the presence of one of Nature’s gentlemen. He ushered me in and
at once put me at my ease by his affable conversation.
“‘I am afraid,’he said, ‘ that you have come a long distance ;
but let me know the precise object of your visit.”
“ I explained to the General that I was most anxious, with
his consent, to obtain some explanation as to the narrow escape I
had heard his daughter had recently experienced.
“At that he brightened visibly. ‘You must know,’ he said,
* I’m just a bit of an enthusiast on this point; but the tale is very
short. Nearly two years ago my daughter—the one you referred
to —came home from India, and when I joined her in London I
found her ill in bed. She had rheumatic and neuralgic pains ; she
was perfectly bloodless, listless, and in a generally weak and pros-
trate condition. We called in a doctor, and lam bound to say
that he succeeded in getting her out of bed; but she was still
absolutely colorless, was in great wretchedness, and suffering from
what I should call anaemia or bloodlessness. She had a kind of
fever, nervous headache, and other pains. Well, we went to
Bembridge, in the Isle of Wight, and there I first heard of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Indeed, I was recom-
mended to try them, and I did so. My daughter took the first
(£*■-
'i'W,
•i.-v
Lieutenant-General Shaw.
box, and they had a marvellous effect upon her. She regained her
color; she lost her pains; and became altogether different, and
after she had been taking them some time she came in one day
after her walk and said to me, ‘ Why, father, I feel quite a glow
through me.’ She went on taking the Pills, and I am glad to tell
you that she recovered completely. I recommended Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills to all with whom I came in contact, and all who took
them derived great benefit therefrom. We came to live at
Shanklin, and just now my daughter has had another attack. She
resorted again to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and
she is getting better very rapidly.’
“‘You said, General,’ I remarked, ‘that you heard of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People at Bembridge. Would you
mind telling me how that came about ? ’
“ ‘ Oh, yes,’ he replied. ‘ I have a sister at Jersey, and she
has taken them for a very long time, and has always recommended
them to other people, and found them to do her a great deal of
good, and all to whom she has recommended them have been
benefited ; and I myself, when I have heard of people being ill,
have taken them or sent them some of these Pills.’
“ ‘ With what result ? ’ I asked.
“‘ Well,’ was the reply, ‘my daughter’s recovery was due to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People without a doubt. Their
effects were marvellous, and I did not speak without first ascer-
taining the facts. I have had a great deal to do with medical men
in this country and in India, and they laugh at the idea that
patent medicines cure any disease. But I have given you this
case, and that I know; I won't deal with any beyond my own
personal experience and knowledge further than to say I believe
the results to have been satisfactory.’
“ ‘ Then, I may say, General, that your daughter’s recovery
was attributable to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills ? ’
“ ‘Decidedly,’replied the General, ‘and, as I said, I have
heard of other cases of a similar character, but into them I will
not go, as I prefer only to tell you what I know to be true from my
own personal observation.’
“ ‘ In the second place,’ I said, ‘ may I make your name public
as giving me the information? Your name and standing would
show how valuable is the testimony.’
“ * Oh,’ replied the General, ‘ I see no reason for withholding
it. Yes, you may publish it, and I wish I could have given you
more information.’ ”
EIGHTEEN MONTHS AFTER.
It may be interesting, and it is certainly important, to record
that this remarkable cure proved permanent. The events de-
scribed in the above interview occurred a year and a half ago.
Miss Shaw has been personally visited at her father’s house at St.
Leonards, within the last few days, and remains in robust and
perfect health.
For Female Troubles.
Pure blood is the secret of health and beauty. The features
may be regular, the form perfect, but no woman can be beautiful
in the full sense of the word while suffering from any of the
peculiar ailments of her sex. Disease destroys the complexion, is
productive of wrinkles and premature old age. Regular monthly
action is necessary to every woman’s health, and if this
function of life is checked, disease, a pale and sallow com-
plexion, and a feeling of exhaustion, are the result. The action
must continue from puberty to the turn of life without un-
natural obstruction. Any breach of this law of nature will result
in the distressing symptoms which make the lives of seven-tenths
of the women of this country miserable, almost unbearable. A
few of these symptoms are severe headaches, loss of appetite,
pale or sallow complexion, palpitation of the heart, swollen
ankles or legs, nervousness, offensive breath, &c. The sufferer
may exhibit one or more of these symptoms, or may have
u’ !l< ‘.y simply indicate the ravages disease has made upon
the system, and the more of these symptoms the patient shows,
the greater the necessity for prompt and persistent treatment,
untd they have been banished, and the bloom of health has been
restored. To accomplish this end Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
the only unfailing remedy. They positively cure all suppressions
and irregularities, which, if neglected, inevitably entail sickness
and trouble. By taking these pills for a week or ten days
before the expected return of each period, prompt appearance
is ensured. For suppressions, the pills must be taken steadily
until the reappearance takes place generally in a month’s
time, sometimes less. Follow the directions in the pamphlet
about each box. Nursing women will find their milk improved in
quality and quantity by taking these pills, and also obtain relief
from the pain in the back and generally dragged-out feeling. All
displacements from weakness of the Uterine Ligaments are
speedily relieved and ultimately cured by the faithful use of these
pills. Leucorrhcea, bearing down, weight in the pelvis, and all
female weakness find speedy relief and cure in the administration
of the Pink Pills for Pale People.
am
FOR
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous cases of paraly-
sis, locomotor ataxy, spinal disease, rheumatism, and sciatica ;also
of diseases arising from impoverishment and vitiated humors of
the blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic erysipelas, con-
sumption of the bowels, and lungs, ancemia, pale and sallow com-
plexion, general muscular weakness, loss of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay, all forms of
female weakness, and hysteria. These Pills are not a purgative.
They are genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr. William 3
Medicine Company, Sydney, who will forward, post paid, on re-
ceipt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dor,en for
14s. 9d. They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.
His Mate’s Wife .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The January sun had blazed down all day upon
Abram Poldew’s three-roomed hessian-lined gal-
vanised-iron cottage; and suffocating dust still
poured in through crevices visible and invisible.
The pattern of the cheap oil-cloth on the floor
was obliterated wherever it had not been worn off
by the four youngsters who scuttled over it.
This was one of Central Australia’s worst days
too bad even for these youngsters to play out of
doors. And partly for this reason their mother,
by nature a woman abominating dirt and disorder,
was utterly worn out and miserable and querulous.
It was 3 o’clock, and she had not yet cut her
man’s “crib,” and he sat waiting uneasily for it.
For this week he was on afternoon shift, working
from 4 o’clock till midnight.
The children, born in unfavorable surroundings
and never out of them, were weakly ; and to-day,
cooped up in the filthy hot-house, they quarrelled
incessantly.
“ Oh, dash these brats ! Can’t you cut this
bread yourself? I’d give something to be a man.
You’ll sneak off into a cool mine, and please your-
self whether you work or smoke. Oh, yes, con-
tractin’s a fine thing—for the man, isn’t it! And
his family doesn’t matter. But me—l’ll have
these howling brats hanging on to me till 9, and
it’ll be dust and sweep till you come home. Then
you must have your sleep till 8 or 9—they’ll be
pestering me at 5. Oh, it’s —it’s —it’s hell—that’s
what it is ! There ! ”
* * * *
The man remembered that the stope where he
must work would be so hot that the sweat would
run from him in streams, and that the lead-dust
and ’fracteur smoke would hang about, sickening
him till he was forced out of the working “ one-
face ”to vomit. Yet he loved the woman, and
was silent—to her great annoyance.
Joe Driver, Poldew’s mate, pushed open the
door and stood within, crib-can in hand. She
took no notice of him.
“ It’s a bad day,” he ventured.
“ Bad? Isn’t it all bad?” she answered, fiercely.
“ It’s hell, or worse ; and only for the children you
wouldn’t find me here when you came off. If you
were half a man ” —this to her husband —“ you’d
get out of it—yes, if you had to work your hands
raw to do it—get to the West, or—or—oh, or any-
where out of this hole.”
A blast of fiery wind filled the room with
dust, and the hessian ceiling and walls flapped
dismally, jarring upon her strained nerves.
“ Listen ! Isn’t it a place to ask a woman to
live in—and have your children in. Haugh ! I’m
dead-sick of it—sick of everything. ”
“ Never mind, old girl; it won’t last for ever,”
he said vaguely, as he put his crib into his can.
He was going to lay his arm encouragingly upon
her shoulders, but she pulled herself back.
“ Never mind ! ” she echoed, with slow savage,
sarcastic emphasis, and then laughed a half-scorn-
ful, half-delirious laugh.
* * » *
They pulled their hats over their eyes and
pushed through the blinding dust - storm in
silence. The fierce heat - blasts scorched their
faces, and the driven dust stung them. Only
when they stood in the lee of the engine-house did
Poldew speak. “ Don’t ever bring a wife to
Silver Gully, Joe,” he said, sadly. “It isn’t fair
to her or the kids.”
They took their two mates’ places on their six-
men’s contract “ pitch,” in which, a separate pair
worked each eight-hour shift.
“ She’s only fairly steady now,” the outgoers
said. “ Might be as well to put in a false set of
timber and keep her wedged up. ’
But Driver heard only the poor passionate
wife’s pleadings to be taken out of the intolerable
heat and dust of Silver Gully ; and he knew that
their only chance of going was for the party to
make “ a bit more than wages.”
He tapped the roof.
“Oh, she’ll do,” he said. For he knew that to
putina “false set” took much tinie, for which
there was no extra payment. If they could take
out a couple of feet more without temporary
timber, it was as good as half a shift apiece to
them.
Yet he was not easy ; he knew the risk, and he
was the mate in charge. He remembered that
Poldew was a married man with youngsters, and,
besides, was the less agile.
“Abe,” he said, “you sort out this stuff the
day-shift threw back, will you, and clean up a
bit.” And he went into the face himself.
* * *
A clatter behind told Driver that the shift-boss
was on his rounds. He drew back, anxious to
engage the boss’s attention, and, if possible, to so
keep him out of the face ; for he knew that other-
wise timber would be ordered in.
Poldew had not spoken a word ; but he went at
his work with a resolute energy which Driver
understood. And now, when Driver suddenly
came back out of the face, Poldew stepped in,
took up the pick and swung it vigorously. At
the second blow the fall came.
He was gasping when they dragged him out,
and he died on the flat as they waited for the
cage.
The jury said that Abram Poldew came to his
death by his own neglect, and that on the witness
Driver’s own evidence he too was guilty of
neglect which, in their opinion, amounted almost
to manslaughter, and they absolved the company’s
officials from all blame.
And the coroner severely lectured Driver ; and
the owners’ newspaper remarked that it was
another instance of the cupidity of workmen, com-
bined with their folly in defying and setting at
nought the wholesome rules of the mine.
* * * *
Driver, full of anguish, followed the body to
the morgue; and in that gloomy vault he came
face to face with the dead man’s wife.
She sprang towards him.
“You wretch—you cowardly wretch! You—
you left him to take the danger—you without
ties, and him with a family ; you sent him in to
take the risk while you stood back ! Oh, you
sneak ! you mean, selfish, cowardly cur ! You a
mate ! ”
And she threw her arms upon the slab, and
buried her face and her sobs.
' Yet how could he tell her the truth, even if she
would listen—tell her that she had driven them
both to it!
“ Amounted almost to manslaughter!” she com-
mented on the verdict. “It was murder—a
cowardly murder ! ”
P.
A late visitor declares that the aspect of
the country around Illawarra must remind every-
one who has seen Tipperary of that portion of
fighting Ireland. But hardly ever is begorrah
heard in the land, and never a shillelah raps a
skull. What a waste of beautiful country !
Down in Honolulu.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas down in Honolulu,
Way off one night afar,
The sea-breeze coinin’cooler
Across the coral bar,
When Lulu’s eyes were brighter
Than any girl’s I knew,
When Lulu’s teeth were whiter
Than any coral, too.
Oh, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
My warm Pacific pearl,
My lovely, lively Lulu—:
My own Kanaka girl.
I kissed her for her mother,
I gev’ her one, two, three ;
I squoze her for her brother
’Twas all the same to me.
The moon went settin’, later,
Below the mango trees,
One horn towards the crater,
One pointin’ to the. seas.
Oh, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
I taste them kisses still;
That tropic moon’s a-settin’
Beyond the darkened hill.
For, oh ! your heart was beat in’,
For, oh ! your breath was sweet,
And you was good for eatin’,
If gals was good to eat.
And, oh ! your lips was cherry,
And, oh ! your teeth was white —
I’ve tried in vain to bury
The memory of that night.
Ah, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
I’d give my life, I vow,
To live that starlight over,
I know I loved you now.
We heard the ripples feelin’
The white edge of the sand,
The good, kind music stealin’—
That Yankee war-ship’s band ;
I never hear them playin’
That old star-spangled air
But ’neath the trees I’m layin’,
And you, my girl, are there.
Oh ! Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
Wherever you may be,
That old “Star-spangled Banner”
Still brings you back to me.
The sea-breeze, perfume-laden,
It rustled through the palms
The night, the night I laid in
Your warm, soft, twining arms.
You swore to love me ever,
I swore to love you true
Forever an’forever—
The way we used to do.
Oh ! Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
’Twas years and years ago ;
I don’t forget it, somehow,
Although I ought, I know.
We heard the Chinkies prattle
Way up in China Town.
We heard the hawse-chains rattle
That let the anchor down,
“Eight bells,” I hear them falling—
The Yankee’s bugles blow,
“ Eight bells,” the bosun’s calling—
Dear Love, I’ve got to go.
Oh, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
Don’t cling so awful tight;
The old man’s got his papers,
Good-bye ! Ah, no ! good night.
I feel your arms still clinging—
Oh, what’s the use to cry ?
It’s “Homeward Bound” they’re sinking
I’ll come back by-and-bye.
Eight bells ! It’s done and over ;
While ships still sail the sea,
A sailor man’s a rover—
Good-bye, and think of me.
Oh, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
I broke the sailor’s vow ;
I want to live it over,
I know I loved you now.
’Twas down in Honolulu,
Way back in other years,
I left you, lovely Lulu,
The starlight and the tears.
But, oh, your face was fairer
Than any face I’ve met,
And oh, your charms were rarer
Than any woman’s yet.
And, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu,
Wherever you may be,
My brown Kanaka Lulu—
Do you remember me ?
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BRAHY.
History is getting to be vulgarised by
slang. When Cecil Rhodes received news of the
failure of the Rand raiders, he bowed his head and
murmured, “ Poor old Jameson has upset my
apple cart.”
A r ic. Labor-member Prendergast is often a
wearisome and gaseous politician, but lie has pro-
bably done more good work in enforcing the
minimum-wage law than any other man in the pro-
vince. In course of time, no doubt, the local boss
will grow accustomed to the new order of things
and acquiesce in it from force of habit, but at [ire-
sent the enforcement of the minimum wage is an
uphill struggle. And Prendergast does°inost of
the fighting, with very little reward except the
whole-souled hatred of the bell-toppered class in
general.
N. : “I am informed that the Salvation
Army, in Australia, has heaps of money invested.
It appears in print, somewhere, that Mr. Hubert
Booth proposes to pay off the balance due of the
<£19,500, on the Melb. Y. M.C.A. Hall, at one
gulp. He buys the Model Lodginghouse for
£5OOO, and has actually been making inquiries re
tlie purchase of Coppin’s Our Lodgings, a bigger
place, in Little Bourke-street. Meanwhile, the
bulk of the officers work for little or no wages. It
is alleged the top-sawyers don’t get big screws, but
they are paid.”
A Record for a Sovereign.— Hordern’s
in Pitt-street sovereign blankets break a record
for sterling value, and the fact that they are for-
warded without extra cost to any town in New
South Wales should induce residents in the
country districts of New South Wales to send for
a pair.—Hordern Brothers, Government Con-
tractors, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Telegraphic address simply : “ Hordern
Brothers.”


«
Ares/i/A
44
99
Aflif mate Ljfe woriti i/v//rf.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
will cure you
“WHILE YOU WAIT.”
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
f HAVE YOU A COLD? 1
A DOSE at BEDTIME W ILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
h- ■* c TfX lt for a Cold -'
'Try itfor Whooping-Cough
“• in Mopping m, oough »„d
ADA FLETCHER, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
lIIA/1 iVAVIVCI
'JtagTortic.
a«g|Ss£Ss~:iSp '
• BIBBER °. Professor of Swimming, 416 Mile End Road, London
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try if for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OYvBRDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d„ is. 6d.
and lls., by all Chemists and Patent ’
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., .11 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OP SIX
%
%
IMCiols. Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HATMAEKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASA NT, NATIVE ROSE CAN’T
ei6hts ’ bully legerT
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
LMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA LA
T oKp ’ (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIIE (1. I) e Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &o.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment,
it3T Goods forwarded to
cheaper and better than
any part of Australia on receipt of remittance,
any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
The Trade supplied
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HA YJUAJIk ET, SYDNEY.
The
MISFITPARLOR,
Regd.
BEWARE of UNSCRUPULOUS INDIVIDUALS who are trying 1 to IMITATE rnv rraatt\
th, public b.v nmkinp >«,,„« they ™
SYDNEY BUSINESS IS LOCATED IN \Y YNYARD STREET ONLY,
no sSitaul Tt pres^Vt^
SHOPPING BIT POST.
PLEASE NOTE SOME OF MY
BargaiQS :
BREECH-.LOADING GUNS, 605., worth £lO. MOSELEY’S BEST KNIVES 9d worth 9. a*
MEN'S WATERPROOF COATS, WITH CAPES AND VELVET 'oT/IIhS. ’itJ' 6 T . or th Ms,
Watches and Chains , 7s. 6d. ; perfect Timekeepers.
STERLING SILVER WATCHES, 15s. 6d.
BEST QUALITY TEA, 80s. Chest of 401 b., and 10s. Chest of 121 -
Pr.FA.tIW RT?AP WII A m TV/TTT HI t T ~
£2 BALE.
PI,EASE READ WHAT MY MARVELLOUS BALES COMPRISE :
MY WONDi RFUL
£2
£2.
Six Pairs MEN'S SOCKS, Two NECKTIES, Two IEINDKERCHHM^
One Set of STUDS, One HAT (either Soft or Hard Felt) iIAJNDKLRCHIEFS.
? n ®|? a *£ BRA OES or BELT, One Pair BOOTS or SHOES
A GENTLEMAN’S RIG-OUT FROM HEAD TO FOOT FOR TWO (2) POUNDS
£2.
JBI.
MY WODERFUL XI BALE. £1
NO. I.—MY DRESS BALE contains THREE DRESSES and LININGS « r
Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-wool Serge and Nun’s Veiling 12 yards Pr^/T 2 D £f 8 J', en F ths of New
Body Lining, and 6 yards White Calico, 20s. the lot. g y d fG od Pnnt » 8 yards Silesia, yards
1
2i yards Cream Linen Dainask ; } dozen White Turkish Towels ■fi viids I in»n \ lannelette, wide width, soft finish ;
NO. 3.-MY MARVELLOUS LADIES’ UNDERCLOTING RAIF™" Apr ° n Gowla « : a f?»nd 20s. worth.
**-SaSU c£
costing over 2s. 9d. per yard double-width. Together with sufficient of ,n ?i I n . fact ’ from materials
- 4
Mark, and Inwardly Digest :-6 Balance handled Table Knil es ■ o o.o! J V I ® poo , r ? s ’, Porks - «*c-. etc. Read,
>< "v« ‘.Jii+'.i y o , A opicnu
With Amazement I Read On.
J4-hour and hour, Cathedral Gong,
Comb; 1 Tooth Brush ; 1 Purse; 1 *„.»,.».»«» < > , . - -
6 Boxes Assorted Perfumed Soap, each containing 3 Tablets. THIS MARVELLOUS WORTH
K@r- DELIVERY FREE THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WAT PS u , )ITT J £3 FOR £h
_ HALES to where RAIL or BOAT CAN TAKE THEM.
Nathan Herman,
Universal . .
. . Provider
9 WYNYARD STREET (next Bank of New South Wales), SYDNEY,


*V.»
pabce”
* jjubee’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacco •
nists and Clubs ol Australia.
m
E-*
Ballet (airl,
with 22 racy iilustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free 1/-%
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MAD AM FAS List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
Wortl)ii)gtoi) Ptsnjpif)
isje Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, X.S.W.
VICTORIA: Welch, Perrin & Co., Moray-street, South
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Brisbane.
Agencies:
ASM AN IA: T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND : E. Porter k Co.. Qonen-rt.. ~and.
J. AnueesON, Canterbury Foundry, Cl. no church.
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
S CITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION,
SINKING,
MINING,
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
W OOL-SCOURIN G,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-FILLING,
BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices oh application.
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
ta 1 £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-sU (opp. llargaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1028.
tw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Tl OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onlv at 78 New Oxford-st., I d m. (W’ Pur-
chas -rs should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Artieh >. Supplying all the principal places of ey with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.'
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) P 2 King 1 Street and 23 Royal Arcade-tor
AFTE INOON TEA.
Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT AIM ENT lON.
H. PATESON, Manager.
j\.gentß Every wb.ere.
u <.—•**
ARKE & LACY COMPANY, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MACHINERY, STEAM BKTG-IKTBS & ZJOXXjXjEIS.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
Sample Grinders. Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Krom Rolls.
HENDYS CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Agitators.
Blast Furnaces.
Triumph C\ u - utrators.
Cru.sb.itig MacHinery.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers
' Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers.
Amalgamating Machinery.
Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator.
Heater.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier.
Roaatine; and CHloridizing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES.
Concentrating Macliinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners.
b Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
Hoisting lVXei.cla.xru ery.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Humping Machinery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines. Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compound Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Hock Drill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &c., &c.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyctt & Smith s Fas
’ for Ventilating Purposes.
Water Wheels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for .di pr,rp»e
Caldwell’s Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery ar.d Srppii. -.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
Por every Class of Work. Agents Everywhere.
Battio’s Bafclng Powder .
Soetle of Advertising
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An kxtha discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~ ~ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PBICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
W T^ £T -fx^/ LL KINDS Of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
I-N L LiNZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bennington’s.
