

McEWAN’S ALB.
QAELIO WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. C3r> WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— %
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BmSCOErDRYSDALE^
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
Our Kindred Houses are—BRISCOE and CO., Melbourne; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin;
BRISCOE, MACNI.IL and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BRISCOE and SONS, London.
• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
% o gr
<RAc{aJocK>
CjJXU
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, anti Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbknt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
~ Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Good. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
TEACHERS’ HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, GEORGE Md^MAKKET
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
Before viyih'ng fhe (ify write to the Manager for
Orel of Tariff, (prrejpondence prompfly amended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BRISBA.3XTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
THE - -
6rosV*QorNot*l,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDNEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
77gU//wi4
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., Hel., Is.
Stocks of Grindery at
” Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
j C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
W * TANNERS,
162 Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
|3)oj| 0)110.10,
Lafte
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
P\)r.'ect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Poverty Pointers;
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
——
Hadley’s Orient hotel.
THE ,, HORNSBY-AKROYtfI
FIXED
PORTABLE
Both First Prizes RASE(SIOo]
R Hornsby&Sons L°Grantham
Henry Simon,
MEADOWBANK,
THE LEADING MILLING ENGINEER,
(Branch of Manchester Firm)
Has recently been appointed agent for the HORNSBY
AKROYD OIL ENGINE.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
ii Prose and Yerse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CKaARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Voi 18.—No. 919. j
[Saturday, September 25, 1897.
hegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Bulle-
tin' ; price, Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Waning ; price, 25. ; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to vs for any Book or Magazine you want.
A Gr. STEPHENS,
* AGENT
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal
All work involved between Author and Pub
Usher.
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“ rjIHE BULLETIN ” PUBLICATIONS.
A GOLDEN SHANTY; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
cc
PUNCH”
Has i ecently issued a clever skit on the advertising mania. There is nothing more likely to
make a man get up and kick himself than to commence a sub-leader on the Federal Convention
and eventually find himself literally in a lather of “Pelican Moonbeam Soap." There is plenty
of space for advertising without monopolising reading matter. There is only one justification,
and that is when an article is to be brought before the public of such sterling value as
CAMEO CIGARETTES
THE BED PAGE OF AUSTRALASIAN NOTES AND QUERIES.
[lt is desired to collet* information from all manner of
readers and observers on all manner of curious and in-
teresting subjects. A not-exclusive preference will be
given to notes and queries especially Australasian, or kin
with Australasian, in their origin and reference—parti-
cularly to those dealing with aboriginal life and language,
natural history, white-Australasian language, customs,
exploits and typical developments, characteristic old-
time anecdotes, and so on. Brevity of statement is
essential. Writers must observe the ordinary correspon-
dence conditions. The help of Bljlle in readers every-
where is asked in recording some of many valuable facts,
impressions, or experiences which may otherwise be lost
to our country. Notes may be forwarded on any interes
ing topic not necessarily relating to something alread;
in print. Queries may be suggested; and any relevai;
information will be welcome in reply, even if not precise!
answering. Contributions must be endorsed 'Notes anc
Queries/ and if dealing with matters previously referred
to the number of note or query and date of issue must b
added. All references to books should state title, author
publisher, date of publication, place where publishec
and pages quoted from ; and all records of persona
experience should give date and place of occurrenc
(province, district, miles from nearest post-town), anc
other helpful details.]
40.— Aboriginal Hock Paintings .
So far as I am aware, the first account of th
discovery of rock paintings in any part of thi
continent is contained in Capt. M. Flinders
‘Voyage to Terra Australis,’ vol. ii., pp. 188-189
On the walls of a cave at Chasm Island, on th
western side of the Gulf of Carpentaria, Flinder
states that on the 14th January, 1803, he “ founc
rude drawings made with charcoal and something
like red paint, upon the white ground of the rock
They represented porpoises, turtles, kangaroos
and the human hand.’ There was also ‘the repre
sentation of a kangaroo with a file of 32 person
following after it. The third person of the banc
was twice the height of the others, and held in hi
hand something resembling the waddy, or wooden
swprd, of the natives of Port Jackson.’
Aboriginal rock-paintings are executed in three
different ways, which may be called the stencil
the impression, and the outline methods respec
tively. In the stencil method, the palm of the
hand was placed firmly on the rock, with the
fingers and thumb spread out, and the requirec
color—generally pipe-clay, red ochre, or charcoal—
was squirted or blown over it out of the mouth o:
the operator. This manner of drawing was also
adopted in many instances in representing imple
ments of the chase, such as boomerangs, toina
hawks, waddies, &c. In the impression method
the color to be used was mixed with a liquid in i
native vessel, into which the palm of the hanc
was lightly dipped and then pressed against tire
surface of the rock. On the removal of the hanc
the colored imprint was left clearly defined. Ob-
jects to which neither of the preceding methods
Would be applicable were drawn in outline, in the
required colors. In some cases the objects were
merely outlined, in other cases they were colored
all over with awash, whilst in others the space
within the margin of the outlines was shaded by
strokes of color.
In the annexed plate, Fig. 1 represents fpur
hands stencilled in red, two snakes, three lizards,
and part of an iguana, the remainder of the latter
being supposed to have disappeared into a crack
in the rock. The head of one of the snakes is
hidden in a crack in a similar manner. The rest
of the figures comprise two six-legged objects
which I cannot identify, and four straight lines—
three being in one group, and another close
to one of the hands. Fig. 2, which is in the
same cave as Fig. 1, shows two drawings which
may have been intended to represent the sun, an
iguana, a death-adder, four footmarks of birds,
and a small cross. Fig. 3 represents a group ol
25 impressed hands. All the paintings in Figs. 1,
2 and 3 are done in red color on a large rook about
three quarters of a mile southerly from Portion
No. 4, parish of Wilpinjong, county of Phillip.
Fig. 4 delineates three birds, one of which is on
the wing ; a kangaroo., and a dingo or native cat,
all drawn in black colour, in a cave near Portion
No. 33, parish of Wareng, county of Hunter.
Fig. 5 contains three human figures, a kangaroo,
and four objects resembling eels. They are all in
black colour, and are situated near Portion No.
16, parish of Macdonald, county of Hunter. Fig. 6
represents a man and woman apparently dancing
a corroboree, and is drawn in black, red, and
white colours, in a cave near Portion No. 42,
parish of Tollagong, eounr.y of Hunter. The
other drawings represent a human foot, a hand, a
native tomahawk, a boomerang, and a waddy. all
done in stencil, in white color. Fig. 7, which is
locally known among the white settlers as the
‘Devil in the Rock,’ is drawn in deep black in
a small cave close to the Macdonald River, in
the parish of Kindarun, county of Hunter. Mr.
Joseph Merrick told me he had known of this
drawing for the past 70 years, and that it was
therewhen he first came into the district. If any
readers who take an interest in the pictorial art
of a primitive people who are rapidly passing
away, should happen to see or hear of any notable
aboriginal paintings or carvings on rocks, I trust
they will spare half-an-hour to write to ‘The
Bulletin,’describing the drawings and their loca-
tion.—R. H. Mathews, Parramatta.
4. —Marsupial Reproduction.
The following quotation is from an abridgement
of K, E. Jung’s ‘Australia’ (Lond., 1884, pp. 63,
64). —G.G.
Professor Owen observes: ‘I have always connected
with the long droughts in Australia—with the extensive
traots where there are no water, with the difficulty of
obtaining that necessary element of life, the singular
peculiarity of organisation which prevails amongst the
quadrupeds of Australia. No matter whether they burrow
like the wombat, climb like the phalanger, jump like the
kangaroo, trot like the bandicoot, or fly like the petauris
—all these creatures are marsupial. They are creatures
carrying their delicate, prematurely-born young about
with them wherever they go. They have this condition,
viz., a soft, warm, well-lined, portable nursery pocket, or
“ peranebulator.” Take the case of one of our wild
quadrupeds—a fox or a wild-cat; they make their nest,
they have their litter. Suppose it should happen that
they must travel one or two hundred miles to get
a drink of water, and are obliged to leave the little
family at home, where would that family be when the
parent returned from its journey? Why, starved to death.
In order that quadrupeds should be fitted to exist in a
great continent like Australia, where the meteoric con-
ditions are such as to produce the dilemma I have in-
stanced, those quadrupeds must possess an organisation
suited to such peculiar and climatic conditions. And so
it is ; that form of mammalian quadruped in this great
continent, native to it, and born so as to make these
migrations to obtain that necessity of life, has the super-
added pouch and genetic peculiarities, enabling them to
carry their young ones wherever they go. And since we
find that marsupial animals have lived in Australia from
a very remote period, so we may infer that its peculiar
olimate has prevailed during as vast a lapse of time.
ABORIGINAL ROCK PAINTINGS (Paragraph 40).
B.— Ants.
1 have seen blacks on the Maranoa, the hot-bed
of ants—shifting away from the little pests ; and
I heard one old black complimenting the atten-
tive emmet in the real colonial. The odour of the
average black is a mixture of ’possum and euca-
lypt; and as the ant has a natural taste for
’possum and a strong inclination towards habitats
in the hollows of gum-trees—from the bark and
leaves of which it also obtains part of its food-
why should it be antipathetic to the eucalyptus-
’possum-saturated aborigine ?—Werrimee.
• * * *
There is a small red ant known to Q. bushmen
which has a remarkable power of foretelling
floods. Before very heavy rains, the precursors of
big floods, every colony of these ants on low
ground will be seen shifting camp to a higher
level; and even ascending tre.es and carrying their
property with them. The finest weather may be
prevailing at the time ; but when they say ‘ look
out ’ it is wise to heed them. Has this minor
prophet a definite name ?—E.S.S.
41.— The Eagle Hawk.
It is nob generally known that the eagle hawk
constructs a table on which to eat his food. I had
often mistaken these tables for old nests, till one
day I found one in a gidgea tree on the Warri
Warri. The bird was perched on top, feeding.
Under the tree was a mass of bones and feathers.
I climbed up, and was surprised to find that the
supposed nest was a structure of stout, thick
sticks, closely and skilfully interlaced, with a top
almost square and as flat as a board. On it was a
small and half-devoured wallaby. I have climbed
up to and examined many such structures since,
and, as I haye seen several nests of the eagle hawk,
some of which contained young birds, I may
safely assume that these tables are specially con-
structed for eating on. The eagle hawk generally
builds its nest in the top of the highest tree. I
have always found the ‘tables’ in very low trees—
such as the gidgea.—E.S.S.
22.— The Crow.
While riding home one evening I heard a flock
of crows making a great noise in a clump of
mulga. As I approached they took flight, crying
loudly as they flew west. I examined the spot
they had left, and found crow feathers strewn
about for a considerable distance, and the fresh
head and beak of a crow in the midst of them.
From my previous experience U the carrion crow,
I summed matters up thus : They had found their
messmate sick or disabled; had called their fel-
lows, who thereupon examined and tried him, and
found him guilty of the one great offence in crow
law, for which the penalty is death—viz., not being
in a fit condition to commit depredations. Where-
upon they duly and dutifully pecked him to
death, and then ate him with great jubilation.
It seemed to me that they flew off with a prouder
cry than usual; but the incident convinced me
that the crow is the lowest bird in the bush, bar
none.
The crows in the N.E. of N.S.W. have very
dark eyes, and are exceedingly shy. I never saw
a white-eyed crow till I came near to the S.A.
border. Bushmen in the N. W. call these ‘South
Australians.’ Their cry is different from that of
the eastern crows, and they are very bold, and
afflicted with an appetite that nothing in creation
can appease. Queenslanders in the far west abhor
the souud of the crow, hate the sight of him, and
loathe the very mention of him. I have seen Q.
drovers leave their dinner to pelt sticks at one
that dared to quark in their hearing.—E.S.S.
50.— Deaf Adders.
I assume that, thanks to M'Cooey and others,
most people are persuaded that the adder has no
sting m its tail. But it has, I think, never been
explained why the adder doubles up at the
slightest touch—diving, as it were, both with head
and tail at the interfering object ? This habit is
largely responsible for the one-time popular belief
that adders had stings in their tails. To my
knowledge no other snake does it. On in-
quiry a year or two ago at Dubbo, N.S.W., snake-
hunter and showman Antonio, well-known in the
back-country, gave me this explanation : “ Deaf-
adders differ mainly from all other Australian
snakes in their muscular system. When black,
brown, tiger and other snakes bite or are ready to
bite they flatten their heads, and thereby put a
muscular pressure upon the little poison-bags un-
derlying each fang. This pressure is required to
force the poison into the pipes of the teeth ready
for injection. Deaf-adders lack these head
muscles, and consequently have to tighten ( i.e.
double up) their whole bodies to put the required
pressure upon the poison bags and squirt the
substance into the fangs.” “ Professor ” Antonio
had, by the way, a fine collection of live black,
brown and other snakes. One old man black snake
with red belly was 7ft. 4in. long. “I camped
three weeks near Tumut, N.S.W., to catch that
fellow, remarked the man of serpents. —6 xB.
34.— Squatter.
Webster’s Unabridged,’ 1886, derives ‘squat-
ter from the verb ‘ squat, 5 to sit down with hams
on heels, mentioning Old, Middle and Provincial
English verbs ‘quat,’ ‘squat,’ &c., with same
meaning. Squat’ undoubtedly is from Lat.
coacto through the Old French quattir. In the
United Kingdom a squatter is a man who settles
on or jumps without title common or moorland.
Hence the U.S. usage of ‘squatter’ for a man
who settles on new or public land without a title.
Ihe Gentury Dictionary ’ and the 1892 ‘Webster’
note the special application in Australia of ‘ squat-
ter to the renter of a big tract of public land.
* i-utj ■*.■ l Australian meaning has risen out
?™ he n B r* tl u e U ‘?‘ A ‘ usa * e ■ The influx
from California in the gold davs probably helped
Henry p-ng gl «y defines a ‘ squatter ’in
I he Hillyars and the Burtons ’—X‘Z/
31. —Australian Slang.
6xB says that the application of “ point it ’’ to
a bone, in bush slang, is new to him. In Samuel
Lover s play, “The White Horse of Peppers,”
one of the characters got much fun out of feeding
an evil-tempered Dutch General on “potatoesand
point the potatoes being pointed at a stale
herring in order to give them a flavor.—T.D
* * * *
Linger, applied to the fastest shearer in a shed
may be borrowed from the itinerant shooting-
gallery, in which the shot which strikes plumb-
centre passes through a small hole in the centre of
the target and rings a bell placed immediately
behind. ouch a shot cannot be beaten, and is
termed a ‘ringer.’ The application is evident.
Drummer,’ as applied to the last or slowest
shearer on the board, may have reference to the
position of the drum in the ordinary brass band?
Gobbler,’meaning the last sheep in the pen,
smacks of the classical, and may refer to the last
beyond which, according to the well-worn Latin
j lO ® e^'re ®P eo^n ß cobbler should go ?
Putting Kincliela on ’em ’ is evidently inspired
by the fact that one Kinchela, some years ago,
wrote and published a pamphlet on the art of
sharpening and ‘ keeping ’ shears. The expression
was at first oonfined exclusively to shear-sharpen-
in £6 but in time came to have a wider application.
—Mungindt.
Where and when was this pamphlet printed?
52. —‘John Dunn. ’
Many Australians have heard a one-pound note
called a ‘ John Dunn.’ The term originated with
John Dunn, the founder, and for many years
managing director of the Commercial Bank,
Hobart, who signed his name in full on all notes
issued by the bank.—M.D.
I. —Red Hair.
Among the early Scandinavian pagans, red-
haired people were considered to be especially
favored by the Sun-God. 4 Sun-kissed ’ ife still ap-
plied to pretty red-haired girls by the East-coast
Scots, who to some extent are of Scandinavian
origin. On the introduction of Christianity the
red-haired ones fell from their high estate, and
were held in general detestation by the enthusiastic
propagandists of the new religion. From the
golden tint being a mark of divine favor it speedily
became a brand of the devil; and the unfortunate
wearers were supposed to possess many qualities
of their infernal patron. I have known many
red-haired girls, and found they all had a dash of
the devil in them ; but they were very nice, espe-
cially the blue-eyed, pretty ones.—D.H.S.
27. — Aboriginals.
Hugh Harding says he has never seen a W.A.
native pick up anything from the ground with the
hand. So far as Coelgardie is cencerned the hand
is always used in picking anything up, and after
an observation extending over three years I have
only seen the foot used once—to pick up a stick.
The men always use the hand in picking up any
weapon, but they do object to carrying anything.
I recently watched a distribution of blankets and
rations. The men and women took their share,
but the men immediately turned their share over
to the gins to carry to camp. They walked along-
side. The official who conducted the distribution
vainly tried to invoke a cheer in honor of Queen
Vic. ; but they simply couldn’t grasp the idea.
They tried ; but it was no use.—A.J.B., Broad
Arrow, W. A.
28. — Phenomenal Water-Springs in Drought.
There is a spring on Mt. Canoblas (Western
N.S.W.) not a quarter of a mile from the summit,
which gave a renewed flow at the same time as
various springs from 10 to 30 miles in various
directions. If Q. Geologist Jack’s ‘long pipe’
theory is correct, these springs, having a com-
mon source, could scarcely give an increased flow
si mul taneously. — Brendinyabba, Toogong.
Gordon’s Relatives.
36.—According to a statement in ‘Australa-
sian ’ (Nov. 30, 1805) Gordon married a Miss
Maggie Park at Mount Gambier in 1862. One
child was the result of this union—a girl, who
died while yet an infant, at Ballarat, in a little
house facing the stable-yard behind Craig’s hotel.
On Gordon’s death, I believe his widow married
again. -
VELDT.


Medical.
DR. FREERTAN
(SYDNEY'S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
rrsV,'^::
"w- ml
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Pribn nsof sult'ei ers
Second to None in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
(LEGALLY QUALIFIED & HECisTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a quasi ion of doubt. That
they have investigatedfui then into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SY DNEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thou-ends in iliis land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their hdmes
YOUNG MEN,
If you are troubled with
pimples, baslifulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be 1-en.
HIBDU-lfiE!»0L1 MEN,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to tb<-
doctors it living
away from tlie
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment,
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea- .
t-ises, NERVOUS :
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
All Lrams stop at the Door.
"■Perusal of them might save much mental
and. physical suffering and add golden years to
m'n" ensure prompt attention, forward
by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABori) P!>ySiciai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health, in justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston's Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon hang sign , D1.J1.C.5., Eng.,
121. Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
Aljlj CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JOHN PIP EJECTS)
FULL DIRECTioSsI
p . ENCLOSED.' ‘J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full ejections enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Oascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that
invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
ladiesT
Toil have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
ppmpnateMedicine 127 Re dfern Street,
by Return Post. REDEERN.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and il per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
X)fi RICORJO's
eS s£M ce °f Ll F R-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Ur Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamph’ets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry de Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street. MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales— VV. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS.
SOILED DOVE, the History of a Young Lady who ran
aw r ay from home, and ultimately went to the dogs. Also,
Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands. Also, Sapho,
or Life and Love in Paris (translated from the French)
Post free, Is. 6d. THE BALLET GIRL : Her Natural
Historv Before and Behind the Scenes. Post free. Is.
R. W. SKINNER,
Second-hand Bookseller, Publisher & Bookbinder,
105 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Married Ladies.
i!ar Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A. stories), Is. 3d.
Medical,
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, h. c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed ir the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
PERFECT JinnHOOD.
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Eipe Old Age.
YWEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherunse secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, PARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes:—“l can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
mj’self, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake. Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
m
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining- any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and wnte this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I cook your remedies I am as well and as
strong-as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me."
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes : —“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over ±'2oo
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my ease one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
*>>■
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could he done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
“ TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
registered
ADDRESS.
Caulfield C. 16th October.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. 2nd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.Shares in the above.
N^me.
Address,
Melbourne 0.
2nd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
at 5.
-Shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address.
Tattersall’s Great DistrijovLtion
-OP THE-
Millbank Estate, Junee, KS.W.
—?° Saar3S at £1 Each List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Shares at £1 Each
Ist Prize—Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, Temora-
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel’ including
Assembly Hall, etc.
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of takirnr th* Vf
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus' g th Homesfcead >
or
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City ai)d StibCirbai?
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss* Each*
lAst Closes 4th October #
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses* Glenmore
lioad, and large Dwelling-House, Value
WooUahra jC8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOitcd.
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another olass. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
flnthony Hordern&s ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
p in curing affections of the Throat
l and Lungs Colds, Coughs, La
> Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
? ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
aWn. lone, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
up, V 6 per 02.
W* are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Bair Work.
Send Color of Hair. -'
W/H. Wigzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
* - SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Bend stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention "given to Country Ordera
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE OR DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTING PUMP.
The hole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality.
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORE!
able to wear and Invisible. Send for
Book of Proofs and Testimonials. A. M.
Collins-strcet, MELBOURNE.
>. Comfort-
Illustrated
NAST, 145
A scene, which anywhere else in the
world would have resulted in a duel or two, oc-
curred a little time ago in Melb. District Court.
An Italian vocalist, disputing the fit of a suit of
clothes, was sued for the cost, and turned up with
a titled fellow countryman, say the Count da
Maquoroni, as chief witness. Prosecutor, a push-
ing little Hebrew, was describing how he delivered
the goods. “ I handed the suit to Mr. Blancho,”
he said, “and his valet, Mr. Maquoroni, was
also present.” Instantaneously there shot up
from the rear of the court two immense mous-
tachios, followed by the handsome form of the
Count da Maquoroni. “Ha ! Ha ! Do I looka
lika one valet ? Ha ! Do I looka lika one valet ? ”
he yelled, with indescribable vim. At length the
infuriated nobleman was calmed by the united
efforts of the bench, the witnesses, and the police,
and, during the rest of the case, he contented
himself with muttering maledictions and shaking
his clenched fist at the floor at intervals. “I was
determined to get home on to the Maquoroni,
quietly remarked the witness on leaving the box.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
CapillarinG !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I* l ice, 10s. fid.
9
"I’ll Try It.” Solk Auknts : The Result.
Zl'&ig Si Aitkcn, CUC-C32 st„ S jd.l2./
The plaintiff in a recent Sydney District
Court case, giving evidence about the difficulty of
collecting debts, was asked by the Judge, apropos
of something or other, whether N.S.W. Ms.P.
were “ prompt pays.” “ Members of Parliament!”
cried plaintiff; “ they’re the worst in the coun-
try. You can’t touch their salaries, and what-
ever they have is in their wives’ names, or tied up
somehow. They’re a rascally lot.”
Revengeful Client (who has been “had”
by norologer): “ What’s wrong with this watch ?’•
Horologer (after pretended careful examination,
whistles loudly): “ Whew ! Mainspring’s broke/'
K.G. (whose watch has been handed back, neatly
and ostentatiously dislodging small obstacle pur-
poseiy and previously inserted in minor cog-
wheel) : “Whew ! (still more loudly) Mainspring’s
sound again ! ” Exit, with ten digits to nose.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT Is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S GUSTARO
can bo obtained
Tinned Fault Is sold.
POWDER
whorovoa
The best resource tor every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG
ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s each
BESSON'S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the Worid
(bole Agent for Victoria , Tasmania , South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS hv oil
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quahtr •
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £3 3s each quality.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES
DIRECT IMPORTER ,
227 Little Collins Street ,
MELBOURJiTE.
Every Variety of
TEA »
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
special value for cash. Tsa
THE
' Plum 5
THE
4 FVLulim.’
(1 EN LLEME.N who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. 1 his brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public,
ft is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, vve
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
i §! n £>j e ®' azor ) in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
tfc>ingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
IGOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE-
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EfiGS,
Deliciors Jo Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
P“ r P° ses intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. Ihe proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article andcanrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a nseful agent mtheprenaration of a good Custard. Giveita trial
, . .. Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENO
Sole Agents tor New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOB THE BOLLKTIN.]
A STRANGER AT THE U.
He was guileless in his manner—’twas a style the
boys admired,
And he told, in simple language, how his feelings
had been fired
By the news of nuggets waiting, in numbers not a
few,
For any simple stranger that might strike the
1.0. U-
. golden 1.0. U.,
Where they put the wash-dirt through
The rattling, creaking shakers in the gullies round
the U.
With a smile of easy confidence he told the boys
around
That his native place was Albany upon King
George’s Sound,
And he’d left his father’s flocks and herds, and
poison grass, and such,
To know the world in general, and come in closer
touch,
At the diggings on the U,
With the hardy men and true
That caught the unobtrusive weight in sieves upon
the U.
It was moved by Mick M‘Carthy, hailing from the
Sydney side,
That O’Doolan be the stranger’s friend, philo-
sopher and guide;
And that every information be furnished him
about
Our little recreations when the week had given
out—
For we hoped to put him through
In a manner that would do
Lasting credit to the boys that were assembled on
the U.
He was led by invitation to the two-up on the flat,
That was decently conducted by a pug. from
Ballarat;
And he said, in wild astonishment, he thought
that kindly Fate
Had other joys in store for him than looking for
the weight;
Yes, he would gladly do
A modest hand or two
In the interesting school that was established on
the U.
It was sad to see him betting in the confidence of
youth,
For the grey was rung upon him—though with
disregard for truth
I could palliate my statement, yet the morals that
I hold
Force me to the free confession that he was com-
pletely sold
By the boys upon the U.,
Who thought to make him rue
His first attempt at two-up, as played upon
the U.
We were flush with paper money when it got too
dark to play,
For the brumby changed his fivers in a wildly
reckless way ;
Though it didn’t seem to strike us, in anxiety to
win,
That we’d all been taking flimsies, and were
giving change in tin
To the stranger at the U,
With the crispy notes and new
He circulated freely ’mong the diggers on the U.
Paddy Grady’s “ Hessian Palace ” was a scene of
wild delight,
And we drank the shypoo deeply, till the lateness
of the night
Suggested a retirement; but O’Doolan swore a
round
Should be drunk in grateful honor of the latest
patch we’d found ;
And he paid for the shypoo
With a crispy note and new,
He had earned by tossing pennies with a stranger
on the U.
Grady took the note and scanned it, then in
measured words and cold
Said the “Bank of Hope” was dying—would
O’Doolan pay in gold ?
And, sarcastically soothing, said he hoped the
patch would give
A slightly better prospect when we put it through
the sieve,
To find if one or two
Of the notes so crisp and new
Would buy a first-class coffin for the stranger on
the U.
There was wailing in the shanty, and a hurried
search was made
To find the gentle stranger who our kindness had
betrayed ;
But he’d vanished, taking with him as a solace to
the mind
Half a hundred quid in change for all the notes
he’d left behind;
And the boys of 1.0. U.
Now with dark suspicion view
Every too-confiding stranger putting pegs in at
the U.
W.A.
J. CRAWFORD.


Australia!) f^Gttial
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
° re ?^Lr The Hon ' Sir J - p - ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusuallj' large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
He ad Office : 8 1 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Ss-rva-'-.
Established 1849.
ProVidefyt Society.
fIoTELr
12/6 perdap&apm/
A ALL /AEALS AMD ATTEftDAMCE
Awtraua
>1 §<ly% M?° r^
ALL \
CLASSES \
OP \
accommodation \
—FOR— \
TOURISTS, \
Commercial ... \
.. . Travellers, \
Theatricals, Families, \
&c., &c. \
BOOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night. \
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week. '
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE.
Federal
Palace
Hotel.
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
AND STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door,
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
. PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF , ,
(old, Silver, [ead Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING etc etc
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt CasJi Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine)
Managing Director,
Mutual Life MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Spring and Summer Suitings,
SUITS.
45s to 90s.
TROUSERS.
12s 6d to 255.
For ELEGANCE OF STYLE, FIT and WORKMANSHIP,
The COnOOO »$ MECBOIIRIIE Tailoring Cog.
. . STAND UNRIVALLED! .
Send for PMem, . 31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
All Goods delivered Free to any part of the colony.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Ramps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
objection to the Time-payment
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my obiecti
System, I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY Th P Lbnin
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and RetaH
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money. retail
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EIIOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Bridf/emorle,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-at., S v dney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
w
<arifi)€ gSipitb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.)>
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AND RESTORING VIGOR.
“oh, what a difference in the morning!"
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS 1 KOLA NUT" TONIC,
The GREATEST “PICK-ME-UP” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.’s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHAEMACT, 337 George Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 05 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Euilditigs, 41G Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
A®" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies,
making ,£9 Y,1763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Hates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street) Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 78,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M. P. , A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- ELDRIDGE & CO.;
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S rgore Imported Leaf
tbai) all tbe other Tobacco
Factories PGt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of DixsOll’s
Brands- DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac*
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yai)k«? Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
CbanjpioE).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqCieror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i)t€Qoial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite ]VfoilOpOl6,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars'
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d. A .
Importers of Pipes, &c„ and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 919.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1897.
\ Price, On.
XhflS BUILDW*^
Erfctfo For Australian
UNITY Co Y - L*
From Deswv b Y
NoBe;oDy/ i'lPAR * ici/IAR,
THE TOWER OF BAISRL AND CONTUSION OF TONGUES. — (From a very old Print.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William MacLeod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Go.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
a £lO 0
Per Annum ... ... ••• 19
Half-yearly ... ... \ g g
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where requv<M
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Mote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week .for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed.'to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. * ■
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hcieoy
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings- All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Blade, and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiif. Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for 'same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., ciny picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 I tool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Ac Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.—A. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and. Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ~ N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, ivith 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
Os. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage-lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
•paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TT^&xzlldfoti.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1897.
The Judgment of Solomon Peacock.
One of the especially cheeky minorities in
Australian politics is the Bible-in-schools
faction, or, rather, the set of factions which
makes up that faction. This body rises up,
more or less, at every general election in
Maoriland, New South Wales, South Aus-
tralia and Victoria, and demands a lot of
things not very well defined. It is solid on
five main points, however : (1) That it con-
stitutes a majority of the people. (2) That
it really constitutes a majority in Parlia-
ment, only malign influences keep it back.
(3) That if it doesn’t constitute a majority in
Parliament it is only because the issues are
so badly mixed at elections that the matter
wasn’t put fairly and squarely before the
electors, but if a referendum were taken on
this issue alone it would wipe up the floor
with the ungodly. (4) That, when it does
get its referendum and is hopelessly licked,
as was the case in South Australia, that
doesn’t prove that it is in a minority—in fact,
it rather proves that it is in a majority ; but
for some reason that the monkey-shave men
are quite positive about its adherents didn’t
come to the poll. Also (5), That even if it
is a minority —a small, mean minority that
needs to stand on an envelope to see over
the top of l£d. —it ought to rule because its
cause is the sacred cause of the Lokd.
This latter fact is advanced on the
unsupported assertion of the gentlemen with
the monkey-shave, and so is quite incontro-
vertible, for these same gentlemen state, also
on their own unsupported authority, that they
know exactly what are the views of the
Deity on the subject. If anyone asks how
they came to know, they generally reply that
the question shows him to be utterly Lost.
« * * *
Quite a number of politicians have tried at
different times to secure the vote of this
aggressive minority without losing that of
the secular or godless majority, and they
have mostly regretted it. Yet the Bible-
readers are not so very small a minority
after all, and their combined vote would be
worth having if any one could get it. Only
nobody can get it, or, at least, nobody can
keep it. Out of IUOO average people there
are, perhaps, 300 or 400 who want Scriptural
instruction in schools. They are prepared to
throw in a solid vote against the man who
believes in godless education, only, unfortu-
nately, they can’t vote against one man with-
out voting for another. When it comes to
voting for the man who doesn’t believe in
godless education they subdivide into the
people who want the Catholic or the Pro-
testant version of the “Word” read in
schools, the people who want it read without
explanation or with it, and the people who
want the Protestant version explained on the
principle of baptism by pouring water over
part of the candidate when he is too young
to resist, and those who want it set forth
that the whole candidate should be par-
tially drowned when he is grown up.
Also, there are the people who want the
Scriptures expounded according to the
doctrine of Free-will, and those who want to
teach rigid Calvinism and the damnation of
unbaptised infants; likewise people who
believe in one Deity, and in three, and Jews,
and long-haired people, and people who don’t
want the State to teach religion at all, but to
hand over the whole education business to
the churches with a handsome subsidy. The
result of all this is that the Bible-in-schools
vote is an awkward thing to be without, and
is no good at all when one gets it, because,
as soon as a politician secures it, he hasn’t
got it. The best that he can hope for is to
lose the sectarian vote, and to get the sup-
port of one fragmentary sect while all the
others prospect for his scalp.
* * * *
The latest politician who has thus fallen
in is Peacock, Minister for Education in
Victoria. With a general election in pros-
pect, Peacock seems to have carefully
dropped his bit of string and his worm into
the troubled waters of sectarianism to see if
any votes could be fished out, and the results
were disastrous. The Vic. Minister tried his
experiment in an astute fashion. He didn’t
propose to introduce the Bible into the edu-
cation system, or to have it read, or explained
on any particular basis, nor did he propose
to subsidise denominational schools, or in-
troduce any theological matter into the
school books. He merely printed in the
School Paper, a monthly publication which
is supposed to give the scholars information
about current events, a small and perfectly
harmless Psalm. The Psalms are mostly non-
committal Hebrew poetry of the least con-
troversial description; and the paper in
which this one was published was a very
little affair which could be suppressed and
put in the fire at any moment ; and the
teachers were not instructed to explain it or
to say anything at all about it ; and it was
only one Psalm, anyway, and a very diminu-
tive Psalm at that. Then Peacock con-
cealed himself in the Federal Convention at
Sydney to watch results. The results came
in the shape of a blast from the Holy Roman
church to the effect that it wasn’t going to
have any Psalm, not even a very small one,
explained to any small Roman scholar except
by an orthodox Holy Roman teacher. And
as the Victorian State School teachers are
not all Holy Romans, the Church objects to
the whole business.
9 ♦ * *
Judging by the consequences of this one
small experiment, it is probable that two
more Psalms would raise a R.C. block vote
against the Turner Ministry, and leave it
with a very small majority, or perhaps no
majority at all. At all events, it is to be
hoped that Peacock now sees the futility of
fishing for the Bible vote any further. The
Judgment of Solomon was nothing compared
to the difficulty which Solomon Peacock
will have before him if he carries on his ex-
periment. The Solomon of Jerusalem had
only to decide between two women who
wanted one infant, and one of them was not
very particular about the infant after all.
The Solomon of Melbourne would have to
tackle about twenty sects who all want the
earth, and want it with desperate intensity.
The average sect would much rather have no
religion taught in the schools than have the
other fellow’s religion taught there ; also the
average sect is firmly opposed to the teaching
of any vague, non-committal faith, but wants
its particular blast of theology adopted in
full, and no other blast of theology whatever.
Therefore, the only possible result would be
to aggravate the secular majority and to rouse
up the bitter hostility of every sect save one.
9 * * *
The Bulletin wonders what would have
happened if Peacock had started his experi-
ment in a really vigorous fashion. Suppos-
ing he had commenced with a slab of
straight-out Unitarianism, or had angled for
the Calvinist vote by an energetic support
of the worst kind of material hell—the one
where the Lost canter round the cinder-track
for ever at a temperature of 10,000,000 in
the shade, or if he had started his career by
mentioning that no truly orthodox person
could believe in the baptism of adults by
dropping the entire believer into water, then
it would probably have been necessary to
throw the too-active Minister overboard on
the instant to save the Government. So far
as the evidence goes, all the Bible-in-schools
patties put together don’t constitute half the
population, but, even if they do, it is evi-
dently impossible to do anything for them
until they come together among themselves
and decide what kind of Scriptural teaching
they want. If they can arrive at any definite
agreement without tearing each other's hair
out by the roots, or each knocking the
other’s sacerdotal hat endways, then they
may get something. The Scriptural party
is probably more in earnest than its oppon-
ents—the people who want to do something
for conscience sake are generally far more
earnest than those who want to leave some-
thing as it is for the sake of convenience ;
and when it is able to come to an agreement
there is a fair chance that it will carry its
point. There is also a fair chance that it
will come to that agreement about the year
one hundred billion. When the churches
have got their orthodoxy so bad that the
sight of one Psalm rouses them to fury, it is
difficult to imagine how the sight of a whole
Scripture would affect them. The most pro-
bable consequence would be gory murder,
and by this time the judgment of Solomon
Peacock probably is that the less Scripture
the Ministry prints till the elections are over
the better it will be for its chances.
Last Year’s Plowers.
Now that Premier Reid, of N.S.W., has re-
turned from the land of jubilation, and is about
to make another financial statement, and to
announce once more that bis obvious deficit is a
surplus, a certain amount of interest attaches
to his last budget, and a fine opportunity pre-
sents itself to explain some of the flowers of
rhetoric contained therein. Most of these
assertions couldn’t be verified at the time, be-
cause the Government statistics for the period
alluded to were not then published, so Premier
Reid was able to splash himself around on his
favorite topic to any extent he pleased, and
play the giddy financial ox generally. The fol-
lowing, from the S.M. Herald of 10th July,
1896, is interesting reading, in the light of
recent information :
The Premier : There is the fact that At Hudson's, Which
Was said to be ruined and about to close up, they had A
better lookout now thail they had had fot a lonar tiitlle
past. They also said that the boot-trade Was going tb
ruin, but what are the facts? During the bdonl-time of
1892 there Were 2708 hands engaged in the boot-factories,
and on the 13th Decent bet last there were 3752 hands, an
increase Of 1000 hands. . . . There is no better test in
Arty industry than the growth of population no better
test of the decline of industry than the decline of
population. Well, during the last four years, from
1891 to 1895, the population of Victoria increased by
24,000 souls. During the same time the population
of New South Wales increased by 112,000 souls,
nearly five times the Victorian increase.
There is a little item in the manufacture of woollen and
cloth goods. Last year —in 1895—in New South Wales we
turned out 33 per cent, more woollen and cloth tweeds
than in the previous year. I can give you the number of
yards if you wish. We turned out 300 per cent, more
than in 1892, the Protectionist boom year. (Hear, hear.)
Now Mr. Lyne, in his speeches, and some of the news-
papers, point out that there has been a great deal more
cloth imported during the last two years than befoie,
That, they say, is the fault of Freetrade. it never
occurred to them that the people were buying more
things. Now in clothing factories the hands employed in
1894 were 1466, and in 1896 1770, To dispel the fallacy
that the increased import of any given article necessarily
implies less employment in the colony, in 1891 and 1892
the value ot clothing was £1,000,000 more in value than
in 1893 and 1894, yet the hands employed in 1891 and 1892
were from 1000 to 1600 more than those in 1893 and 1894.
According to Mr. LYne, in 1891 we were All ruined, and in
1893-4 there were a lot of new clothing factories started,
yet in 1891 and 1892 there Were 1000 to 1500 more hands
employed than during the years of the small imports.
* * * *
.Since these remarks were uttered the old-
established firm of Hudson Brothers, above-
quoted, has come hopelessly to grief. This is
a result against which there is no arguing, so
apparently the statement that its look-out was
better than for a long time past was pure
invention, or pure delusion, or moonshine, or
something to the same effect. As regards the
hoot and shoe business, the fat optimist with
the eye glass stated proudly that the number
of hands employed had increased from 2708 in
1892 to 3752 in 1895, and he distinctly inferred
that the increase shown in the latter figure was
a solid proof of the advantages of Freetrade.
Considering that the boot-trade was a protected
one from the beginning of 1892 till the end of
1895, his figures only demonstrated that Pro-
tection was a remarkably good thing for this
industry, and the gall of a man who could quote
the progress made in four years of Protection as
a proof of the advantages of Freetrade is some-
thing unique. Since then the boot-trade has
had one year of Freetrade, and the number of
employes, even though the small factories
which were formerly omitted are now reckoned
in, has decreased to 3499. This is an item
which George Reid should make some attempt
to explain away in his coming financial state-
ment.
• * * •
According to the same amiable 18 stone of
humanity, “ there is no better test of the
decline of industry than the decline of popula-
tion.” As 1896, the first year of George
Reid’s own particular brand of Freetrade—the
most advanced system of Freetrade which New
South Wales ever enjoyed—was also the first
in a series of thirty-four years when the
province lost population through the number of
departures exceeding the arrivals, The Bulle-
tin takes the Cornstalk Premier at his word.
By his own showing the year when his boasted
policy came into vogue was the very worst,
so far as industry was concerned, in the pro-
vince’s history. To say anything else would
be to say that Premier Reid was a Mun-
chausen and an Ananias, and this paper
wouldn’t like to call him these names, except
under extreme provocation. In the same year
the increase of population (there was still an
increase through excess of births over deaths)
was the smallest since 1881, that being the
earliest year for which the writer has figures
available. Possibly it was also the smallest
for a much longer period. Therefore, it again
seems, on Premier Reid’s own showing, that
the fir3t year of Freetrade was the worst, in the
last 16 at all events, for New South W 7 ales in-
dustry. To say anything else would be to call
the genial deficit-man another gross perverter
of the truth, and The Bulletin regards him
with a certain amount of kindly feeling as a per-
son who has supplied it with more genuine
amusement than any other politician of recent
years, and is reluctant to call him hard names
unnecessarily. As Premier Reid truly observed,
during the protective period (he didn’t mention
that it was the protective period, but that is a
mere detail) the population of New South Wales
increased at the rate of 28,000 a year. And,
during the first year of Freetrade, the increase
fell with a thud to 19,770.
* ♦ • »
Further, this man of much blubber and men-
tal confusion remarked that from the beginning
of the protected year 1892 to the end of the
protected year 1895, the New South Wales
output of woollen goods increased threefold.
He didn’t mention that 1895 was a protected
year—in fact, he quoted the figures proudly as
a proof of the blessed advantages of Freetrade
—but the fact remains unaltered by that genial
misrepresentation. Since then there lias been
one year of Freetrade, and the production has
diminished considerably. Mr. Reid hasn’t
mentioned this latter fact, but he doubtless
will. He is also quoted as staling that the
number of employes in clothing factories in-
creased from 14(30 in the protected year 1894
to 1770 in the Freetrade year 1896. As a
matter of fact, according to the official statistics
just published, the number increased to 1777
in the protected year 1895, and fell to 1255 in
the Freetrade year 1890. Therefore, if Premier
Reid said, as lie is alleged to have done, that
the number quoted were employed in 1890, his
own Government Statistician directly accuses
him of some very steep falsehood. And if, as
is more probable, what he really said was that
1770 people were employed in 1895, and he was
merely guilty of creating the wrong impression
that 1895 was a Freetrade year, and that the
increase was a proof of the advantages of
Freetrade, instead of the direct opposite, then
the offence boils down to simple misrepresenta-
tion and mean concealment of the truth. It
was tolerably unscrupulous misrepresentation,
possibly, but the mere adjective is not worth
cavilling about.
* * * »
Still, when Parliament meets, and Premier
REid rises to point out that, bjr receiving
,£9,309,269 ahd spending £9,480,214 he has got
anothet handsome surplus, he might find a
favorable opportunity to explain these few cit-
cumstatices. Also in the same utterance of a
year ago he mentioned with pHde that he Was
placing locally a large contract for steel rails,
“because we could get them manufactured
here without any of your coddling,” and that
“one of the biggest men in England had ottered
to put down £15,000 as security for the manu-
facture of 150,000 tons of rails from our own
native ores ” ; and the financial statement of
1897 should present a favourable opportunity
for explaining where that very big man, and
his very big deposit, and the 150,000 tons of
rails, and the new' industry which wasn’t to be
coddled, have all gone to. In its own small,
forlorn way The Bulletin has asked G. ReID
at different times to explain quite a lot of
things like the above, without getting ahy
answer, Still it keeps asking, upon the off-
chance that some kind of reply may be forth-
coming by-and-bye, There is ho especial hiirty
about that reply, The Bulletin calculates Oil
being aroUnd to ask these questions and others
like them as long as George Reid is politically
above ground.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Employers’ Liability.
The soreness that at present exists in Melb.
with reference to the utter uselessness of bring-
ing actions in the county courts to recover
damages for accidents to workmen in the
sewerage works, emphasises the absolute need
there is of having something like a decent
and simple Employers’ Liability Act on every
Australian statute- book. Technicality after
technicality baulks the maimed and the orphans
of the killed ; notices of accident and notices
of action prevent them from getting to court
at all in a great many cases. Inability to strictly
prove that the person directly responsible for
the accident was a superintendent, prevents
them in other cases getting to the jury, even
when they get to court. A jury with a stiff
property qualification generally manages to
prevent them getting justice when they get to
the jury, and when, as occasionally happens,
they obtain a verdict, the present Act is so
absolutely cumbrous that it is a matter of ease
for the penalised contractor to get a new trial
ordered for some defect of procedure, or
wrongful admission of some paltry evidence.
Why should one law be applied to accidents
occurring while digging shafts and tunnels
for sewerage purposes, and quite a different
one in the case of accidents while digging
shafts and drives for mining purposes? Why
should not all workmen in dangerous occupa-
tions—and, for the matter of that, all workmen—
be placed in the same position as the miner?
When an accident occurs in a mine, the owner
is prima facie guilty of a negligence which gives
a right of action, and, according to a recent
decision of Queensland Full Court, as given by
Chief Justice Griffith, is, in the absence of
evidence rebutting the presumption of negli-
gence, practically an insurer of his workmen’s
freedom from accident. The late English
Workmen’s Compensation Act extends this
principle to most workmen, and the frequent
occurrence of sewerage and other accidents
shows the crying need of some such plan in
Australia, divested of the present abuses, caus-
ing employers to be at least as careful of their
workmen’s lives as of their machinery, and
giving some small and easily obtained solatium
to the wounded soldiers of industry. In short,
every employer should be by law an Accident
Insurance Company for the benefit of all his
workmen who meet with accidents while in the
scope of their employment.
A Small Tin God.
It is a little depressing to listen to the Austra-
lian workman making himself hoarse in applaud-
ing Ben Tillett’s expressions of superior con-
tempt for what has been done on the Austra-
lian workman’s behalf. Not a word of generous
acknowledgment of what has been accomplished
by men who, in some cases, have personally
suffered a great deal more than Mr. TiI, LETT
has done. Not a word to encourage gratitude
for labors which have not been followed -by


fairly fat secretaryships and organising agencies.
But a flood of words telling of the enormous
strides that have been made in Great Britain —
where, of course, the movement has had the
advantage of Mr. Tillett’s guidance. Nor is
the case improved by the remembrance that
some of the keenest suffering on the part of
Australian Labor men and Democrats, and
some of the most disastrous failures, have come
from following too closely the methods inaugur-
ated by Messrs. Tillett and Co. For instance,
the demand of unionists that no non-unionists
should be employed with them, which was at
the bottom of two or three of those staggering
strikes from which the unions have not yet re-
covered, was first enforced by the London
leaders ; probably the first manifesto which em-
bodied the further demand that unionists must
not handle non-unionist-made goods was signed
bv Tillett and Mann in connection with the
Hay’s wharf dispute in Jan., 1891. And, as to
the power of the Australian workman in mat-
ters of Government—well, it hasn’t even been
thought worth remembering that when Til-
lett’s dockers were on strike the N.S.W.
Government of the day (and this was before the
Labor-party came in) arranged that the Aus-
tralian unions might send cable messages to
Tillett as their general secretary at specially
reduced rates?
Deadlocks.
The Federal Convention struck the worst snag
of ils career when it tackled the clauses dealing
with the settlement of deadlocks. The more
the subject was debated the more obvious it
became that there was no wholly logical solu-
tion to be found anywhere. The following is a
condensed statement of the case :
(1) The Lower House is to be elected on a population
basis. If the Federation consists of the five provinces
represented at the Convention, N.S.W. and S.A., or
N.S.W. and Victoria could form a solid majority.
(2) The Senate is to consist of an equal number of repre-
sentatives from each province, so there S.A., Tasmania
and Westralia, with less than one-fourth the population,
could form a solid majority. The rights of neither of
these Houses are to be infringed.
(3) In case of hopeless disagreement, it is proposed that
the Lower House should bo dissolved. But, as it would
probably come back in the same mind as before, this
would leave things as they were.
(4) It is also proposed that both Houses should be dis-
solved. But, if the nutter at issue was one where the
three small provinces, representing the majority of
States, were mainly on one side, and two large ones,
representing the majority of population, were mainly on
the other, they would probably both come back in the
same mind, leaving the deadlock just as it was.
(5) It is proposed to have a referendum in which the
majority of votes would decide. In this way two States
could easily vote down three. But in this case every-
thing would be ultimately decided by' N.S. Wales and
Victoria, or by N.S. Wales and S.A. if they chose to com-
bine. The object of having equal representation in the
Senate is to prevent the small states being practically
annexed and obliterated. A referendum where the
majority settled everything would make the big States
and the Lower House absolute, and the Senate might as
well not exist.
(6) It is also proposed that there should be a referen-
dum where the majority of the States and the majority
of the people must vote in the affirmative before any-
thing can be done. In this way 380,000 people could
keep things as they were, despite the demands of nearly
three millions for reform. So far as concerns the kind of
deadlock which it is most desired to guard against, this
would settle nothing. If the Lower House voted one
way because the majority of the people thought that way,
and the Senate voted the other way because the majority
of the States thought the other way, it would be impos-
sible to get a majority both of the people and the States.
Therefore the deadlock would go right on. This referen-
dum is useless anyhow, for if the majority both of people
and States was of one opinion there would be no serious
deadlock. It would only be useful to settle deadlocks
when there weren’t any.
(7) Either way, if the referendum was the sole means of
settling disputes the advantage would be with the
Senate. To take a vote of all Australia would cost pro-
bably £50,000. The Lower House has to find the money.
If the referendum suggested in paragraph 5 was adopted
it would mean that in the case of disputes between the
large and small States the majority would have to pay
£50,000 every time to carry its point. If the referendum
proposed by Premier Turner and described in paragraph
6 was adopted, it would have to pay the £50,000 without
carrying its point. If the referendum decided anything
it might be worth the £50,000 in great and urgent cases ;
but some quicker and cheaper device is wanted for
everyday use.
The question at issue, therefore, boils down to
this : Supposing the Lower House demands
one thing and the Senate demands the direct
opposite, it is desired to settle the question
without infringing the sacred rights of the
majority of the people as represented by the
former, or the equally sacred rights of the
States as represented by the latter. And
it obviously can’t be done. When there
are two women and only one baby, and Solo-
mon has to let each woman have the whole
infant all to herself without in any way inter-
fering with the equally sacred right of the other
woman to have the infant all to herself, it is
obvious that Solomon is in a dreadfully tight
place. And it is equally plain that Solomon
has no way out. It is because of these difficul-
ties that The Bulletin sticks to its idea of
letting the two Houses decide deadlocks by
sitting and voting as one. The trouble is that
the matter can’t be referred solely to the con-
stituency of the Senate without infringing the
rights of the majority of the people, or solely
to the constituency of the other House without
infringing the rights of the majority of the
States. Therefore the best way to strike an
average seems to be to lump the representatives
of the two constituencies together and have a
little of each.
A Song from Italy.
The Italians of Sydney met together the other
day to banquet their Consul-General, and every-
body of any importance from the land of the
olive and the organ-grimler was present and
plugging in manfully at the victuals. It was
an occasion of much grease, and the Consul-
General spread himself greatly as follows :
The Italian colony of Sydney was one of which he was
proud ; the members of it were industrious and orderly,
and this latter fact could be emphasised by the authori-
ties, who had very seldom to institute criminal prosecu-
tions against members of their community. As a result
of the policy of this colony, he noticed from the statistical
records that the population of N.S. Wales was increasing,
while that of Victoria was stationary. The railways of
N.S. Wales were paying ; those of Victoria were not. The
numbers of vessels'and of travellers arriving in N.S.W.
were increasing, while they were decreasing in Victoria.
The imports and exports of N.S.W. were increasing, while
those of her neighbors were stationary. Finally, all the
principal establishments, whether industrial or com-
mercial, as well as the residences of foreign representa-
tives were gravitating towards Sydney. In his opinion,
the prosperitv of this colony must continue. Many
people were crossing the border from the other colo-
nies in order to escape being called on to pay
duties ranging from 15 per cent, to 50 per cent,
advalorem on imports. His firm belief was that
whether federation of the colonies took place or
not, the other colonies would eventually have to adopt
the policy of N.S.W. There was, however, a problem to
be solved here —that of settlement. This continent was
as large as Europe itself, and contained only 4,000,000 of
population. If it was not to be overrun by colored races,
it would be the duty of the Government to encourage the
immigration of European populations of the proper
quality. One essential was that of an agricultural popula-
tion, and the proper kind of immigrants could be found in
Italy. He looked upon Mr. Reid as a gentleman of breadth
of view ; he looked upon him as the Cavoitr of Australia.
(Cheers.) By the way. he resembled Cavour in person,
and it would be the mission of Mr. Reid to found the
unity of Australia on the same stable basis as that of
Italy—by free interchange and the cutting up of large es-
tates. It was due to the first of these that they now owed
those flourishing industries in Italy which favorably com-
pared with those of other countries.
This about takes the cake for inaccuracy. The
Italian colony in N.S.W. supplied last year
three times as many criminals in proportion
to its numbers as the cornstalk popula-
tion, so the brag about the gentle
manners of the apple and banana man seems
rather uncalled-for. The increase of N.S.W.
population is apparently not owing to the
present policy of the province, for there
has been a smaller increase since that policy
was introduced than for many years previously.
The railways of N.S.W. are not paying, but
show a heavy deficit even now. The number of
arrivals is decreasing, last year being the worst
in this respect since 1892. The movement of
people crossing the border has for some time
shown a tendency to exit from N.S. Wales, not
the other way about. Australia isn’t as large
as Europe by a long way. It doesn’t contain
4,000,000 people—in fact, it is a good way off
that figure yet. And Italy, whose flourishing
condition the Consul talks about so enthusias-
tically, is notoriously, by reason of its war-
debts and its bloated armaments, one of the
poorest and most “busted-up ” lands in Europe.
The Australian is much addicted to getting the
prominent stranger to stand up on his—the
stranger’s—hind-legs and ofate to him, and he
lionises the stranger a good deal and believes
what that dreadfully ignorant person tells him.
Consul-General Corte is a fine, oily sample of
that kind of stranger.
4
The Withdrawal of Capital.
Melbourne Age item :
Leading financial agents in Melbourne are beginning
to speak in serious terms of what they describe as a
general failing off in their transactions on behalf of Eng-
lish investors. It is stated that ordinary loans upon first-
class securities have now practically become unprofitable
through the combined effects of the “double income tax”
(i.e., the Bd. tax imposed in England upon income alread3’’
taxed to the extent of Is. 4d. in the pound in Victoria)
and the reduction in the rates of interest. The several
charges and taxes are said to absorb one-tenth of the
earnings upon investments, with the result that, as mort-
gages become due, .the capital is, in most cases, being
promptly recalled. Some firms are disinclined to disclose
the total of the withdrawals by their clients, preferring to
speak generally of them as amounting to “hundreds of
thousands,” while others make definite statements. For
example, Messrs. Madleson, England and Stewart give
the aggregate of their actual remittances of capital
to English investors since January, 1896, as £350,000, and
the amount withdrawn and under not'ce of withdrawal
through Messrs. Moule and Seddon fs some £200,000,
or possibly a little more. A third firm not a
legal, but a purely financial one in this case —has paid
back £112,000 to two clients within the last few months,
and states that four out of every five of the English capi-
talists with whom it does business withdraw their money
when the mortgages upon which it has been lent fall due.
Messrs. Blake and Rigoall mention several large with-
drawals by clients of theirs, and Messrs. Gibbs, Bright
and Co. state that, though no money has yet been with-
drawn through them, the double income-tax difficulty is
an undeniable impediment to further loaning of English
capital. This latter firm has not made a new investment
of English capital in the colony this year. Other firms
complain that their business is being cut into by the
Credit Foncier system.
This is the best item of news that Victoria has
produced for quite a long time. The “ with-
drawal of British capital ” —which is said to
amount to <£2,000,000 within the last twelve
months means that the province owes so
much less and has to pay at least £lOO,OOO a
year less tax to J. Bull. The object of the
Government in establishing the State Land
Bank was to supply cheap money to a com-
munity which has long been suffering under
the burden of exorbitant interest ; the fact that
money has become so cheap that the Bull mort-
gagee finds his industry becoming unprofitable
is the best possible sign that the State Bank is
doing good work. The lamentation over this
matter seems mostly wasted grief. When a
long-embarrassed citizen at last manages to
refund the 40s. which Isaacs advanced on his
watch, and stops paying interest on the loan,
the general idea is that he is getting into better
circumstances. But when a country manages
to refund part of the money which. Bull ad-
vanced on it, and stops paying interest thereon,
the process is called the “ withdrawal of capi-
tal,” and is spoken of in tones of great woe as
an omen of something dreadful and ruinous and
morally combustible to come.
A Voice from Papua.
Extracts from a private letter (dated 17th
July) that has just readied the hands of a Bul-
letin man in Brisbane :
Eighteen months both on the mainland and Woodlark
Island. I write you so that you can form a notion of
what things are like at the present, and help to stop any
friends from going there if you wish.
At present, the population of the island is about 190, at
the very outside, scattered over Saloga, Woni, Wakados,
Kuravacoon, M'Kenzie’s, Riley’s, Dier’s, Yankee, Cole-
man’s, Elliot’s, Bain's and Wyakim gullies. The quantity
of gold being got is very small now compared with that
obtained 12 months ago. Some are making wages, whilst
others are only earning tucKer and a few weights over.
The health of those on the island is not the best.
About one-half are more or less sick, chiefly composed of
southern men. My experience is that it wants North
Queenslanders— fresh from the North—to stand against
the fever and dysentery that attack them after they
reach the island. Even the Northerners are not proof
against fever, but still their attacks, contrasted with
those of Southerners, are as a fleabite compared with an
alligator’s crunch. For any but old hands to come here
now is foolishness ; there is nothing to come for.
Yet I will not say that the place has duffered out. I
believe that there will he small rich dabs found in many
places on the island, in the sago and other swamps. At
the head of Coleman’s Gully a leader has been opened by
O'Connor and party, the stone from which is exceptionally
rich. They have not done much work on it up to the
present, having only sunk about 24ft., and driven a small
tunnel about 70ft. into the shaft. The leader averages
from 4in. to 12in. in thickness and, I believe, the four
partners can dolly from 2oz. to 4oz. per man per week
from the stone already raised.
Anyone with a couple of thousand pounds, who
would care to speculate the same in trenching the hill
from which Coleman’s, Elliot's, and Yankee gullies head,
and from which exceptionally rich specimens have been
got, would, no doubt, receive a handsome dividend if he
but found one leafier that would give him 5 tons of stone
one-half as rich as some of the specimens that have been
got in those gullies. The majority of the men working in
the gullies are depending solely on the specimens in the
creeks, there being very little alluvial.
There is plenty room on the island yet for prospecting,
if the weather would hold up. From January to the
latter end of June this year I have not known of more
than 10 consecutive days of fine weather. It rains on an
average about three days out of every seven.
Now for the mainland. I left Woodlark last August
(’96) and arrived on the Mambare on Ist September, after
recruiting 24 boys. I reached M'Laughlin’s Creek on the
14th of the same month. After stopping about seven
weeks, owing to the heavy wet and the flooded state of
the river I returned to the coast, suffering from dysentery
and fever—the latter very slightly. After paying-off
boys, and keeping them until a boat came to take us
away, I returned to Woodlark.
I expect you have read very conflicting reports in the
papers as to what has been and is being done. That gold
exists in the interior there is no use in denying, but proof
as to whether it is or is not payably obtainable will never
be forthcoming until New Guinea has a change of Govern-
ment. The present Government is a millstone round the
neck of New Guinea. Miners are not the class of settler
Macgregor wants in the country, and in no way has he
tried to assist them to develop the riches of that island.
Up to the present moment he has not made the slightest
effort to cut tracks to the already-known existing golden
creeks, so that horses and mules can travel and carry
stores. Protection to miners is pretended to be given ;
but, in reality, it is the nigger who is being pro-
tected—both the savage and the semi civilised nigger.
Threats of punishment are held over the heads of
pioneers who choose to go inland. Thej r are informed
that, if they use their firearms before a spear is
actually thrown, they will be tried for their lives. Your
carriers can desert you, and there is not. the least effort
made to bring them back ; they can steal your rations
and whatever trade they can lay hands on, and you will
have to travel 40 or 60 miles, and take the culprits with
you, to prosecute them, but you cannot get any compen-
sation by deductions from their earnings for what they
have stolen or destroyed on you. And woe to the miner
who dares to take upon himself the responsibility of
punishing his carriers for theft, if those carriers—and
they are wide-awake enough to the advantage—lay a com-
plaint against him.
The first thing that Macgregor did when he crossed the
range (Mt. Seratohley) last year was to issue an Ordinance
prohibiting' the employment of native labor until the
month of April. Following this was a tax of £1 on every
firearm you carried. Is that what the three Governments
that subsidise the Papuan Government intended? Do
they think this sort of thing is assisting to open up the
country? As an excuse for his first Ordinance, Mac-
Gregor put forward the plea that the natives had to put
up with too much hardship. If he had put this restric-
tion on himself the excuse might have been colorable, as
the natives that he obtained from us on the river were
the ones that really suffered. He lost proportionately
five times as many lives on that trip as any of the miners
lost. His carriers were the worst-fed of any, as could be
proved if an enquiry was held among those natives. His
niggers were the most heavily-packed of all.
I hear that Macgregor’s excuse for the £1 firearm-tax
was that it was imposed for the protection of native birds
from wholesale destruction. Yet he employs a bug-and-
bird hunter out on the Mt. Scratchley range, with about
half-a-dozen guns. Macgregor cannot get labor to cut
tracks, but how easily can he get it to carry rations for
his bug-hunter ! When going through Port Moresby I
enquired from Mr. Allen where was Julieneat, the
naturalist, and was told that this bug-hunter had just
reached the foot of Mt. Scratchley with SO police hoys and
160 carriers, and was on his way to the top.
Why doesn’t Gov. Macgregor utilise his prison labor in
cutting a track from the mouth of the river to the pre-
sent working, instead of hiring out that labor toa trading
company on Sud Est to cut a road to the co.’s reef ? Not
50 yards of a track has been cut even for those on Wood-
lark, which has contributed the principal increase in Cus-
toms duties to the New Guinea revenue during the last
two years. If Billy Mac. would only do something
towards opening up roads into the interior after the
pioneers, he would ease the burdens of Queenland by
attracting some of its surplus labor. I could give a heap
of information about all these matters, starting from
Clarke and the two Cooldown parties, who spent their
earnings in trying to develop New Guinea.
There is one spec, in New Guinea worthy of attention—
the rubber industry. At present the gutta-percha is only
obtained by the reckless destruction of the tree and vine,
of which I will write you an account at some future time.
Thebe are some curious possibilities about the
proposed method of fixing up the Federal Legis-
lature. It is suggested that the House of
Representatives shall contain twice as many
members as the Senate, and each State shall
have its share of the membership according to
population, with the proviso that the seven
existing provinces shall never have less than
five members each. If the provinces of great
area—Westralia, Queensland, and S.A. —are
subdivided, however, as they almost certainly
will be some day, there will be trouble. Sup-
pose Westralia splits in three or five, and the
middle fragment is still called Westralia, while
the others assume new names and start out by
themselves. The new provinces will certainly
not come under this proviso, and they will only
be entitled to as many members as their popu-
lation justifies, whether the number be two, or
five, or a dozen. But can anyone tell whether
the bit which is still called Westralia will be
the “ existing province of Westralia ” as defined
by the Constitution, and so be still entitled to
five members, regardless of population ? Does
the mere possession of the name make it the
“ existing province of Westralia ” even though
it is not the province as it existed at the time
the Act was drawn up, or does the “existing
province ” vanish altogether, in which case none
of the fragments will be entitled to the
minimum of five members ? If the right to
a special amount of representation goes with
the name, and, after the division, the name was
retained by some waste region of two men and
a dog and a nigger, in the far north-west, while
the populous region about Perth called itself
something else, then it appears that the least
populous place would have five members while
the more populous one had, perhaps, only
three ? Unless an “ existing province ” is
better defined, there should be a good deal of
healthy ruction about this matter some day or
other.
The Reid Government is making capital out of
the Lucknow strike in a way which clearly
shows that the astute stout gentleman with the
glazed eye is once more personally at the helm.
Witness the remarks of Brown, M.L.A., at
a recent Lucknow meeting :
He compared the attitude of the present Government
with their experience of Governments in the past. At
Newcastle, a former Government had introduced Norden-
feldt guns and the military. In Sydney, seven or eight
years ago, during the maritime strike, the Riot Act had
been read and the military called out. At Broken Hill,
there were whole armies of police, with their paid pimps
and spies. During the shearers’ strike, bands of police
had escorted men through the city and through the coun-
try districts, but time went on, and education had exercised
its influences, and the Government were trying, as far as
they could, to hold the balance fairly. They had gone so far
as to refuse to issue free passes under any pretence to the
western districts, lest some of the applicants might inad-
vertently come to Lucknow. He was in one of the
Government departments the other day when several
men, who appeared to be Domain loafers, asked for passes
to Lucknow, and were refused by the official in charge,
when they threatened to report him to the Minister. The
official said to them, “ You are the meanest set of
scoundrels I ever clapped eyes on. You seek to get the
advantages conferred by the community for the purpose
of taking the bread out of the mouth of starving wives
and families.”
In a way of its own, the Reid Government is
holding the balance fairly enough, First it
earns the solid gratitude of the Lucknow co.
by still not issuing that famous lease, so that
the mine is not put under the legal labor con-
ditions and compelled to keep some 200 men
employed. In the absence of the lease the co.
need not employ any men at all, and this en-
ables it to starve out the miners at its leisure.
Then the Government earns the gratitude of
the miners by not sending up to the company
sundry “ Domain loafers ” who would probably
be no earthly good as miners if they were sent
up, and who aren’t much needed even if they
were miners, because in the absence of the lease
the co. has no very urgent need for anybody.
In this way Reid keeps on good terms with
both parties, and gain.s some additional credit
in between times by offering to arbitrate if
both parties are agreeable. Of course both
parties are not agreeable ; that is just what the
strike is about.
4.
A new “ non-sectarian ” benevolent society was
established by a number of sectarian gentlemen
at Richmond, Melb., one evening last week,
and the meeting, consisting of Anglicans,
Catholics, Presbyterians, Jews, and others, long
discussed the burning question—should the
meetings of the society be opened with prayer?
All thought that meetings should be opened
with prayer, and plenty of it, but each wanted
his own brand of prayer, no other being
genuine, and the meeting failed to knock up
any kind of petition to the Most High that
would be acceptable to all parties. The tastes
of the Most High were not considered. In the
end it was decided that meetings must be
opened without prayer, the individual saint
being satisfied that no prayer at all would be
more acceptable to the Deity than a prayer
that was not constructed according to the
dogma of his particular creed, and which did
not contain a curse levelled at the dogmas of
all the other saints. The Bulletin respect-
fully suggests a reconsideration of the matter,
that meetings may be opened with prayer, all
the saints praying at the same time, each his
own particular supplication, and each being left
to eclipse the other, if he can, by the length,
depth, strength, and volume of his prayer.
This paper has long wondered that public pray-
ing competitions have not been inaugurated by
the churches.
At a recent meeting of Melbourne Trades Hall
Council the following illogical wail was put up
by some person who is still at large :
The workers themselves are the worst sweaters. The
workers themselves are the curse of the whole com-
munity. Their wives buy the stuff that comps from the
sweaters’ dens.
This sounds like a serious indictment, but, after
all, what is there in it ? The workers are
sweated and underpaid, therefore they have to
buy cheap goods—probably made by people
who are sweated and underpaid —to make ends
meet. That is one item. Another is that,
while goods made at sweated rates in Aus-
tralia, and imported at sweated rates from
abroad, are sold so plentifully, no one can
tell with absolute certainty wdiat goods are
or are not the product of sweating. If
goods are very cheap they probably do come
from the sweaters’ den. If they are dear
it may be because the makers are
paid a decent wage, or because the seller
grabs for a larger profit—he may be an
even worse sweater in some cases than the
cheap man, for the retail price is not neces-
sarily any index at all to the wages paid. If
the working-man’s wife bought goods only at
places where the prices were high enough to
allow of a living wage being paid, that fact
alone would make it very little more certain
that the living wage would be paid. Anyhow,
the first and hardest kick should be directed,
not at the working-man’s wife, who mostly buys
cheap goods because she has to, but at the
other fellow’s wife, who buys cheap goods from
choice alone.
“ Shark ” to The Bulletin :
Judge Simpson, a fortnight ago, laid down a new prin-
ciple in N.S.W. Divorce Court—a principle which, if acted
up to, will have the effect of closing the doors of that
Court against any but well-to-do suitors. In an applica-
tion by a wife for an order directing her husband to pay
a sum of money into Court to enable her to defend her-
self in a suit brought by him against her, the Judge prac-
tically refused to listen to any evidence as to the husband’s
means. “ I am going to lay down a principle which will,
in the future, govern my actions in applications of this
sort. I have to, and will, only consider what sum is
necessary for a wife’s defence.” It was pointed out to
His Honor that to act thus would be to alter what had
been the practice of the Court for fifteen years. “I am
laying down the principle which I will follow,” was the
reply, “and in future a husband bringing a divorce-suit
against his wife must consider the cost of his act.” If
Judge Simpson acts up to his present notion few men will
be able to apply to his court for redress. It is a statutory
rule which makes a husband find means for his wife to
defend herself; but common-sense demands that he
should only have to contribute according to his means.
Surely the husband should only be compelled to provide
his wife with funds sufficient to put her in as good a
financial position to defend herself as he is in to prose-
cute his suit. Acting on his new rule, Judge Simpson
would order Hodge to pay as much into court for his
wife’s defence as he would order, say, a member of the
Ministry.
♦
The recent commission of inquiry into the con-
dition of the Fijians has had the courage can-
didly to saddle “Christian civilisation” with
the moral and physical ruin of the race.
“ Paganism prevented sexual immorality,” and,
as Christianity only forbids it, the result is so
much human nature that “the chastity which
was~ formerly almost invariable in a bride is
now the rare exception.” The physical dete-
rioration of the people also is attributed, partly
to a filthy habit of living which Christianity
doubtless reprehends, but which benighted
paganism punished as a crime ; and partly to
the harder lot of the woman undefthe “ family
life ” which the gospellers have worked so hard'
to introduce. Polygamy made it compulsory
that an infant-rearing wife should receive the
utmost attention from the other wives ; the
single spouse’s maternal duties are so seriously
interfered with that the infant-mortality rate
is now all but half of the birth-rate. The
whole miserable business resolves itself into
one of two alternatives. Either Christianity—-
when judged, like other things, by results—is a
howling failure, or the Christianity of our sable
brother is the merest humbug, and the whole
mission business an impudent fraud.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552,744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
Oeneral Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
9. W. D’AROY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price; This new
“ talking machine,” costing only =£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st.. Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
“ The action of Glassey, leader of Q. Par-
liamentary Labor-party, in not Voting against the
Government anent Stephens’ charges of corrup-
tion,” writes “ A Democratic Voter ” to The Bul-
letin, “ has caused intense indignation amongst
his Bundaberg constituents. Everybody who has
hot some financial connection with the present
Govt, believes sincerely that the appointment of
the Royal Commissions did partake of the nature
of bribery and corruption. Even the Coukiee
says the appointments were ‘diplomatic.’ If
Glassey had to face his Bundaberg electors to-
morrow it is highly probable that the result of a
ballot would give him a severe shock. The chief
planks in his election platform related to the
smellfulness of the Q.N. Bank and the corrupt-
ness of the Nelson Administration. Both these
questions have been raised in the Assembly, and
on each occasion Glassey has swallowed his alleged
principles.”
Sit Still
and let us take your
Portrait. We will give
you a Better Picture
than you ever had be-
fore, and you will have
less to pay than else-
where
Quality is our first
consideration— Price,
the last
Jhe Jdecrl portrait Co.,
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stair-)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,')
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- /
ment in Permanent Bromide or f
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras,)
7 6
II
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Aer Majesty’s “The Fiench Maid.”
Lyceum “Robbery Under Arms.”
Royal The Veriscope.
TivoM Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace The Biograph.
Town Hall Hainbourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ In a Locket.”
Royal “ In the Ranks."
Bltou “Sweet Lavender.”
Alexandra “ The Ups and Downs of
Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alfred Dampier’s re-appearance at Sydney
Lyceum was a truly great event. The manage-
ment started to stem the torrent at half-past 7
and to refuse further admittance, and by a quarter
to 8 the tide of battle had carried it off its feet
and swept it backwards up the stairs into oblivion.
Now and then George Buller’s top hat appeared
above the storm, like a glimpse of someone swim-
ming in evening-dress in a heavy sea, but in a
general way the crowd had the best of it. There
never was such an audience in the Lyceum since
it first existed, and the reception that was thrown
at Dampier nearly blew that grand old hero off
the stage. It was a great, gaudy, happy night
for Maginnis and O’Hara and Warrigal and
everybody concerned. Evidently there is money
in running a show with much horse in it,
even at prices ranging from 2s. down to
sixpence. “ Robbery Under Arms ” went with a
cheerful bang all the time. The old drama has
been adorned with new scenery, and more horse
than usual has been inserted in it, and generally
no effort has been spared to keep it well up to
date.
• * • *
Dampier himself looks no older than he
did 10 years ago, and his wonderful voice is as
perfect as ever. Captain Starlight goes as success-
fully as usual, and all through his career that
pieasan Q moral bushranger has given every satis-
faction. For the. rest of the co. O’Hara, as repre-
sented by George Buller, Alfred Rolfe, Miss Lily
Dampier, Miss Russell, and Howard Smith’s War-
rigal were obviously the principal favorites, though
most of the bushrangers, cattle-stealers, aboriginals,
and other malefactors take well. The rest of the
cast includes Whistling Bill, Billy, and Arizona
Bill; also there are Ben, Jim, Dick, Dan, Black
Jack, and Lucky Jack. Some of them are not
especially brilliant, in an artistic sense, but they
all plug through their parts in an affable fashion —
all except George, who is a long, hesitating blot of
woe, and calls for severe censure.
* * * *
The Dampier season lasts till the end of
next week, and on Friday (Oct. 1) it is proposed
to organise a benefit to Miss Lily, prior to her de-
parture for England. As she hasn’t had anything
of the kind for 10 years, the occasion seems to call
for it, and a lot of influential assistance is forth-
coming to make it a big success.
** * *
The veriscope, brought here by an enter-
fjrising Amurrikin gentleman who arrived through
ns nose a few days ago, should coin money at
Sydney Royal. The veriscope is the cinemato-
graphe drawn out long. It lasts about an hour
and a quarter, and as its solitary subject is the
Corbett-Fitzsimmons fight it is an hour of gory
carnage and soul-filling biff and raw meat. There
is almost certainly no other subject on earth that
would attract so much money in Australia just
now, and the Amurrikin gentleman who runs the
business should find it a small gold-mine. The
veriscope is reasonably successful artistically. The
pictures are very large, and if they do wobble
a good deal at times that is jjrobably un-
avoidable. Anyhow, the fight is all there, and for
14 rounds the two ghostly combatants welt each
other in silence, except when the audience does
the yelling, until at last Corbett goes down with
both hands full of anguished stomach, and holds
the place where he was spanked last till his king-
dom departs from him. There is a painfully historic
look on his face as he struggles to rise—the sort of
look which Bajazet the Thunderbolt might
have worn as he held his stomach in
Asia and saw Tamerlane annex his empire.
But up till that last moment it seems
like anybody’s battle, and the two phantom
pluggers plug each other without making a sound
like lost souls blackening each other’s eye on the
plains of Acheron. If the management would
hang up a piece of beef somewhere, and smite it
with a bat every time a hit is made, it might make
things more realistic, always provided the beef
was smote at the right moment. But the blood is
all there, and the split ear, and the damaged nose,
and the audience gets just as frantic as if it didn’t
know how the matter was going to end. One
bookmaker, on Saturday, so far lost his head as to
offer to back Corbett at a certain thrilling moment,
but nobody had time to take him up. Australia
hasn’t seen its Fitzsimmons in the bruised flesh
and the gore for quite a long time now, and it
noted on Saturday night that he looked gaunter
and balder, and more hairy about the arms, and
more like a- shapeless streak of fury than ever.
As for Corbett, he looked too beautiful and too
b ccurately hair-parted for the business—until he
sat down suddenly with his digestion on his
hands, for then he looked not at all beautiful and
his hair-parting went anyhow. The veriscope
has at last filled The Bulletin with the Christian
sentiment that it has much to be thankful for and
that its lines have been cast in pleasant places.
At no period until the blessed reign of Queen Vic-
toria was it possible to see a brawny pug suddenly
sit down 5000 miles away with both paws on his
stricken innards, and the spectacle makes this
paper realise, for the first time, the advantages of
living under the benign sway of that truly august
monarch.
The “French Maid,” at Her Majesty’s,
shows no falling-off in the boom, and no news of
any change of programme rises in the east so far
as this paper is aware.
# * * *
The Tivoli is gathering in the ripe shekels
much as usual —nothing seems to make very much
difference to the Tivoli, somehow—but a certain
tailing-off becomes visible at the Palace. With
Her Majesty’s continuously doing well, and the
Dumpier boom at the Lyceum, and the huge
attraction of two famous pugs pounding each
other’s shadow at the Royal, something has to go
somewhere, and it seems as if the unlucky Palace
was suffering. The beautiful Biograph pictures
are undoubtedly the strongest attraction there,
and the Biograph, as a peaceful show, naturally
suffers by comparison with a very similar exhibi-
tion which mauls somebody for 75" minutes, and
leaves him draining international nose-blood on to
the floor of the diagram.
* * * *
The Tivoli now includes in its programme
a series of very tine Jubilee pictures shown per
medium of the inevitable cinematographe, and for
those who are not so unspeakably tired of the
whole business that they Would gladly drop the
Jubilee into the bottomless pit this exhibition is
worth seeing. All the same, this paper desires to
mention that—what with the only original cine-
matographe, and the improved ditto, and the
only authentic ditto, and the vitascope, and the
veriscope, and the biograph—it is just possible to
have too much of a good thing. Having got
which remark off its chest The BULLETIN goes out
for a well-earned drink.
* * * *
Prof. Norton B. Smith, the “ Emperor of
all Horse Educators,” starts his little show at
Sydney Exhibition Building on Oct. 2. All per-
sons owning buck-jumpers, pig-jumpers, kickers,
biters, jibbers, bolters, and other undesirable
animals are invited to send them along, to be
treated absolutely gratis, and reduced to such a
state of calm that a local preacher would be a
howling dervish by comparison.
* * * *
Pinero’s “ Sweet Lavender,” which never
grows less in Australian estimation, cropped up
again at Melb. Bijou on Saturday, when the latter
end of the rush had to be turned seatlessly away.
Comparison of this show with previous perform-
ances, that were each of them better in spots, will
chiefly tend to strengthen everybody’s good
opinion of the play. “Sweet Lavender ” is a
self-acting play, and as long as it is cast with
proper respect for appearances, and the author’s
instructions are carefully attended to, th'e effect is
bound to be pleasing. Some members of this
east are not equal to their responsibilities,
but they move in the right direction and
allow the author’s intentions to make themselves
felt. Minnie Cilfillian and her ’Murkan pursuer
are about the least satisfactory items in the ac-
count ; also Clem, and Lavender, and Lavy’s
mother do many of the natural things they ought
to do in a distinctly artificial manner. It is the
vivid reality of the characters that gives the un-
convincing mummers away, and still the true effect
can be seen shining through their perform-
ance. The story never loses its charm. Lavy’s
illegitimate papa, and Minnie’s mother (the
historical female who bewails Min’s careless-
ness in nearly getting run over by a ’bus) are
at least free from staginess, and Thornton plays
Dick Phenyl with so much more force than of
yore that he atones for a lot of the failings else-'
where. His lapses into Rev. Spalding’s vocal
tricks are very few, and he mostly lives, moves,
and has his being in the loveable character of
Phenyl aforesaid. Following on the heels of the
“Bookmaker,” the broken-down barrister-at-law is
a quite remarkable exhibition of Thornton’s talent
for character-acting, and it deserves all the grist it
will bring to the mill. After “ Sweet Lavender ”
will come a brief revival of “ Miss Brown.”
* * * *
The Paulton season is coming to a spirit-
less end in Melbourne, and the Firm has probably
registered a vow to have no more of farcical
comedy under the Princess’s sliding roof. It has
been more or less of a failure there any time
within the past ten years. The theatre is too
large, and its reputation and prices are too high
for a thin entertainment of the early B. and B.
style, and a mere comedy of errors, with no human
interest or music and dazzle in it seems particu-
larly thin when the two leading members of the
co. are not public favorites. “Niobe” showed
Paulton and Miss Alma Stanley to advantage, but
their revival of that excellent old joke didn’t
attract much audience, after all, for people as a
rule had turned their backs upon the present
course of things at the Princess’s. “In a
Locket,” produced on Saturday, was another light
comedy, very much in need of further rehearsal.
Written by Harry Paulton and his brother, “In
a Locket ” is rather cleverly contrived, dainty and
humorous above the average, yet not strong
enough to draw big houses nowadays. The central
figure is an unremarkable middle-aged husband,
played by Paulton in his usual droll-prosaic
fashion, and the other characters revolve around
him. It happened on Saturday that Miss Stanley
took ill, and Miss Emily Hughes had to fill the
vacancy at a few hours notice, consequently Miss
H. couldn’t do more than struggle through her
part with credit. A tame, uncertain first per-
formance suggested that “ In a Locket ” would go
pretty briskly under favorable circs.—and that’s
all about it. The climax is feeble, anyway.
Paulton and Co. will most likely wind up the
season this week with a revival of “My Friend
from India.”
* * * *
Last week’s Bulletin spoke of Miss Alma
Stanley’s Niobe as a “ hugesome ” vision, whereas
hugsom.fi was intended by the writer. But, on
second thoughts, the printer’s error seems good
enough. The lady’s rather gigantic stature makes
either term admissible.
** * *
Melbourne Alexandra is making a fair bid
for patronage with “ Held by the Enemy,” and
the state of the auditorium on Saturday was en-
couraging. A first-class drama, mounted and
acted for almost as much as it would be worth at
a popular house, is a new experiment at an un-
lucky pitch, where admission to the stalls costs
one shilling. This journal has already observed
that the latest Alexandra management deserves
to get on. “Held by the Enemy” justifies a
loud reiteration of the same solemn truth.
** * *
Quite a capable acting force is gathered at
Melb. Alexandra just now—Hus Glover, young
George Majeroni, Edwin Lester, Wilson Forbes,
Frank Norton, ancient Harry Daniels, Rosa Con-
roy, Ada Lawrence, and others who can speak a
few lines respectably. But there seems to be no
hope for the Aleck. The public that would appre-
ciate a better class of show can’t be lured into the
theatre, and the crowd that will support nothing
but blood-and-thunder drama is not sufficiently
numerous and prosperous to keep the “ghost”
walking for long. In Damnier’s palmy time the
Aleck gallery alone used to hold 1200 sixpences on
Saturday nights. .£3O galleries are a dream of the
past.
** * *
“ In the Ranks ” will run for another night
or two at Melb. Royal, and then George Rignold
will proceed towards Sydney with his new leading
lady and the co. The new leading lady—Miss
Lilian Wheeler—is an astounding success, all
things considered. Many tall and graceful
women have been able to walk easily through a
melodrama part after very little tuition in the
business. Miss Wheeler’s talent for taking to the
stage as naturally as the feathered kind of duck
takes to water is not astounding. It is her grow-
ing power of dramatic expression which surprises
one. Miss Wheeler, as Ruth Herrick, sets the
present writer thinking that there is more joy in
Heaven over one gifted novice than over 99
hardened professional actresses who need no en-
couragement to act—because they ought not to
have been allowed to enter the profession in the
first instance.
** * *
Nothing special has happened at the Opera
House lately, barring the introduction of an un-
melodious Nellie, whose face appears to be her
only artistic property at present. The Kockney
Komic holds his ground much better than komics
in general ; also the Havtors and Winton are
nourishing, and the cinematograph'e reflects
Jubilee grovel upon the sheet with painful success.
*
The Australian concert-tour of Miss Amy
Sherwin, Barton M'Guckin, and the Polish pianist
with the unspeakable name, is to commence at
Melb. Town Hall, on Saturday next (25th).
At Poverty Point .
A Bulletin correspondent: “ Yes, it is indeed sad to
notp that circus-tnan Harry Burton is on his last financial
legs. He started his National Circus travelling in 1851,
and kept it going over 31) years. His grand principles
were keeping faith with the public and the publican -that
is to say, the lodging-housekeeper with whom he had to
do. Perhaps his most striking experience was taking the
circus up the mountains to Walhalla, where the people
thought it must have dropped from the clouds. Who is
it that is taking in hand the matter of helping good old
man Burton ? If the Fitzgeralds, Tom and Dan, were
here, they would help in organising a proper benefit,”
“ Australian flora are extra thick here just now,” writes
Tim Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ Florrie Ford,
the serio-comic, ddbutted successfully indeed at three
‘ halls ’—the Pavilion, Oxford, and South London. Her
two songs are not the most suitable, though the gallery
caught on to the chorus of the second right away. Her
husband, Mr. Krone, is with her and ‘ brooms ’ her from
hall to hall. Florrie Esdaile took an extra turn at the
Tivoli and knocked ’em silly, but Flora Graupner and
Florrie Young have not yet appeared behind the wire-
fence of the footlights. There are always a few of the
audience to snigger significantly at a few lines in ‘ La
Poupee,’ when Courtice Pounds expresses his hopeless
desire for a chariner whom matrimony debars hiv from
and is told that in such a case marriage is not an obstacle.
The memory of C.P.’s appearance in the Divorce Court as
co-respondent, though known to the few, is compara-
tively recent. Alma Obre.y is getting £23 a week for
singing at four halls nightly, and her husband, Baxter, is
also making bread and jam.”
As usual, Caleb Porter entered the lists in “ The Sign of
the Cross ” newspaper correspondence in Adelaide, which
was admirably worked up by W. & M.’s manager. Caleb
is the boss hypocrite of the lot. As Nero he nightly con-
signed bushels of fresh Christians to the lions, but in the
newspapers as Caleb Porter he defended Christianity and
ably quoted Scripture.
Two dear old ladies, who had evidently called at the
Sign of the Jug on the way, went to see ‘‘The Sign of the
Cross ”in Adelaide. They had a parcel of meat-pies and
several bottles of beer, and they wept copiously and ate
pies and drank beer during the first act. In the second
they slept soundly until a particularly harrowing scene
awoke one of the pair, and, without warning, she look a
dive, accompanied by three pies, into the front gallery
row. They rescued the lady, but the pies went on and
broke with a loud report in the stalls. For some minutes
the people below delighted the gallery by their frantic
attempts to get the potato out of their hair and rescue
the kidney and onion which had nestled inside their col-
lars, and then matters became normal again.
Clever Dion G. B. has leased the Court Theatre, London,
and engaged Hilda Spong. The thin edge of the wedge ?
Brough and wife will be in the foggy city in April. George
Titheradge goes “ Home ”in January. What are the odds
against Brough and Boucicault redivivus ? Will old
jealousies intervene, or was the pseudo “dissolution”
only a thing of straw after all ?
The Firm made its managerial debut in London at the
Duke of York Theatre—not the Shaftesbury. The Potter-
Bellew performance of “Franeillon” opened the cam-
paign, and probably Cora Urquhart P. didn’t try to im-
prove on her Australian treatment of the name char-
acter, for she (says the cable) achieved her ambition—a
big London success. The Franeillon that she showed us
here was surely the most charming of stage matrons,
S.G. : “ When lovely woman stoops to criticism, it
mostly means -‘ Let her go, Gallagher ! ’ Thus Fannie
Edgar Thomas, on Mark Hambourg, in London Musical
Courier : — 1 He fairly danced on the pedals, and his hands
passed his shoulders in graceful, rhythmic windings that
made you shudder for the chord at such a distance. The
blows were taken with tiger grips, not with hammers, and
the idea of smashing diamonds occurred to your ears. . . .
It was saved from the sledge-hammer bang of German
strength by the steely, electric rush of unseen things, the
inspirational dash through the distinct hammerings.
Which somehow calls up Gilbert’s Bab triplet—
‘ His blissful spirit rolls
In the melody of souls
(Which is pretty, but'l don’t know what it means.’ ”
Ami : “ Willie Edouin has often been on the point o
returning to Australia, which he left 30 years ago. H
had little luck last year, and kept packing and unpacking
his traps, but this year has landed him in ‘ La Poupie,’ a
‘ Niobe ’ bit of fat. After this gorge, he is pretty well
sure to give Australia a look-in. He was only 12 when he
first appeared on the Melb. stage, with the Edouin
Family.”
Cockaigne : “Re bishops on the English stage. There
is only one—in Wilde’s ‘ Lady Windermere’s Fan.’ The
Lord Chamberlain would not allow him a word. Dear
old Gladstone acted it in Melb. as well as the People’s
William could. A vain attempt was made to introduce a
comic bishop in ‘ The Twins.’ ”
After Agricultural Show week there was a decided
slump in Melbourne theatre business everywhere except
at the Opera House. These earnivalic rushes are not a
real gain to showmen People who ordinarily go onoe a
Week to the theatre go twice at holiday times. Then, hav
ing over-feasted themselves, they need a three weeks
interval for recovering their normal appetite.
. The Paultons (Harry and his brother) had Alma Stanley
in view when they wrote “ Niobe,” but the long lady’s
previous .engagements prevented her from “creating”
the part in London. She played it for the first time at
Melb. Princess’s the other night.
A small, discouraged theatrical co. ohce struck Egef-
ton, Vic., and put. up a moral drama under tryihg circum-
stances. The hall held a fair audience, and a plav cut out
of “ East Lynne,” with only one fetnale character, Was
rattled off, hut early in the second act the patrons had
grown .Weary of the heroine, a loose, shambling female
W’ith big feet and a bass voice. Otice ti'c management
appealed to the audience, with a pathetic aSsertioh that
the heroine Was the only femalte they bad in the Com-
pany, but the audiehce grew more hilarious ahd un-
gallant, and at last the lady, stung beyond healing,
blunged Over the piano orchestra, and charged a largfe
Obstructionist on the front forni, fetching him one on the
point with a vigorous left. The party irt question was a
man Of feW prejudices, and he replied in kind, and the
two fought a clever little three-round mill in the gang-
way. After the battle the obstructionist was gentlv led
away by kind friends, the heroine returned to the stage,
and the moral drama was resumed before an appreciative
house, the general opinion being that, although the
heroine's performance might have been a poor effort fora
Woman, it was excellent lor a man—especially a man who
fought so well.
tiiK Bulletin is reminded that it was not Ernest King,
but H. J. King, who resigned the conductorship of Melb.
Liedertafel
Miss Blanche Walsh has just ended a prosperous season
as heroine of Gillette’s “Secret Service,’’ London
Adelphi.
A smart topical farce, “Nancy's Nuptials,’ 1 has been
written by W. Beattie for the N.S.W. Society of Artists,
some of whom are rehearsing it fur performance during
their picture-show.
Flute-player Lemtnone is hot a Maorilander, but a Bal-
larat boy, horn of a, Greek father ahd an English tnbtheh
Everybody about the theatre tlvOided For rest, the tra-
gedian, on what Whs called alimony day, when he had to
pay the allowance to his divorced Wiffe:
Sttazelle is doing “ Tales Of W Traveller” for LlCtd’S
Weekly, LOhdo’rt. In a recent issue is a jjfct.ure of the
gifted author as he appeared in Australia, and the versa-
tile showman, whom we always remember in spick and
span clobber and a spotless Paris hat, is shown in a hybrid
costume which implies that “Snaggy” knocked about
this continent dressed half-and-half, as a cross between a
British Hodge and a Greek brigand. “ Travellers’ Tales,”
indeed !
The Terry v. Thornton case is due to come up for hear-
ing sometime towards the end of October, and the plaintiff
seems to be seriously waiting for the event.
In the Queen's Bench Division (Eng.), before Mr. Jus-
tice Hawkins, Charlotte Cooney, a well-known music-hall
singer professionally known as Lottie Collins, sued the
proprietor of Society for a libel contained in a notice of
her performance which imputed to her “ a touch of vul-
garity” in her rendering of a song called “The Little
Widow.” The jury awarded the plaintiff a verdict of
£25. But the verdict was dearly bought, as Miss Collins
is now under a newspaper boycott, the Court’s decision
being regarded as “ the death of all but greasy criticism.”
E. : “ ‘ J.M.F.' seems to doubt that G. V. Brooke evef
played at old Melb. Princess’s I saw him play at that
house as Maobelh. Edwards played Macduff, I remember
the play well, for Hecate became suspended half-Way up,
and refused to ascend or descend, nut stuck there like
Mahomet’s coffin. I think, but all) hot shte, that I saW
Brooke play the 1 Irish Attorney * at the same house.”
Dear Bulletin,— “Did the late G. V. Brooke ever play at
the old Melb, Princess s? ” I know he did oh one occa-
sion, at least. BrOoke was playing at the Royal ahd
Clarence Holt at the Princess’s ahd one night Ilolt went
to the Royal and played lago to Brooke's Othello. Two or
three nights afterwards BrOoke Went to the Princess’s and
played lago to Holt’s Othello. I did not see either of
these plays. The only time I saw Brooke he played Louis
XI. I saw Holt play Ethelwolf, Marquis of Derby, ih a
play of which I forget the name, hut in which Catherine
Howard, one of the Wives of Henry VIII., was chief
character. I think Mrs. Holt played Catherine. By the
bye, the first time I was ever in a theatre was in the old
Royal in ’5B. The piece de resistance was Talfoutd’s
foundling play, atul the star was Miss Anette Trice. It
was followed by a farce, The Artful Dodger, in which
Coppin played Demosthenes Dodge and sang Villikins and
His Dinah with some peculiar variations of his owh. That
was the only time I ever saw Coppin on the stage. Dur-
ing Brooke’s season, Miss Avonia Jones (afterwards Mrs.
G. V. Brooke) and her mother, Mrs. Melinda Jones, played
Romeo and Juliet, Melinda being Romeo and Avohia,
Juliet.— Trotter Betiiune. Moohee Ponds, Vic.


E, BULL & CO., Ltd.,
LOUDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Aus. I
Reps. \
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Building's, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
The KOEIiSTZ
PATENT
“tittle Giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
■SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic&otherSodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SIR JOHN - -
POWERS Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co., '
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Piiilp & Co. Ltd.,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office & Chemical Laboratory,
Tklf.phonbI
2444. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
Ross, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if securi-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
The best and safest investment in Australia is a policy
in the A.M.P. Society. Mr. \V. R. Pennycook, the
Society’s City Agent, will give intending assurers every
information. His address is Hoffnung’s Buildings, 163
Pitt-street, Sydney. Telephone 2862.*
* * * *
A terrific gamble is being started in Lake
George Mines North (copper) shares. This alleged mine
may have the Lake George formation—or it rnajm’t. So
far, the thing seems a pure “ spiel”—of the North
Nymagee kind. The solemn fact of the matter is that
the Copper Boom is now here or hereabouts.
• * * *
Croydon (Q.) Ang. returns—2o77 tons for 29630 z.
Cyanide, 2003 tons, 1028 oz. From Ist Jan., ’97, this field
produced 54,7680 z. from 40,796 tons.
There is NotbiQg Cheap
About Oub Wokk
Cxcept the Price.
SIMPSON, Ooachbuilder, •
Newtown, SYDNEY.
PERTH —Robt. Wolfe.
QERALDTON— A. Meadqwcroft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Since thearticle, “ A Year of Freetrade,” which
appeared in last week's issue, was written, The Bulletin,
by much industrious delving, has found the necessary
data for some kind of a comparison of N.S.W. industries
as they were in 1895 under Protection and in 1396 under
Freetrade. The question at issue is the number of per-
sons employed in factories during each year. Up to the
end of 1895 the official definition of a factory was a place
where things were made with the aid of machinery, or, if
no machinery was used, it was necessary that at least
five hands should be employed before the place could
qualify. Also, tailors’ and dressmakers’ shops were not
included. In 1896 a new system started, under which
these two kinds of establishments were included, and the
minimum number of hands required to make a factory
was reduced to four. Results are somewhat as follows :
Persons employed in 1895 under old method of
computation ... ... ... ... 43,833
Add persons in factories employing only four
hands eaoh (Statistics for 1895, page 624) ... 732
44,565
The result is that, not including tailors and dressmakers,
there were 44,565 persons employed in N.S.W. factories,
in 1895, under the new method of computation. In 1896
the results were these :
Persons employed in 1896 ... ... ... * 49,055
Less 1843 tailors and 1749 dressmakers ... ... 3592
45,463
• * * •
This means that the increase for 1896, so far as
the two returns can be put on the same basis, is 898 em-
ployes. Of course even this is not a matter of certainty.
If the number of tailors and dressmakers employed in 1895
could be ascertained —which it apparently can’t —the
total increase might bo more, or less, or there might be
no increase at all, but a falling-off. The N.S.W. industrial
statistics for 1896 leave things in a woefully uncertain
state.
* * * *
The Victorian Government has now closed the
accounts for the year ending 30th June, and the result is
£12,000 better than the estimate announced a few weeks
ago. If the payment of £250,000 off the old deficit is
reckoned in the expenditure the result is a shortage of
£184,095 ; without it there is a surplus of £6s,9os—that is
to say, the aggregate shortage has decreased by that
amount. Under the new circumstances the results pan
out thus on paper :
Victoria Deficit £184,095
N.S.W. ~ 170,945
This is reckoning, in each case, the amount paid off the
old deficit as part of the expenditure, and Victoria pans
out worst because it paid £250,000 off its deficit, while
N.S.W. paid only 8150,000. Leaving amounts paid off old
shortages out of the question the results are :
N.S.W. Deficit £20,945
Maoriland Surplus 125,000
. Victoria ~ 65,905
Tasmania „ 47,732
Queensland „ 8,886
Westralia ~ 3,298
South Australia „ 2,140
* * « »
For the first quarter of the new financial year
Maoriland realised £42,000 more customs revenue, £l7OO
more from the post-office, and £2300 more from telegraphs
than in the corresponding quarter of 1896. The local
Tory still wails that Socialistic government is driving
Maoriland to insolvency, and that capital is leaving the
country, and a huge deficit is imminent, but good for-
tune keeps steadily by the Seddon Government all the
time.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melb.) is feeling a shade better this year,
as the loss for the twelve months is only £7511. Last year
it was £11,431; in 1895 it was £2630; and in 1894, £13,800;
so the present year is a distinct improvement on last one,
anyhow. Out of the £7511 loss, £6318 was through the
: sale of property at less than its paper value, and the other
£1193 arose through general inability to make ends meet.
The Modern has £610,215 advanced on mortgage and
£345,000 of this is represented by foreclosed property,
197,000 by vacant land, and only £163,000 is live mort-
gages. In October, 1894, it got a reduction of interest to
2| per cent., and even at this low rate it hasn’t once con-
trived to make ends meet. Its alleged 8345,000 worth of
properties in possession barely return 3 percent, gross,
.and after allowing for repairs, etc., they return barely
lYi per cent. Neither they, nor the vacant land, nor the
£78,000 worth of office premises have ever been written
down ; judging by the above figures, however, they want
something of the kind badly.
Still, the prospects of the Modem look rather
better than they did. It has £198,897 capital and
£25,179 reserves still existing on paper, which leaves
a considerable margin for depreciation. The income
(£21,460) though miserably small, is £l7l better than last
year. The loss, as already mentioned, has diminished by
£3900. Within the 12 months £37,000 worth of deposits
and debentures and £lO,OOO of mortgage have been paid
off ; and about £49,000 of property has been got rid of,
which transactions reduce the interest a little, and par-
tially shift the stupendous dead-horse. The property
was mostly judiciously swapped for deposit receipts—still
it was got rid of. At the present rate, the reserve will
stand all losses for three years more, and by that time
something may turn up—or down. The main trouble is
that the reduction of interest is only temporary, and the
Modern is now applying for a new re-construction or an
extension of the old one. If it doesn’t get it, the only
probable result is another little tombstonein the cemetery
of dead banks, and the*rain dropping gently on it from
the cypress tree. Still there seems a fair chance that it
will get it, and, in that case, the Modern should pull
through with a long, hard struggle.
« * * *
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) got through the year with a loss of £6946, as
compared with losses of £7439, £BlO7 and £15,809 for
three previous years. Despite this reduction on the an-
nual deficit, however, things don’t look good. The great
trouble is the continuous falling away in the gross income
—as shown by last four years’ receipts:
1894 £15,828 1896 £7991
1895 10,788 1897 6392
The difficulty now is that the year’s receipts are £6392
and the expenditure, principally interest on deposits and
municipal taxes on properties in possession, is £13,338.
When the gup is so bad as this the work of filling it up is
very difficult. The Victorian Permanent has never
attempted to write down its properties to present values,
and as £630,000 worth of alleged assets only yield 1 per
cent, per annum gross, or about 10s. per cent, after paying
taxes and repairs, they must be a truly awful mass of
bricks and mortar. If it is a fair thing to assume 3 per
cent, gross interest on the present value, which is low
enough in all conscience, the Vic. Permanent’s assets are
worth about £210,000, and it is utterly insolvent; on a 5
per cent, basis ttiey are worth £126,000, and it is only
good for 6s. Sd. in the £ to its creditors.
Moreover, as the properties seem to be mort-
gaged to the extent of £109,000, it is an open question
whether, in case of immediate realisation, the plain,
ordinary depositor would get anything in the £ at
all. The one big- asset is “ Loans on mortgag-e,
£575,797,” but, judging by the large expenditure
for rates and repairs, it would appear that this
is mostly foreclosed properties which yield nothing or
thereabouts. The society reports that the property
market shows practically no improvement, and as the
Modern Permanent, whose balance-sheet is also just out,
says things are looking up, this probably means that it is
the market for the sort of assets the Victorian has to sell
which is rapidly getting no better. Apparently nothing
but a very large and very sudden revival can save the
Victorian Permanent from going flop.
* * »
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Building
and Investment Association (Sydney), whicn reconstructed
in 1894, is trying to make another re-arrangement. The
Metropolitan M. P.B. I.A. agreed to pay 5 and 6 per cent,
to its creditors, but owing to the steady fading away of
the profits it proposes asking for a reduction to 3 per cent.
This is said to be the largest amount that the institution
with the dreadfully long name can screw out of its assets
at present, and, as the assets are £296,000 and the liabili-
ties to the public on which interest is to be paid only
£151,000, the result seems to be that the Metropolitan
only expeots to realise a little over lJj per cent, on its
alleged funds in the immediate future.
* * ♦ a
Clare’s Weekly, a promising new publication,
hailing from Perth (W.A.), heads its financial column
“ Shares and Shocks.” Which is about the most expres-
siveway it could be put—unless it were called ‘‘Shocks
and Bears.”
* * * *
Alleged that T. B. Payne, who recently died in
Melbourne, will crush for something like £lOO,OOO pro-
bate duty. With the death-duties on William Clarke’s,
Mrs. Silas Harding’s, and Payne’s estates all crowded
into one year, Treasurer Turner must feel that his luck
is in at last.
* * • *
The New York Life Insurance Co., having out-
grown its old premises, is now to be found in commodious
offices at 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, where every kind of life
insurance will be found on the premises at the lowest
rates consonant with absolute security.
* • * 0
The Queensland National Bank question has
had some more obscurity cast upon it. The Parliamentary
Investigation Committee, which was inspecting the insti-
tution for further losses and horrors and revelations, has
drawn up a report, hut refuses to allow it to be published
until it gets formal Parliamentary protection, lest it should
be sued for defamation and blasted with heavy damages.
This demand is so unusual that people now assume
the report to be a staggering publication. Further, there
is trouble about “ a gentleman who protests against the
publication of his affairs.” It is understood that this
gentleman will raise Sodom and Oomorah if the report
is made public until he has been examined by the com-
mittee, and has bad an opportunity to explain, or explain
away, certain allegations. Also, he is out of Australia
just now, and doesn’t see his way to come back for
some time, so he wants the report hung up indefi-
nitely till he is ready. It is openly stated that this
gentleman is Thomas 41‘Ilwraith, a member of the Minis-
try which is asked to protect the committee against
Thomas M‘llwraith. Therefore the public assumes, rightly
or wrongly, that there are some dreadful things about
M‘llwraith and some very bad information about the
Q.N. Bank in that unpublished report, and that some
Ministerial complications are imminent, and that, the ap-
pearance of the document (this is written while a
motion for its production pends in Parliament)
is still a good way off. Perhaps the strangest item
in the whole affair was the off - hand remark of
M'Donald, M.L.A., that, with a view to hurrying
things up, the Government should pay M'llwraith’s
passage back to Queensland if he had not, sufficient means
to do it himself. What a fall there must be when anyone
talks of the old leviathan, the bank magnate, land-boomer,
gridiron-railway boss, and once alleged millionaire, as a
poor old gentleman who possibly can’t get back to explain
things for the want of the wherewithal to buy his ticket!
* * * *
There is probably not a man in Brisbane who
in his heart doesn’t suspect hanky-panky at the bottom
of the latest manoeuvring in connection with the produc-
tion of that committee’s report on the Q.N. Bank. But
there is nobody game to say out loud just what he sus-
pects.
• * * *
All three Brisbane daily papers united to advo-
cate further delay in re the production of the report of
the committee of investigation into Q.N. Bank matters,
in the interest of “ the gentleman not now in Australia.”
It was a piece of good luck that they had the taking
excuse of “fair play” to account for their phenomenal
leaguing together, and they waved their banner aloft for
all it was worth.
* * * *
The reduction of Alfred Graving Dock dues has
resulted in increased activity at that erst deserted spot.
Williamstown, in fact, is quite lively. Another argument
for the abolition of all port-dues on shipping. And it
will come in Victoria.
* * « *
The English shipping co.’s have, through a
decision of the Tasmanian C.J., failed to get out of pay-
ing to Tas. Govt, income-tax, or the £5O a year equivalent,
for ’94 and ’95, on business done in Tasmania. If, instead
of having agents there, they had done business in Mel-
bourne with airents of the shippers, they would not,
apparently, have to pay, though they would have made
as much.
* * * •
The Bulletin is sorry to have to publish this
letter in reply to an enquiry from Maoriland recently
here printed : —“Opalton, Sept. 5. Ed. Bulletin,— lie
the two Crowes who lately went to Papua. I was a pas-
senger per same boat with Pat and Ned Crowe (if they
are the men wanted) last August. Poor Ned died on the
track to Mt. Scratehley of fever and hardship ; I last saw
Pat alive at Cooktown, about three months ago, at Mrs.
Galvan’s hotel. He was then very weak with fever. —
Chas. Hicks.
Queensland now boasts the deepest bore in the
Southern Hemisphere. Bimerah, near Longreach, has
sunk to a distance of 5976 ft., and challenges Australia to
beat that for a record. In N.Q. you will sometimes find a
bore giving you 1)4 millions of gallons per diem at a
depth of about 1500 ft., and only 10 miles away, a party
will be desperately sinking to 4000 ft. with never a sign of
water. In parts the strata are terribly uneven and
broken.
* * * *
The smart man who proposed to start that
Melb. detective-agency explains that as his experimental
advt. had not resulted in sufficient inducement to start
in Melb., he has decided to commence in a more extended
sphere. The agency, by the way, is understood to have
returned all the 12s. Gd. fees sent to it.
* * * *
Macquarie Harbor (Tas.) bar is to be deepened,
and £'50,000 is wanted to do it with. It is proposed to
build a wall from a point on the southern shore of the
mouth seaward in a N. VV. direction, or thereabouts, pre-
sumably to break the force of the sea, thereby permitting
the waters of the harbor, supplied by the Gordon and
King Rivers, to do the work of scouring unimpeded. This
will be a long and dangerous undertaking, and the
£50,000 will go far short of the distance required to allow
of the scourings being swept clear of traffic. Someone
has proposed to place a dredge on the bar and to start
scooping up the sand ; just as sensible an idea would be to
begin chipping down Mount Wellington and piling it on
top of Hobart.
* * * *
Tas. Government (writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent) has spent hundreds of pounds looking for routes
from Hobart to the West Coast, notwithstanding that the
present Sinda track is as good as they will find. And in
the face of the possible construction of the Great Western
line, it is now proposed to erect a wooden tramway over
the distance. A man is actually starting out to look for
a route. A very wooden scheme.
• * * •
The Great Western Graball Railway syndicate
(Tas.) has started the preliminary survey. By the time the
clearing of the route is through the engines of the Great
Northern, from Waratah to Zeehan, will be rushing ore
down to deep water at Emu Bay; and when the former
crowd has completed its line it will find there isn’t much
left to carry back to Hobart but empties.
* * « *
Quite a number of poor people down South, who
have been “reduced” by the depression in real estate,
bank and building society failures, are having their loins
girded up by speculative Gents One to have a shot at the
well-to-do trustees who haVe—m the light of two recent
legal decisions—improperly invested the funds held in
trust for said poor folk. If the Vic. Full Court’s two re-
cent “big” decisions go for anything, those Gents pro-
mise to strike it rich, whilst such Trustees Co.’s as have
not exceeded their powers of investment will benefit
enormously by the exposure of those who have.
* * * *
At the usual half-yearly row amongst the
directors of the Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melb.), the query
why the late manager Langford resigned was unanswered,
and the questioner referred to Mr. Langford himself for a
reply. A certain director of the Mutual Store who has
invested a large amount of trust funds in that co., accused
Langford of having spread reports so detrimental to the
store that the value of the shares had been depreciated
some thousands of pounds in ’Change value. Langford
not only denied the statement but demanded the name
of the director’s informant; same not being forthcoming,
he gave the director the lie direct, threw up his billet,
and thus opened a much-needed snug berth for an ex-
draper and J.P.
» * * *
The first two steamers built in Glasgow for the
new interprovincial Melbourne shipping co. will be Out
directly. They are said to be years ahead in construction
of anything purely coastal now afloat. Signs are not
wanting that the rival oo’s., whose backbone has hitherto
been coal-carrying, are about to add new vessels to their
fleets. Apropos coal-carrying, The Bulletin is patiently
awaiting the next balance-sheet of a certain shipping co.
whose coal-contracts have much diminished (and will
further diminish in December) during the last six months.
An opportunity will then be afforded of testing the truth
or otherwise of the coal-carrying steamship companies’
oft-repeated statement that N.S.W. coal is always car-
ried to Vic. at a heavy loss.
* * * •
A Vic. official receiver is just now wrestling
with the estate of an “ inspector,” whose declared assets
consist of “ two cages and four canaries.” But, to be
quite characteristic of the great boom city, it ought to be
four cages and two birds.
* * * *
The price of silver seems to have settled down
for the present in the neighborhood of 2s. 2d., but there
is no special reason why it should stay just there. The
authorities (if there are any authorities) on the subject
were just as confidently saying, a few months back, that
the normal price was 2s. Pd.; and Japan, when lately it
introduced gold to its currency, adopted a ratio which
made silver equivalent to 2s. 5J4d. It all goes to prove
that nobody knows. Lead retained its upward tendency
till it passed <£l4 ; but the sharp rise seems to be only
warranted on the assumption that silver will not have
much of a recovery. Further, the continued low price
for silver seems to indicate that the fall wasn’t a ’Murkan
ruse to help the M’Kinley bimetallic commission ; and it
also seems to indicate that that commission isn’t doing
very well. But the facts about it are not easily ascer-
tained. When the three members left Paris for England
it was said they had got so much encouragement that the
French Ambassador was to co-operate with them in Eng-
land ; on the other hand, Ottomar Haupt, a Paris
authority on the whole subject, declares that they had
little or no hope held out by the French Govt.
The only thing that looks at all substantial
which the M’Kinley bimetallic commission has done in
England is to persuade the Bank of England to keep one-
fifth of its reserves in silver—and that is contingent, the
cables say, upon France and America adopting bimetal-
lism. Pretty safe, seeing that the agreement upon a
ratio between gold and silver is well-nigh impossible now,
and seeing also that anything short of universal inter-
national bimetallism must almost inevitably result in a
drain of gold from the bimetallic to the gold jnono-
metallic countries. Yet the Bank of England movement
shows that at least a pretence of dealing with the question
has to be made; and on the strength of it the silver-
market firmed. And as it firmed, the lead-market quite
naturally weakened.
* « * *
There are wheels within wheels. The slump in
silver was partly caused, no doubt, by the closing of the
Indian mints, and it is doing a good deal to set India in a
blaze. The Hindoo keeps most of his little pile in silver
ornaments. The famine forced him to turn these into
money, and when he learned that his gracious Queen had
closed the mints and wasn’t buying any, and that her
action had grievously reduced the' selling value of his
only available asset, he naturally said, in his ignorant,
illogical way, that his Queen was a pig-devil, or some-
thing like that.
Just when they were getting used to the revised
quotation for silver, B.H. Prop, shareholders had a Mon
day morning surprise in the news of another fire, upon
which shares tumbled from 465. to 355. When, two year*
file broke out in block 11 of the same co.’s mine (it
has three blocks—ll, 12, and 13, naming them from South
to North) several most valuable hours were lost in calling
all hands in for rescue work. This time the mistake was
not repeated. Within five minutes of the discovery well-
understood signals commanding the whole settlement
were made, and the “enemy” was sprung at. The
position was worse than on the former occasion ; the fire
was in almost the exact centre of the mine. Within six
hours, however, its exact situition was made out, though
at the cost of three lives, while at least 100 men were
partly suffocated, and were borne to the surface insen-
sible ; and within 48 hours there was reasonable expecta-
tion of early victory.
* * * *
There was no inquest or judicial inquiry of any
sort into the fire which broke out in the block 11 portion
of the B.H. Prop, mine two years ago, notwithstanding
that the interests of thousands of people were involved
and that the origin was more or less mysterious. It is
likely that a different course will be taken this time,
chiefly because of suggestions of incendiarism ; at any
rate, it is freely alleged that a recent labor-organising
visitor made a stupid casual remark in a private conver-
sation that it was a wonder the mines hadn’t been fired
long ago, if what he had been told about the companies’
conduct during the strike was true. Anyway, the story is
being circulated industriously, with the accompanying
injunction to observe that the fire broke out on the very
first occasion when the mine was fairly idle underground
—the first Sunday morning, that is—after the visitor’s
departure, and that the outbreak was in the very heart of
the mine. Of course it is not put forward that the casual
observation was intended as a suggestion—i t was nob
made to the right people for anything of the kind—but
that some exasperated or hysterical idiot has accepted it
as a suggestion.
* * * *
It was written a fortnight or so back that the
manager of the South had been unusually plain-spoken
in his half-yearly report, declaring that exploratory work
had been neglected. In a supplementary report he has
now at greater length explained (for the “ information
and consideration ” of the directors, he says, though he
probably might have more accurately written “satisfac-
tion ”) that his bold words referred only to the past.
Anyway, he now gives “ figures to show that the vigorous
policy of development recommended in the report proper
has been and is being carried out.” And the figures do
show it; though why in the “report proper” it was
necessary to recommend a policy which had not only
been adopted, but, as he now says, pursued for some
months, is beyond an ordinary understanding. At the
bottom of the whole business is the want of harmony be-
tween the Melbourne and Adelaide directors ; the man-
ager’s “ supplementary report” is apparently intended to
show' the superiority of the policy of the Adelaide “ mine
management committee ” over that adopted up to May
by the Melb. board. To the casual observer it would
seem that one report was written for one crowd, and
bother for tother. It isn’t all beer and skittles to manage
the South.
* * * *
B.H. Junction directors wired to London share-
holders that divs. must be suspended for some time, as
the creep was more serious than had been at first sup-
posed—about as serious, in fact, they might have added,
as Tiijb Bulletin said it was. Which'illustrates once more
the advantage of being a Britishah, seeing that mere
“ colonial ” shareholders, who did all the call-paying graft,
received no such frank intimation.
* * * *
The Lucknow gold-mine trouble is not being
boomed overmuch just now, but the bottom is not
knocked out of it by any means. It is still a healthy-
going concern—as live as at the start, seven weeks ago.
There is little room for doubt as to the ultimate issue. If
manager Lock is the man they crack him up to be, he is
bound to win. With Might versus Bight in the respective
scales, the latter, no matter how solid, must kick the
beam. But Might is not going to win handsdown. From
the jump Supt. Lock has only managed to get in about 50
men with whom to run the mines. Not more than a
dozen of these are real underground miners. Mr. Lock
has said that he could get as much outside labor as he
wanted and just when he wanted it, but that is mostly
talk. You can’t, collect first-class miners by the hundred to
go blacklegging at 7s. a day, when most of them can earn
7s. 6d. “on their heads.” Supt. Lock says he has not
tried yet to introduce outsiders ; but he has had an agent
at Bendigo doing his level best to get men. Advts. have
been appearing at Bendigo for miners at 75., but, so far,
only nine toed the mark for Lucknow, and this despite
the fact that two Bendigo men were among the first
to go in after the strike. Where is the balance
of men to come from ? Two hundred, at the very least,
will be needed very soon if the labor conditions
of the mine are enforced, and there is no cer-
tainty of securing a suspension. If it were applied
for and refused—the soi-disant democratic N.S. W. Govt,
should certainly refuse it under the circumstances—Mr.
Lock would undoubtedly have t,o' back down from a
position for which he has really no justification. His case
is rotten : he grinds the men down by 6d. or Is. a day in
order to punish them for alleged thefts of gold which he
is not able to prove ; then he gives them all “ the grand
bounce,” and makes the unfortunates who take their
place pay for sins in the commission of which they cannot
have had the slightest part.
Of course, if driven into a corner, the superin-
tendent has several high cards to play. His co. owns
practically the whole of the land on which the miners’
houses are built. There are only four small allotments in
Lucknow alienated from the Wentworth people. The
large majority of the tenants have been served with
notices to quit, and although these have not yet been
enforced, they may be made the means for harassing the
miners. It would take a lot to shift some of the men.
Several have for years defied the co. to turn them off, and
their roofs still remain to cover their heads. The search-
ing conditions insisted on by the co. are not enough in
themselves to prevent a termination of the strike if the
standard rate of pay were conceded, Indeed, the miners
would at one time have accepted the proposition which Mr.
Newman, their member, was going to make to manager
Lock had he had the chance, viz., to go back on the new
terms provided a promise were given that if things looked
up in the near future the old rate would be reverted to.
Even now they would agree to anything that did not look
like a humiliating defeat.


>»
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMP ANT
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. /
CORTO ” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OE THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO -6d. Each.
See the name CORTO on the bands , and beware of imitations,
E. CX7SEMIER et Cie
GrEAKD SUPEEME
BRANDY.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, and each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price No Higher than Other Leading Brands,
SOCIETY
The very last Jubilee item : The inhabi-
tants of a little Tas. township celebrated Her
Majesty’s 60 years by erecting a pump on the
village swamp. Amidst hysterical cheers the
chief magnate in the land gravely worked the
handle to the tune of “God-Save” until with a
sad sob about a quart of dirty water oozed up and
trickled away into the swamp, and the function
closed with Prayer and Buns.
* * * *
More naval paymaster in book-and-cash
trouble. There must be something rotten in the
system that gives these officials so many chances
of unlawfully supplementing a miserable screw.
Dismissal from the service in the latest Sydney
case, and 18 months gaol! That same old British
Property-god evidently bosses the navy. The
salary of naval-paymaster is about
30s. a week.
* * * *
More than one case has recently occurred
in Australasia in which public servants have em-
bezzled money entrusted to them—-without any
apparent reason except the desire to possess
means. In one Sydney case, that of a married
man with a family, he had pocketed many hun-
dreds. Part of this he had expended in a house ;
the remainder had been carefully banked; and
nearly all was recovered.
* * * *
Subjoined The Bulletin prints verbatim
the choicest exhibition of honest, candid, unadul-
terated John Bullism that has ever refreshed its
weary soul—suppressing only (for reasons, includ-
ing consideration for the ferocious mariner him-
self) his name and that of the H.M.S. from which
he writes:—
H.M.S. —— , Sydney.
To the Editor of The Bulletin.— Sir,—l hardly know
whether to call you, or the contemptible hound who has
kindly advertised our abilities in your most valuable and
estimable paper a gentleman or a cur, but it has to be
BINGEY.
THE AUCTIONEER : “ Bay more, gentlemen—only wants what I’ve got too much of”
A VOICE: “ Wind! ”
THE AUCTIONEER : “No. Condition.”
seen that whoever it is, he ought to test our abilities a
little further than a tug of war. perhaps he would like
to. You have only to look back as far as Jubilee Day.
When One after the other of your Boasted New
South Wales lancers, the least of whom stands sft. 10in„
were thrown from their horses by our brothers at home
before, at least, 20,000 people at the Agricultural Hall in
London, and who, perhaps, before have never ridden a
horse all their life. This, I may mention, is only a small
item. Again, I may say that, as British seamen", whether
they are polishers or Greasers, whether on land or sea, we
hold in contempt any Australian Squatter, whose anoes-
ters in this country were not what they call gentleman as
the Old Country was too hot to hold them. I should be
very pleased as would all my comrades if you would pub-
lish this in your valuable paper, although I expect you
would not have pluck to. I could say more, and please
do not think that this is an overflow of indignation or
malice, as it has been a laughing matter amongst us, as
we have experienced your Australian generosity in more
ways than one during the 6 months we have spent on
the banks of Australia where the maidens are so handsome
and so gay.—l remain yours, , A. 8., H.M.S.
, Sydney.
A good deal of explanation is wanted for
the bringing of a half-drowned damsel on board
H.M.S. Wallaroo, in Sydney harbour, and subse-
quent alleged repression by one of the ship’s
officers of police curiosity as to the howness of
the immersion. Was the lady merely considered
as having come under the rniis of the Crowned
Anchor, or was it yet another case of the Sex and
the Sailor ?
* * * ♦
Alone : “Interesting to see some of the
English officers squirm at the blunt, almost
snappy, “ Yes ! ” “No ! ” from the rank-and-file
in the “ blawsted Kawlinies.” The drill-instruc-
tors are constantly admonished to teach the men
to add “sir,” but it won’t work. The average
Australian warrior’s tongue doesn’t seem built for
sirring anything very much.
* » * *
A humorous feature of the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) centenary celebrations was the decora-
tion of the local police-office with a triangle
worked in flowers —no one, seemingly, having
thought of its grim application to the history of
“Coal River” convict settlement;, the hunting-
ground of Overseer Flood, a Master of Flagel-
lators. By the way, the Newcastle court-house
probably contains the largest collection of convict
records now in official possession in N.S.W.,
several cwts. having escaped the order for general
destruction issued at one time by Old Jack
Robertson.
* * * *
The surpassing dullness of that Newcastle
(N.S.W.) centenary celebration needn’t surpriso
anybody who bears in mind that the high-priest of
the function was Papa Brunker. Brunker’s Presi-
dency would have killed Belshazzar’s Feast !
-Rifes from the Svdnev breach of nrnmine
-Kites rrom tne oyciney Dieacn oi promise
case, Harriet Bartlett v. Grantham Giddy (they
mnvp j : best Sundav-sohr.nl circles! ■—
movea 111 tne Dest Sunday scnool elides; .
My object in opening up a correspondence was that we
might become better known to each other, arid, above all,
to discover the Lord’s leading. . . . Wishing you
every happiness, I am, yours in Jesus, Grantham Giddy,
And when Gee-Gee wanted to “ sling ” the girl he
asked her
.„, , ,
. T° carefully, calmly and prayerfully look at the ques-
•'lon on a s,c *es.
And plaintiff, after prayerfully considering it,
“ wrote saying she could not postpone the marriage
after Easter, as she had all her things ready.”
mi m ■ mu ■ , n- . • J ,
That settled it. The intelligent jury rose up and
her .LUO. And Gee-Gee (who has since hied
his schedule) got off lightly, for ’tis an awful thing
to disappoint a woman when she has “all her
things readv ”
b J
SO UND THEOLOOY.
“Mother, I wish I was God! ”
“Why, my dear ?”
“I would say ‘let there be oranges,’ and there would be oranges!”
The new N.S.W. Chief Judge in Equity is
going the right way to become a great favorite
with that happy band known as the —haw—
“ Equity Bar.” They are the curled and gilded
darlings of the profession, formed of very different
clay to the members of the “ Common Law Bar,”
whose appearance within the sacred precincts of
the Equity Court they greatly resent, and upon
whom they look down contemptuously. This
attitude of the Equity crowd has always been a
source of amusement to the Common Law brigade;
but a different complexion has been put on the
matter since Judge Manning has taken up
the cudgels on behalf of his pets. Last week a
barrister —not an Equity man—was appearing
before this Judge, who took the opportunity to
remark : “I view with great disfavor the practice
of counsel from other jurisdictions appearing in
this jurisdiction of the court.” In other words,
it would seem that the Chief Judge in Equity
wants to reserve his court strictly for “ Equity
counsel,” and now warns all other barristers to
keep off the grass. Solicitors in future, when
briefing counsel in equity cases, must take care
that they and their clients do not incur the dis-
pleasure of the presiding judge by chosing a
common-law man to represent them.
* * * *
Sydney suburban police-court. A woman
proceeded against her neighbor for calling her a
“ mean reptile.” Magistrate (to prosecutor) :
“ Cannot this matter be settled?” “Not unless
she apologises, your worship. She called me a
reptile.” Defendant’s solicitor: “Well, your
worship, my client is willing to admit that the
plaintiff is not a reptile.” The beak : “ You hear
that, Mrs. X., the defendant admits that you are
not a reptile. Will that satisfy you ? ” “ Oh,
yes, your worship.” Charge withdrawn.
* * * *
Yet a second miraculous “ Society ”
nativity ! If this sort of celerity becomes con-
tagious, the North will earn the reputation of
being a hothouse incubator. It must be the
climate.
* * * *
At the recent Melb. civic ball the coun-
cillor friends of Mayor Strong (who is standing
for Carlton) took the opportunity to buttonhole
Carltonian voters and lead them to the refresh-
ment-room, where Strong’s electioneering c(li)am-
paign was carried on with great vigor.
* * * *
A well-known C. Queensland military
identity has two married sons each with a family,
but the children are all girls, while the old man’s
heart is set upon being grandfather to a boy. He
therefore promised to give .£lOOO to the son who
should first present him with a grandson. The
other day a boy came to one of the old man’s
daughters-in-law, but, sad to relate, it was still-
born.
* » * *
Mr. F. W. Niven, representing the His-
torical Record Society, waited recently on Bal-
larat city branch of the A.N.A. to ask for a dona-
tion towards a memorial to the late King Billy
of Ercildoune. It was proposed that <£l be voted
towards the Fund, but the branch wasn’t taking
any deceased aboriginal monarch just then, and
refused to buy even a sov.’s worth of his photos,
for distribution. And yet King Billy was about
the most genuine Australian Native of the district
* * * *
There is a movement among N.Q. publi-
cans for the repeal, or at least the modification, of
the Q. Gambling Act of 1895. This completes a
curious historical cycle. The publicans actually
coalesced with the parsons to Put Down gambling.
Each set was guided by similar reasons. The
publicans thought that the persons who patronised
Adams’ sweep were robbing themselves of money
that should have gone in buying good brown
tanglefoot. The parsons attributed the low tide in
church collections largely to the awful Curse of
Adams. So Whitechoker and Bung became con-
spirators banded together in the Cause. The
exile of Adams cost Q. Treasury about =834,000 a
year, and the malevolence of fate would have it
that, when a Treasurer found himself short, the
first article that he proposed to tax was the beer
of the anti-gambling publicans.
* * * •
Q. Bung is not quite nerved yet to make
a desperate effort to pass on the extra 3d.-a-
-gallon beer-tax to the consumer. The brewers
have raised the price, and the Q. United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association has actually passed a
resolution adopting a scale of charges. The writer
saw a leaflet circular sent round among Brisbane
bunghood of the new prices, but speaks here only
from memory. Half-pints of English were to be
4d. ; certain bottled sixpenny beers were to be
raised to 9d. and Is. respectively. But—up to
date of writing, no publican has dared append his
signature to the leaflet circulated to receive signa-
tures, and, in spite of the Association’s “ resolu-
tion,” it seems likely to miscarry.
* * * *
One Brisbane (Q.) publican declares that
he will be a loser to the extent of .£5O a month by
the extra 3d.-a-gallon beer-tax.
* * * *
An exciting episode recently happened at
a city Coffee Palace when a stern-visaged, athletic
person entered the crowded dining-hall in the
middle of a meal, and, strolling up to one of the
tables, lifted a person in clerical costume from his
seat by the ear. He then coolly proceeded to
kick and hustle the gentleman along the aisle,
until he reached the front door, when a mighty
punt sent the fiend-scarer down the steps. The
athletic person was a married man, jealous, and
with a very bad temper.
* * * *
That Sydney hotelkeeper’s reach-out for a
heavy verdict against a certain doctor who,
he claimed, had degraded his pub. by bringing
thereto a woman who was not his (the doctor’s)
wife, realised only a sovereign damages, and was
therefore much less successful than a similar claim
made some time ago by a N.S.W. pleasure-resort
publican. The latter “whacked-in a writ ”on a
gentleman whom he accused of having “carried
on ” upon his premises with a lady of some posi-
tion. The case came to court, but was squared
by defendant, who, without making any admis-
sion, cashed up some hundreds out of considera-
tion for the lady.
* » » *
A Hobart church-scandal, wherein it was
alleged that a gentle shepherd walked along
suburban lanes with strange females, was settled
in court the other day. The parson sued a lady
for £lOOO damages for scandal. The evidence was
extremely paltry, yet a hard-faced crowd of Primi-
tive Methodist women crowded the court all
through the case and eagerly drank in details of
how the good clergyman guided the footsteps of
his little ewe lambs in pleasant pastures. The
jury found for the plaintiff parson, damages one
farthing. Also, each party pays its own costs.
This verdict, considering that the parson was sus-
pended of his church authority, strikes the lav
mind speechless with admiration for the law and
its wonderful ways. Plaintiff had previously been
EPHEMERAE.
They play, and then they mate. But love is death,
And though they worship dotingly the sun,
They turn away from summer's joyous breath
And choose the night (for love and death are one).
They are the emblem of a mystery,
The incarnated answer to your Why :
Though all is bright to them, and fair, and free,
They mate, to live again ; and mating, die.
Alas, my sweet! the iron law that locks
All Nature into never-changing rules
Has ordered thus. Love is a paradox;
Its triumph is its death. May empty fools
Proclaim the everlasting reign of her
Whom none escapes; I tell you, the caress
That yesterday set all my life astir,
Left nothing but a taste of bitterness.
VON KOTZE.


Soft CaQ'/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
V
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PI ICE SHOT tlEltb,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine CawnpOre Khaki and Assam Silk.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTiaE & SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
CELEBRATED
BYE LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
. For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &.j Recommended by. the Lead-
ing Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. J3P” Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
vOASfiy-c
moo
The Only Reliable Remedy
for
INDIGESTION,
Liver and Kidney Complaints.
NUMEROUS CURES
in Sydney and in the Country have been strictly in-
vestigated by the Press and proved genuine.
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
Post Free from
Loasby's “W&hoo" Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
a horse-dealer and a life assurance agent, so, per-
haps, the jury thought he had been trained to
stand anything.
» * * *
Signs of the times. From Sydney D.T. :
SUPERIOR Lodgings, 6d. nightly, with tea and
bread and butter mornings, bath, read.-room.
King-st.,
IT’RRAND Boy wanted, easy place, wages 2s. (id.
-Lt Apply after 9.30, Office 2,135 King-st.
* * * *
Sydney : “Halted in front of the Chow
Mission to-day, and, under the screen which
fronts the door, I saw a male boot stealthily
touch a rather neat bit of feminine footwear —the
pressure was returned. Many Bulletin corres-
pondents, by the way, have floundered in search
of reasons why the Chinaman scores so frequently
with his white ‘ sissetah,’ but ’most every medico
knows ’em.”—T.D.
* * * *
It will only cost £3OOO worth of Sunday-
school pennies per year to maintain the 35 “ plitty
lady missionalies ” whom the 75 Chows assembled
to farewell the other day in Melbourne. Among
the missionaries were several trained nurses, who
might have been forced on account of the scarcity
of sickness and poverty in Vie. to pack up their
medicine traps and piety for fresh fields and pas-
tures new.
* » *
Melb. : “The sweating at the Salvation
Army Workmen’s Metropole, over chopping scwt.
of wood for a meal which costs about 2d, is one
end of the scale. The other is afforded by the
delicious Government stroke at Pastor Edgar’s
Wesleyan wood-yard. Away with this hollow
humbug, and let us have State Socialism instead
of the religious side-show.”
Parson-run Brisbane Telegraph discour-
seth gravely upon the prevalence of “ certain
evils ” owing to the non-lighting of railway-
tunnels. The Telegraph probably means “ un-
certain evils,” for it is the “ sprightly infusion of
chance ” that helps to make these little matters so
interesting. By the way, a certain N.S. Wales
M.P. makes a speciality of tunnel-stories —only
fit to be told in a tunnel.
* * * »
A Sydney advfc. :
TTLONDYKE GOLDFIELDS.- Experienced Alluvial
LY pi aoer Miner wants young, strong Partner with
JB3OOO, prospect West Coast of New Zealand (where
rich alluvial grounds are known) until next March,
then proceed Klondyke Goldfields. Placer Miner,
Daily Telegravu Office.
Partner with <£3ooo—to go prospecting among the
unfrequented gorges and dense bush of Western
Maoriland. And the jovial Butler only just
swung off !
* * * *
A Croydon (N.Q.) editor actually calls on
the police to prosecute two undertaker men who
were humping along a coffin on footbaek, because
they laid the shell down outside a pub., went in
and had a drink, called for the bacca-cutter, cut
some weed, and filled and lighted their pipes, and
joked about the weight of the Remains before re-
suming their jog-trot. Croydon must be getting
squeamish.
Edward Marks, of
Melbourne, puts for-
ward a sensible religi-
ous objection to the
marriage of Jews and
Jewesses with “ Chris-
tians of easy faith ”
who join the Syna-
gogue from purely mat-
rimonial motives.
“The evils of indiffer-
ence and callousness
which the Christian
churches are lamenting
are equally rampant
among certain sections
of the Synagogue,’’says
Mr. Marks, “and
what can be the result
■of a commingling of
insincere Christians
with indifferent Jews?’
As a champion of his
ancient Faith the wor-
thy Hebrew is natu-
rally alarmed at its
gradual decay, but he
may at least derive a
little racial satisfaction
from the fact that
whilst all religious
faiths are dying, Juda-
ism dies gamest of all.
* * *
A Christchurch
(M.L.) lady horrified
a visitor the other day
by announcing that she
intended to have only
her dear departed hus-
band’s “entrails”
carved upon his tomb.
This same person has
a “ revenue ” of trees
from her gate to her
front-door, and “ con-
vulsions” climbing up
her verandah-posts.
* * *
Suggested by a recent Melb. divorce-case :
JUST THE PLACE.
Mr. Boozer (who has outstayed his welcome at Jinglong station): “The
boss says you filers'll take me for a ride to-day (hie). Wash — er—
programme (hie) eh ?”
Stockman (knowingly): “To the WEANERS’ paddock—and camp for a
week.”
portrait of the Queen by Herkomer ! They paid
<£l2oo for it—a wooden-dolly “triper,” painted
from a statue and looking like it. To lose only
<£6oo on such a horror should make them jump
with joy.
« * * *
E. Wenck, schoolmaster at Durham (N.Q.),
the other night, rode towards Croydon where his
brother was reported as lying at death’s door in
the hospital. His horse butted him against a tree,
threw him, and got away. Wenck walked four
miles back and got another horse, and then rode
into Croydon, a stranger to its bearings by night.
Seeing alight, he made for it, and came upon an
HASTENING SLOWLY.
“I can’t understand a fine woman like her taking up with a Johnny like that.”
“ Oh, I can — it’s a little one for a start!”
The Bendigo loyalists, not having raised
enough Jubilee funds to erect the projected local
statue of H.M., have amended their scheme to a
picture to cost £6OO. An idea for Melb. Public
Library Trustees. If they could but unload their
undertaker building a coffin. It was for the
brother he had come to see, and who had died
four hours previously.
* • * *
An astounding scandal, which should cer-
tainly be ventilated in Parliament, has been care-
fully pigeon-holed in a certain Australian State
Treasury. It relates to the passage-money from
England of a lady understood to be related to a
high military official.
• * * *
The Cowra (N.S.W.) baker who suicided
by throwing himself down his well, taking with
him his child (which, strangely enough, escaped
uninjured), was the man who, about four years
ago, went down another well a short distance from
his own, and took therefrom the dead bodies of a
publican’s wife and child, she having suicided.
The long arm of coincidence.
* * * *
S.S. : “ The Salvation Army in Melbourne
is scattering a number of portraits to ‘ the glory of
God and Gwendoline’ Gwendoline being Mrs.
‘ Commandant ’ Booth. Mrs. Booth is a moon-
faced, weighty lady, who fills her uniform almost
to breaking strain, and in these photographs she
is pictured, with the heavenly smile, buoying up a
shattered sister in a mangled hat and a tattered
skirt, or a ‘pore’ fallen creature with a black
(H“ The convict Hall will be executed at
10 a. in. to-morrow for the murder of his wife. He
is now showing what the chaplain considers
humble penitence, and the rev. gentleman con-
siders he will be justified in administering holy
communion. ” — Melb. Paper.
eye is hanging on to her and gazing into her
heavenly smile, or a representative of gilded
vice in fashionable garments is kneeling to the
heavenly smile of the matronly saint. Legends
go with these pictures : ‘My God ! You are
the first woman who has kissed me since
mother died.’ ‘I am a wretched, wicked,
fallen creature, and I need the help of a
good, pure, true woman like you,’ &e., &c.
Tawdry and theatrical all of them, the
‘ make-up ’ sticking out a foot. This is how
the Army enables the fallen sister to forget her
part. The poster will follow, with Mrs. Booth
in seven colors and a halo.” How beautifully
modest it all is !
A fine example of what some witnesses
will swear to, apparently in absolute good faith,
appeared at the Tasmania wreck inquiry. One
testifier, with an open countenance and truth
shining in his eye, swore that the boat he escaped
in was only twelve feet long, and had four thwarts,
so apparently it was an eight-oar boat twelve feet
long. Also he assured the court that they came
away from the ship with no plug in the boat—they
discovered the absence of the plug an hour or two
later through the water beginning to come in,
which was about the slowest thing in the way of
water ever recorded. As a rule, when a largo
crowd goes out in a twelve-foot boat with no plug
in it there is just about time for one wild blanky
before the show goes over and everybody is with
the sharks.
* * * *
Under the M.L. Shops and Factories Act
of last year a Chinaman’s cart and b; s’cets are
(P.M. judice) declared to be a shop and closed on
Wednesdays. John must take a half-holiday. At
this rate the nurse-girl’s perambulator will pro-
bably fall in the same category, and Mary Jane
will rejoice accordingly.
* * * *
Quaint Melb. Age advts.: —
TjIRIENDSHIP, Fellowship, Companionship, their
commercial value paid for. Luther, Age Office.
YL/'ANTEI), Person to Adopt Baby Girl from birth.
’' Mrs. , st., N. Carlton.
* * * *
Narrabri (N.S.W.) Council has, just as
summer is coming on, pruned the ornamental
trees in the borough. Said pruning consists of a
total demolition of every leaf-bearing branch.
Result —bare stumps, shadeless streets, and a
blasphemous public.
» * * *
Briton Riviere’s picture, “ The Dead
Knight,” just bought by the N.S.W. National
Art Gallery trustees, was shown at Hobart Exhi-
bition, and could there have been bought at a
price which would favorably compare with the
sum alleged to have been “parted ” by the trustees.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —You mention a case of a
man getting 15 years for sacrilege. It was a boy
of 16, who broke into the R.C. chapel at Carlton,
Melb., and stole some communion-plate. He was
tried before Judge Quinlan, and sentenced to 17
years’ imprisonment, with hard labor ; but, as it
is more than 17 years ago since it happened, he
must have been liberated long since. Anyhow, it
was a most iniquitous sentence. —Moonee Ponds.
[Can anyone tell The Bulletin how long he did
serve ?]
• * * *
In a Sydney court last week a man with
18 children was hauled up for neglecting to support
five of them. It was alleged that the mother had
taken the five children away with her. Three of
the family attempted to say something on behalf
of the old man, but one was hustled out and the
other two had violent hysterics and had to be re-
moved by the police. Then the house-father was
ordered to be imprisoned until he paid <£l6, his
last words as he was hauled away being that he
was prepared to take the whole eighteen to live
with him. Perhaps being locked up was the less
evil of the two.
* * * *
Sh, sh ! Whisper it. A young lydy, a
neophyte of a very moral organisation, claims to
have been seduced upon the premises of the white-
flower-and-gimlet league itself!
* • * *
Judge Holroyd (Vic.) has ukased, con-
trary to expectation, that a man can be said to
have “ deserted his children and left them with-
out means of support,” and is accordingly liable
before justices for their maintenance, although
they have been forcibly taken from him by a court-
AN ART-SOCIETY ITEM.
THE ORACLE : “’E ain’t no good, Bill—’e can’t
draw nothink out of ’is ’ead; w'y, ’c’s copy in’
from that ’ousel”
custody order. As, however, an order could have
been got on other grounds from the di voree-court,
no serious injustice can have been done even if
the Judge were wrong, and he is to be commended
for allowing the children to get their undoubted
rights by less expensive procedure before justices.
* * * ♦
A pickpocket operating at Melb. Zoo.,
when chased by the police, rushed to the emu-cage
and threw over the fence a purse he had stolen.
But the emu for once wasn’t hungry, so the corro-
borative evidence was immediately forthcoming
after all. Six months.
THE BRIDEGROOM’S SONG.
(After Gilbert and Sullivan.)
When a merry maiden chances
Marriage with the “ boy” she fancies,
Soon her heart begins to ache :
Love has made a grand mistake.
From that day, until he leaves her,
Conjugal embracing grieves her,
Though she sought the wedded state,
She would fain avoid her fate.
Hubby finds his wife dejected :
Love is not what she expected
Ere she put it to the test.
Single blessedness was best.
Disenchanted, sadder, wiser,
Hubby snaps the tie that ties her.
Now he knows, of course,
Girl is like a horse—
One should try before one buys her.
Filly’s apt to shy—
That’s the reason why
Strephon ought to try before he buys her.
TO THE PLAYWRIGHT.
[FOE THE BULLETIN.]
Heed not the sneering eritic-sage
Your plots deriding ; angel eyes,
Sub-guardians of a greater stage,
Look on with envious surprise.
Still act the love that never is,
Love deathless; love that knows not stint.
Give vice despair; give virtue bliss —
Who knows but God may take the hint?
M.L.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Penitent, about to swing,
Let us kneel and pray together;
Then a joyful hymn we’ll sing.
Ere, with sturdy bonds of leather,
Hangman binds your limbs in union
You’ll be fit to “ take Communion.”
Penitent, about to swing,
Sure salvation you are seeking ;
See that to the Cross you cling
(In a pious way of speaking).
Bound of yore for pit infernal,
Now you’re booked to Life Eternal,
All through doing what you did—
Murder, followed by repentance.
Swarms of souls on Satan's grid
Envy you your lawful sentence.
Lost are they beyond retrieving :
They lived and died without Believing.


Half-siglited
Buyers
Are those who see only the price of a boot and not its
quality. Discerning buyers at once are able to estimate
the quality, appearance and wear
of Callaghan Boots and Shoes at their true value. This is why
so many exacting buyers are wearing
Callaghan
Boots.
Indies' Boots, 15/6 to 26/-
Qentlemen’s Boots, 17/6 to 82/6
Test a Pair Yourself.
Callaghan & Son,
896 GKorea-BT., Sydnbt.
l'
©(
0 ©
* 0 ® 0
® 0-
Food''/
jeetM’yoo^eF
**
m
r
dRRoWRpor
mm
WATSON’S WHISKY.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, September 21, 1897.
Mt Dear Myee—
The Convention has been brightened by some
romantio episodes. One was the meteor-like rush
into matrimony of delegate Glynn, of S.A. He,
so goes the story, proposed by letter to the lady,
whom he had only seen once, and with whom on
that occasion he had merely a ten minutes’
chat. But the ten minutes had done the
business, for he was accepted (by wire) and
abruptly went off (by express) and was
married and returned to Macquarie-street and
business all within a few days. The happy pair
are now honeymooning sedately in the fierce light
that beats upon Federal excursions. On the re-
turn journey from Newcastle on Saturday, the
bride was chatting with friends in one car; the
bridegroom, in another, sat calmly reading from a
pocket volume. Another domestic incident is the
birth of a son to a delegate from Westralia, who is
said to contemplate blighting the babe’s future
career by naming him “ Sydney Federal Conven-
tion. Apparently “ Melbourne Adjournment
Deadlock Surplus Referendum ” would be even
more expressive.
A Federal engagement has also been announced.
The girl generally voted “the belle of the Conven-
tion ” has had her affections annexed by a press-
man from the same province as herself, who came
over to specially correspond on the Convention
proceedings.
On Saturday last, when delegates and a dust-
storm struck Newcastle simultaneously, the guests
only comfortably filled' the train without any
crowding, and on reaching the grimy city were
taken on a harbor-trip, fed at the citizens’ expense
and rushed off hastily to see a memorial fountain
initiated. At the banquet neatly-got-up souvenir
menu-cards were distributed. The design was
artistic, but the spelling was very “off”: guests
were offered “Mayonaise,” “entrements,” and
“desert.” At this, the last of the Govt, trips
arranged for the Convention, only one Premier
and few ladies had been snared, and it was the
least rushed of all by outsiders. The city helped
to keep up its hundredth birthday by strewing
ashes on its visitors’ heads. Mayor and Mayoress
Miller and other magnates met the party and
went round with them. After going through the
day’s list of events, the expedition washed its face
and returned to Sydney.
The Mayoress of Newcasw created a sensation
during the centenary corroboree by falling into
the harbor. On Friday night visitors going to a
reception on board one of the men-of-war were
surprised to see the lady step off the gangway and
disappear. She was fished out and dried and the
party proceeded.
For many of last week’s numerous dressy
“swarries” smart gowns were encored by their
wearers whose wardrobe couldn’t keep pace with
the demands for an entire change of raiment
for each diversion. On all race-days at Rand-
wick, tailor-made suits were sprinkled plenti-
fully round; perishable glories of chiffon and
muslin were kept by their owners for garden-
parties and such. Some authentic London clothes
warranted worn at Buckingham Palace in Jubilee
June have been adorning their returned wearers
and paralysing other women with envy. These
dresses are frail, cobwebby creations like all up-
to-date frocks. As usual, to have' an imported
gown was a sign-manual of style this year. Local
trades-folk don’t mourn as much as might be ex-
pected at being passed over in this way by the
fashionable, as the exotic garments have nearly
always to be altered at great expense by a local
frockist, who thus makes her modest haul out of
them, and very often has a workable notion to
copy.
Melb. visitors, outside political jaunters, were
fairly numerous at all the race-meetings at
Randwick this trip. Thursday, the off-day,
attracted many well-known amateur sportswomen
from Victoria : Mrs. Bowes Kelly, blaok-elad ;
Miss Fisken, striped in pink and black ; Miss
Cumming, sister of Lady Clarke the second, in
dark green with cock’s feathers rampant and
exaggerated neck-bow ; Miss Carter, in business-
like and skirt; Miss Buckley, in unremark-
able attire, were all on the stand. The wife of a
noted ringman broke out violently in silk pleat-
ings on her green cloth shoulders, and bore a vivid
hat. Mrs. Harry Rickards fluttered elegantly in
palest mauve silk, and rattled a long chain from
her waist with a metal heart like an overland-
baggage-check attached. This, I believe, is
fashion’s latest remark ; her husband was under-
studying his Tivoli photo. The sensation costume
of the off-day was one of the creations of Melb.’s
“sassiety ” modiste, bright “Victoria” blue silk
veiled in glorified Madras muslin with a tangled-
skein pattern in white, and effervescing at the neck
into multitudinous filmy tucks.
The woman who is determined to “get there”
in sassiety has to swallow much gall and worm-
wood and smile all the time as if she liked the
dietary. Guests saw a crushing vice-regal snub
administered on board the Sunbeam at Lady
Brassey’s .tea-party on Thursday afternoon by the
hostess to a gushing person who rushed up and
broke into conversation between Her Ex. and
another. It is hard, though, for a newcomer
among the Nicest to attain at once that thick-
skinned insensitiveness which enables any well-
seasoned old-stager to take unconcernedly smiles
and snubs, whichever it pleases them to deal out,
from those on loftier pedestals than her own.
At a recent big Australian ball, a very pushing
person coolly marched his partner up the room
and took a position in the vice-regal set, from
which he was promptly “ chucked out ” by one of
the ball officials. The action had little effect on
the cast-iron hide of the amateur swashbuckler,
but the humiliation of the poor girl, who had
regarded him as being all-powerful on account of
his gorgeous caparisons, was pitiful to behold.
Vice-regal and other entertainers on a large
scale have had to protect themselves against the
uninvited prowlers who wedge their way into
every large festival given by pasteboard invitation.
For the first time on record, the cards for last
week’s Govt. House ball had to be produced at the
entrance and examined by a gold-braided func-
tionary ; and authorised persons lurked in the
background ready to pounce on any self-invited
callers.
To carry a woman successfully through life
there is no more valuable motive-power than
“quiet push.” How admiringly this was noted
in the glowing account of one of the Jubilee
Drawing-rooms clipped from a London daily by a
Sydney paper. Some duchesses and countesses,
seeing a better place than theirs in front of
them, took it, got into “ the presence,” and were
off into their carriages while timid stragglers were
waiting hours in the ante-room. During the ball-
season, watch how the cloak-room attendants
hustle when the imperious dames whom they
know well by sight sail into the cloak-room with
a train of daughters—note how wraps are off and
exchanged for tickets or found and handed out
again in less than no time, while poor meek
nonentities wait shivering by the barrier, and
their men folk storm outside in draughty passages.
Who gets a show at the waiting-room mirror if a
pusher is prinking at the glass. Who gets most
attention from bowing shop-walkers ? The woman
“ with a manner ” may only give a trifle on her
large outstanding account when it suits her, but
if she be a woman of the world she can push up to
the counter past poor abashed littl'e Mrs. Nobody
who is buying school frocks for the children, never
goes into sassiety and pays cash for everything.
A steadily purposed woman with an object in
view “gets there ” every time.
The Art Society’s annual evening-party, last
Thursday, consisted chiefly of the same sad-looking
audience trying to see the show on the cheap, that
turns up each year—Percy Spence energising as
host, the pretty girl with the big blue eyes, whose
portraits in many poses adorn the walls, and some
living pictures. The lighting on the models was
well managed, except when they bobbed ; an old
woman, as Rembrandt’s mother, was encored, and
A. Hanson was rigid as a Vandyck ; also, the
artist, disguised as a portrait of a gentleman, well-
acted pictured calm. Among the guests, Miss
Kemp, the original of Mr. Bennett’s picture, diffi-
dently evaded comparison by keeping away from
it. Light food was laid on. I saw an adven-
turous small boy devouring an ice and drinking
scalding tea in alternate mouthfuls, and shuddered
for his digestion.
The “Washington Post” craze has spread to
Govt. House. The dance was jigged there at the
balls last week. It is a merry enough whirl, but
dreadfully severe arm-exercise for a small man
prancing behind a tall partner, and stretching up
to grab agonisedly at her fairy fingers. One gruff
observer criticised it as “the plain woman’s
chance,” because the man-partner gazes at the
lady’s back-hair all the time. Celebrities were
plentiful in the ballroom on both nights. When
the State Lancers were being evoluted, a solid
crowd watched the dancers, and afterwards the
dais-occupants were subjected to some steady
staring. The garden, with its mammoth tent and
•other attractions, reduced the crush in the dancing-
room, but waltzers seemed languid, and only a
few couples were inclined to be energetic through-
out the evening. In the dressing there was a run
on bright rose-velvet trimmings and waistbands.
Some of the newest frocks there —Mrs. Ferguson’s,
Mrs. E. Rundle’s, Mrs. C. Fairfax’s —were thus
adorned. Lady Brassey wore yellow satin and
many flashing trinkets. His Ex. from Brisbane
•could be picked out by the twinkle-little-star on
his shirt-front.
The ben. to Miss Yivianne Dagmar at the Royal
on Friday afternoon was depressed by the large
voids in the back seats ; also the audience became
restive at the end of a longish sing-song. The
charity matinee has lately been worked for all,
and a little more than, it is worth ; and the interest
which was attempted to be inserted into this last
one by running it as an opposition ben. to a highly
successful one of a few years back fell very flat.
Coleman warbled his latest ear-catcher. Peachy,
in an overwhelming frock coat, sang “ Somebody ”
\vith Juliet Wray, who, confectioned in black and
silver, looked much more substantial than of yore.
Shand and Ada Willoughby duetted, and Ada
brought her celebrated smile in working order.
A young lady looking as if she had been made up
with a yard-broom hopped into the programme in
a yellow dress worthy,of a better cause, and sang
ditties of the “domestic affection” brand, which
style of lay has become general of late, and seems
as if the old-fashioned “ hearth and home ” senti-
ment had been resuscitated with a poke-bonnet.
Lilian Tree, who has come back as large as life,
and is nightly warbling at the Palace, manages to
get a comparatively slim effect by the floral trim-
mings on her black gown. She ends up her song
with a kind of pop-gun snap, and exits abruptly
on a high note. Lilian has confided her age to an
interviewer—2s come Xmas—she must have been
well-grown for her age when she left years ago.
And she. couldn’t ;ring-in a newer sensation than
the unknown admirer from the back-blocks with
fervent epistles and offers of all his wordly goods.
Miss Fannie Wentworth’s turn at the same show
is the most talked-about item of the evening ; her
musical burlesques have caught on, -and are as
good as anything male amusers have done in the
same line, always excepting the shining example
of Frank Lincoln, whose French comic-song and
'German ballad hold the record for humor against
all-comers.
The “Society of Dante”—that is not the right
name, but the Italian title is too copious to repro-
duce here—is to be opened to-morrow (Friday)
night in the useful Y.M.C.A. Hall, which sees so
many and such diverse shivoos within its walls.
Sig. Corte, the Melb. Italian Consul, has been in
Sydney lately, and has helped to work up enough
enthusiasm in the mellifluous language of his
native land to found a sister club to the one in
Melbourne. Oscar Meyer, whose.name doesn’t
smack much of “ lingua Toscana,”'is the hon. sec.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Girls who aspire to a cap and apron in Mel-
bourne Hospital are likely to have the edge rubbed
off their enthusiasm by the case of nurse Knight
the other day. _ Miss K. was a probationer, and,
within a fortnight of entering the hospital, she
died from blood-poisoning.
Ex-inmates describe night in Melb. Hospital
as a foretaste of purgatory. Some sufferers gr.oan,
others grumble or blaspheme sotto voce ; the most
inoffensive snore, wheeze, oough, or sigh like
broken-winded bellows. Nevertheless, more girls
than ever take up nursing as a profession,
encouraged, perhaps, by the matrimonial prizes
secured by some of the sisterhood. Besides, even
if a woman in the whole course of her professional
career never encounters a single marriageable
‘case,’ grateful offerings and useful friendships
crop up for the earthiest of ministering angels.
TheJady head of a Melb. private hospital has just
married an opulent Scot, a former patient, years
younger than his bride. No wonder that ‘ Sister
Clare ’ and ‘ Nurse Muriel ’ prefer men invalids,
whom they pamper up to the nines and then extol
as being far more patient and grateful than she-
sufferers. The wife, mother, sister or daughter
has yet to be found who ever had the luck to dis-
cover the smallest pretensions to ‘ patience ’ in an
indisposed male relative.
“ The widow of a former Master of the Melb.
Mint and ex-M.P. for Glasgow is to be married
again as soon as her year of mourning is out. The
lady was 16 when she began married life before,
with a bridegroom of 60, so she is still fairly
young ; though her daughter, who went straight
from her convent-school to the boards, is now
appearing in minor parts on the Melb. stage.
“Dr. Strong, of Australian Church (Melb.),
preaching on Show-week Sunday, quoted Mon-
oure Conway’s definition of a good sheep—‘a
maximum of wool and minimum of leg to jump
over fences with ! ’ The_preacher said that Dean
Stanley was the identical creature in human form.
To look nearer home, Dr. Bevan has masses of
thatch-fleece and brief enough legs. By the way,
the old man, many will be sorry to hear, has come
back to Melb. in an alarming state of health ;
also, fiery little Prof. Rentoul is in trouble with
his eyes—cataracts on both, and no great hopes of
successful operation held out by the doctors. The
Australian Church is losing its brainy assistant-
shepherd, Davies, and can’t afford a successor,
which means double work for the pilot-in-chief.
“ Next month that abode of dullness and piety,
Govt. House, Adelaide, breaks out into quite a
riot of gaiety and worldliness. Among other
entertainments, amateur theatricals are to be
given. Although the vice-regal family strongly
disapproves of anything savoring of the godless
theatre, one of the goody-goody sons has so far
forsaken the paths of piety as to consent to enact
the part of Cecil in Jerome’s “Barbara.” Mrs.
Cornish, of Melb., and her pretty niece and Capt.
Wallington will take the parts of Barbara, Lillie,
and Mr. Finnicurn. Mrs. Cornish, an excellent
amateur actress, is the danghter of the late Judge
Noel, and for some time studied tor the stage with
Mrs. Kendal.
“ The Melb. banking fraternity grows quite gay
and festive again. The city and suburban officers
of the London Bank of A. lately presented one of
their distinguished colleagues with a ‘ handsome
tea and coffee service and other plate’as a wed-
ding present. During the reconstruction crisis,
and for a long retrenchment time afterwards, there
was no marrying in bank circles. Angelina was
either broken off, or told to wait for the restora-
tion of public confidence.
“ At last the Shakespearian Society has begun
to gird itself up tor a performance of 4 Much Ado
About Nothing ’ somewhere about the beginning
of the year. Dr. Neild is organiser, showman,
wire-puller, the Corypheus of the society. The
magnificent grounds of ‘ Royston,’ Malvern, have
been offered by the owner, Mr. Clarke, for an
open-air treatment of the comedy in which Mrs.
Potter ventured to show her—shall we say legs ?
But the pros and the cons of the question are
being deeply pondered by the Shakespearians ere
committing themselves to the breezy arrange-
ment.
“One day in ’94 more than one Vic. society
damsel lamented the sudden departure ’Ome of a
handsome, fashionable and apparently independ-
ent young gentleman. His lettres de conge, posted
in Adelaide, announced 4 the sudden death, in
England, of his father, whose large estates he was
proceeding home to possess.’ Much to Society’s
regret he has not been heard of since, and more
than one fair Australian Jubilator’s enquiries
about him in London were unsuccessful and dis-
appointing. Society, however, may be pleased
to know that he is now out again—
not from his ’Ome in England but from Pent-
ridge, where he has been taking a well-earned
three-years’ vacation under eminent legal advice.
He was convicted of forgery under another-,name,
appeared in court somewhat made-up (his hair had
been permitted to grow), and the secret has been
well-kept.
“ Many earnest and touching enquiries are
being made as to the success, or even the where-
abouts, of a very lofty chevalier, beloved of
Vic. chaperones, who departed almost two years
ago for London, to float a number of gold-
mines syndicated almost entirely by ladies.
“The high-class retail storekeepers of a certain
city are complaining sorely, under their breaths,
of the excessively long credits taken by 4 the
quality ; ’ but then, this most Convenient fashion
has been set, and society must follow the fashion,
even if it takes a year to square up.
44 Ari enterprising local chemist now advertises
that he will ‘ make-up ladies ’ while they wait.
Judging by the popularity of the rouge-pot with
Melb. blockites, and their utter inability to
master its mysteries, this apothecary should have
a vast fortune awaiting him.
“ Superstition dies hard despite universal educa-
tion and all the other eye-openers and imagination-
deadeners. Many people shuddered at the 4 blood
rain,’ which fell last Xmas holidays, as the har-
binger of war and pestilence. Surely the 4 sulphur
showers ’ of some weeks ago are even more
ominous. In the eastern suburbs after the down-
pour, tiny drifts of pure brimstone could be seen
and handled on steps and verandahs. When-
ever unusual things such as mud, tadpoles,
wattle-blossom or cats and dogs come down
from the clouds, scientists tell us they have been
caught up from their native districts by winds, and
held in reserve up above. The headquarters of
the brimstone supply has, as we all know, a theo-
logical reputation none too good.
“John Curtain, ex-M.L. A., one of the 4 whitest’
of old Melbournites, is so obviously down on his
luck that a number of his former friends have
remembered the good turn they owe him. A sub-
scription-list, started with <£2o and <£3o cheques,
is progressing favorably.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
The Gentleman Who Is Away.
From Melbourne Australia received the Man Who
Is Dead ; from Brisbane she gets that no less in-
teresting personage—“ The Gentleman Who Is
Away.”
That is what Brisbane Courier calls him, with
a nice regard for the proprieties, and a solemn
disregard for the fact that everybody knows him
to be Thomas MTI wraith—ex-steel-rails specula-
tor, ex-land syndicator, ex-Q.N. Bank share-
holder, ex-Q. Treasurer, ex-protagonist of the
Griffilwraith gang; and that his identity has been
affirmed and re-affirmed in Parliament. But
Brisbane Courier has never had a sense of humor
since Carl Feilberg died. So in leader after leader
last week it wordily argued all sorts of beside-t lie-
question hypotheses regarding “ the Gentleman
Not Now In Australia,” “ the Gentleman Who Is
Away.”
These are some of the facts :
For years past the connection between certain
influential Q. politicians and the Queensland
National Bank has disgraced the province. These
politicians and their allies, being shareholders in
or traders with the Q.N.B. —a private concern in
which, despite its title, the province had no direct
public interest—used the credit of the province to
borrow huge sums of money, amounting to mil-
lions, on public account. This money was mostly
deposited with the Q. N. Bank, and was used to
conduct business operations which paid dividends
to these politicians and their allies, or was directly
advanced to these politicians and their allies by
way of overdraft with or without sufficient
security—frequently without. It was boodle on
the grand scale—public robbery and private cor-
ruption. According to some statements in Par-
liament, the question now before Queensland is to
ascertain whether or not one of these politicians
is—the Gentleman Who Is Away.
The question arises thus—
In 1893 the Q.N. Bank stopped payment, while
owing the Govt, over two millions of public money
deposited with it. There was controvery as to
whether Govt, should force the Bank into liquida-
tion, or allow it an extension of time for payment.
Liquidation was the more honest course, for the
Bank’s losses seemed irretrievable, and it is prac-
tically in slow liquidation now. There would
probably have been temporary business disloca-
tion ; yet mines would have yielded, wool would
have grown, cattle would have bred, and crops
would have been harvested ; and many people
thought dissolution by a short, sharp shock was
preferable to dissolution by a lingering illness.
But the Bank has so much influence, and has lent
money to so many people, and controls so many
votes in the electorates and in Parliament, that it
always felt itself safe from liquidation, so long as
the exact character of its dealings with the public
money, and the exact amount of its losses, toere un-
known. So a Relief Act was passed through Par-
liament, and after that, and very reluctantly, the
Govt, consented to a public investigation of the
Bank’s affairs. The investigation was made,
and disclosed reckless trading and immense
losses; but no details ivere given. A further
investigation was clamoured for, and very,
very reluctantly, Govt, consented. A Com-
mittee of four was appointed, consisting of a
director of the Q.N. Bank, a former shareholder
of the Q.N. Bank, the Auditor-General, and
another ; and after ten months’ struggling the
Committee the other day announced itself ready
with a report.
Judge of the nature of this report when the
Committee declared that it would possibly be
found so defamatory that, acting on legal advice,
they required a Parliamentary guarantee against
consequences before they would hand it in !
Four days after writing thus, and before the
required guarantee was given, the Committee
wrote again to say they had received certain cable-
grams from —the Gentleman Who Is Away. This
Gentleman they had already heard from by attor-
ney, and he now demanded to be additionally
heard in his own person. And the Committee
thought that “ if his evidence was really supple-
mentary and material,” he should be heard. In
the meantime they withdrew their report.
The Gentleman Who is Away is Thomas MTI-
- now an old man, strong neither mentally
nor physically, and living at Heidelberg, Ger-
many. Brisbane Courier proposes to send two of
the Committee to Germany after him, and damn
the expense and delay. Brisbane Worker en-
quires—
Will the Courier name an instance in which what was
practically a court of justice was removed 10,000 miles in
order that a man who is practically On his trial may delay
the declaration of a verdict ?
Would the same allowance be made in favor of a poor
man ?
And Glassey, leader of Q. Labor-party, was to
move on Tuesday (too late for reference in this
issue) —
That, in the opinion of this House, the Government
should obtain the report of the commission on the Q.N
Bank, Limited, and that such report should be laid on the
table of the House without further delay.
It is an interesting situation, both for the tax-
payers who are present, and for the Gentleman
Who Is Away.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited.
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £J+ lf.s.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
$75 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Colrins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
m
i
ui"ii
UlHi
,||Miuiii^U
WA
«!
m
Hi'"'
I'IHIIIIII
V 5
HliW
fcEGS?
n'ii
fifcji
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHtN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
J. T. Neale, Sydney’s big ready-money
potentate, who died last week at Potts Point, was
the holder of a thousand mortgages.
F. : “However we may regard the inten-
tions of the late Judge Windeyer, we must all
admit that he was good in execution.”
The return of Majah Reay to work on the
leading articles of Melb. ’Evenin’ Erald is shown
by the notes of exclamation that he leaves all
along his track.
The Mercadool land-case fees will make
N.S. Wales open its eyes. Mr. C. G. Heydon’s
bill for appearing for the Crown before the Land
Board alone totals J 21107 14s.
Queensland has had eight Speakers and
four Presidents of Council. Palmer is in his 16th
year of office as President. Maurice O’Connell
held the President’s chair for 19 years.
Mrs. Perkins, who died at Bowenfels the
other day, aged 80 years, came to N.S.W. in 1829,
and for nearly 60 years lived in the Lithgow
Valley. She left 91 grand-children and 30 great
grand-children.
The death of ex-Justice Windeyer leaves
but one N.S.W. Supreme Court pensioner—
Justice Poster. There are still three D.C. Judges
on pension (at £750 each) —Dowling, Wilkinson,
and M'Farland.
A Bulletin man in Melbourne is told that
several years after the Mt. Rennie massacre the
late Judge Windeyer received as a Christmas gift
in a neat box a hempen noose. The donor was the
well-known writer “ Anon.”
Shipowner M‘Eacharn threatens to be next
Mayor of Melbourne—not lawyer Sam Gillott.
The old style of councillor is dropping out of the
business, anyway, and the old style of joke re civic
greatness will have to go, likewise.
Should Attorney-General Want resign and
go fishing for good, who would replace him in the
N.S.W. Ministry? Possibly Premier Reid would
act as Attorney-General himself. With a good
Crown Law staff, there is really little to do.
A correspondent of the English Clarion
makes an apropos with “ Banjo’s ” “ How M'Gin-
nis went Missing ’’—“ snipped,” of course’,’ “ from
a Yankee paper.” Mighty convenient person, the
Yankee, when there’s any literary thievery on
foot!
Olderfleet : Melbourne’s late semi-million-
aire, T. B. Payne, did start in a lawyer’s office, but
he laid the foundations of his fortune by advances
on city property only, at big rates of interest, in
the early days. He never lent money on p.n’s,
&c., unsecured.
On reliable authority, it is stated that Q.
Premier Nelson, at the Jubilee procession, wore a
coat of blue cloth, lined with black silk, breeches
of white kerseymere, white silk stockings, black
beaver cocked-hat with silk cockade, black ostrich-
feather, sword with gilt mountings, sword-knot of
gold lace, and sword-belt of silk, &c., &o. Ain’t
it just lovely ?
Charles Randwick De Clouet, now under
arrest at Bathurst charged with shooting his wife,
was being put to bed by his mother some 30 years
ago when the bushrangers Ben Hall and Gilbert
entered the bedroom and forced Mrs. De Clouet to
hand up the cash-box. The De Clouets of that
date were hotel-keepers and owned the Sports-
man’s Arms in Bathurst.
King O’Malley, the untamed Yankee in-
surance canvasser of S.A., is the first formally
declared candidate for the Federal Parliament,
The Bulletin moves for a special clause in the
Constitution declaring that O’Malley, Dan O’Con-
nor, Boy Politician Caulfield, Mearher and
Tommy Dodd shall be permanently disqualified
from sitting in either Federal House.
Dr. (say) Mabel Fixemup, Mosquitoville’s
sole female medico, having lately recovered from
a severe illness, and deeming a change desirable,
requested her lady companion, Miss A., to wire
to the proprietor of a certain hotel at a fashionable
seaside resort for rooms. The telegram ran as
follows : “ Can Dr. Fixemup and Miss A. have a
room at your hotel?” The answer was: “Yes;
but keep it dark.”
THE NEW ’BUS.JOHN ON TOP
AGAIN."
To apotheosise Windeyer as Woman’s
Friend ” is to sin against fact. “He never
doubted a woman’s word,” say certain glorifiers,
while the cry of the judicially-tortured woman in
the infamous Butler-Davis-Rofe case rings in the
public ears. And there’s a catalogue of such.
One of the young ladies who accompanied
the Australian Premiers in their Jubilee mission,
says the Queen has “ a peculiar brown complexion. ”
It’s the constant toasting, The Bulletin supposes.
Hard-up Bishop Green, of Grafton and
Armidale, N.S.W., whose pecuniary woes have
had wide circulation, has happened on a ripe
windfall, valued at about £1545. An English lay-
man left £150,000 for church purposes, and Bishop
Green comes under the covenant to the above
extent.
Old Charles Hardie Buzacott, quondam
editor of Brisbane (Q.) Courier and now of Rock-
hampton Record, having taken to bikinsr for his
health’s sake, was heard to remark to a friend, one
day: “You must excuse me, old man, for not
having acknowledged your bow in the street, but
the fact is that one day, while on my bicycle, I
took off my hat to a lady, and the next instant I
found the machine a-top of me.” Which recalls
the story of the German swell who, meeting his
friend on a horse in the park, hailed him jovially.
“Please don’t speak to me,” said the friend, who
was just managing to hold on; “ don’t you see 1
am busy riding ! ”
NO ROMANCE ABOUT THAT.
KIND SHEPHERD: “How do you account for
Ginger Jones getting all the sympathy ? ”
WINGIE: “O, ’e broke ’is arm playin’ with the
Junior Stoushers; I on’y fell erf a fence!”
Newspaper reporters in an Australian capi-
tal are greatly exercised over the remark alleged
to have been made at a recent banquet by the
editor, of a great” daily, to tire effect that
people, have far too larg*e an idea of a reporter’s
standing. lam always ; at great pains to impress
on our men that they have absolutely no standing
whatever. A reporter, you know, is nothing more
than a canvasser for news.”
Barring one, every man Jack of Henniker
Heaton s House of Commons crieketing-team
billed to appear in Australia, is a Tory. Henniker
you see, couldn t afford to be seen in the company
of any common Liberals by his old Sydney friends.
Also, the unmarried lords and honorables included
in the team are mostly aged about 30. Blase, hard
in the jaw—know a thing or two. Tough nuts for
the Australian girls to crack.
The \ agabond' is not quite forgotten.
A circular dated Sept. 4—the first anniversary of
the vag. s death—solicits subscriptions towards a
tombstone for his grave in Melb. General
Cemetery. The prime mover in the matter
appear to be Tom Kennedy’s wife, and Harry
Short, editor of the Leader will act as treasurer
of any cash that may come in. A subscription-
boom is not very probable. Journalists, as a
rule, will excuse their indifference to the appeal on
the ground that Julian Thomas was not the man
to want a tombstone.
N-H. : “ Related of champion hangman
Solomon Blay that he never saw a man hard-up
without offering to help him with food or coin.
Yet this did not even modify the speed with
which Oatlands (Tas.) children! would vanish
under ‘ mother’s bed ’ whenever the hangman
hove in sight. A local R.C. priest refused
to perform the marriage ceremony for
Blay, but a parson of another sort was
easily persuaded to tie love’s sacred
knot for the man of many sacred
knots.
■ Melb.: “ Trenwith, then
known as Trenoweth, learnt to
speak 20 years ago, at the Sunday
1 ree Discussion Society, being a
working shoemaker, or, in his
favorite word, ‘snobbing.’ Ortho-
dox libellers declare the society broke
up through two officials, now dead,
drinking the piano. Trenwith was quite
a second-class man there. The most was
much ruled by wooden-legged little Elliott, a
sturdy, beetle-browed tailor. 1 heard him exclaim
one Sunday night—* Ladies and gentlemen, I’m
an atheist! One of those horrible creatures called
an atheist. Ain’t you afraid ? ’ beating his
breast, like a gorilla. Anarchist White, ex-Wes-
leyan preacher Oliver, and Barber Carr were other
stars.”
Gov. Buxton studiously avoids the sinful
theatre, and his absence from Adelaide during
the “ Sign of the X ’ lea ves the big problem un-
settled of whether, considering the Buxton family
connection with the sign of the XXX, he would
have waived his objections and patronised the
show.
“Willie” Hill,
now mining warden at
Clermont (Q.), is wide-
ly-known among dig-
ger-men for his pluck,
his terrible stuttering,
his fine singing, and
his strong language.
He can sing without a
hitch in his voice, but
his talk is murderously
halt. How he got his
first civil-service bjllet
—a C.P.S. office. Old
Bully Palmer was in
power, and had pro-
mised Hill an appoint-
ment. On him waited
Willie. “Mum-mum-
mister Pup-pup-pup-
pup -palmer, are you
gug-gug-going to g'ug-
h-h-give me a bub-bub-
bu\ybillet? You pup-
pup-pup-promised me
the fuf-first vuv-uv-
vacancy, you know.”
“Oh, I can’t give you
this billet. You're not
fit for it. You couldn’t
read the depositions in
court. ” “ Y-ves, I kuk-
could.” “ Why, man,
you stutter so dam-
nably.” “Nun-no, I
wuh - wuh - wuh-would-
n’t. ” Palmer, to end
the interview, handed
Hill, a document, and
said, “You can’t read
that through without
stuttering.” “Yuh-
yuh-yes, I kuk-can.”
“Well, read it right
through, without stuttering, mind, and I’ll give you
the billet.” Willie picked up a ruler, and, using
it as a time-baton, four beats to the bar, “ down,
left, right, up,” as music - teachers have it,
he sang, in a fine baritone, the whole of the
words on the document clean through, without a
hitch. He got the billet, and used to sing his
depositions regularly, to the delight of court-
loungers.
“ Prince Esterhazy of the Austro-Hun-
garian legation, despite his private denial, is about
to become Mr. Lily Langtry as far as the marriage
laws will allow him,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “A Major-General and
the 53-year-old scion of the oldest and wealthiest
Hungarian family, the frail, gentlemanly old chap
fears not to totter in where royalty has dared to
tread, and, made of the stuff of heroes, ignores
alike tumbler-throwing episodes, the scandalised
indignation of his relatives, and the flimsiness of a
Yankee divorce, and is down to be led to the altar
in Vienna at an early date. Albert Edward,
when requested to interfere by the aristocratic
family, with his usual good sense replied that
Esterhazy was old enough to look after himself,
so now the love-sick Hungary-Austrian haunts the
race-meetings seeing bridals, titbits, and dead
“ THE LORD’S DAY.”
"Sunday Trading.—In the summons division of the
Central Court yesterday, the police proceeded against
Abraham Cigarovsky, a tobacconist, for permitting his
shop to be kept open for trade on the Lord’s Day.’ A fine
of 5s., with 2s. 6d. costs, was imposed.”
ABRAHAM: “ The Lord’s Day! Vy, they must
take me for a Gentile !”
heats in place of the ordinary paraphernalia of
proceedings. He, with the rest of ‘ Mr. Jersey’s ’
party, was on the favorite, Balsam (11 to 8) when
their horse Merman, 6st. 121 b.. won the Cleeves
Handicap, .£l2OO, and started at 100 to 7.”
NOT NEGOTIABLE.
MONEY-LENDER (to applicant for a loan): “ You say you can give the very
best security for this loan —what is your security ? "
APPLICANT : “ My word of honor as a Christian
Acertain “Premieress”onher trip to dear
old England:—- <£ When Hi washushered hinto the
presence of Er Majesty my nerves was hall a-tingl-
in , hand has I reached the throne I couldn’t ’elp
on me knees hand smotherin’ ’er ’and
with kisses agen hand hagen. ‘ Oh, yer Majesty,’
® ez ,. > y er dunno as ’ow we loves yer in Horse-
tralia, though, as yer knows, hour scope his some-
what circumcised ’! ”
Lawyer, to The Bulletin :
Pilcher and Griffith are not the only Australian barris-
b®f?re the Priv y Council. Chief-
Justice Way (Premier Kingston’s old master), now the
Australasian Representative on the Privv Council, ap-
peared and argued the S. A. case of Rundle v. the S.A.
Insurance Co. I forget the date, but it was more than
a quarter-of-a-century ago- say about ’6B. Way is a
b. A.-made lawyer who served his articles to Atkinson, of
Wilham-st Adelaide. Also, didn’t Wrixon argue
the Ah Toy case before the P.C. ?
The amiable Sim, Labor-member for Car-
pentaria (N.Q.), is bald-headed through too much
earnestness. A peculiarity of his baldness is that,
whenever Sim gets pleasurably excited, his scalp
glistens with more than its ordinary lustre. It
always shines. When he becomes thoroughly
roused, it is phosphorescent. Hansard and press
reporters, at every likelihood of a late sitting,
watch Sim s head. It is their thermometer or
barometer, and foretells to a certainty whether
there is going to be a late and lively sitting or
not. ron often hear them say: “Better order
supper; Sim’s head is lighted up ! ”
™- T j e P h y sical toughness of the late Judge
Windeyer—suddenly as it dissolved at last—can-
not be better exemplified than by a simple tabula-
tion of the temporal aspects of the infamous Mount ’
Kennie trial, thus Monday, Court sits 11*
hours : Tuesday, 14* ; Wednesday, only 10 hours
(Judge has to dine out); Thursday, also only 10
tor the same reason. But Friday compensates
with 18 2 hours, right off—up to 3.30 on Saturday
morning . And Saturday’s proceedings proper,
commencing again at 9 a.m., have left the
exhausted jury less than five hours in which to
eat, sleep, wash, and make generally a futile
enort at the all-round recuperation required prior
to listening to a ten hours’ summing-up from the
iron-bodied, iron-souled phenomenon on the bench »
TO BEN TILLETT.
Pale Christ of Labor, who have sought
To shame our wilted zeal;
Whose lava-tide of love has taught
Our deadened nerves to feel !
May kindly Sun, pulsed warmly through
Australia’s airy wealth,
In part repay our debt to you
With fresh bouquets of health.
A comrade merry in our play,
As staunch in time of war,
You’re not as most who helm our way
From Night’s uncertain shore.
Your limpid soul does not exude
Their oily patronage,
Nor leagued are you with harpy brood
To foul our heritage.
You’ve lit the holy fire of Hate
To melt the chains of caste,
To burn the poppy-flowers of Fate,
The garbage of the past.
It spreads among those fools who till
The toadstool beds of Rank,
And those who gorge their greedy fill
In stock-exchange and bank
Because you’ve bid our hopes re-rise
And trimmed our lamps anew,
They spirt their vitriolic lies
In frenzied hate at you.
For such as you warn such as these
Of coming earthquake shocks ;
O, loving-lipp’d Demosthenes,
Rienzi of the Docks !
Melb.
DANTOW.


ENGLISH MAIL STEAMER.
The incoming boat is bringing a shipment of
Ogden’s Celebrated Guinea Gold Cigarettes, pure
and mild. #
“X'WO GOOD THIKTGrS ”
. . Madr in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
cv U qtpaks etc HOLBROOK’S SAUCE is the most DELICIOUS, the
rHEAPEST. ’aml has the LARGEST SALE of any Sauce in the World. HOLBROOK’S
selected ENGLISH Vegetables, prepared in PURE MALT Vinegar, and can be had
inns. Mixed , Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow from all first-class Grocers.
Agent for New South Wales:
Agents for Victoria:
Mr. James C. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Melbourne.
Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Ve<jetable Anti-Fat,
PHYTOLINE
registered.
registere;
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
T , • ii i rmppnT Tt also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a couise of this lemedy.
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
„„„, nimhpmists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35., 55., and 125.,
in tablet or liquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
PHYTOLINE
PHYTOLINE
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —Why should not the
Government protect the bush-worker’s health as
well as the Sydneyite’s? For instance, on one
station (a mortgage co.’s) they overhauled a flock
of wethers, which were sorted out into three
classes—(l) sound, (2) curable, (3) callous and in-
curable. These latter—the sight of which would
make Sydney people faint —were killed for, and
eaten by, the station hands ! On the station at
which I am shearing the shearers’ hut is 30ft. x
40ft. In this hovel, the cracks in which we vainly
tried to stop by pasting up newspapers, nearly
REALISM.
EDITOR OF “Gabriel’s Bugle-Blast” (to valued contributor) : “Look here—when are you going to
let me have that article on the Curse of Drink ?"
VALUED CONTRIBUTOR : “ Fact ish, been so-hic-busy c'lleeting m’terialsh, haven’t had chance to put
’em on paper yet! ”
SO men sleep and eat ! The floor is about 4m.
lower than the ground outside, so that when it
rains it forms a shallow sheet of water and mud.
Yet they talk of building hospitals for consump-
tives while this godly squatter is manufacturing
them with impunity. In Maonland he would be
hotly fined until he put up decent accommodation.
But N.S.W. has a Labor-party and a Union, so it
must be all right, even if we do die of consump-
tion or cancer. —J.K.G.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin, —I am making a collec-
tion of Australian bush-songs, and the following
beautiful effusion lias reached me. I give it ver-
batim, and Literatim :
[ would like to meet the author of the above
“ fragrament ” in his mountain fastnesses, where
he toils all alone among the whales, listening to
the roar of Mallee Bulls, and with no one to ask
him to have a wine. I will have a wine with him
in spirit— here’s to him '.—The Banjo.
When the Oatlands’ (Tas.) criminal sit-
tings were removed to Hobart, farmers complained
that they could not get a conviction for sheep-
stealing as every farmer called on the juries was
challenged. A man was brought up for that
offence at Hobart, and, the jury disagreeing, he
was remanded to next sittings. Another Judge
heard the case this time, and did his level best to
get a conviction. The jury were long “out, ’ and
finally found “ not guilty.” One of them being
asked why, replied that it was “an Irish verdict: it
was the big man agin the little, and we couldn t
see the fun of that.”
• • * *
“I always liked taking a rise out of a
squatter,” said Jim, meditatively ; “ s’pose it was
’cause I never had the chance of being a squatter
myself. Remember one time signing a contract
with a boss-squatter to bank up a dam which the
creek had washed away, and to grub a large tree
in the newly-made waterway, which was supposed
to ‘ drink ’ too much. Wheeling a barrow all day
makes one think of an evening, and ... it hap-
pened that a limb of the old red gum stretched
over the centre of our earthworks. Now, why
couldn’t we work a block, tackle, and windlass.
Carried unanimously. So me and my mate—he
was a digger too—swung each load instead of
wheeling to ‘top-up’ the embankment. But we
thought we would take down the tackle every
Sunday, when our friend the squatter called to see
how we were ‘ getting on.’ Next Sunday he was
flabbergasted at the work done, but more at the
‘ wages ’ we were making out of him ; and he rode
away with a sigh, saying, ‘Well, of course, you
chaps know the hardest job’s to come the
grubbing.’ Next Friday, however, some cattle
strayed out our way, and the squatter made an
extra visit, when over went the show. Mr. Squat-
ter took in the situation with a whistle,
ing, ‘ By the way, that is a good idea, mCsing use
of the tree ; however, we will keep it w future
needs ; you won’t be sorry.’ ‘ Not much,’ I said ;
‘ we’ve got to grub that tree out: it sin the con-
tract.’ ‘ Oh, well, I’ll let you off,’ says the squat-
ter ‘ and you can make me an allowance for it.
‘No blanky fear,’ says my mate ; ‘ tree s coming
out, if we blow her out with dynamite. 4 1th .
Well, I won’t be hard ; so we will cry quits.’
Then we pulled our little trigger. ‘You know a
good thing when you see it, but our price is •£•->—
or the tree goes.’ Well, you should have seen the
performance, and hear the pet names he called us !
Our troubles ! We took him down all right. I
always liked taking down squatters, ’ said Jim,
meditatively.
* * * *
The man “ down for the show ” is usually
the least exacting of customers at a metropolitan
pub. or hash-house, but occasionally a brown-
bearded visitor stands out for his rights and some-
thing" over. A Melb. publican had one of this
sort on his hands recently. The morning after
Bill’s arrival Bung heard sounds of riot upstairs,
accompanied by reports as of the explosion of a
slang-dictionary. Bung hurried to save his furni-
ture and fittings, and found Bill raving m the
passage, and a housemaid having a fit in the
corner. “ What’s wrong? ” yelled Bill; “ heaps
is wrong ! Don’t I pav you the same as these
other fellers ? ” (pointing to the row of bed-room
doors). “I do ; well, why the blanky, blanky,
blanky ain’t I treated the same?” “ What’s the
matter, man? ” “ Why ain’t I treated the same .
That’s what. Look here ” Bill sailed along
the passage, kicking a pair of boots from in front
of each door all over the shop. “ You give each
o’those fellers a pair o’ crimson boots, why the
don’t I get a pair, too ? ”
• * * *
P.A. : “At some rural Australian hops,
when a‘gent.’ wants a ‘ lydy ’ to ‘darnce,’ he
stands 10 or 15 feet off and gives a soft whistle.
Presently she looks up, when he catches her eye,
jerks his head backward and smiles alluringly.
She knows it is the much-desired invitation, and
as she rises and ambles towards him he crooks his
elbow and says : ‘Me ’n you.
* * * *
Two “ flash ” carriers met in the (full) bar
of small backblocks pub. Ginistv, evidently look-
ing for “stoush,” to Hooley: “ Strike me ! Im
the blanky faded flower.” Hooley (jumping up
and knocking Ginisty out with a punch on the
jaw): “Strike me, you (etcetera), you’ll never
bloom again! ”
“I remember a new-chum schoolmaster
placing on his bedroom wall half-a-dozen photos,
of his best girl in various poses” (writes “Steff ” to
The Bulletin from Fiji). “Next morning the cock-
roaches had bitten bits off his lady-love with quite
rude indiscrimination. I have seen them eat the
strings out of tennis-racquets, violins, and cricket-
bats, caught them eating the rubber off a type-
writer (probably on account of the violet copying-
ink flavor). I saw once a fat one fly out of a wed-
ding-cake. The only thing they won’t touch is
preen bamboo ; a few young bamboo shoots laid
in the drawers and boxes, and stood about the
room, will keep them away, but the bamboo must
soon be renewed, for when dry it loses its power.”
• • • •
S.S. : “The snake-story season is
coming and I want to get in first with
mine. It is the tale of a Swift’s Creek
miner who awoke one morning to find
he was sharing his bunk with a huge
black snake. One coil was about his arm,
and the end of the snake with the head
attached passed down between the bunk
and the wall. An occasional tug and fre-
quent oscillations convinced the victim
that the reptile was prepared for any
emergency, and he just lay there and
sweated. His soul dwindled to the size
of a pea, and his innards crowded up
into his throat, his hair grew dank and
stiff, and he could feel it creeping about
on the pillow, although he didn’t think
about that much, his attention being di-
verted to more important matters. He
swears he remained in this condition for
several hours, but it was perhaps an hour
after his awakening when his mate blun-
dered into the hut, and Bill cursed Jim
with low, intense curses, dreading lest
the snake should be disturbed at his busi-
ness under the bed. Jim presently dis-
covered the trouble, and, proceeding
carefully and cautiously, secured one of
Bill’s pillows, and jammed the serpent
whilst Bill flung himself out of bed in a
clammy, flabby heap. Then both men
peered anxiously under the bunk : A dead
snake hung there, with a mutilated neck,
and Bill’s great bla ck tom-cat, Satan, was
amusing himself with the mangled re-
mains. Bill has since turned grey think-
ing of the horrible peril he encountered
in his sleep. ”
* * * *
“Blanky” rules in N.S.W. A
provincial bishop had just sat down after
a complimentary speech, and the dean
finished up by saying, “ But you know,,
my lord, we have very good deacons.”
Deacon Woolbales elected to speak for
the rest—perhaps because he says “blan-
ky” oftener than any other man in the
district : “That’s all right, my lord, but
you must remember that we have a blanky
good dean ! ”
* » * *
Conclusion of a Federation meeting at
Pcinkalla West. Moore (of Yellow Dog Creek) :
“ Gintlemin, ye have all heard the differint
.spaches, and I might say scraehes, concernin’ this
great subject, on phwich will depind the posterity
of Punkalla, and, I might say, the colonies also.
Now, gintlemin, all of ye who are in favor of
Federashun without compensashun will plase
howld up your roiglit hands ; and all ye that ain t
Miss FLORETIE GREEN.
Photo., Johnstone O’Shannessy & Co., Melb.
will plase howld up yeer lift hands, as I want to
count phwich soide has the majority.”
* * * *
Mr. Hawlegs was manager of the Great
Squander mine, W. A., at a salary of =£looo a year.
Miss Lemons and Miss Threestar were both
barmaids at the Tindog Hotel. Miss Lemons
said that Mr. Hawlegs intended to marry “ one of
us girls,” and she added, “ It’s no good the two of
us bucking up to him at once. Now what I pro-
pose is to throw dice, the loser to hang back while
the winner plays her cards all she knows. 1 hen
they shook. Miss Lemons threw three China-
men, while Miss Threestar beat her by one ; this
was naturally followed by a coolness between the
two girls. Miss Threestar played her cards well,
and Mr. Hawlegs was on the point of proposing,
so she thought. It was Miss Tnreestar’s afternoon
off, so she took a stroll towards the railway-station
to see the daily train come in. Mr. Hawlegs
was there also, but he scarcely recognised her.
The train whistled as it approached. Hie next
thing Miss Threestar saw was Mr. Hawlegs
embracing a fair, fat lady of 40, with six children
and 18 large parcels. She made back to the 1 in-
dog Hotel in tears ; but the news had got there
before her. Miss Lemons poked borak as she
came in ; then followed a shower of glasses and
bottles, and only for the active intervention of a
policeman, a murder would have been committed.
,*• • .
Dear Bulletin, —Rabbits in the N.S.W.
Western districts do climb trees and do jump
fences ! I have soon ’em. After a dry stretch,
the dead bodies of bunnies may be seen by the
score caught in the branches of stTci dmi bed
trees, over a dozen feet from the ground. Hunger
gives the animal a power which, at ordinary times,
if ho possesses it, lie fails to exercise. Anyone
who has had experience of country ’tween the
Darling and the S.A. border will endorse my
statements. —Out West.
* * • •
What shall we do with our girls ? Letter
received by a baokblock father from a careful
mother (also baokblock): —
This is to giv you notis to keep your bad dorter the one
with the red air and bunvred hi from gorn with hour
Percy, we ave ad one child runed afore bi aven to niarrie
afore is time i wont giv no more notis but will riaefc.
Jane hogkknoe.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin,—lt is waste of lung power
to shriek any more against colored labor. At a
shed in Warren (N.S.W.) district last week two
cooks put up for election —a white man and an
Indian or Cingalese. The latter was elected by 17
votes to 2 ! —6xB.
* * * *
They were putting in a hole in a hot drive.
Bill was striking, Jim was turning, sitting with
the drill between his legs. Presently Bill noticed
something peculiar about Jim, and, looking closei,
found that he was fast asleep. After every blow
the drill jumped, and around it went as metho-
dically as a machine. Bill insists that dim re-
mained fast asleep until the hole was drilled, and
Bill is a honorable man.
The Australian Premiers in England were
not afraid of the lords and dukes. . JBut they were
very much afraid of the lords flunkeys.
Yindex writes from Wollongong
“Lex” is wrong in stating 1 that the N.S.V. TTowns
Police Act was extended to the whole province in
The prosecution for furious driving would be under Sec.
40 of 2 Vic No. 2. This Act could be extended by procla-
mation to any town. The Act 19 Vio No. 24, making
further police regulations, which was held only to extend
to proclaimed towns, is by 32 Vic. No. 7 (the Act referred
to bv “ Lex ”) extended and made applicable to the whole
province ; but 32 Vic. No. 7 does not affect the provisions
of 2 Vic No. 2 so as to make the 2 Vic. No. 2 in force ex-
cept in proclaimed towns. The objection raised by
the defendant’s attorney was, therefore, valid, and the
P.M. rightly dismissed the case.
Miss Florrie
Green, a shining light
of Melbourne’s ama
teur dancing world,
was born into the
business not many
years ago. Her
mother, the well-
known preceptress of
“ Mrs. Green’s Pu-
pils,” was herself a
pupil of old Mrs.
Conquest, a famous
ballet mistress, and
Miss Florrie’s parent
has undoubtedly
trained the damsel in
the way she should
whirl. Compared
with a Letty Lind,
a Sylvia Grey, or a
Lethbridge, theelever
Melbourne danseuse
appears a little lack-
ing in finish. On tl e
other hand, she is
second to nobody m
suppleness of wai t
and her graceful kick
has been an artis t c
feature in sundry
amateur opera shows
since she first ap-
peared under Lyric
Club auspices.
“I was travelling
in America where they
had elaborate sleep-
ing-cars,” writes a
Bulletin corresj on-
dent. “ At a station, a
newly-married couple
got in, and, after they
had retired, she \\a
heard to get up ai d
tell her husband that
she was going to get
a glass of water, add-
ing, ‘ but I mayn’t
be able to find our berth again.’ ‘Oh, yes, you
will,’ replied the old man, ‘ I’ll stick my foot out,
when you came by.’ She got the glass of water,
and, when she started back, she counted no less
than nine feet sticking out.”
AUSTRALIAN PARODY ON BELLE MA HONE.
In River bends in New South Wales
All alone among the whales
Bursting up some posts and Rahs
Sweet Belle Ma Hone
Tis a very lonelie life
No one to ask me to have a wine
Tis a very Crooked line
Sweet Belle Ma Hone
2
Here in the Sun I stand
Cabbage hat black velvet Band
Moles stiff with sweat and sand
Sweet Belle &
Now I am Seated on a log) perched
up just like a frog
Watching for a Murray Cod
Sweet Belle &
Land of Snakes and Cockatoos
Jolly Wild Blacks like Kangaroos
Warrigals and big Emus
Sweet Belle Ma Hone
Paddy Melons By the Score
Mallee Bulls you should here Roar
They all belong to Jacky Dow
Sweet Belle Mahone.
Coloneal Song for the Australian Colection
Air I wish a bobey bobby
in a Range Called the Tollbar
A great big Mountain Ash Tree
We fell in the snow in the snow in the snow
O I wish I was splitting I do I do
it is so very hard to saw'
it Blisters my poor Mitten o’
fragrament onley.”


FRANZ JOSEF . , .
PILSEKTER.
LAGER B€€R.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
A Steadfast Faith
A STEADFAST faith is necessary to steadfast
conduct. According to the faith is the life. If
that is uncertain and unsettled, fixed at no point,
the result will be unsteadiness : the course of life
erratic. The only safety is faith based upon
irrefutable evidence. This is the kind of faith
the Rev. ffm. Riding, Presbyterian Minister,
Zeehan, Tas., has in Warner’s “Safe” Cure, for
he says: “I have derived much benefit from
Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure.” Your faith will be equal
to his if you follow his advice.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific fob Liver
and Kidney Disease.
Detective Goulder, 14 years in the service,
dragged in “ police and civilians ” in his evidence
in a Sydney court the other day. At a military
court-martial police are always treated as civilians
—which they are.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
welhknown opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defeet cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post freec or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
We are informed that Messrs. Thomas
Ogden, Ltd., Liverpool (England), the manufac-
turers of the celebrated Guinea Gold Cigarettes,
have opened an office at 7 Spring-street, Sydney,
under the management of the well-known firm of
Messrs. J. Frossard and Co. The Guinea Gold
Cigarettes are a standard brand in England, and
we feel confident that the quality and purity of
these cigarettes will soon make them popular here,
as at the price of fid. per packet of 10, with mouth-
pieces, they are really good value, and lovers of a
refined smoke will appreciate them.*
Road Racing in New South Wales.
SYDNEY to PENRITH and BACK—FIFTY-FIVE MILES.
D. Harrison won in the fastest time ...
W. M‘Combe was second in 2nd fastest time...
3 hours 0 mins. 23 secs.
3 hours 7 mins. 17 secs.
Of course they rode Beeston Humbers.
The third man was over a mile behind.
It is astonishing how often people need to be told of the winning qualities of . . .
THE BEESTON HUMBER.
Year after year the records show beyond dispute that the very best man can only win when mounted on the very best machine.
The World’s Verdict is—“ The Beeston Humber is Best.”
Therefore, if you want to win, you will have to get a Beeston Humber. On this cycle the rider’s exertion all goes to speed ;
there is no waste through indirect strains or bending, springy cranks. You have a firm grip of a firm machine meaning
economy of strength, sweetness of movement and safety.
All BEESTON HUMBERS are of one quality, whether supplied for the recrea-
tion of royalty or the necessities of the artizan.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
The AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LimTED.
HEAD OFFICE: OXFORD CHAMBERS, BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Depot and WorHsliop: - 393 George Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES AT
MELBOURNE—229 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE —33 Rundle Street.
PERTH-Hay Street.
TASMANIA—Hobart and Launceston.
BRlSBANE—Adelaide Street.
CHARTERS TOWERS—GiII Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.-Colombo Street
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—123 George Street.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
E. A. : You confound Alma Stanley with Emma
Stanley Soleil: Both acceptable A.J.F. : Many
thanks, but the patient is incredulous Bindyi:
Thanks . ..Leopold D. : You do indeed owe apologies to
“ The Village Blacksmith.” After those “verses” you
couldn’t) grovel sufficiently to him between now and the
Last Trump . . Streak : Unavailable. Kendall’s poems
published by Geo. Robertson and Co., George-street,
Sydney, price 7s. 6d V.D. : Considering that the
framers of the American Constitution worked on practi-
cally original lines, and evolved out of their own heads a
grandly democratic system of Government at a period
when Democracy was almost unknown, Mr. Bryce s re-
marks look too “steep” to be altogether sincere .....
C.M. : When the first divorce was granted by law the
world started on the road to Free Love, _ The grounds of
divorce are ever-widening in all countries whioh recog-
nise divorce at all. First we had divorce for adultery on
the part of the wife ; now, also, for adultery on the part
of the man. Once there had to be physical cruelty ; now
it is legal cruelty for a man to say his wife can’t stew
oysters properly, or to suggest that she ought to have her
hair shampooed S.O.A. :So far, the area in W.A.,
proclaimed as auriferous, is 48,000 square miles
Platypus (M.L.): Tale consists of a dead horse with a star
on its forehead —you are very particular about the star.
Gretta G. : Niagara in a tea-cup—but not in our tea-
cup, thanks W. Fred :He inherited disease, and he
died. Well? ... .Warramoo : Thanks ; but Shelley wasn[t
a bad sort of fellow, and there’s no need to grieve his
ghost with imitations of “The Cloud.” J.V.F. : Try E.
M. Curr’s “ Australian Race,” at any metropolitan
library ...L. : Such fossil imprints are common M.B. :
Declined Nord G. : No, the Xmas No. is safe this time.
F.H.: “ Thelabored soul sped on its way.” Precisely. ..
Heri: Useless Louis M. : Too like an indecent conun-
drum A.P. : Doubtful “Genius.” Warialda : Not
above country-paper level Dal. C. :No interest
R. Garbutt: In November, ’75, the British Government
bought £4,000,000 of Suez Canal shares from Ismail, then
Khedive of Egypt. They are now worth £22,600,000.
Dividend in 1896 was £689,524 Tindog : Fowl story too
awful for print A.M.W. : Undressed kid declined
Gumsucker : Scotty salted the mine. Did he, now? .....
Tooloom Station : What do you mean by “ our mercantile
system is unlimited,” and similar hunks of mist? What
is a limited, or unlimited or partially limited mercantile
system? What do you mean by “our medium of
exchange is limited ” ? If it was unlimited, of what value
would it be? Nobody pays anything for a thing of
which the supply is really unlimited Lochiel: A half-
ton joke. More like a kedge-anchor than a bit of mirth
J.K.G. : The legal rights of a man who owns half a horse
are too intricate to advise upon. Better ask half a lawyer.
J.H.S. : Ghost drinking whisky at the Golden Gate
under consideration J.B. : Cricket poem bowled out
first ball Resident (Mosman): Thanks Seventy-
seven : Will make par B. : Ode to your alleged dead
girl who “lies blarnched with icy chill” declined
Frith Cockney : Long pale yarn in weak pencil marks
wholly illegible Subscriber: Yarn tore itself up and
flew away !....C.A.J.T. : Versification good. Hunt up a
more cheerful subject and try again .... J.W.M.: Unprint-
able Toby: It simply won’t do S.C. : For instance,
how many legs has a billiard-table ? Nine out of ten
people, including old players and billiard-markers, will
cive the answer incorrectly J.F.H. : Send something
printable Shearer (B.): We cannot ask such a ques-
tion C.O. (W.) : Unusable W.F.H. : There are some
dazzling truths which won’t stand cold type—except in a
medical print. O, for a newspaper-constituency of
doctors ! ... .A Constant Reader (Ad.): But who authenti-
cates the report that the members of the expedition
have not been paid? 0.R.: Don’t care to reprint in
such cases Steff : But why say “ down at the South
Sea Islands ? Sydney is on Latitude 40, and the
f( islands” are on 20 H. E. Ham. (Adelaide). Horse
sketch excellent suggestion. Others returned with
thanks Brompheus: You do not write interestingly.
Mantleigh : A notice in The Bulletin will find a
missing man, if he is to be found, sooner than one in any
other Australian paper A Friend : But you don’t say
whether the child still lives An. : The address of the
poet Gordon’s widow is Penola, South Australia. Old
man Low doesn't write any ballads like “ Where shall we
gather our garlands glad?’’ Mrs. Low, who is not in
good circumstances, derives no benefit from the sale of
her late husband’s verses Louis M. :An acceptable
suggestion Dorgnose If all miners adopt the practice
of sticking their pipes in their eyes, as per your sketch,
’twould be all one to them whether the “ tie-piece ” was
over the “ barrel ”or under it. If you smoke your pipe
with your left eye, that’s wrong Always put it in the
right X.Y.Z. (Vic.) : Thanks A.L. : The promoter
is a swindler well-known in Fiji E.M.: Tell us, does
your Patriotic Vigilance Committee prescribe the use of
bad language ? Also, what is its opinion concerning Mr.
Harry Foran’s speeches ? H. :We never met two re-
porters who could read each other’s Pitman shorthand.,—
A.L. : Louis XIV. reigned longer than Queen Victoria has
done J.S. : And yet it is common knowledge that
most of the Syrian and Indian shopkeepers in Melbourne
derive a good proportion of their profits from the sale of
indecent pictures K. : What, again ! A very old and
much-respected liar out-back once told us he was the only
white man, alive or dead, that ever saw the great King
Snake—a beautiful creature over seven feet long, the
color of pure gold and with a growth just like a crown on
its head F.C. : Summed-up : Mr. Sutherland’s hero,
Viscount Sydney, invented transportation to Australia—
branded this country with the broad-arrow, set the “ sys-
tem ” in motion, provided the traditions of Botany Bay,
sent convicts and officials, who were worse than convicts
—and earned the servile praise of the Scotch humorist,
Mr. Alex. Sutherland aforesaid Sludge : Aren’t there
three Tas. Judges already? Also, one is not justified in
saying that a jury “ estimated the value of plaintiff’s
character at one farthing.” What the jury’s verdict said
was that one farthing’s damage had been done to his
character. Windorah : Re your complaint that the
drought is forcing you to assimilate goat. Be thankful;
goat-venison —barring antique William—is as savory as
any other, and more nutritious than mutton Lanark :
You have not struck the level of your first try Enid
R. : “ Ghost ” won’t “ appear ” ; pork-yarn may do—with
trimmings J.B. (W.): First four verses good, then
peters-out badly. Quality wouldn’t run to quantity.
Condense, and try again J.D. : Idea good ; treatment
too in-and-out L.H.: Par. not in it; will consider
yarn L. Doolan : “ Eight-mile Hut” 20,000 miles from
Bulletin R. Buist: So dazzled by “the glare of
glist’ning gleam ” that we could read no further. With
fewer affectations, though, you wouldn’t be poetically
hopeless J. M'Blain : Good Australian interest, but
over-magazinish for B E.S.S. ; “ Her maiden charms
awake the brute in you,” do they? Low diet, hard exer-
cise, and plenty of cold water L.R.M. : “Pastoral”
killed by anti-climax: “ Self-knowledge ” idea would
stand expanding South Creek: “Sydney Harbor”—
low water! Other two suggest possibilities, but long
literary road to travel yet The Josser : You don’t give
your name, or that of the story F.W. (St. P.) : Will
consider.
Liogia, &c.
Dear Bulletin, —The Logia attributed to Christ
which were lately exhumed in Egypt seem, as far
as they go, to bear out the old contention that the
highest and most spiritual doctrines of Christianity
were evolved by the subtle Hindu intellect
ages before they sprang into life in Judea.
One of the sayings, “ Cleave the wood and there
am I,” is full to the rind with esoteric Hindu
Pantheism, Aet it is to this old and mystical
land of India—the cradle and nursery of super-
sensual religions—that we send crude, half-taught,
but cocksure young missionaries—by way of teach-
ing our spiritual grandmother to suck cosmic eggs !
En passant, Emerson’s poem entitled “Brahma,”
which begins with the quatrain—
If the red slayer thinks he slays,
Or if the slain think he is slain,
They little know the subtle ways
I keep, and pass, and turn again—
had for origin an incident described in the Hindu
epic “ Bhagavadgita.” Two mighty armies are
facing each other on the battle-field, and (to quote
the words of an eminent Brahmin pundit) the
leader of one army, Arjuna, seizes the moment
before the actual shock of war to enter into
a profound Pantheistic discussion on the iden-
tity of the slayer with the slain. Imagine an
English general carrying on such high argu-
ment with the commander of the troops
opposed to him ! I think, speaking with
all due humility, that the root-cause of the com-
parative, if not absolute, spiritual failure of
Christianity amongst the conquering races of
Europe (the Teutonic races, especially) is that
they have tried to assimilate an Oriental creed
entirely unsuited to their natures. The altars of
Odin and Thor have been long overthrown, but,
for all practical purposes, their gods are still Odin
and Thor—and Mammon. The Celtic race—
probably because it was one of the earliest off-
shoots from the Aryan stock, and met with less
disturbing vicissitudes on its journey westward—
is perhaps the only one in Europe that is in
sympathetic touch with the mystical side of
Christianity. The legend of the trefoil and its
immediate reception by the ancient Irish as an
incontrovertible demonstration of the truth
of the Tria juncta in Uno doctrine could hardly
have been told of any other Caucasian people.
“ Thou and I are one,” or, in briefer form, “ I am
Thou ” is the essence of the teaching of Christ.
The large-stomached, ever-hungry, full-blooded
peoples who are now the propagandists of Chris-
tianity write unequivocally on the page of history
—“ laml ” to the nth power if necessary.
To return to the Logia. It is confidently ex-
pected that many more will be found. What an
Awful Joke (to the unregenerate) it would be if
some of them—proved to be, beyond the shadow of
a doubt, genuine sayings of Christ—denied (as did
Origen) the doctrine of Eternal Punishment !
And what a gigantic Reconstruction of the
Churches this would mean ! but, of course, the
Churches would never acknowledge such evidence
as valid. Clever shovel-hatted persons would ex-
Elain it away and say that Christ’s teaching had
een wickedly interpreted in terras of Neo-
Platonism.
This suggests another irreverent speculation,
viz. : Out of the 1,400,000,000 human beings cal-
culated to be now infesting the earth how many
are living on the Other World ? One to every 500
would be a modest guess. Yet it would
mean 2,800,000. But to this Regular Army
must be added the Irregular Troops and Camp
Followers— Obeah men and medicine-men of all
colors. Five millions would probably be an under-
estimate of the total strength of this army. Its
revenues (call them sinews of war against the
Devil) cannot be even approximately guessed at.
And all this vital force and wealth is lavishly and
continually spent in carrying to all the races of
the Earth the Gospel that it is good to be good !
Suppose that Satan had a similarly organised and
equally equipped Army? Not necessary, you
say ? So say the sky-pilots. But suppose that he
had ? I venture to say that the result would be
somewhat surprising. The Innate Cussedness of
Man would make him take to Virtues merely
because they were forbidden. If the whole Ten
Commandments —with the single exception, per-
haps, of the one against murder —could be broken
vulgarly in the public market-place, without inter-
ference by the police, Vice would become un-
fashionable in 24 hours. That is my opinion.
V.J.D.


STIRRING IT UP.
VIO. ELECTOR : “Phew! Have Ito go through all this once more ?"


~lt is whispered to The
Bulletin that, in conse-
quence of the doubts ;ex-
press-d by this blasphemous
paper as to the chivalry of<
the N.B.W. Dept, of Al-
leged Justice, offended dig-
nity has ukased that no red-
epvured rag is on any pre-
tence to be admitted within
the four walls <>f any gaol
in the province, and gaol
governors and warders are
strictly enjoined not to
touch, taste, or handle tJjjt.
. acpyrsed thing*
THIS CARD MUST BE PRESENTED AT THE DOORy
Sznce 7%e Tkecf-erct 7 jFjccur'Sior}
7J" //a -wof f'S’Sury 7fce a6O re
/n ■scrs/if’ o n is /5 ke cl an a7l
(farf- //a uf/?
/kriVZcf ■zany,
y-x* « : yV~& r
77'eA*>/s/
/ Z/Ap a <?Zujj
- £t7c4
/
I n £/ I WJt =
%/ 4^'Vc/
r / ./«.
y a
€.ryjf>7oy^el—Jf
t/mfi’ir'x /IryTjeet an
"**“St**/,y( , ntn/i. p ■■
Ce r op &jc7u-
cAcC op S//- /drunker /aid ZKcjfi/uycCa
nop Tfope of CL c/rin/r/TzCjp fbunfh/p
, J*fcfs/~a.£ c/e/&ja.^y4 )^r/ rp' fr'Qre /6resepZ Aur/si*
foe />?,puff's 0 r AufZpy
ya.cf To /ea.v& ff~ 7fc A-a./*? JacA /cf <=^^epey
focyt? 6>f-*
SEVERAL MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS.
Watchmaker, Jeweller.
Silverplate direct from the
Makers to the Public.
Purchasers can Save ss. to 7s. 6d. in the £. We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed,
Send for
Illustrated
Price List.
$
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped, jewelled English Lever, <£3 10s. Extra
quality, «£4, £4 10s, £5, £(j, £7, £B, strongest, cheapest and best time-
keeper ever made—3, 4,5, G years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-
face Keyless, 30s. Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless,
7s Gd ; extra, 12s Gd ; superior quality, 20s; guaranteed 12 months.
We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us, you
will not regret it.
Any Name Free.
9e. Gold, 10s ; 15c. Gold, 17s Gd :
18c. Gold, 22s Gd ; Silver Bar, 3s Gd.
Special Value —Very Cheap.
olßwwry
T4a
p'i'i ll " 1 'impusijfr
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst,
21s. 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Dinner Cruets — 8 Cut Bottles, Pure Silver
on hard White Metal, 32s (id ; other styles,
37s 6d, £2, £2 10s. 4-bottle, 21s; other
styles, 255, 30s.
Gold Bell Brooch, 15s 6d.
Gives every Satisfaction.
Gent’s Gold Waltliam Keyless Lever, patent
filled eases, 15 years’ guarantee, £1 4s.
14K. Gold, 20 years’ guarantee, =£s ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years.
Others charge almost double for same quality.
5 pure Diamonds,
doub’e cut,
18c. Gold Hand-
made, £i 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, M 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, .£l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Sapphires or Rubies and
Diamonds, same price.
Bread Forks, pure
Si] ver-plated, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
Pure Silver-plated Butter.
Cut Glass, 15s Gd.
Large size, 20s.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Gold Brooch, Amethyst Heart,
15s 6d.
Gold Broooh 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst,
21s ; 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
18c. Gold, Pure
Diamond, 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds,
<£3.
Similar, 15c. Gold,
20s, 30s.
Any name.
9c. Solid Gold, 12sGd,
15s, 17s (id.
15c., 20s, 255, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold,
255, 30s, 355, £2.
We can rc-make Kings.
Pure Diamond,
18c. Gold Band or
1-round, .£3.
Smaller, £2 & £2 los.
90. Gold Twin Love Birds, 15s 6d.
15c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Set with pure White Pearls, 32s Cd.
wf.
m
Sugar—Pure Silver on White
Britannia Metal, 16s 6d pother
styles, similar, 20s, 255.
Teapots—Pure Silver on Britannia Metal, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Tea and Coffee Sets, £ 2 los, £‘S 10s, .£4 los, £5 ss, £6 6s.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3;
extra, .£3 ss.
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6;
with key padlock,
10s extra.
All secured with
Safety Chains, and
in cases.
3 Sapphires,
Rubies or
Opals,
4 Diamonds,
18c. Solid
Gold.
£3, £5,
.£6.
Splendid
Value.
Pure Silver Plate on Hard White Metal,
32s 6d; Chased, 35a. Splendid Value.
Quite New Music Brooch.
Pure White Pearls.
15c. Gold, £2; Heart, £2 sb.
Highly Recommended.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and
Keepers, 9c. Solid Gold, 10s.
each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Send for size card.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6cL
noo
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d.
STTS
Quite New Gold Amethyst, !)c., 20s.
15c. Gold, 30s.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond & Redstone, 355.
Gold Brooch, Pearls & Redstone, 20s.
a
El H 858310
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
6 different Patterns,
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s.
Large, 21s.
16c. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, Ok,
Solid Gold Chain,
Single or Double,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold,
£s los, £6, £6 los,
.£7, .£B, .£lO.
Pure Silver, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Pure
Diamonds
and
Pearls, -62.
An
Articles
Post
Pree.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed.
; , -*
9
•i:
m
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s,
£3. Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, <£6, £7, -£3, <£lo,
All Guaranteed.
Tea. & Coffee Set, 70s.
Enf/lixk make.
Pure Silver Plate on
Britannia Metal.
Teapot, 20s; Coffee, 22s Gd ;
Sugar, 12s (Id; Milk, 10s.
The full Set, J 23 10s.
Splendid Value.
mg«m>
&
Of^r 11
m
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 32s Gd.
a a a j3>_q
G jld Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
15c. Gold, set with pure White Pearls,
Two Hearts, £2 10s.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Amethyst,
22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2.
9c. Gold Bangle, 20s.
Pure
White
Pearls,
22s 6d;
without,
12s 6d.
Gives every Satisfaction.
Ladies’Gold Waltham Keyless Lever,
Patent Filled Cases, 15 years’ guaran-
tee, £4 4s. 14K. Gold, 20 years'
guarantee, <£s ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years
Others charge almost double for
same quality.
Post Your Orders to SAUNDERS,
Guaranteed the Utmost Satisfaction .
815 George Street, SYDNEY, nearly opposite Railway Station.


TatterSall’s - Sccoijd - Great - DiStribtitioi)
OF
SYDNEY CITY and SUBUBBAN
Freehold Properties.
List Absolutely Closes 4th OCTOBER.
Early application should be made for Tickets to ensure allotment.
100,000 &NARCS OF 5s EACH i 00,000
“ TATTERSALL ” (George Adams) has been instructed to hold a Second Distribution of Sydney City and Suburban Properties,
the first of which was drawn at end of last year. . , . , , „„„„„ /• n
The SHARES have been reduced to PIYE SHILLINGS, to meet a generally expressed desire, and in order to ensure the full
number being subscribed for at an early date. ... , „ . • a
The PIRST PRIZE is valued at £B5OO by the owners, and consists of a splendid terrace of houses in Glen more-road, Paddington,
and one large dwelling-house in Ocean-street, Woollahra, at present producing a combined levenue of £442 pel annum.
The SEVERAL PROPERTIES have been placed in the Distribution at less than what they cost the owners
PRIZE-WINNERS will receive Title Deeds free of any deduction whatever, including cost of conveyance, stamp duty, and land
tax for 1897.
WINNERS of £2O Prizes have the option of taking the value in cash, less 10 per cent.
Ist Prize
2nd „
3rd „
£B5OO
5000
1500
4th Prize - - £lOOO
110 Prizes to 9000
£25,000
TOTAL NUMB€R OF PRIZ€S
114.
In the event of the Total Number of Tickets not being sold, an Amended Schedule of Prizes will be made, and a proportionate number
of such Cash Prizes will be included.
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS. BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTE S.
SCHEDULE OF PRIZES.
Values are shown at l>ess than Present Cost
to Owners.
1. “THE SHELLS ’’—Terrace of Four Houses, Glenmore
road, Paddington Rental £312 0 0 £5,000
“ NARRAWAH 'Ten-roomed House, Ocean-street, Wool-
lahra, leasehold, 60yrs. to run, no Ground Rent Rental 130 0 0 3,500
Total Rental ... 442 0 0
2. HUNTER’S HILL-Four Acres Land extending to Water
Frontage, with Stone Cottage ... ... ••• 3,500
CLEVELAND STREET—One Shop and Two Houses,
Leasehold ; Ground Rent, £6O per annum ... Rental 135 4 0 1,500
3. Three Blocks Building Land, Coogee
4. One Block Building Land, Randwick
5. Two Blocks Building Land, Marrickville
6. One Block Building Land, Randwick
7. Four Blocks Building Land, Rockdale
8. Four Blocks Building Land, Rockdale
9. Four Blocks Building Land, Rockdale
10 to 15. Five Blocks Building Land, Rockdale, each £250
16 to 20. Five Blocks Building Land, Rockdale, each £2OO
21 to 30. Ten Blocks Building Land, Osborne Hill and Campbell Hill, each £lOO
31 to 51. Twenty-one Blocks Building Land, Rockdale, each £5O
52 to 73. Twenty-two Blocks Building Land, Concord and Five Dock, each £4O
74 to 114. Forty-one Blocks Building Land, Guildford, each £2O, or cash less 10 p
£8,500
5,000
1,500
1,000
750
500
500
500
500
1,500
1,000
1,000
1,050
880
820
£25,000
RUG I STORED ADDRESS:
“ TITTERSItt,” care of George fldams,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Please Allot me Shares in Your
SECOND Git EAT PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION, 100,000
at ss.
Name
Address_
£ : x
It would facilitate our business and assist our subscribers in receiving their replies
quickly and correctly if they would please enclose two addressed stamped envelopes with
their applications for tickets ; one envelope will be used to return the ticket in, and the
other for us to send the result of drawing.
“ TATTERSALL,”
Care of George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.


King Billy needs no tablets,
His fame is known too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Granuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Assets - - - £38,513,664.
PURELY MUTUAL.
The Chief Offices for the Department of Australasia
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
—FROM —
BOND STREET CHAMBERS
—TO —
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
OUR CHIEF,
. . THE . .
finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Returner is anyhow not more
popular than Premier Turner.
A question for the National Ass : “ Which
was the Apostle of Thrift—Christ or Judas?”
asks Pastor Turnbull, of Melb.
It is most ominous that Melb. Argus now
offers up daily praise to Premier Turner. The
boa-constrictor slobbers before it swallows.
N.S.W. Attorney - General (Want) and
Colonial Secretary (Brunker—ye gods !) —draw
£450 a year more each in official salary than does
Reid, Premier and Treasurer—the former £lB2O
each, the latter £1370.
H. : “I heard Higinbotham, in Vic. Par-
liament, say Melb. was more Tory than London.
So it was, and is. Tillett only says in outraged
Melb. what he has said in complacent London.
Either Lord Salisbury or Archbishop Temple
would grasp his hand.”
Vic. ultra Freetraders, wooing electorates,
ooncur in assuring their audiences that Federation
has rendered the fiscal issue unimportant. Mackey
in Ripon, and Ilickford, at Brunswick, both
shining lights of the Freetrade Democrats, are the
latest assurers in this respect.
“Toowoomba (Q.) is anti-Federal,” cries
Fogarty, one of its elected Parliamentary repre-
sentatives. Toowoomba versus Australia ; nature
of complaint—the President of the Australian
Commonwealth would probably not use Redmud-
opolis as the Eden of his summer residence. Con-
vulsions !
N.S.W. Lands Minister Carruthers’ letter
from an alleged busliman, cracking up the Bogan
Scrub relief-work, should only have been pub-
lished with the name of the writer. Unkind
people hint that it was inspired or written by the
brother of a Minister, who is, or was, a foreman
or overseer at the Bogan.
Canterbury Ttmes (M.L.) London corres-
pondent, on the Jubilee procession : “ The closing
of the bridges and blocking of the East End
banished the rough element.” If the East Enders
--■the gaunt people of the slums —wore deliberately
shut out, no wonder Premier Reid didn’t see many
signs of poverty in the Jubilee show.
N.S.W. Electoral Act provides for the re-
casting of electorates five years after the taking of
the census. The Reid Govt., however, its enemies
allege, found that this would possibly involve the
loss of at least a half-dozen Ministerial supporters,
including one strong Minister. Hence, no steps
have been taken to gazette the alterations.
Billson, (secretary of the Bootmaker.'
Union, and a pal of Trenwith’s, is the nominee of
Vic. Labor-party for Jolimont against Theo. Fink
at next elections. As Fink shows tendencies at
times to flirt with Labor, he will think this savors
of ingratitude. It was in this electorate that
Randolph Bedford made his heroic maiden effort
(for one night only) last election time.
Premier Forrest, who raised an indignant
howl of “Rats !” when the Federal Convention
decided that the Senate should not have equal
control over money matters, was the first delegate
to lose his dignity and yell at his fellow-con ven-
tionist. The manners of the Convention have
hitherto,been so stately that that sudden shriek of
defunct rodent sounded like blasphemy.
The logic of Simon Fraser, of the Vic.
House of 48 Rich Landlords : “ The people rule in
Greece, and she went to war and got jolly well
licked.” Obviously, then, the people in Australia
shouldn’t rule. Also, the people in Turkey are
Mohammedans, and Turkey came out top-dog in
the scrimmage referred to. So, obviously, the
people in Australia should be Mohammedans.
S.A. Labor-party, disguise the fact as its
leaders may, is much weakened by the desertion
of Charleston, M.L.C., who was by far the ablest
man in its ranks. He is a sound Democrat, and
has ever dinned into the ears of the workers that
the land-question is the labor-question. The dis-
sension in the Labor-ranks is the first dividend to
the Stomach Party out of the Adelaide Hospital
squabbles.
Even while the echo of the Jubilee-reveller
still haunts the ear, the usually ultra-loyal S.M.
Herald goes back on its jingoism to such an
extent as to compare the desperate Sikh soldiers
at Saragari to the Swiss, who died in defence of
the Tuilleries on the 10th of August, and who
“ owed no duty to that king of shreds and patches,
Louis XVI., other than what was due for their
poor sixpence a day, but this bound them as
soldiers to die at their post, and they did it.
This, too, was done by the brave Sikhs at Saga-
gari.” Too! What, the Kaisar-i-hind a mere
sovereign of shreds and patches ? To whom those
Sikhs owed no duty ? O shade of Beaconsfield !
Why, the assertion literally reeks of constructive
treason ! Surely some enemy of Mister James
hath done this !
Bryant, one of the
candidates for the haugh-
ty electorate of .Toorak
(Vic.), angles for. the votes
of the toilers by making
pathetic remarks about
the law which prevents
the workman getting his
dinner-beer on Sundays.
The genuine Tory always
imagines he can get the
support of the working
man by saying some-
thing sympathetic about
beer.
The continual asser-
tion of the Sydney Foreign
trade press that there is a
great and constant influx
from Victoria of people
anxious to participate in
the blessings of shoddy
would go much better if
there were some evidence
to back it. The State re-
turns in the matter of sea-
traffic give no information
as to where people come
from or where they leave
for, and, as regards over-
land arrivals and depar-
tures, they lump together
Victoria,S.A. and Queens-
land in one item. Taking
the last three years to-
gether, the departures
from N.S.W. to these
three provinces have been
nearly 6000 more than the
arrivals from them. If
Victorians are swarming
on such a large scale into
N.S.W., which of the
other provinces are the
Cornstalks rushing to on
so much larger a scale that
the alleged gain from Vic-
toria was turned into 6000
loss ?
Poor Melb. Argus attacks the Vic. Fac-
tories Act:—
It would be interesting to know what this Act has cost
Govt, in legal expenses during the few months it has been
in operation. Its drafting is so faulty that every week an
appeal has to be made to the Court to ascertain what its
provisions really mean.
To which Chief Inspector Ord replies that there
have been 200 prosecutions in six months, at a
nett cost of £3. As to faulty drafting, &e., the
department has so far won every appeal made to
the Supreme Court.
Old patriarch Adye Douglas, of Tasmania,
is the one Convention delegate who seems to have
a genuine pride in his island. The old man’s
scorn as he tells of the time when the early Tas-
manians came over and annexed the empty wastes
of Victoria, and laid the foundations of that up-
start place, is magnificent. “If we had known
what you would be like we wouldn’t have taken
the trouble to create you,” is Douglas’s attitude
towards the Vic. delegates. Douglas describes the
mild, hesitating Fysh as “ a man who never speaks
without conceding something.”
NOTES AT N.S.W. ART SOCIETY SHOW.
Premier Turner’s enemies aver that his
only cry when he “ goes to the country ” in Octo-
ber will be—“ Vote for the Man who Went to
England.” The Govt, is said to be afraid of the
land-tax, especially in farming constituencies. It
is also said to consider that women’s suffrage is
not wanted, and that the Leg. Council is in its
right place. Even the Argus takes heart of grace
to announce that Harper and Kennedy (two tame
Tories in Opposition) may be offered portfolios.
In fact, the aforesaid bilious rumor has it that
Turner, P.C., K.C.M.G., &c., has really and
truly been ennobbled.
“ TEA-LA, TEA'LA, TRA-LA-LA-LA-LA-LA !—(From PICK-ME-UP .)
As leader of N.S.W. Opposition, Lyne’s
chief characteristic—it would be cruel to say his
strong point—is his dull capacity for receiving
punishment. He is in politics what Burge was in
the prize-ring—“ Iron bark ” —and has only one
weapon, a left that isn’t by any means straight.
The jokeful Premier Reid, on the contrary, has,
metaphorically speaking, all sorts of weapons in
his armoury—the rapier, single-stick, and fist.
And on occasion he is not above smashing his
enemy’s skull in with a suddenly-seized bottle.
For advocates of the private ownership of
railways: Queensland railways, like those of
Maoriland and N.S. Wales, have now reached
what the paying point would be if the rate
of interest were the rate at which Queensland is
able to borrow money in London to-day. Total
money invested therein —about eighteen millions.
Revenue, £1,176,273, or £2 17s. 4d. per cent.—an
increase of 4s. Bd. per cent, on last year. The
Brisbane-Charleville line earned £3 14s. 3d. per
cent. ; Rockhampton-Longreaeh, £4 18s. sd. per
cent. ; while that magnificent property, the Towns-
ville - Hughenden line, brought in the pheno-
menal dividend of £9 19s. per cent.
The struggle
over narrow-
gauge railways
in Victoria
seems unend-
ing. The Go-
vernment fav-
ors them in
mountain re-
gions because of
theircheapness.
The railway en-
gineering auth-
orities oppose
them, partly
through fossil-
dom, partly on
the ground that
it is absurd to
start another
new gauge in
Victoria, and
make confusion
worse confoun-
ded, just when
an attempt is
being made to
arrive at uni-
formity, and
partly on the
very just theory
that the cost of
special rolling-
stock, and the
expense of load-
ing and unload-
ing and reload-
ing goods at junctions will make a large hole
in the paper economy. The Age is on the side of
the narrow-gauge ; the Argus and most of the
logic seem to be on the other side. And the
Railway Committee wobbles between two opinions,
as usual, and decides nothing.
Deakin is to b 3 opposed at Essendon by a
Labor-party nominee (probably Bishop, president
of the party) at the ensuing elections. Feeling
runs bitterly against him on account of his late
admission of his approval of the calling out of the
“ fire-low ” squad at the maritime strike.
Max Hirsch, the Vic. Single-taxer, sub-
mits a new scheme of Leg. Council reform. He
proposes that every man or woman should vote
when 30 years old without further qualification.
This would be a little better than the present
system—but isn’t it an insidious attack on female
suffrage? Also, it isn’t so much the qualification
for Leg. Council electors as for Councillors them-
selves that wants mending.
Some of the Vic. delegates at the Federal
Convention pose as representatives of the Austra-
lian Natives’ Association. The worst offender*
are Quick, Deakin, and Peacock. They have nc
such status. The A.N.A. has never at any time
passed any resolution referring to any scheme of
Federation. At any rate, the A.N.A. is a very
mixed body of young men, having no coherence
whatever from a political aspect.
According to the Queensland Registrar-
General’s statistics, out of 140 persons making
their mark on the marriage register 40 indi-
viduals (or 20 p.c.) were colored aliens. This
foreign element eliminated, the rate of illiteracy
among persons of European extraction would be
I'7B p.c. . . . The illiterate alien is, however,
fairly successful at leaving his mark on the popu-
lation, which is becoming every year more varie-
gated.
F. : “ The slave State threatens Federa-
tion, after all. N.S.W. politicians are credited
with anxiety for colleagues from Brisbane, so as
to settle the question of Sydney becoming Federal
capital. If Q. must come in, it should be a con-
dition precedent that all slavery shall be abso-
lutely wiped out within five years of the Federal
compact. Q. will be well able to‘afford’ this
(taking her own point of view), because she will
have a sugar monopoly.”
Premier Kingston’s wire from Sydney in
denunciation of Charleston, M.L.C., may have
been justified, but it was questionable policy. All
of Kingston’s political enemies rolled up and
voted solid for Charleston, and he got in by 700
votes. The S.A. Premier’s outspokenness is the
admiration of his friends, but it also stimulates
his enemies, and experienced S.A. politicians
reckon that that vitriolic telegram changed the
result of the recent contest.
The stated reasons which led the Federal
Convention to decide, by an overwhelming vote,
that senators must be elected by the people and
not by the State Parliaments, constitute a
solemn impeachment of the present N.S.W.
method of electing a Public Works’ Committee.
Even a couple of supporters of such bodies as
that committee voted against senators being
similarly elected, because of the log-rolling, back-
scratching and shameless intrigue inseparable from
the method.
Ben Tillett • “On an average the English-
man earned ,£lB per annum, while the Australian
earned £3l. How was it that the Australians
with £3l per head were borrowing off the English
with £18?” The Bulletin has been asking the
same question for a long time past. The Austra-
lian has two fixed beliefs : first, that his country
is the richest country on earth; second, that his
country is so poor that it can’t pay its way with-
out getting loans from countries which, he says,
are still poorer.
Charleston, M.L.C. (S.A.), was re-elected
by 762 votes over the authorised Labor-candidate,
Hutchison. This leaves things a good deal mixed.
Hutchison said, and the United Labor - party
bosses said, that he was the only genuine Labor
candidate, and that Charleston had fallen away,
and was effete and bogus and of no account.
Charleston said that he had always been a genuine
Labor member, only an ignorant and narrow-
minded section of the party had cast him out;
and the electors supported Charleston. It was
the question of Barabbas over again—with the
difference that no one seemed to know for certain
which of the two was Barabbas.
Francis Abigail and R. D. Meagher, of
the Dean Curse business—the robust, advertising
person who was going to retrieve his character by
patient industry in some foreign land—are re-
ported as candidates for next N.S.W. election.
The election is due in about 11 months at latest,
but unless the finances improve it will probably
come earlier. To go to the country with his
fourth consecutive deficit in his hand would be
taking a big risk, even for so superlatively cheeky
a person as Reid. Moreover, there is always an
advantage in taking the lumbering and unready
Lyne by surprise. That permanently dismasted
political vessel never steers well, but in a sudden
squall he steers a little worse even than usual.
Horace Tozer’s very latest Tozer is that
Queensland is absolutely yearning to send ten
popularly-elected delegates to the Federal Con-
vention, and Tozer himself can’t sleep at night for
his desire to peg in hard at the great cause of
unity, and if the Convention will only adjourn
some more the matter will be fixed up. First the
Tozer Government agreed to send ten elected
delegates. Second, it proposed to send instead
ten delegates chosen by the Assembly. Third,
being defeated by the Council which wanted a
voice in the selection, it decided not to send any-
body. Fourth, it proposed to send ten representa-
tives appointed by the Legislature generally.
Fifth, it decided to let the whole thing slide and
darn Federation. Sixth, it is going to pass a
measure for the election of delegates by the people,,
so that it has come out by the same hole it went
in at some nine months ago. Seventh, it will,
probably, either weaken on this new idea, or the
Council will throw the Bill out, and then the
Tozer Government will get back to attitude V,
and darn the whole thing once more. After that,
anything may happen.


In Brisbane. “Leave M‘llwraith alone;
he’s able to take car© of himself.” “That’s just
the sort that always manages to fall into the soup
at long last—the man able to take care of him-
self.”
▼
HEART
HAND
OTjO
fco
AT ALL HIS
ESTABLISHMENTS
THE
FAVOURITE
rVTt-Jl-rra -• 1
FASHIONABLE IN STYLE
ELEGANT IN SHAPE
excellent; in wear
•and IN TRONT OF ALt
EUROPEAN OB AMERICAN
GOOOS-AT LOW DOWN PRIC&-:
i : ■■■■■-■ - -•?.■*>-. ■ ■ •- -
A NEW SHIPMENT
Of the above recherche goods just re-
ceived, and are now obtainable only at
JOHN HUNTER’S
.. City Boot Palace..
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
and also at his Branches in the City, Suburbs and
mm
m
m
i m
4~ o,r"p0 ,r "p
J: ' n;
in
e:
m
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter & Supplies
Co.,
m
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362; Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNCISSTON —HedIet Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
MOST REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
Trade Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where*
ever they list* It is a far more wholesome didnir
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
wi oda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher,
t eaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mou , an d is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Ltd yd D ey Mi?rhA I n S^ n r' £ ul f s R enard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
fl
Vic
11,
Violips.
PALING & 00. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AGto HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child cat
play, with all the latest improvements, from 15s. complete.
AloOtl) HartpopicaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds,
from 6d. each.
Accordeops & CopcertipaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
6Gitars & tyapdolipcs-
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStopS & PolypbopS.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bafyd l9Str6n>€i)t& of all kiijds
By the best makers—Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
m
i/Af/r£t>
ESTABLISHED
338 George-street, Sydney.
'■ ‘ • '■
ACROSS AUSTRALIA!
T. Coleman wires from the centre of the
continent:—
“OUR TYRES ARE STANDING Al.”
“105 in the shade.”
It is always the same.
GIVE SATISFACTION.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
486 KENT STItEET, SYDNEY;
Also afc
Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
Franklin Street, Adelaide ;
King Street, Perth ;
Litchfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
TT— . .. TsTT^
sis
Australian, or for the matter of that, any
other, workmen, haven’t often shown up. better
than the Broken Hill men did on the day when
the fire broke out in Block 11 (writes The Bulle-
tin correspondent). It wasn’t, except in rare
1 oases, a question of rescuing comrades either—it
was simply to prevent the destruction of the pro-
perty that gave them or others employment.
■ Comparatively few men who went underground
to help locate the fire, and block up draught-
vents, and so on, escaped the effects of the smoke,
and the fumes from the burning Oregon, and
other gases. For hours one cage was kept at
work hauling up men who had been overcome.
A temporary hospital of timber and canvas was
built in the lee of another shaft-building, and
four doctors had their hands full restoring the
men—a process which occupied from a few minutes
to several hours. In the circs, the marvellous
thing is that there were only three deaths. At
one time there were over 50 men in the hospi-
tal. Some were brought up limp and pulse-
less ; others were raving. Yet the supply
of volunteers never eased. Some men, in
fact, after recovering descended again; but
as it was found that they were speedily over-
come it was ordered that no man who had
been in hospital should make the descent again.
Among the men who had to be sent up were
General Manager Stewart and Mine Manager
Horwood. Fortunately, Mcßryde, M.S.C. of
Vic., chairman of directors, happened to be on the
mine to see personally what these working men
sometimes will do. And if he reflected that an
immense amount of suffering and probably some
lives, not to speak of property, might have been
saved if the co had taken experts’ advice after the
last fire and purchased smoke-apparatus or simple
oxygen bags, all the better.
“ Tompkins on Klondike ” (Barry Pain, in
London Daily Chronicle)
Come ter the plice where they’ve got it right, come where
the treasure’s ’id,
Where a ’at-full of mud is a five-pun-note, and the clod
on yer ’eel is a quid,
Where it scratches the soil and it tumbles art, as much as
yer ’ands can ’old,
Where the ’ills above and the plines beneath is bulgin’
an’ crackin’ with gold.
Klondike 1 Klondike ! Libel yerluggidge Klondike !
Theer’s no chawnce in the street ter-dye,
Theer’s no luck darn Shoreditch wye.
Pack up yer traps an’ be orf, I sye,
An’ orf an’ awye ter Klondike !
Lots o’ chaps they 'as stawtid small, and awterwuds struck
it rich,
Barght their kerridges, ailed their yachts—nutthink’s too
good for sich—
Awmies o’ servants, miles o’ land, cuttin’ the toppicalart,
Bran-noo paliss to knock Park-line, then . . . whart was
I thinlcin’ abart ?
Klondike ! Klondike ! chinge the subjic’ ter Klondike 1
Theer’s no chawnoe in the street ter-dye,
Theer’s no luck darn Shoreditch wye,
Pack up yer traps an’ be orf, I sye,
An’ orf an’ awye ter Klondike.
Lots o’ chaps they ’as stawtid small, and finished it smaller
yet,
An’ the gold as yer warnts ain’t got fur nix twixt ’ere an
’ell, yer bet;
Froze ter death, or stawved ter death, or shot in yer
tracks yer’ll lie.
Fur one ’ull pick an’ oome ’ome agen, but twenty 'ull pick
an’ die.
Klondike ! Klondike 1 It sticks ter its own, does Klon-
dike.
Theer’s no chawnce in the street ter-dye,
Theer’s no luck down Shoreditch wye,
An’ fur all yer eats yer ’as ter pye,
And yer’ll find it thesime in Klondike 1


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIIKTHEIt HflltllCGD KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
IVIONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERJBAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every .£1 to =£lo
sd. per month for every pound over =£lo
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
"\TEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE
i3l PIETE D. and I. CO., Limited.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
OPENING OF THE SOUTHERN BRANCH,
at 202 Castlereagh-street,
portion of the Federal Coffee Palace Building.
With a view of affording greater facilities in the
conduct of business with its constituents and the
borrowing public generally, the Directors of
the abovenamed Company have opened a
BRANCH OFFICE, under the management of
Mr. 11. A. BIRKMYRE, at Premises on the
ground floor of the Federal Coffee Palace, No.
202 CASTLEREAGH STREET (between
Bathurst and Liverpool Streets), Sydney, where
the Company is now prepared to make Ad vances
upon Mortgage of FREEHOLDS, BILLS 01
SALE OF FURNITURE (without possession),
LEGACIES, REVERSIONARY INTERESTS,
SCRTP, LIFE POLICIES, BOND WAR-
RANTS, and all other securities, at EXOJtr-
TIONALLY LOW RATES, and at terms to
suit Borrowers.
LEWIS LEVY,
General Manager. _
—THE—
Universal Land & Deposit Bank Ltd.
( Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEBENTURES issued, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest —3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable quar-
terly or half-yearly. ~ .
The holder of Debenture Bonds has a security in the
assets of the Company, past, present, and future. De-
posits to limited amounts received at 5 p.c. per annum.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank Limited has
never reconstructed or suspended payment in any way
since its formation. The whole of its Funds are carefully
invested in Real Estate.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
X
Reginald A. F. MGrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNK.
X
Music, &c.
HOWARD’S Aceordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollanra.
HOWARD’S Month Organs (4 tone), from 6d.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W h ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., vv h ra.
HOWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
H' OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German ma,ke. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., A h ra.
OWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
'CI OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
0 variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
and silver ; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
FREE— ALBERT'S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
~. . A„tnV l qrns 12s 6d, 21s: Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s,
Ist nd 80S Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s;
Banios,’ best, 63s and 90s; Zither Banjos 75s and 90s;
rjanjos, t . , „ u s 17s, an( j 255; Boomerang
BSXSS.W £■: Albert’s New Vamping Card Is ef
AB 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ chaw. Send for our New Catalogue to
otheis y u^ LBERT & S oN, 118 Ring-st., Sydney.
by
I Price Waning. Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, & c.
The Trustees, Executors, it' Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. •• £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1890 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., ALL. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.
. . , .. * i? a m\n non
Authorised Capital..
Capital Paid-up
Preference Shares Paid-up
Capital Called-up ..
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders
HEAD OFFICE
£4,000,000 0 0
£1,702,522 17 11
305,780 0 0
47,477 2 1
750,000 0 0
- 2,805,781'
. MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C. Vice-Chairman ; lion. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.L.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. U.Tuckett,
Eso.; Andrew burns, Esq. Chief Manager: I'rancisGiey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken llill.
Local Director: Hon. VV. M'Millan, M. L.A. Manager.
George Turnbull. Wbstkhn Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direo-
tors- A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
■HE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
, (Limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security \ receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according 1 to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
A mou ut of Capital payable by Sharehoid ers 500,000
Total Capital .. •• £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,950,211 ss.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: fm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P7
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Dondon Office: 1 JUshopsg ate Street Within,
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TljiS Conjpaijy
The
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital... £soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up ... 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riejmseil.
Code— Mobbing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.O.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill. .
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. , , , . t
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
xo
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
•'ereirriiie, Saturday, Sept. 25, 2 p.m.
•Gabo, Tuesday, September 28, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, October 2, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
ESPERANCE Bay
Gabo, Tuesday, September 28, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, September 28, 5 p.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE i
MARYBOROUGH V
ROCKHAMPTON i
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 25, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Sept. 28, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 2, 2 p.m.
BUNDABEIIG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 25, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 2, 2 p.m.
(Jiirp:o tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST (lIHCEYT FAKES TO ALL I'OUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
EjINGLAND VIA AMERICA
A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTED.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail If ran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
NZ Ltd., 15 Bridge Si rent: Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney : Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,' calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
PASSENUEKS DOOKea to Duinuay,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £2o to £7O
including table wines. n.Tmron
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea. , _
For further particulars apply at the Company s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, O^. MELBOURNE.f" ’
Melhour wo?hf Testin9 & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOODS
I FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. tyelbotiroe.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Second-hand
AND
•STEW FURNITURE
Jal (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAYE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes 10 -and 12 6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6-, 6/6, 86, and 10 6 „
KROPP BRAND 6,6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7,6,10 6 „
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3 -, 3/6, i 6, and 5/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
JU netting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razors SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
6 CASTLEREAGH ST„ SYDNEY.
SUpplng.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For XjonciQii-
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
• Callin'; at Marseilles. ♦• Will leave at 4 p.m.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & C°’ B L ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PAC IFI C RAI LW AY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Boohed Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
J*assenf/ev A eeomniodution, Attendance and
Caisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Coffins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
£35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown.
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS &. CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
TO NEW YORK.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Passages can be
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne) Tues-
day, September 28.
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)-
Saturday, October 2.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)'
Tuesday, September 28.
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd-
ney) Saturday, October 2.
ESPERANCE BAY j
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about-
September 21.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
.S. Allinga,
September 28.
Tuesdajv
Best & Cheapest Monte to Goldfields r
G. S. Y UILL and CO., Ltd., Assents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments —the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. UocqCsalfed Vakie. WofyderfOl Selection
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
First in Elegance. First in Business Resources. First in Popularity.
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2a.
mum
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17a. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
Bjin. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
f’V
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, it
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
No. 590.- —15ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
m a
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
£
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and Oct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
m
m
w
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s. ; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s. *
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, I Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Heal Tortoishell COMB,
794 in., Jtll Is.
Ladies’ ALBERT, f)ct. Gold, £2 25.; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Doable Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
erg
WMmk
Very Elegant tine Diamond BRACELET, i 15.
Tnis design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
m
mmm
mMM
W £
£
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 lCs.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, line Whit Dia-
monds, 18ct, Gold, £5 5s
Ila'f-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18et. Gold, £8 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain anil Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15et. Gold, £5 XOs.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £1 155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
•sazis
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pcaila,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles*
Ivory Points, 834 in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9et. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, Jkl Is.;
15ct. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
mm
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
ss
OSi.
m
§ &
m
M
n
IIP 1 ’
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by fij/dn., ,15 17s. Bd.
Miifiik
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
W CJ
No. s'9.—Gold BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
SO.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOC H, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
m
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, 17 12s. 6d
J is*
■aWßff
llllllllllllllllllllilllf.iglllli*
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. fid
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
An % L°/3 e , ab ° Ve articleS sent Post Paid to colon y on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
~P-*- . A. elegance, v an e ty, and extent of our storks nf FTTVTK! fJ-fvr.r* .tv.wht t ici?v qtt.■otdwapi? a Mm™r mTim onm . n *
N ° TE ‘ . e ? tenfc °. f °ur stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS u ”h f „ Vi
1 C u °T ellation ° f brilli “ CJ and * «Wc show. IferythiSg NEW. ELEGANTS
—; rn ; TV, cAueuu oi our stocks ox JjIJNJiJ 5J0.L1) JEWELL <1
of V UNEQIJALL 0 ED n VALIJE S ™n™ t wnM a otta *■* mail-boats, our establish]n nts
T AT.T vat rn? rk • ° uveu u j mail-boats, our establishments are a complete const
VAIjUJ k ° ur P rices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
George-street, Sydney; Swans!on-street, Melbourne.


Packets
CinARS
PURE
Ml LD
nufac,
urea
Payerke
Is.
In the world’s cycling championships run at
Glasgow on 2nd August, three out of four events were
won on Dunlop tyres. Platt-Betts previous to sailing for
Australia cut down all world's records from half-mile to
30 miles. Riding a Dunlop tyred machine, and paced by
Dunlop teams, he did the half-mile in 47 3-sscc. ; mile in
lmin. 37 3-sseo.; 5 miles in Bmin. 53 2-ssee.; and 10 miles
in 18min. 2 2-ssec.*
_ Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
‘‘ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
No greater luxury can be imagined than a
cool drink to a thirsty animal, and, apart from the
humanitarian view of the matter, Pitt, Son and
JBadgery, Ltd., are making their water supply for
stock profitable to owners. It is surprising the
improvement in appearance of long rail-journey
stock when they get a good drink, and now the
hot weather is coming all stock looking dusty or
rough get a drink and a swim at their big dam.
This firm has spent =69000 in providing water.*
To test the endurance of the type-bars in
the Yost type-writer the framework of a machine
was set up, one type-bar and key complete placed
therein, and an apparatus applied tooperate them—
to produce upon the key a blow precisely equal to
a hard finger blow. Results at the end of 42
weeks of 59 hours per week: Total strokes,
46,000,000 = more strokes than the most used letter
on any machine would total in 36years ; yet while
the points of the type-bar were somewhat worn,
the type-bar itself was as serviceable as at the
beginning.*
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Do&s Not Stain Linen,
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIE CHESCEVI',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell s’ Kin Coffee Palace,” situated 69
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
r Ru
Th
Published in the Interests of the Goold Picycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
Agents and f_
Depots f
Everywhere
. 0n ’ e of the great features of the new RED BIRD is
its bottom bracket. It is a triumph of modern skill
in 03 cle-building, and is a feature as far ahead of
bottom brackets in other cycles as the pneumatic
is ahead of the solid. The two cups which form
the bearings are turned from the finest grade of
steel possible to manufacture. They contain ten 516
balls Each cup is threaded to a steel sleeve or barrel
which adjusts inside the bottom bracket proper and
is held in place by two bolts. With the bearings it is
only necessary to oil same about twice a year
as they are thoroughly dust-proof and
the balls running in a continuous oil bath With
OTHER CYCLES it is almost impossible to get a per-
fectly trie chain alignment, whereas the chain and the
bearings, with the aid of this most important im-
provement, can be adjusted to 1 1000th part of an
inch.
This is only one of the many new and original fea-
tures on the Red Bird new models; the others will be
explained to you at our Show-room.
If you are interested in the construction of the
finest bicycle on earth, drop a line for the Red Bird
catalogue. Our catalogue, like our cycle, is better
than others.
The Red Bird guarantee is the insurance policy of
the wise wheelman. We are the makers of Bed Bird
cycles, and our guarantee is therefore backed with a
reputation of 20 years’ standing-. An ounce of pro-
tection <ruarantee is a pound of satisfaction, therefore
Red Bird riders are the satisfied cyclists.
Wm. Martin, mounted on his Red Bird fitted with
our new oil-bath bearings, rode a mile, unpaced
straightaway, in the marvellous time of 1 min. 10 2-5
sec. His wheel was geared to 136, so you can form a
little idea of how lightly the new Red Bird runs.
Martin said : “Run easy? Well, I guess it dub I
can make some other records drop on this wheel.”
OTHER CYCLES are being reduced in price, but
Red Birds continue to sell for more than other wheels,
and they’re worth it.
Tiif, Red Bird, with its new oil-bath bearings, inde-
structible frame, and adjusting chain alignment
bearings, is as superior to other cycles as the pneu-
matic tyre is ahead of other tyres.
The new Red Bird is fitted with the perfect bear-
ings, with the little oil bath and adjustable chain
alignment. Examine these important improvements.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Limited,
. . 45 York Street , SYDNEY .
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Positano’s unaccountable failure in the Metro-
politan has to be contrasted with the consistent form of
Coil, Holbrook, and Delaware in the two races—Spring
Stakes and Met.—where they met, the English horse.
Delaware and Holbrook ran prominently from the start
on both occasions, and Coil finished third each time.
Also Holbrook, who tired at the finish of the Spring
Stakes, took advantage of his 91b. better handicap and
beat Coil by a length in the Metrop. Positano, on the
other hand, showed a splendid contempt for handicap-
ping principles by losing about a dozen lengths (on his
previous form with Coil) when his burden was reduced
by 181 b.
• * • •
“ Positano was bustled too early in the race,”
was the best explanation that Ribbleden, of the Austra-
lasian, could find for the Metropolitan fiasco. If bustled
means hustled it is a disingenuous way of putting the
case, and if it simply means “flurried ” the excuse is
not more reasonable than the average newspaper yarn
offered to the public when a glaring reversal of form has
to be accounted for. Positano won the Spring Stakes at
Rand wick by three lengths, in 2min. 36|sec., beating Coil,
Holbrook, Delaware, and Fadladeen on weight-for age
terms. Take the report of that race —“ Hopscotch, Hol-
brook, and Delaware entered the straight almost in a line,
with True Blue and Positano coming fast. At the dis-
tance the latter had them all beaten, and coming on won
by about three lengths from True Blue, who beat Coil for
places.” Three days later the Metropolitan was run over
the same distance, the time being 2min. 35sec., or ljsec.
faster than before. Take the report of that race —“ At
the half mile Delaware was six lengths in front
and going away, whilst the most prominent of the
others were Amberite, Holbrook, Survivor, Positano, and
Coil. Delaware held a clear lead into the straight, the
followers being Amberite, Holbrook, Survivor, and Coil.
. . . Survivor beat Holbrook by a neck, then a length
away came Coil.” Among the followers of the placed
horses came Fadladeen and Delaware, well in front of the
hot-pot Positano, who now met Holbrook, Coil, and Dela-
ware on better terms—ranging from 10 to 16 pounds—
than when he ran away from them on the previous Satur-
day. And the Australasian horse-writer gravely sug-
gests that Positano’s extraordinary defeat in the Metro-
politan was due to “ bustling ” in the early part of a 1)4-
mile race which was only faster than the race he
had won so easily.
* * * *
Hot and windy was the last day of Randwick
Spring Meeting. Eos and Standard were picked upon for
the High-weight Handicap, but the former failed to get a
place, and Standard won by a short neck from Australian.
Burleigh was made favorite for the Members’ Handicap,
but he finished nearer last than first, and Phillip, the next
best inquired for, won from Voma, who led from the
jump, until passed 100yds. from home. Plenty excite-
ment over the Steeplechase, during the running of which
Whitefoot 11., Cornet, Reckless, and Runnimede fell,
leaving Ditto and Parnell to fight a finish, which ended in
favor of Ditto. Eairvhouse, the favorite, the only other
horse who finished, did not run as on Metrop. day, and
finished out of the hunt. Agate, who had had many ad-
mirers all through the meeting, won the Waverley Handi-
cap, and the Carbine horse Fucile won Randwick Plate at
the odds of 10 to 1, the heavily-backed Holbrook finishing
second. At the sheds, Holbrook seemed to have an un-
mistakable lead, but Mat. Harris, fairly lifting Fucile every
stride, passed the groggy Holbrook 50yds. from home.
This left the public with but one race to suffer a recovery
on, and they went manfully for Vivian until 5 to 1 was
the best on tap, but it was not to be, as Aurea, at 12 to 1,
won by a couple of lengths from The Chief.
• * * *
Fucile (Carbine —Venice) proved in Randwick
Plate that he is a top-noich sticker, and as he is well in he
should be regarded with respect for whichever of the two
Cups he is spun for. The good performance of Amberite
and Fucile must send up Carbine stock considerably.
* * • *
Report lately killed the crack jumper Fairfield,
but the chestnut showed himself very much alive at
Albury the othei day, he won the high jump with
6ft. Sin.
* * * *
According to W. P. Crick, M.P., there are 700
“ tote ” and 2000 “ double ” shops in Sydney and suburbs,
and more horse-racing around Sydney than within a
radius of 40 miles of London.
• * » *
Despite tlie many police raids on the biggest
of all Australian tote-shops, located in Collingwood,
Melb., it still flourishes with renewed safeguards against
official interference. The extensive escape-door system
has been so completed that capture is well-nigh im-
possible, unless an army of police were to surround the
entire block ; telephonic communication between head-
quarters and different points of vantage has been estab-
lished,and nobody unknowm, or unintroduced by a reliable
patron, is admitted. There are two barriers, so that if a
concerted rush were successful on the outer one the
inner would be shut and locked automatically before any
detective could reach it. But, should the worst come to
the worst, and the detectives gain the yard itself they
could arrest nobody concerned in the shop but the gate-
keepers. The actual tote-runners are attired in
black trousers and blouses all alike, and have
their heads hidden completely in masks and veils.
They stand on a platform under a galvanised-iron shed,
surrounding which are heavy timber bars extending
to the roof. Through these bars the clients have to hand
their money and make known their fancies, for the four
funereal figures in the cage speak not a word, and are
ready to flee through the trap-doors at their backs at the
slightest alarm. As far as the shop proper is concerned,
it is kept fast closed with the shutters up, the whole of
the tote business being transacted in the backyard,
reached from another street, and enclosed in a high fence
literally encrusted with barbed wire. The proprietor of
this tote was five years back an artisan, working in a
repair shop at a wage of 30s. a week. In a happy moment
he decided to relinquish the leather business for a tote,
and to-day he stands with a reputed cash capital of
£30,000.
♦ # * *
What a reflection on the moral character of the
Australian turf was the gullibility of an amateur Melb.
bookmaker, who laid against Maluma for her Newmarket
Handicap because he “ saw a letter from the stable stating
that they were going to ‘ deaden ’ Maluma and win with
Trentina.” Cronk practices are so common that even a
“ bookie,” if he is rather soft-headed, will believe any
statement of dishonesty.
The Veriscope presentment of the Corbett-
Fitzsimmons fight, at Sydney Royal, much discounts the
Yankee press reports. It shows that Fitz. forced the
pace from the start, seemingly content to take Corbett’s
left-hand jabs with the object of keeping his opponent
going at railway pace, and trusting to his (Fitz.’s) condi-
tion and stamina to stand to him at the right end of the
mill. In the sixth round Fitz. is down on one knee
whilst eight is counted, or rather until Corbett, who has
been standing right over him, is hustled back by the
referee. Once upon his feet, however, Fitz. is at his old
game of pumping Corbett, giving him no rest, and so on
until Corbett begins to stand off as if not liking the job
set him. In the 14th and last round the ’scope mulled the
knock-out blow, which cannot be seen, the first one knows
of it being Corbett on the floor until counted out, when he
suddenly jumps up and, rushing Fitz., roughs him
through the ropes. From the veriscope point of view,
which “ can’t lie,” after the eighth round it looks a thou-
sand to one as if Corbett was hunting for a soft board to
drop upon. Unfortunately, the instrument was placed on
Corbett’s corner, and as cunning Fitz. allows the ’Murkan
to walk across at the commencement of each round—
nearly all the fighting being done in Fitz.’s corner, which
is farthest from the audience—much of the mill is very
indistinct, as it is only when the figures approach the
side of platform nearest to the ’scope that the move-
ments and features can be followed with distinctness.
Corbett is a scienced man of the first water. In the open-
ing rounds his foot-work and clever escapes when
apparently cornered and his short lead to draw his man
out, reminded more than one old ring-goer of champion
amateur Seale in his palmy days—barring, of course,
Seale’s right foot first.
* * • *
A Sporting Life critic, who is in a position to
judge the real merit of M.C.C. bowling and batting
averages—apart from the question as to how they compare
with county match records—declares that Albert Trott is
one of the best all-round men in England at present.
Which amounts to another warning for Australian cricket
writers not to indulge in over-estimates of the coming Eng-
lish Eleven before it arrives. On Albert Trott’s play, as it
appears to English critics, one of the best all-round players
in this country is about equal to any of the best at ’Ome.
Put the matter this way. If an Australian expert were
asked to join with an English ditto in selecting- an All the
World Eleven, they would probably agree to mix it in the
proportion of six Englishmen to five Australians. And
yet we have individual performances cabled out from
’Ome, as though they were matters for special astonish-
ment in this savage country.
* • » *
The Bulletin, having instantly perceived Hen-
niker Heaton at the bottom of that House of Commons
cricket-team-for-Australia proposal, admiringlv now re-
cognises his handiwork in a team-list starting off with an
earl, two viscounts, and a baron, and mustering nine
Conservatives and three Unionists to one solitary Liberal
—profusely gilded at that.
* » * *
The Vic. football soul is incensed against Dr.
Neild for having referred to murderer Hall as “a low
and brutal type ”of person. Bendigo sentiment re the
doctor’s remark can be gleaned from the gallows elo-
quence of a Melb. ’Erald reporter : “ All was over. The
man who, owing to his football fame, was a year ago the
idol of the hour in this district, the man who was known
as ‘John Bull’ by reason of his pluck and skill, and his
reputed manly qualities as an athlete, swung lifeless at the
end of the rope.” _A barracker naturally objects to hear
that his ideal Bull is low and brutal, although the state-
ment is in perfect accord with outside opinion on the
barracker’s bloomin’ self.
• • • •
From an athletic point of view, it was a terrible
waste to sacrifice Hall, the Bendigo murderer. Though
he stood but sft. 4in. and weighed 125 t,., his proportions
were so excellent as to compensate entirely for his low
stature. He was in no way muscle-bound, and was by far
the quickest and most agile footballer in the Bendigo dis-
trict, if not in all Victoria. In fact, he was so splendid a
player that, had his crime occurred five years ago, when
arts, letters, laws, politics, and everything else in Vic.
were very small potatoes compared with football, an in-
dignant populace would probably have stormed the gaol
rather than let him be hanged like a common person.
The populace would have had some precedent, too, for
did not the Pope of the day decline to interfere, despite
the frequent outrages and murders by Benvenuto Cellini,
on the ground that the community could put up with
such idiosyncrasies from so great an artist. And Hall was
just as great a footballer as Cellini was a painter or gold-
smith.
* » * *
The most extraordinary incident in the Vic.
100-mile road-race, run last Saturday with half the dis-
tance in the teeth of a cruel North wind, was the fact that
a collision between Carpenter and Johnstone, whilst
descending that terrible hill, “ Pretty Sally,” tore seven
spokes out of the former’s back wheel, and left him to
finish wobbling and with the tire scraping his back stays.
Each of the others expected Carpenter to break his neck
every turn of the pedal ; but he didn’t, he won—by
inches, in 6h. 32min. 41sec.; Johnstone second, and
Broadbent 34sec. behind him.
The race leaves E. Melb. the'premier road-team,
with Victory second and Fernside third. The three events
composing the premiership, viz., 25, 50 and 100 miles,
have been won respectively by “Jack” Green, A. C.
Middleton, and “Jimmy” Carpenter. of
Footscray club, is the man who has ridden best in all
three races. He is the lanky rider who used to ride at
the end of every long track-race last season with a hu”e
figure 1 glaring sarcasms from his back.
* * * *
Percy Cavill easily beat Englishman Tyers in
the first match of the series arranged between them, over
a distance of 1815yds. The Britisher seems to have taken
his gruel badly, and entered a protest that Cavill had
gone outside the finishing flags, but the objection was
not upheld. Tyers has offered to make a match with
Cavill over short distances, but the Australian is not
likely to take on any short distances, and will probably
refer Tyers to Jack Hellings.
• » * *
Nuttall, in his race with Ernie Cavill, set the
world a record of 6min. 38sec. for 500yds. Finney’s pre-
vious best of 6min. 43£sec. has stood since 1860.
* * * ■*
Bilmartin is credited with wheeling a straight-
away mile on Sydney Centennial Park, slightly down
grade and with a breeze behind him, in lmin. 19 3-ssecs.
If the distance travelled was really 1760yd5., and the
timing correct, some idea of the pace may be judged from
the fact that the Yankee horse Salvator, who holds the
record, galloped his mile in lmin. 35Jsecs. Martin, how-
ever, ipust have been “ poking borak ” at the crowd
when he told them that he hoped to do a minute dead
next try.
• » * •
Flounder: “ I see nothing to cavil at in one
Cavill being a pro., the other amateur. Rather a sign of
our superior arrangements as compared with the English.
It would be a kind of scandal for W. G. Grace to be pro.
and E. M. Grace amateur, but that is what it ought to
have been. Our sensible rules label the man by his
actions, not his blood or breeding. Thus, on the turf, one
brother may be an amateur steeplechase jock, another a
pro.”
* * * *
Jack Hamilton, M.L.A., winner for the sixth
time of the Q. revolver-shooting championship, had not
handled a rifle or a revolver since the ’96 competition
until he started to practise just about four davs before
the commencement of the present contest! Which some-
what discounts the assertion of some crack marksmen
that, to maintain proficiency in revolver-firing, a man
must practise for one hour daily and never miss a day.
On the last day of Q. Rifle Association’s meet-
ing, last Saturday, Hamilton, aforesaid, in the revolver-
contest, made 122 out of 126, including the full possible
tally at the longest distance, 50 yards, which latter is a
world’s record and one point better than that of the
American champion Winans, at Bisley, in ’94. Hamilton’s
scores were-at 20yd5.—(776667) 39; at 30yds. (777677)
41; at 50yds. (777777) 42. The shooting was done in a
gusty wind.
* • * *
In the absence of the lanky Herbert, of -Ballarat,
W. Cummin”', of the Melb. Harriers, carried off the Vic.
10-mile cross-country running championship at Caulfield.
There was a huge attendance, as there always is at a free
show.
* * * *
S.S.: “ For deadly dulness is there any solemn
rite or function practiced bj' mail to equal harriers’ sports?
A crowd of goose-necked youths with legs like twin
bananas start away from a mark, canter out into the
waste and void, and are forgotten whilst sassiety cavorts
in the dust, and criticises its clothes, and says ‘ Haw ! ’
more or less. Yet there was a tremendous crowd at Caul-
field, Melb., the other Saturday, and the weekly papers
were filled with elaborate prints of the fashionable people
standing in clumps, saying ‘ Haw ! ’ I find that any sport
which sanctions the removal of a great deal of clothes
will pull in the crowd, and if the English cricketers can
be persuaded to play in a penny cummerbund and a little
grease-paint, they will simply impound A istralia’s little
available capital.”
* * * *
The English Amateur Rowing Association hints
at a probable refusal to accept any Australian eight as
amateur if the expenses of a trip ’Orne are to be raised by
public subscription. In its collective official character,
the amateur-athletic conscience is subject to scruples,
which don’t seem to give any uneasiness to the private
individual conscience. The Gentlemen of England
cricketers, for instance, would scorn to take a pn'To
benefit as an eleven, whereas they are mostly prepared
to reap what private benefit they can get from the game.
In “W.G.’s” case, a shilling “testimonial” colled ion
was not held to be inconsistent with his title as
“amateur,” and everybody knows that the London
Rowing Club has found means of support for some of its
star “ amateurs.” Considering that there is a wide dis-
tinction between nutting money into an oarsman's pocket
and the mere “shouting” of a journey ’Ome for him, the
objection now offered by the E.A.R.A. seems rather
absurd. It is grounded, no doubt, on 'Varsityand public-
school snobbishness. The young fellows who perform at
Henley Regatta are mostly gilt-edged amateurs, inde-
pendent of everybody except “ theguv’nor,” even if they
have not already come into a bit of “ splosh.” Their idea
of the only pwopah amateuh qualification is a well-filled
purse.
* * * *
Tlie yarn reported by Brisbane papers as told
by sole survivor Kimber, re the swamping in Moreton
Bay of the yacht Zenobia, and the loss of five lives, is
inconsecutive and incomprehensible, except on the score
that Kimber was delirious when narrating. Four hardy
yachtsmen and a boy lost all heart in a few hours, and
pegged out, in lumber's arms, within 36 hours ! One of
the four men, known as “Scotch Bob,” was one of the
most expert and daring swimmers known to Brisbane;
the worst, seas had no terrors for him. The four are
described as all having gone insane. It is a curious story.
* * * *
The benefit to Elias Laycock promises to be the
best thing of its kind Sydney has yet attempted, judging
from the committee who have rallied round the old
“ Bushranger,” as the Thames watersiders used to love to
call the burly, Saxon-bearded Elias, when he was mowing
all down before him in the Hop Bitters Handicap.
Headed by Captain Cook’s old chum, Hon. Geo. Thornton,
all classes of the community are represented. Messrs.
Hassall, See, and Farnell from the Legislature; Bill Beach
and Mick Rush, the old sculling warriors; the three
Jacks, Beales, Deery, and Deebles, from the land of sport,
Larry Foley and George Seale, the ex-champions of their
classes; and one could imagine himself back in the
seventies and eighties with the old-time amateur oarsmen,
Messrs. T. Strange, S. Freeman, N. Lockyer, J. E. Myers,
C. Dobson, and others.
.. m °st disastrous J ubilee satire was nub.
hshed by the ultra-loyal London Times. It issued
as a memento of tins dazzling jamboree, a sump,
tuous colored portrait of Queen Victoria, specia fv
produced with a v.ew to its being framed and
hung up in a place of honor in the houses of loyal
subjects. Then a lot of persons simultaneously
discovered, with disgust and loathing, that the
gaudy picture bore the legend, “Made in Ger-
many. J The eternal fitness of things !
“ F.” to The Bulletin :
A monster meeting of union and non-union Melbourne
butchers is announced. Great, dissatisfaction as to wages
and hours exists. Now is the time to see why this is
thus, for the carrion-men have nominally a very strong
union at the Trades Hall. Is there really truth in the
rumor that it is merely a masters’ union ? Such a body
should certainly be absolutely forbidden from enterino
under the Trades Hall aigis, if the Trades Hall is to really
fight the employes battles. It suggests organised espioti
age of Trades Hall methods and plans, and, if it’s possible
in one trade, can one be sure that it’s not practised by
others? Also, is the men’s trouble one of the results ol
the live-meat boycott, which appears to have already re-
su ted in the shutting up of scores of small shops in Melb
suburbs?
The prosecution of Jules Joubert and
another on a charge of conspiracy to defraud in
connection with Brisbane “International ” Exhi-
bition, ended last week ; and a police-court bench
discharged defendants. There were undoubtedly
many irregularities in the conduct of business
and some of the transactions seemed fishy; but
proof was lacking both of criminal intent and of
defendants’ joint responsibility. And so much
personal animus was shown by a section of the
directorate, that a great deal of sympathy wag
expressed for Joubert during the examination,
and much satisfaction at its close.
A meat-famine threatens the Land of
Sleep-a-Lot. Oattle are deoreas’ng in number
and quality, and butchers pay fabulous prices for
any scrubber carrying hide and horns. Beef,
wholesale, 4 s per 1001 b. The season cannot be
blamed. Stockowners sleepily aver that they
don’t see any points in expensive breeding im-
provements when the stock-tax secures them
■£6 for a beast only worth ,£3 in Syd-
ney ! Bread in Hobart threatens to reach
8d the 41b. loaf, and the Derwenters’ main-
stay, barracouta, formerly two for fid, now sells at
Is. fid. per ’eouta. Sydney and Melbourne vege-
tables are imported by nearly every steamer and,
altogether, the living cost is higher in Hobart than
in any other Australian port. Also, wages are
wretched. Man, horse and drav, ss. a day; top
wages for laborers, ss. per day. Benevolent Society
relieving over 1000 persons every week !


Rev. Wesleyan missionary Brown couldn’t
get passage from New Britaih to Noumea ih the
Wars nib Eure, because French naval regulations
preclude the carrying of arty clergymen except
priests. The logical Frenchman again. “ Better
the devil you know than the devil you don’t 1 ”
ft. Bell and Co., Ltd., the original
patentees of Vestas, hold the distinction of not
Competing with cheap fOreigri made goodsOf much
inferior quality. That Bell’s Vestas are British
Vestas-, and that Bell’s Vestas are the best, are
two facts which householders should print upoh
their memory.*
Barori Ardilauri is tipped as the somewhat
uneasy Gov. Hampderi’s successor. This should
be as good an advt. for Guinness’s stout as Bux-
ton’s appointment for the famous beer. Ardi-
laun, or Guinness (the proper name is Maginnis),
traces his pedigree to the Plantagenets, though no
one knew it till his father restored a Dublin
Cathedral with money made out of stout. The
present Baron is of fair repute, on the shady side
of 50, and a sound old Tory. The Guinness
brewery, by the way, floated for six millions some
years ago, and hugely over-subscribed, has just
paid 18 per cent, for the year ; it has now a reserve
of over a million sterling.
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S PENS.
The WAverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Ten, instead of a Quill.
The ElVing J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold every where. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
, Geography as she is knowed ! “The
Belgian South Pole expedition,” writes Melb.
Argus London correspondent, “ will sail from
Brussels at end of August.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
Jones and Co., of 316 George-street, Syd-
ney, announce that they are specially anxious to
get rid of stock owing to alterations in their
premises, and accordingly they are casting it on
the market with both hands at from 10 to 25 per
cent, discount. Anyone who wants jewellery at
bed-rock prices is hereby referred to Jones.*
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
Writes : “I have bo scheme to extort money from
abyonc whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind • but,
thank heaven, I ain now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
Ctire known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
Outside suburban hotel ; Chinese to gene-
ral servant, &o.: “You buyee vegetable, missee?”
“Are they good, John?” “Welly good. You
likee apple?” “ Yes, please, John.” “You come
see me in garden, me givee you better fluitee,
tnissee;”
A REMARKABLE
. . CASE.
New Brighton Hotel, Corso, Manly, September 7,
Dear Sir, —Having been seized with rheuma-
tism in every limb and joint, and swollen in every
part, I lay helpless in bed suffering agonies. No
bhe caii imagine my condition. A friend advised
me to see you, and, although it took a little time,
I really must acknowledge the wonderful skill,
patience, and extreme attention exhibited by you
toward me. To-day lam well, and have been for
some tirneTpast, and it is with full confidence that
I Would recommend rheumatic sufferers to take
ad vantage of your treatment. Being a well-known
identity over these colonies, I will gladly see or
reply to any inquiries. (Signed) WILLIAM
HORROLL, Proprietor. To Mr. Arthur Mal-
colm, Rh umatic Expert, 169 Gra'fton-street,
Woolahra.
Mr. Malcolm’s special treatment is based on
an entirely new system, adopted by him after
years of careful study. The treatment pre-
scribed lias never yet been appromhed, and it is
in the most severe forms of the complaint that his
success is greatest. Furthermore, patients can be
as well treated in their own homes by postal in-
structions as by personal interview. Where the
case is chronic and special attention is necessary,
c ull particulars must be submitted.
Advice free, either personally or by letter.
Address :
Mr. Arthur Malcolm,
Rheumatic Expert,
169 GRAFTON STREET, WOOLLAHRA,
SYDNEY.
Medicines sent to any part oj the colonies.
Note.—Sciatica and lumbago in their worst
forms not only relieved but permanently cured.
4* 4
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OK
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
Street
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Anti GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Ease. Comfort. Elegance.
Ask your
BOOTMAKER
Foil
FARMER’S PATENT ELEVATORS.
Height increased as desired,
rt. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.), 472 George-
Street, SYDNEY,
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING. WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Musical Comedy,
“Tbe Freocb Maid.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A POSITIVE SENSATION.
OVER TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VISITORS
TO DATE.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 a.m. Onward.
J. MAC MAHON.
pALACE THEATItB, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Most Popular Entertainment in Australia,
The Jtiofjraph Vaudeville Co.
The Very Latest and Most Marvellous Invention.
The Biograph. Lillian Tree. Fannie Wentworth.
Prof. Chas. Morritt. Lillian Morritt. Arthur Sherwin.
Thos. Bergin. Fanny Liddiard.
Prices—3s., 25., & Is. Plan at Paling & Co., George-st.
Matinee Performances, Wednesday and Saturday, at 3.
IPIVOLI THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. CHAS. DILLON Miss DOLLY ELCON
8 - Tl)* SelbiQi Family - 8
ATHAS and COLLINS. FRANK LEON.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Satdrday, at 3 p.m.
IJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Mannging Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
The HAYTOBS- The 3 AVALOS-
The Queen's Jubilee Cinematograph Pictures
WOOTTWELL and LYNEDALE. ALLEN and HART,
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON,
and the Whole Strength of our Double Company.
Prices—2s fid, 2s, Is, & fid. Plan at Allen’s, Collins-street.
Matinee Pei formanees every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m,
why pay 7
FOR A WATCH '
We undertake to GIVE a Silver Watch
of magnificent value, Lady’s or Gentle-
man’s, to every reader of this paper. Our
list price for this watch is 50s. ; but, as
stated above, to readers of this paper
who carry out the conditions below,
TFe Charge Absolutely Nothing *
We are constantly receiving testimonials express-
ing delight and satisfaction at the value we give,
THE ONLY CONDITIONS
we impose are, that you should send us the correct read-
ing of the following Rebus, enclosing stamped addressed
envelope for reply. And that if correct you will purchase
one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains.
REBUS:
A S,L*D S*LV»R W.T.H
I G.*N I GTJ.SS
R*G*T & B.Y A CH**N.
Address : The Manager, The English Watch
& Jewellery Co., No. 9 (2 Floor), Post Office
Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney; or 33 and 35 Old
Exchange, Adelaide.
Amusements.
riHINESS CARNIVAL.
OT A SHOW OF SHOWS!
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 25.
Agricultural Grounda.
700 CHINESE ARRAYED IN GORGEOUS DRESSES.
New Programme.
New Paraphernalia valued at £5OOO.
PROCESSION TWICE THE LENGTH OF THE
PREVIOUS ONE.
A Gorgeous Pageant.
CHINESE LION.
CHINESE UNICORN.
HORNE—4OOO YEARS AGO.
CHINESE BICYCLE RACE.
CHINESE TUG-OF-WAR.
FOOT RACE.
CHINESE KITE FLYING.
£lOO worth of day fireworks will be exploded.
The Carnival will be in aid of the SYDNEY
HOSPITAL, and will be under the management of the
board of Directors of that Institution.
TWO RACES by the N.S.W. CYCLISTS UNION.
Severed Bdnds tv ill Perform .
TRAMS EVERY FEW MINUTES.
ADMISSION Is. ... CHILDREN 6d.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the management of E. G, Cooke & O. M. Welty.
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER of NIGHTS ONLY at 8.15.
The WONDERFUL VERISCOPE REPRODUCTION of the
FITZSIMMONS - CORBETT
Great Boxing Contest for the Championship of the World,
showing every Movement, Incident and Detail as it
actually occurred at Carson City, U.S., on the 17th of
March last.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co., George-street. Prices, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open 7.15. Early door C. 55 (6d extra). Overture at 8.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Messrs. MacMahon.
A NEW DRAMATIC EPOCH.
The New Policy—First-class Dramatic Productions at
Reasonable Prices —an Extraordinary & Absolute Success.
To-night and Every Evening, Robbery
Under Arms, interpreted by Mr. Alfred
Dampier and his Powerful Company.
STARTLING PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, 2s ; Stalls* IS ; Family Circle and Gallery, 6d.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
JJIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Termination TIIOTINTOTf Boom.
THE TOPIC OF THE TOWN.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, for a FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
Pinero’s Charming Comedy-Drama,
“ Sweet Lavender.”
POPULAR PRICES ! Dress circle and reserved stalls,
3s ; stalls, 2s ; family circle, is. No early doors. No extra
fee for booking. Box Plan at Glen's. Doors open at 7.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
LAST NIGHTS OF
Mr. George Rignold’s Dramatic Season.
LAST NIGHT BUT TWO OF
“In the Ranks.”
Attracting Crowded Houses Nightly. Mr. George
Rignold and the Best Dramatic Company in Australia.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d. Is, 6d. Box plan at Allan’s. Day
sales at Bentwitch’s. Doors open at 7 ; Curtain at 7.45.
M. MARCUS, Acting Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE COMEDY SEASON.
First Production in Australia
Of the Refined Farcical Comedy, written by Messrs.
Harry and Edward A. Paulton, entitled
“IKT A. LOCKET.”
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
bhisba-Kte
Saturday Shilling Concerts .
■yuANTED ARTISTS. Lady and Gentleman VOCAL-
ISTS of acknowledged position in Melbourne or
Sydney. Return fare and fee, with opportunity of other
concerts. Letters with full particulars to
WALTER BENTLEY,
Treasury Chambers, Brisbane.
LHTCST NOVCLTY BROOCH,
©
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CogliSb Hall-Marked Gold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Unapproachable Value - £1 Post Free.
New (Sold Scroll Bar Broocb,
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches and Links.
REAL IVORY. QUITE NEW, NOVEL, AND UNIQUE.
Broocb^S.
Silver Mounted ... ... 4/6 each.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Lioks-
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair.
Gold „ 13/6 „
Post Free.
©
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE Our Only Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
WRITE DIRECT to tho Chief Australasian Depot. 484 GeoFge-Street, Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichord, in walnut or ebony—-direct from the makers
at prices that will effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \compared with 1 buying them from dealers.
Tho actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made by the foremost firms in Germany
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is the
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate* and thu3 the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra
long and plated. All
ba.es wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and. accu-
ratb workmanship.
Wi Ires aro two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYONEV.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.-
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, ancl Of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad m walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss v in transit. The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide .celebrity, Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and public instiuitiona BEALE ft CO, LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales
Amnseme ii t.s.
«t Y S H liT R W I N.
Amy Sherwin ! Amy Sherwin I
THE AUSTRALIAN NIGHTINGALE.
CONCERT TOTJr“o7AUSTRALASIA,
Supported by
BARTON McGUCKIN
(The Celebrated English Tenor),
ARTHUR DEANH
(The Well-known Baritone), and
M. SZCZEPANO WSKI
(Pianist and Conductor).
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
OPENING CONCERT, SEPTEMBER 25.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
Opening Concert - - - October 2.
L. G. SHARPE, Manager.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING*.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
SYDNEY.
Commencing Saturday, October 2m
Prof. Nortoo B. &fi>itl>,
Emperor of all Horse Educators.
The Greatest Horse Trainer - -
- - Since the Days of Earey,
WILL HANDLE
Wild, Vicious and Nervous Horses
FREE OF CHARGE.
Prices: Is, 2s, 3s.
Book your horses to be handled by writing tt
Exhibition Building.
NAT BEHREUS, Manager.
Business Announcements.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1806 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4£in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies’
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
drcViflc TGrijcr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicyck-
For LADIES and GENTS.
"pMBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
_ fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider n a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
The iQtcrcbaQgcable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry's Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, STDNEJ
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tile ACME
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
’mporter of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Ligh,tly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co,, Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an < . _
Duplicate parts always in stock. *l*l rERIAL,
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General A gent in Australasia •
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clamncii Strut, SYDNEY.


m
0.
■M
lr
The Hit
..of the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
arc with us,
there is noth-
ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gish system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
docs not brace
up. It builds
1 up. Its benefit
lis lasting. Do
you feel run
down? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills, Mild, but Effective .
FOR SAW-GULLETING, PLANER-KNIFE
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING,
The Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.'s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
3E33NT<3-XKTE!EI3F*.S.
GENERA! MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
*.35 BOURKE ST.. MELBOURNE;
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
PrtiokcQoess
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriaoy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED bv EUCRASY- Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware Ins complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease.
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Gavan Duffy claims that it was he who
first introduced the late Chief Justice Martin to
Edward Butler, his future rival, and to W. B.
Dailey, who was to be Martin’s brother-in-law.
A. certain politician’s weevils are recalled by
recent incidents. In March of last year his firm
had a row about the importation of coriander
seeds condemned by the Health Department as
being full of weevils. The politician protested
that “ as the seed is to be ground up for sale as
curry-powder, no harm is likely to arise from the
presence of weevils.” Melb. Champion (now dead)
immediately quoted three biblical verses on the
subject:—
And the House of Israel called the name thereof manna ;
and it was like coriander seeds, white. —Exodus xvi. 31.
But some of them left it till the morning, and it bred
worms and stank. —Exodus xvi. 20.
And the people went about and gathered it, and ground
it in mills. —Numbers xi. 8.
R. : “Victoria felix! Ballan Shire Coun-
cil invites applications from persons qualified to
act as engineer, rate collector, values’, collector of
statistics, and dog inspector at the huge salary of
£lBO a year, or lls. (id. per week-day. As the
shire contains 3655 q. miles of rough country, this
means keeping two horses at least. It also asks
alternative applications for the post of secretary
and treasurer at ss. L}d. per working day. Mor-
well shire goes even further than Ballan,
wants all the above duties carried out for 1870 a
year, appointee to find himself in every way.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. fid. everywhere.*
Items of evidence as to the “ state of
mind of the deceased ” in a Sale (Vic.) will-case
William Rae deposed that she went about in men’s old
boots, a pair of loggings, and a man’s hat. He had seen
her stripped to the waist in the day-time, arid he had
also seen her on the verandah of her house with only one
garment on. ~ ,
William Tracey, actuary at the Savings Bank, said she
always carried her pass-book under her garments fastened
to a leather belt by tapes. When she came into the bank
she had to lift up her dress some distance to get at the
book. Sometimes she had only a pair of moleskin
trousers under her dress. Richard Ray said he had also
seen the deceased going about the yard very scantily clad.
Possibly the poor old lady was only trying to keep
herself cool. The present writer was once belated
on a bye-road not quite 30 miles from Sydney, on
I a hot summer day, and went over to the only
: house in sight, a God-forsaken wooden structure,
I partly hidden behind some trees, to inquire the
I way. As he got close to it there was a wild burst
of 'laughter, and a girl, apparently in her early
i teens, sprinted round the house chasing another
| girl of about the same age. The front girl had
nothing on except an old bell-topper and an apron.
The second girl was dressed in one brief petticoat.
Both of them left hurriedly with shrieks, and a
wrinkled old lady, who appeared a second after,
remarked that “the girls were just trying to keep
cool.”
Hotels.
ITisitors to -■■=
:
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence =£l per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
I TNI ’ S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
| friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on nrst-
class lines. Good accommodation for travellers.
Medical.
PcafQtSS
the drum
IN POSITION ,
AND HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s COMMON R-S iiei/©£|
SENSE EARDRUMS 51 i
Relieve all conditions of Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill -fails.
The only Scientific Aural Sound Con-
ductor. Safe to wear, comfortable,
invisible, no dangerous wire or metal
attachment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book—Free. J.
Chalmers, 229 Colli ns-street, Melbourne.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOIES ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rp O
ladies of all ages.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may he seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
Sydney, May 19th', 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I trje,d it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which I have avoided. —M.J.R.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST!
PLATYPUS 51 RANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : MsSSTS. ELLIOTT BROS,, Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
'wm
Easy to Make—Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour.
Strengthening, Refreshing and most economical in use.
HUB S marvellous HIIR RESTORER
2*
c/2
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growtli of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
&
rM.
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir, I want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price
If you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers,
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
it is used up.—l remain, Yours faithfully, Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. Gd.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
103 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
the most deuciovs sauce in the WORTH.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d„ I/-, and */- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and EIVERPOOE STREETS, SVDNEY.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
&3S
Perfect in Every Particular.
Tho Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
hand machines
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns.
Catalogues, 3d, ; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics <■
guarantee to thoroughly !'•
Sewing Machines of w
“New Home” Hand Machine
STYLE NO. 14.
£9 98. CASH. £lO 10b. TIME PAYMENT
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected, —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Pood is sold bj
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everyw ere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
r British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STR E E T SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALIHE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
near Bir, — I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I oonsider you are deserving of
success, whioh I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
full y. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The Well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussrn. —Dear
H my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
herVous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. a. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
_ March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
. Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you 'hat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Kennedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. • UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. t eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:- “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others, In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
'ery ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to seeadoctor.
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-otlt his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies,”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussbn. March 16th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
. rlr . CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: Jons Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
’1
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Here Rasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills oured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials,
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
_ „ „ Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894-
Dear Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried ail advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
_. „ JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra-
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that i was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W-
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALEALINE REMEDIES.
a wa r d e d_
Iwo GOLD ~
m
fIEDALS
ANGH'
ALFA LINE PILLS;
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD s* NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. AH advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alt aline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills-For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills-An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys!
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 6s. 6
Alfaline Headache
or all kinds of headache, no
packet.
Tablets —An instant curs
matter how caused. Is. per
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage-This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
.» 2 „ 425.
3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hinu
when ordering one.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERtt RASSMUSSEN'S
REM DIES can only be obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be qiven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE :
547 George Street, Sydney
[nter colonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourko Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W-^-~P erth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lind all’s Chambers. Hannan-st.


uam
Spooler's
RQYALNAVY DRESSIRC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
i: OF M.L OESCRIPIIONS
OtRbC I lONS FOR USE
fflnnrriomriiiiimiiiHiU)lßS3
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
Real German Hollow Ground
lor u^y
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
MAD iN black and ivory handles.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & GO., LONDON- W
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER
cf mwg£
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents aix
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
»BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAH
ft SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Pubications.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
861 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale it Retail Booksellers it Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
WANTED Complete Files Bulletin— lBB4,
1886, 1892. Apply, A. 8., Bulletin
Office.
v.
r
i
2
TV*t
£
mis
rrr^
%
&
;«2,
V
««
=-Ss
sfVVKj
/C
;•#
<%c
Go Nap
on"
‘GUINEA-GOLD
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
Note Oitr Special Price List :
2 Spring- Sulkies, Stick Seat £6 16 0
3 „ Sulkies, Solid Seat, including Silver
Dash Hail and Lamps ... 715 0
3 Spring Stick Sulkies, including Silver Dash
Rail, Splashboards and Lamps .. .. 815 0
Bent-Shaft Sulkies, with Lamps ... ... 11 0 0
Any of the above sulkies painted or varnished, and
trimmed in best rubber duck.
Double-seated Buggies, including Lamps ... £2l 0 0
Abbott Tray Buggies, trimmed in real leather
throughout, as illustrated 25 0 0
Ladies’ Park Phaetons, including Hood and
Lamps 26 10 0
NEW SOUTH WALES CARRIAGE CO.,
Brown Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
pOUQHS, COLDS on the CHEST, BRONCHITIS and
V ASTHMA,
Rapidly Cured by
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty of breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and
irritation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning,
a dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is
certain. .... ,
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, mj r appetite returned, and I was able to get up *, and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful,
and shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —
Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which
was in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not
had the slightest return of it. The Medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
—ALEX. J. ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. : large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Tbc Leadiog Pipe.
(Jbs)
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
The last of six : tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
Medical.
X
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.,
oan be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace: —
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Anns Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me 15 months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nicholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two months.
Acknowledgments.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago and double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery,
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir,—l wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir, —In grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick : —Rheumatism 10 years, years
on crutches, and for two years had not walked at
all; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, .£!.*
IyONDERFUL CURE OF BAD EYES.
To Mrs. J. Kinlock, 54 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Dear Madam, —Words cannot express the thanks and
feelings of gratitude I owe you for the marvellous cure
you have made of my eyes, with the aid of the Dr. De-
Mobray Balsamic Cure. After suffering fifteen years with
Granulations, and for twelve months blind with Ulceration,
your remedy has, after a few months, quite restored my
sight, and the disease has quite disappeared. Your
remedy is simple and wonderful in its effect. I had tried
all the principal doctors in the colony, but without avail.
I am thankful beyond measure, and you have my hearty
permission to make any use you please of this testimonial
and my name in connection with the cure you have
effected with me.—Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH H. BUTLER
(Butler Bros.), Storekeepers, Manly.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/otiS Weakoe&s - - -
AND
Piscase&,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
oy every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
TUase mention this paper when writing.]
Wow Burns Was Dismissed .
Lithe and lusty, clean-limbed, vigorous and
alert, he came downstairs with springing step.
Having explained the object of our mission, he
■milingly said : “ Won’t you take a seat ? Here,
take this one,” and he pushed forward a soft and
padded chair. Noticing that his eyes were on us
as we produced our pencil, we gave expression to
the familiar lines, “ A chiel’s amang you takin
notes, an’ faith he’ll print them.”
“ I’ll be only too happy if he does,” was the
neat response.
But dismissing Bobbie Burns and bardio words,
the reporter had a concise little chat with Mr.
Charles Tate, who is employed as storeman by one
of the big produce firms in Sydney, but whose
address is better known amongst his friends as
“Ithaca Cottage,” Illawarra-road, Marrickville.
“Influenza,” said Mr. Tate, “was the malady
with which I had to struggle. Of course, I didn’t
want to neglect my work, so I went in just as
usual. But I didn’t feel just as usual—not by a
long bit. Prior to this I had never experienced
sickness at any time in my life. I'm naturally
strong and stalwart. But after thirty years’ im-
munity from trouble, influenza gripped me, and it
gripped me pretty tight. Without warning, I
suddenly became ill. I always had a first-class
appetite; it left me altogether. Positively I
could eat nothing at all. Heavy headaches at-
tacked me, and they continued to increase in
violence; a spasm shot across my chest and an
overpowering weight oppressed me there ; I felt a
sickening contraction of the skin and an ominous
gathering of phlegmatic matter that choked free
respiration ; my whole chest, once firm and sound,
Decame sore, tender, and irritable ; I found myself
unable to sleep, whilst on top of all these strange
and unaccountable sensations came a sharp and
persistent cough that sucked up all my strength
and stirred the phlegm, but failed to move it.
Dull, heavy, listless, faint and aching, I went to
work, and got through somehow. How I got
through, and how I felt afterwards, you can
imagine. I—can remember 1
“‘Take half-a-dozen boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People,’ said a friend, ‘ and
you’ll be saved.’
“It was kindly said and kindly meant. The
pills had been spoken highly of before, and I took
I)
“ The advice ?”
4 Yes, and the pills I ”
“ Well ? ”
“ You’ve hit upon it,” he replied, laughing; “ I
did feel 4 well ’ just as soon as I had taken them,
•’m well now, and well I intend to continue.”
“ But how soon did they affect you ? ”
“ After a few boxes had been taken I was,
honestly, completely cured. I kept on taking
them a little longer, just to make doubly sure, but
ihere was no necessity. I was absolutely cured,
elt tip-top, and had bade farewell to influenza and
ts ills. Yes,” he said, deliberatively, “ the
marvel has been quicker than ever I had antici-
>ated.”
“ How did you take them ? ”
“ Oh ! just according to directions.”
“And you’re sure that all your ailments dis-
appeared ? ”
“ Yes,” was the good-humored reply, I m
dead certain of that. Influenza, headache, sleep-
lessness, want of appetite, listlessness, racking
cough, chest-pains, weakness and phlegm all dis-
appeared as if under a magician’s wand. I was
as right, as fresh, as healthy, and as high-spirited
as I ever was in my life.
“ Of course,” he added, conscientiously, “ it’s
only a fair thing that I should tell you this after
the benefits I’ve received. My case may not have
been as severe as some, but, it certainly gave my-
self and my family the greatest anxiety as my
cure gave them the greatest surprise and pleasure.
I give you these particulars exactly as they
occurred, without exaggeration and with truth in
every detail. Nor do I wish it to be exaggerated.
Indeed, there is no necessity ; the cure was a good
one, and speaks for itself. More or better I can-
not say.”
A. handshake. %
A cheery “ Good evening 1 ” >
And we passed out into the street 1
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
eases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, spinal disea.se,
rheumatism, and sciatica; also diseases arising
from impoverished and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general mus-
cular weakness, loss of appetite, pains in the back,
nervous headache, early decay, all forms of female
weakness and hysteria. These pills are not a
purgative. They are genuine only with the full
name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
and are sold by chemists and by Dr. Williams’
Medicine Company, Sydney, who will forward,
post paid, on receipt of stamps or post order, one
box for 2s. 9d., or half a dozen for 15s. 3d. They
are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Have received ex Duke of Sutherland,
Polynesian, Hawke’s Bay, and other
steamers, a further
138 PACKAG ms 130
making 655 Bales and Cases of New
Goods to hand this season.
Newest Fabrics and Latest Styles and
Novelties in all departments.
Finest Assortment and Lowest Prices
in Queensland.
Inspection and Comparison Invited.
Samples, Price Lists, and Fashion Plates
post free on application.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
- supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Pcckham, London, England.
T ■ A -Sents.—ELLioTT Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co •
John Connell & Co., Ltd. UO, >
JXAlKimcesseks anii
To the Trade.
WIUJUKIKS
Just Landed,—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquigno le Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets. Curling Tongs’
Cr.mpmg Iron,, Pinching Irons. Tim Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, & c
• *•"7 ■ 6 en £ a ge men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Pringes a speciality; best manufacture
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. bd. Prmges made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from 5s 6d to 425. each. Wigs, Scaloets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
cr AIG <Sc aitken
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 «£ 682 George Street, Sydney.
&Q . l»fc»a THTjES
Q Ps'b'ty r / /
yjg
f
r
cl?
Gf^OSCB
i a
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official -.“You, are liable to a fine for sm ohina
here.” y
German Tourist: “Zen vy ? You say schmolce signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
fTALES* OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM by
1 Phioe Wabung ; Is. 3d. posted.
iil.ltoiitt
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
I—godalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
{oc3.alla Bacon,
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Sams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
? < f‘ v vr lfc havln ff come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX. STREET, SV’ I)\EV.
SAW MILLING - .
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
?' n<^J^ ccessor i es - Latest improvements
for Last Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
imperial lubricating oils.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
Foe Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St..
Sydney.
—FOR-
INFANTS,
children,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Biet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR NEW
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
«sr
Wound c
(oU6HS (OLPS Iq j
or
/A\ITATI°MS
00 YOU want*
CATALOGUE?
IMPOST FREEvao
W riES ', CLO i K ?- jE^E ‘-LE R YB|RTrfDAy*
WEDDIAIG £ CHRISTEiyIIMG PRESEfJtS
ItNEV/MAM-1755177-ELIZABETri St.
OPPOSITE C:P.O— *
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King' & York sts
Whitehead’s
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Company.
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt'-street.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily
Special \ans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture I >acked J Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Wagons. Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK
A Large Fish of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
America!} Injport Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the heading Warehouses.
David graham g go.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
<a?l7tl?n)CQ’S H —
—H — Soitiogs
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOP
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
(
W p'
, gj> *
SPECIAL
•to
N 8 I.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rmoRQpyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 TEARS T
With an increasing: demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not- we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTICED— Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), <dving
different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
r IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the ■patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
aanriD
AIISV3
TATTOO OTT ■
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blue,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
“TATTOO ■'l® w i°°k T that the words
IAIIOO OIL (Registered Trade Mark) and the
maker s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, are
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oils
are imperfect imitations. b
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney
„ GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaide
Representative : J. 0. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original 1 1 •, •
f?, 111 the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician). b
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
acid fnfhehWH ntS ' Th , ey a J SO deflnite l.v eradicate uric
packetTt T 6 ’/****™*V °n7heZrtT d S™dirfor
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €njbrocatioo
TAn C<. * Ti • t
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
om ffne f of Jomts in MAN and
DJLAOI. As unscrupulous persons are
oflenng injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
ROW’S €fnhrorafri on
Melb. : “Trades’ Hall secretary Murphy’s
‘ History of the Eight Hours’ Movement’ has been
issued in a penny edition. It shows that the real
founder of the Eight Hours in Melbourne was not
James Galloway, as commonly supposed, but
James Stephens. Both were masons. Galloway
was the magnetic orator of the innovation. He
wa f ? years old in 1856, in the early part of
winch year the movement was carried to success.
The inscription on the fine monument to him
in Melbourne cemetery would seem to be mis-
leading, or, at all events, ambiguous, by Murphy’s
account, Yet Stephens was on the spot. Murphy,
seeming to take it for granted that everyone
knows, does not say whether Stephens is
dead or alive. I saw it in print, maybe
two years ago, that Stephens was alive.
He was a Chartist in England, and discharged
from his employment at Windsor Castle for being
S I UC “- Nevertheless, he afterwards wrought on
the Parliament Houses, Westminster, with 200
other Chartists, and, indeed, they could get
none but Chartist masons. When Stephens
came to Melb., the working hours were nominally
10 a day, but really nine and a-half, through two
intervals a quarter of an hour each, being allowed
for Smoko, ’at 11 and 3. In these gaps, Stephens
used to harangue on eight hours. He and Gallo-
way worked the stone-mason-trade up to action.
Most of the contractors met them in a fair spirit,
and Murphy refers in a kindly way to Amess
(afterwards Mayor of Melb.), Linacre, Holtom,
Mitchell (Melbas father), and Cornwell (father of
Madame Midas). Two obstinate contractors were
Cornish, with the job of Parliament House,
and Holmes with that of the Western Market.
However, the others amicably concluded the
night Hours arrangement with the trade. A
meeting m the Queen’s Theatre signalised this
agreement. Ga loway’s speech was electric.
Quickly, a few days afterwards, a procession of
i masons was organised. About 800 formed it.
1 hey marched through the city. An effect of the
walls of Jericho took place, both at the Western
Market and Parliament House. The masons
were all at work at both places. When the pro-
cession passed they threw down their tools and
fell in with it ! Cornish and Holmes only held
out a fortnight. Such was the dashing style
with which Labor went to work in that
rapidity which characterised
all the Labor operations of ’56, the Eight Hours
Union of all the trades was inaugurated.
Other English Chartists rallied around Stephens.
I romment was T. W. Vine, carpenter. He is
well remembered with his striking likeness to
Jirougham, clean-shaven in face, incisive in talk.
His three daughters made that time-honored
banner whmh has been carried in front of the
Melb. Eight Hours’ processions for 41 years, with
its motto— Eight Hours’ Labor, Eight Hours’
Recreation, Eight Hours’Rest.’ The letters are
white, on a blue ground, with red border. Hero
is the explanation : Galloway, who was Scotch,
wanted the flag to be somewhat of a replica of the
Blue Blanket of Edinburgh.’ This was a banner
given to the Guilds in 1482, by James 111,
ot Scotland, and yet preserved. Vine, who was
English, insisted on the red, white and blue. The
motto was taken from a speech by Dr. Embling.
Murphy brings Galloway before the mind’s eye—a
big, jolly, stalwart fellow, with curly brown hair
He also puts in effectively bits out of the speeches
“ Charles Jardine Don, the most famous of the
Melb. masses. In Don’s own words, he used to
pound bluestone by day at the Post Office, and
pound the squatters at night, as a Member of
Parliament. He was a man of culture, and spoke
much as John Burns does nowadays. When an
open-air meeting was held at Williamstown,
by Don pointed across the waters
of Hobson s Bay to the lights of Melbourne,
asking what had made all that ? ‘ Why gentle-
men, labor !’ Then there was noble ’Wilson
Gray, of whom Higinbotham said: ‘He never
compromised with an opinion. I wish I could say
the same of myself.’ Murphy shows how, even as
the masons led to the eight hours of all the trades,
80 , .r i j ei B*ht hours lead to the land convention,
which led to the formation of the corner in the
t , ssem blyt and the ultimate success of the
Liberal party. Of course the victory would have
come about under any circumstances, but these
are the circumstances under which it did come
about.’


SHAKE THE BOTTLE !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
PURITY.
PAPAIN.
There is no
Animal Matter
whatever
in
this
New Sauce,
it being
A Purely Fruit
and
Vegetable
Condiment.
Medical Annual, 1897.
Page 203. *‘ In the treatment of dyspepsia
dependent upon deficient secretion of the
gastric juice, Stewart ‘ Philadelphia Poly-
clinic,’ July, ’96) speaks strongly in favor
of Papain given in a li iuid form. The
results obtained from this artificial digestive
are far more favorable than those which
accrue from the employment of pepsine and
hydrochloric acid.”
This
Most Valuable
Digestive
Ferment
is
The Extract
of the
Paw-Paw Fruit
Juice
(Tropical).
(See British Phar-
macopeia).
FINKLER ON PAPAIN.
After giving the result of a number of experiments, Finkler goes on :—“Papain,
therefore, shows a more energetic peptonising power than pepsine, and especially so when
the proportion of the liquid to the albumen is small— i.e., in the proportion of concentra-
tion in'which food generally exists in the stomach and intestines. The great variability
in the quality of the commercial pepsine (some of which, under the most favorable circum-
stances, do not peptonise more than 20 per cent, of the albumen of the meat) gives Papain
( Paw-Paw ) also the preference, as it is always made of one uniform quality.”
Hunter’s
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
Can now be obtained from the following Wholesale Firms :
John Barlow & Co. - Haymarket, Sydney.
John Connell & Co. - Kent-street „
Dalton Bros. - Pitt-street ~
ALSO AT THE
Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street, Sydney,
AND SHORTLY FROM ALL THE LEADING RETAIL GROCERS.
ZROJLD-
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
Tractio ml,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFETITIO3ST.
WINES The Best ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tlje aQd Largest tyGSic Warcf)o6Se
IN' AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S
George Street,
B'sriSjNrß'X'.
Christchurch (M.L.) Weekly Press, a
vigorous Tory organ in a green cover, furiously
damns the Seddon Government for contriving to
run the post-office at a profit. “The present
Ministry,” wails this voice in pale green, “having
nearly exhausted other means of extracting money
from the public, looks upon the post-office merely
as a huge taxing-machine for the purpose of screw-
ing more revenue out of the colonists.” The same
Tory paper also damns the Government for not
making the railways pay, and says it is a stupid
spendthrift organization with neither manners nor
intelligence. So it seems the Tory person is
equally mad over things that pay and things that
don’t.
(Sreat Sale of Jewellery!
In consequence of EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS TO OUR PREMISES, we
are offering the whole of our
- MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF JEWELLERY -
Watches, Clocks, Silverware and Electroplate,
At ENORMOUS REDUCTIONS for CASH.
lO to 20 p.c. off all Jewellery.
10 to 25 „ Watches.
10 to 25 p.c. off all Clocks.
10 to 20 ~ Silverware.
10 to 25 p.c. off all Electroplate.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCK.
T. T. JONES $ SONS, 3'<> George Street, SyONEil-
CIGARS FREE 1
. solomomllL'
5_ i =_ s i_t_fcaap
SLO
Hum
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS EOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobasco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
Adarps Hotel,
PITT ST., SYZDIDTIEY.
AdaipS Cafe, <*eorgc Street.
SPLEN DI D A CCOMMODA TI ON.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
-- , AAA A jAAAAA-
VISITORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CAEE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel. 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
FREE C\GIVRS
3fP!SGE
DROP
Poker MacbiQes.
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES.
WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US
AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGAR&
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS.
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers'
Sundries.
Sole Agent for the “ Victory ” Hairdressing Chair.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, Li
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
<®' Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
oheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HIIMIEKET, SYDNEY.


“ Eucalyptus Oil ” Bosisto, of Melbourne,
has been growing for some time at his Wimmera,
Vic., place a Central-India fodder-plant Tri-
folium Alexandrinum, or “ Bersin clover ”), which
flourishes hugely in rainless country. Baron von
Mueller suggested its trial in dry Australian
country in his wondrously suggestive “Select
Plants.” In the rainless districts of Egypt it gives
three crops a year, running 2ft. high. Scientist
Bosisto is ready to supply gratis seeds for trial in
the backblocks.
One clear-headed individual, at all events,
managed to make a rise at the Tasmania wreck. A
distracted woman remembered at the last moment
that she had left all her jewellery in her cabin,
and rushed back for it, but it was gone—some-
body, with an eye to making a fresh start in life
when he got ashore, had taken the lot. Someone
else rose to the occasion and “ made ” a watch ;
when a half-drowned boat was struggling in the
darkness a passenger passed up his ticker to the
officer who was steering, and someone peacefully
annexed it on the way back. The calmest person
in the half-demented crowd was a Maori, who
came on deck in the ship’s last moments with his
bell topper and black gloves on ; he was among the
saved, and went ashore with the black gloves
rather the worse for salt-water, but still looking
like a fine colored gentleman of the olden time.
Also, the most panic-stricken of the crowd was an
Assyrian, who had to be sat upon and have water
poured over him to prevent him going mad on the
spot.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says :
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Spring BOds BOrst
MARK FOY
A RIOT or LOVELINESS.
TMe.
r -Pj>R&5T
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
fUC oA WErtO£P
by ri)&,
s*zvia\u
t>^oftssio/4
J
WasbiOgtoo H.SoOI &Co.,m’sp.s.
CAN sell all varied stocks cheaper than most folk.
Cltiv 1 AT l\ LY BECAUSE they have a large connection,
are long established,
are thoroughly reliable,
and their goods are at all times the BEST.
spareSTtoni™s. “ r C«r i 8 “ beau Meal article -
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2s. 3d.
DENIA.ROMA for the TEETH and BREATH, Is. 6d. per bottle
Dr. ERASMUS WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, Is. COUGH LINCTUS, Is.
Trusses, Surgical Fan lages, etc., a Speciality.
• . Hard Times do not count with us. We run no half premises. . .
You will find us at
158, 160 and 268 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Church and Phillip Streets, Parramatta.
Write to us for quotations.
Tales of tlie Austral Tropics.
In Praise of Humbug.
[FOR THE BULLSTIN.]
Hail, Humbug, hail! Sky-pilots, politicians,
And Fatted Fools who bask in high positions,
Kings, Kaisers, Queens, and Quacks bow down
before thee,
While courtiers all in concert sweet adore thee ;
Great backer of the brainless ! Friend of Fools !
Thy lore outweighs the learning of the schools ;
To thousands living thou art daily bread,
And fulsome epitaph to thousands dead.
Hail, Humbug, Hail!
Hail, Humbug, hail! Great Manager of Marriage,
Thou mak’st the coquette trip with modest car-
riage,
Thou givest ancient maids their arts so simple,
Their youthful locks, rose cheeks, and charming
dimple
Fair as the foliage on the verdant myrtle ;
Thy votaries shine with wine and festive turtle,
And, when they turn the scale at twenty stone,
Preach loudly “ Abstinence ! ” with pious groan.
Hail, Humbug, Hail!
Hail, Humbug, hail ! From half-a-million
churches,
From wheresoe’er a pallid parson perches,
From hustings, public platform, palace, gaol
The paean swells and surges, “ Humbug, Hail
Thy temple shines on Quackery’s sacred hill;
Thou sanetifiest bolus, sermon, pill,
The sweetest strumpet thou —the blandest belle
That ever strewed with flowers the path to hell.
Hail, Humbug, Hail !
Hail, Humbug, hail ! Thou crocodilean weeper
Thou crafty politician’s conscience keeper i
Thou lawyer’s lamp! Thou pure perennial
fountain
Of onion-gotten tears ! Thou lying mountain I
To thee, great president of “ boiling pots ”
Bow vicious, virtuous, sober men and sots;
Thy boots we kiss, regardless where they’ve trod,
And hail thee King and Christ and Lord and God!
Q.
Hail, Humbug, Hail !
P. LUFTIG.
Kobar : “Your Hebrew story of ‘ peez-
ness first’ recalls a Scotch yarn. Housewife:
‘ Baker, just look at this loaf, here is a cockroach
in it.’ Baker (a Scotchman) looks accordingly,
and sees a cockroach, but nips same between his
fingers and places it in his mouth, with the
remark: ‘Ye don’t ken a raisin from a cockroach ! ’
The woman is convinced, and continues to deal.”
A number of Q. country postmasters were
lately instructed to examine all the interprovincial
newspapers, and stop delivery of all which they
thought contained indecent advts. As the intelli-
gence and morals of some Q. postmasters are just
what you might expect for .£lOO a year or so, the
result was some sensational stoppages, which
caused great annoyance in Southern Congrega-
tional circles. (This particular religious paper,
being careful to tear out everything which might
bring a blush to the cheek of the Nastynice
family, escaped practically unscathed.) The Bul-
letin hopes that there are not many communities
of alleged white men which would meekly submit
their Sunday’s reading to the censorship of any
illiterate elder with a monkey-shave.
The Squatter ' s Dream.
[FOR THE BULLSTIN.]
The apparently-dying squatter was in a trance,
and his sorrowing relations and friends around his
bedside were sorely afraid that he would never
regain consciousness. After about two hours,
however, his eyes opened, and he looked round
with the pleased smile of a man who finds himself
among congenial surroundings. The doctor looked
puzzled, shook his head, and felt the patient’s
pulse.
“Strange,” he muttered. ‘lt looks like a
change for the better. He may recover, after all.”
The sick man smiled again. “ I feel a good deal
better, doctor,” he said, weakly. “ I’ve just had
an experience.”
“There now,” interrupted the medical man,
soothingly, “ don’t try to say too much. You are
not strong enough to talk.”.
“Oh, I think I shall pull through,” replied the
other, weakly, but confidently. “I’ve just been
to Heaven.”
The faces round the bedside looked blankly at
one another. Clearly, the patient was anything
but in his right mind. He caught the look, and
smiled again.
“ Queer enough place for me to get to,” he said,
** but I’ve been there. Your description the other
day was not very close to the real thing,” he re-
marked to the clergyman.
The latter could not think of anything appro-
priate to say to this, for the sick man spoke with
an air of assured knowledge.
“Not so bad a place at all,” he went on.
‘ Beautiful country. Deep, rich soil. And
grass ! You should see that grass. Water, too,
flowing round everywhere, just like I often said
I’d have fixed things up if I’d had my way.
Cattle and sheep— such, cattle and sheep ! All of
them prize; all rolling fat. The folks told me
that the country carried 50 sheep to the acre
easily.”
Most of the bystanders were pastoralists, and
the clergyman observed that they were listening
with a keener interest than he had ever noticed
them to give to his stories of golden streets and
jasper walls.
“ There were no fences,” went on the sick man,
“at least I didn’t find any. I rode a thousand
miles in a straight line on the run that was given
to me, but I never saw a fence the whole way. I
searched the pasture for three days and couldn’t
find a single Bathurst burr, three-cornered jack,
thistle, or poison-weed of any sort. The only
rabbits, wallabies, and dingoes I saw were stuffed
specimens in a glass case at the homestead. And
you ought to have seen that homestead ! Tennis-
lawn in front, big orchard at the back, beautiful
views. No flies, no mosquitoes, no dust.”
“ Ah ! ” the audience gasped approvingly.
“ You may not believe me,” said the sick man
as he continued, “ but I do assure you that what
I’m going to say is fact. The Govt, didn’t come
round for rent, or taxes of any sort.”
“Ah ! ” The audience sighed as if this was far
too good to be true.
“What’s more, the Govt, didn’t send round
any inspectors, nor experts to show us that wool
grows on sheep, and that pumpkins can be grown
on very rich land if you give them plenty of
attention.”
Another chorus of approval.
“ But ” said the sick man. And he paused
as with the burden of a great disappointment
upon him. The listeners sympathised. They
knew that earthly life was full of “ifs” and
“ buts,” and they felt that some of those incon-
veniences might easily have crept even into the
pleasant paddocks of Heaven.
“ I might have been there yet,” continued the
sick man wistfully, “ but I felt that there was
something wanting. I went about for weeks feel-
ing that something had been left out.”
He looked around him appreciatively at all his
old friends and relations, and they felt a glow of
self-gratification in the thought that in his far-off
Earadise he had not forgotten those among whom
e had lived and worked on earth.
“It seems incredible,” he went on, “but, do
you know, there was not such a thing as a mort-
gage or a drought on the whole property ! ”
Incredulity was clearly marked on every face.
“ No,” he continued. “ And as I couldn’t feel
at home under the circumstances I came back.”
“ Humph 1 ” muttered the doctor, “I’d have
thought you would have been sure of the drought,
at all events.”
Sydney.
ZEF.
“There Are more Things"
[FOR THE BULLSTIN.]
The surgeon took his eye from the microscope and
turned round to his patient. “ I have bad news
to tell you,” he said. “ Will you take a nip
first ? ”
The patient groaned. “No thanks—go ahead.
I know what you’ve got to say.”’
“ The growth is malignant.”
Yes,” said the other; “ I thought that was it.
How—how long have I to——”
“Well,” said the surgeon, “you see, it’s—it’s
pretty close to ”
“ To the artery ? ”
“ ’Um, yes—l’m afraid so.”
“ Oh, damn it, man!—out with the worst! Can
I see another twelve months ? ”
“ Say, rather, nine months, unless you break
your neck in the hunting-field before then.”
“ What’s the *' \st you can promise me? Can
I see another s .1? I have just bought two
hunters.”
“ Well, if you will have it, at the present rate
that artery will be tapped about August.”
“ Not till August! Thank God for that, any-
how ! There is a meet on the 25th July. Come
and dine with me and some of the fellows to-
night.”
“Certainly.”
“ Right oh ! We’ll drink success to hunting—a
good spin, and a kill at the end, eh? Seven-
thirty, at Menzies’.”
* * * *
In the Argus of 30th July appeared the follow-
ing notice in the “ Deaths ” column : “ .—On
the 25th inst., the result of an accident while
hunting, , aged 22.”
N. W.
From Cloncurry. A selector’s horse came
home some few days ago, looking very unwell.
The horse eventually died and was being cut up
to feed the pigs when a small snake crawled out
of its nostril. The horse had evidently irritated
the intruder and lost his life in consequence.
A Yatala (S.A.) girl of 17 committed
suicide by strychnine, the other day, because her
mother wouldn’t let her buy a certain piece of
material for a blouse. If the"draper has much of
that material he should make a good thing out of
it; a blouse which is so lovely that life isn’t worth
having without it should be something beyond the
average. And yet, as likely as not, it was only a
blue horror with white spots on it and a thing iike
a yellow convulsion at intervals.


FOR OFFICE OR BUSINESS WEAR.
r
A Suitable Suit £l.
Come into
HORDERN’S in Pitt Street, and see their
g)
(Economy is Nature's first law).
Sent anywhere for a Pound.
GOULD’S TINY TONICS Again Triumphant!
A LADY IN ERSKINEVILLE (a Sydney Suburb) IS CURED AFTER DOCTORS
AND HOSPITALS HAVE FAILED.
. . Gases Fully Investigated by the Press. . .
A MIRACLE OP MIRACLES.
PHYSICIANS BAFFLED AND HOSPITALS
UNSUCCESSFUL.
Mrs. Messer, of “ Glenbrook,” of No. 6 Union-
street, Erskineville, Sydney, in answer to a
reporter’s inquiry as to her remarkable recovery
from a long and serious illness, said : “I have off
and on been ill for six long years, the last three of
which have proved a terrible experience for one
who loves her home and likes to supervise it. Dur-
ing this latter period severe pains in the temples,
that throbbed in angry tumult through my head,
inflicted awful penalties upon me. Bad head-
aches, acute indigestion, sharp pains in my back
and between the shoulder-blades, also distressed
me, but my most serious suffering was chronic in-
fluenza, which attacked me in virulent forms, both
in summer and winter, during the whole six years
of which I’ve spoken. The influenza and the indi-
gestion, together with pains and aches in various
parts of the body, were quite enough to prostrate an
ordinary woman, and at times I was compelled to
take to my bed for three days running. But I
fretted at being away from household duties, and
always tried to rise. I used, however, to be quite
unable to see the whole day out, and would have
rests of an hour each all through the day, so that
I could gather a little energy, and keep on as well
as was allowed me. I also suffered agonies from
mind, and although at times harassed with a
yearning craving for some particular food, when-
ever it was obtained for me I turned from it, and
could not eat it at all. What I did eat was very
little, and of the lightest; but no matter how
little or how light it was, I was unable to digest
it, and suffered indescribable internal torture after
each morsel. I continually had a horrid, sick
taste in my mouth, and sometimes could not tell
what food I was eating. Insomnia bothered me
also, and I’ve often been the whole night tossing
and rolling about on the bed, and thinking, with-
out ever being able to get a wink of sleep. This,
in the hot summer months, was particularly
weakening and disastrous. Thus I became so
ill that I went for a course of outdoor treat-
ment at the Prince Alfred Hospital. Here I
was treated for acute indigestion and severe
headaches, but never a bit of good did the
medicines do me, although I took them reli-
giously. Then I consulted my doctor—a well-
known physician in Erskiueville —and so seri-
ously did he regard my case that at the
beginning of this winter just passed he said to
me: 1 Mrs. Messer, you’re suffer ng from chronic
influenza. It’s no good for you to take medicine.
A change of air is the only thing that will benefit
you, and if you don’t go away you will never get
through the winter.’ But I have lived through
it! ” the lady remarked, with a smile, to the re-
porter, who was carefully taking a record of her
remarks ; “ and I hope to live through many more
winters yet,” she continued. “How did you
cheat the medical faculty ? ” he inquired. “Well,
one day,” was the answer, “ I read an advertise-
ment recommending Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills for cases somewhat similar to mine. I
thought over the matter, and concluded to try
them, and that’s the reason you are here to-day.
After a few doses of the x>ills I was surprised to
find my appetite improving. This went on, and
now to-day 1 have a first-class healthy appetite.
Then my condition improved altogether, my
spirits rose, my strength increased, and all the
pains from indigestion, and all the pains from
influenza slowly left me. Sleep came to my aid,
brightness to my eyes, and agility to my step.
Not even the headaches remained, and with every
trace of influenza and indigestion, and their
attendant maladies gone from my system, I felt a.
new woman revived with a new body. Gould’s
Tiny Tonic Liver Pills worked this marvellous
change, and worked it entirely, for I used no
other remedy. My husband and family and my
friends were not less astonished than myself at
this most unprecedented recovery, and their
delight and mine knew no bounds. With all
pains, faintness, and despondency gone, I look
forward to a long and happy life.” “Have you any
objections,” the reporter asked, “to these facts
being published, Mrs. Messer?” “None at all,”
she replied, with emphasis, “for with me it is a
matter of duty. I honestly feel that I have a right
to tell my case for the benefit of others who may
be suffering the same as I did.”
Mrs. Messer’s case is one of many, and it
honestly deserves that sensible consideration which
afflicted persons bring to bear on matters which
affect themselves. For ever hundred persons who
decide to give Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills a
fair and impartial trial we guarantee ninety-nine
recoveries, with full assurance that our guarantee
will be established.
INFLUENZA.
Few people escape this terrible pestilence of the
nineteenth century, which sweeps over Australia
periodically. Some escape, but they are usually
the people who escape eyerything because they
are healthy. It is within the power of most
everyone to become the same. If you do become
a victim we would advise the following course :
For ordinary cases take Gould’s Tiny Tonic
Liver Pills as directed, and at the same time
bathe the feet well in hot water on going to bed.
If the case is very bad, the patient should remain
in bed, eating only light food and sleeping as
much as possible, taking at the same time small
does of Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills to keep the
bowels open.
WOMAN’S* POWER.
IT SHAPES THE DESTINIES OF MEN
AND NATIONS.
WHERE MEN ARE AT A DISADVANTAGE,
AND “ONLY A WOMAN CAN UNDER-
STAND A WOMAN’S ILLS.”
Woman’s beauty, love, and devotion rule the
world. Grand women, strong, mentally, morally,
and physically, whose ambition and magnetic in-
fluence urge men to deeds of grandeur and hero-
ism. Such women are all powerful. Weakly,
sickly, ailing women have little ambition ; their
own troubles occupy their thoughts, and their one
object is to get well.
f
They have no confidence in themselves, and onh
too often lose faith in their physicians.
Women who suffer pain periodi ady can find re
lief and emancipation from their trouble if they
wish. No woman has the right to be a helpless,
sick, nervous, fretful burden to her husband. If
she is, it is due to her own ignorance or neglect.
If she will take proper care of herself, and look
after the health of the delicate organs that are the
most important parts of her physical make-up, she
will soon be a healthy, amiable helpmate, instead
of a burden to the partner of her joys and sorrows.
To all women who suffer from irregularities, bear-
ing-down pains, nervousness, headache, “ blues,”
distate for society, sounds in ears, palpitation,
emaciation, heavy eyes, “ all gone ” feeling, dread
of impending evil, sleeplessness, etc., we would
highly recommend Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills,
WHITE-FACED GIRLS.
Girls who have a white, pasty skin, and are
troubled with dizziness, buzzing in the head, loss
of appetite, &c. (as so many girls are in this coun-
try. from 15 to 21 years of age), will find a cure in
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS,
which, if taken regularly for a few weeks, will
carry off all the waste matter from the system,
and instead of a couple of days every month being
spent in misery, happiness and health will be
restored, and the cheeks will regain their healthy
colour.
OULD
IK
ONI
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver
Pills for Influenza, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, F ullness
after Eating, Sour Stomach,
Piles, Loss of Appetite, and
Heart Palpitation, Liver
Troubles, Constipation,
Kidney Complaints are an
undoubted specific. Pale
and sallow faces, pimples,
and face Sores, female
irregularities, general weak-
ness, lame back, lack of
energy and ambition, &c.,
&c., will also become things
of the past after they are
used. i
To obtain Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills, go to
your nearest Chemist or
Storekeeper, or apply to the
Australian Branch of the E.
A. Gould, Sous and Co.,
Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney,
who will forward, postpaid,
on receipt of price in stamps
or Post Order, one bottle
for 2s. 6d., or half a dozer
for 13s. 6d.
Darna Crossing.
[FOR THE BULLSTIN.]
In the winds a gum-tree tossing
Twisted branches to and fro
Marks where men may come and go
Through the Darna Crossing,
When the river’s low.
On the banks that hot winds harden
With a chime of purple bells,
Here and there a blossom tells
Of the fated garden
Where Aluna dwells.
Chains of snow have found undoing,
Rocking down the Darna bends,
Dealing death to foes and friends ;
Hark to his rough wooing
As the flood descends !
All in white a dainty maiden,
Waiting there as lovers wait,
Watches him go past the gate
To the brown lips laden
With his fearsome freight.
At the garden reins a rider
On a hardly-ridden steed,
Foam-white shoulder, flanks that bleed ;
Leaps to earth beside her
Courtly in the deed.
Love is a light thing for women,
Love to men is all the world !
Scorn the kissing lips has curled
While the lovelig'.its swim in
Eyes with tears impearled!
Lightest love this maiden’s dower ;
Love was all the world to him.
So she bade him Darna swim.
Just to pluck a flower
For a girlish whim.
Then he answered gently: “Royal
Here has toiled since Dawn’s first kiss,
Now the sun at setting is ;
Well you know me loyal.
Yet I cannot this.”
“Were I man,” said she with scorning,
“ And a love’s wish to fulfil,
Did she ask me ride until
Dawn to-morrow morning,
I would do her will.
“ Must I wait till floods have lowered ?
Is the last of knighthood dead ?
Here between us be it said :
Ere I wed a coward,
I shall never wed.”
Then the hot blood gathered purple
And he took the tiny hand ;
“ Where the wattle blooms we land,
Or where waters hirple—
Love, you understand ! ”
So once more he mounted Royal
And he turned him head to stream,
Where the gold blooms flash and gleam,
Calling, “ Hold me loyal
To my vanished dream ! ”
Down the roaring Darna river
Float the rider and the steed,
Ribboned with the river-weed,
And the brown banks never
Hear them pass, or heed.
Down the foam-whipped Darna river,
Twenty rocking miles or more,
Man and horse are washed ashore
To the one dark lover
Worth the waiting for.
Still the winds of old are tossing
Twisted branches to and fro
Marking yet where men may go
Through the Darna crossing
When the river’s low.
WILL. H. OGILVIK.
The Ashes of a Romance.
[FOR THE BULLSTIN.]
It wa g the loneliest shanty on that long,
lonely journey. The drought had lasted all
tl,rou^h <j he summer, and the rainy season had
come and gone without one fall to moisten tne
cracked ground. Our horses floundered along the
red track, where the dust—a foot deep—hid all
ruts and holes, which were only discovered as the
bump of a wheel jerked us up from our seats, or
the driver’s quick oath followed sharp on a horse’s
stumble. The dust had caked all over the poor
brutes, clinging to their growing winter coats and
it a p. rea t table of vivid green, but now there
w ' as , not a blad ? of grass to break the monotony of
the dreary landscape, and not a tree to cast its thin
shadow on the burnt ground-a dreary expanse
stretching unbroken to the horizon. In places
the red soil grew to dark, and here, as we
drove P ast > we could see th , e thick ’ bubblin £
blackness of those strange mud springs.
We were behind our time, and as we drew near
the shanty we could see the fresh team of five
horses waiting for us. We had a clump of salt-
bush to pass first, with its white crust on leaves
and branches, and then the sunlight on the iron-
roofed cottage flashed into our eyes. It had a
broken fence partly surrounding it, but nothing
grew in the small onc i osure . A cord was stretched
at the back with a few clothes hung up to dry. An
occasional blast of wind carried a red cloud of
dust over all. As we pulled up, the groom slouched
forward to unhook our horses. rhe name of
groom seemed given m irony, for the shaggy five
that awaited us could have known no grooming
for many a long day Very little grooming had
the man himself undergone, either, with his un-
kempt beard, and clothes hanging loosely on his
bent shoulders and shrunken limbs. He watched
me pretty narrowly as I got down from the dusty
coach to lean on the fence while I cut up my
tobacco. There was something in those furtive
looks that made me pause, with pipe half-
filled, and take a good look at the man. Surely
t h ere was something dimly familiar in the tall,
loosely-knit figure, something that recalled a time
when rheumatism had not bent the shoulders.
Behind the thickened features I seemed to see a
clear-cut face that once was handsome, and
beneath the beard a small boyish moustache.
Then I started forward and caught him by the
arm. My God, Carlton . 1 said, is it you .
* * * *
When our old general came back to India,
after his long leave in England, and astonished us
all by appearing with a beautiful young wife, o
course there were not wanting people at tne ni -
station to prophesy how it would end. rie
was not a popular man. He was a can-
tankerous brute to us youngsters, and, tnoug
he was a great “ladies’ man,” we at the station
had been wont to laugh at his efforts to captivate
the fair sex. But now we felt that we could laugh
no longer. She almost took my breath away when
I first saw her, with her warm beauty, the full
round curves of her, and her red lips. 1 pitied
her from the first, but with some indignation m
my pity that a woman, who could have won a hot
voung fervor of devotion, should join herself to a
worn-out rake. I feared the time when she
should find out her mistake—and that night,
Carlton, my fellow-subaltern and chum, burst into
my quarter, shaking all oyer as with ague, and
told me, his voice broken with sobs, that this was
the girl he had so often raved of to me, that it was
she he had worked and saved for, that it was her
letters that every month or so had sent him into
a rush of tempestuous spirits. When 1 heard
the boy’s voice tremble as he told of the tears m
her eyes when she recognised him, and grow wild
as he cursed the man who married her and swore
to murder him or put a bullet in his own head, I
felt that the scandal-talkers were more prophetic
than they imagined, and that coming tragedy had
already cast its shadow over us. It was worse
still after the first dance. Carlton would go, m
spite of my efforts to dissuade him, and of course
they had an interview and perilous explanations.
It was the old hackneyed story that she told him,
of worldly relations urging a match, of an unhappy
home, and all the rest of it.
Jove ! what a night that was, that night of our
regimental dance ! On the darkness of the veran-
dah, dimly-lighted here and there by colored-
paper lanterns, the night air gently rustled the
leaves of the great trumpet-flower that climbed the
posts, and breathed the soft hum of insect life.
There was a spangled starry sky outside with the
tall palms waving against it. The music of the
band, the softness of a girl’s warm arm, and the
fragrance of her breath were intoxicating tousyoung
fellows who had been stewing in purgatory, and
little time had I to think of Carlton, though I once
caught a glimpse of him as he went along the
verandah, and the gleam of a white satin dress.
It was Carlton’s hour, for gout had kept the
General a prisoner at home.
The great unrest of an Indian night was around
us. There was a clash of monotonous music from
the village and the dirge-like sound of tuneless
singing. The music and clash of tomtoms grew
nearer, and lights flashed along the road. A pro-
cession of natives came past dancing and waving
their arms, some carrying torches and others
brightly-colored lamps. The lights blazed on the
small-humped bullocks, and on the waggon they
drew, on which a high, gaudily-painted throne
was built, and there, perched far above the sur-
rounding crowd, sat two tiny children wrapped in
gorgeous silk and embroideries and bedecked
with shining tinsel ornaments that weighed down
their small shoulders. They clung nervously to
each other and to the gilded sides of their throne
as it swayed from side to side. This was their
bridal procession. It was a weird scene with its
medley of blazing color, gesticulating figures, and
loud, clashing noises, with the children’s frightened
faces above all.
“ Marriages are made in Heaven, aren’t they,
old fellow ? ” said Carlton’s voice at my elbow,
with a note of cynicism in it that was new. We
stood on the verandah-steps to watch the proces-
sion out of sight. I half turned as he spoke to
make some reply, when I saw the light from the
open door shining on the girl’s face that looked up
into his, and my words died away as I noticed its
ghastly pallor and trembling white lips. She
drew her cloak round her, but her hand shook and
could not fasten the clasp. Then she suddenly
turned to me, “ Please take me to my carriage,'’'
she said, “lam so tired.” She spoke no word as
we threaded our way through the guests, only now
and then her hand tightened involuntarily on my
arm. “Good night,” I saidas I closed her car-
riage door, but the only sound that came back to
me was a stifled sob. *
Carlton came down to my quarters that night.
He laughed and talked so loudly that I thought
he had been drinking. “You’d better turn in,
old fellow,” I said, but as he stood there with his
flushed face and heated eyes another idea came to
me. I caught him by the shoulder as he was
going. “Carlton, old man,” I said, “for God’s
sake don’t be a damned fool.” He laughed as he
shook off my hand, and his noisy song echoed
with the banging of my door.
Next day even the most inveterate gossip had
subject enough for talk, for two people were miss-
ing from the station, and these two were the
General’s bride and a junior subaltern.
* * * •
These scenes passed one by one before my
mental sight, and then I opened my eyes to the
dreary track, the broken fence whereon I leaned,
and the shabby, worn-out groom at my side, I
turned and glanced at the shanty with its iron
roof reddened with dust, and curved in at one
corner over a broken verandah-post. A woman
crossed the yard and went through the open door.
She had taken some clothes from the line, and
they hung from her arrn. She wore no hat, aild
the breeze caught and blew her grey-streaked hair
in wisps across her face and loosened the unbecom-
ing knot in which it was twisted. A loose,
draggled gown hung over her shapeless figure.
Carlton followed my gaze and laughed shortly.
“ Yes,” he said, “ she is here with me. Perhaps
you don’t recognise her.”
MAMOOS[?].
Creepy Sydney D.T. “ ad. ” ;
mo Masonic Lodges.—For Sale, Adult Human
Skeleton with case.
Can this be bony-fide? .
Newspaper proprietors have, when threat-
ened with actions for libel, almost invariably re-
fused to give up the name of the contributor of the
alleged libellous matter, yet it has always been
considered doubtful how far they were justified in
their refusal. Now, however, the question may
be considered settled. The English Court of
Appeal lately set aside a discovery-order, by
which the defendants in a libel-suit were, directed
to allow the plaintiffs to inspect the MS. of the
article complained of, the court holding that the
defendants ought not to be compelled to disclose
the name of the writer of the libel.


SALT RHEUM CURED,
Blood Purified.
Mrs. Mary Thomson, of Carlton (Melbourne), Tells the
Story of Her Daughter’s Sufferings, and of the Great
Blessing Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Was to Her.
1
<7f/
m
mr
r
m
.49*
iv«>
R 3
B
W
&
‘‘For three years my daughter Edith suffered terribly with Salt-Rheum,
which affected chiefly her hands, and for nearly six months at a time she
was constantly compelled to wear gloves, Her hands were covered with
blisters, full of a watery substance; the skin would often peel off, and the
itching and burning were intense. I paid doctors’ bills without number
and bought medicines of all kind; but all failed to give relief until I tried
AYER S SARSAPARILLA. After using this medicine a short time an
improvement was manifest, and my daughter took in all ten bottles,—
continuing it even after all signs of her affliction had disappeared. The
Sarsaparilla purified her blood, radically curing the disease, and we are
most thankful for this great blessing.”
Be sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
The wonderful success of this great blood purifier has led to numerous
imitations. The name-Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-i s prominent on the wrapper
and is blown m the glass of each bottle. Refuse all substitutes.
Freoared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co.. Dowell. Mass., U. S. A.
EMPIRE -=- HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Centrally Situated.
Terms:
/ From 10s. per Day, and
1 &2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
HOTEL . .
VICTORIA #
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES - - Proprietor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
<§hoice gree Luncheon from 11 a.m.
Yisit Jack and see for yourselves.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
mmn
THe GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.Q.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
„ OPPOSITE G.P.O
B STOYB,
Managbr.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
jgpOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEOR G E HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
Flinders-st., Townsville. 1
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
mOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Townsville 2 COnductin S the
TrftvpiiT AT, TV RSALL ’ S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position-
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established
... ‘DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South -fcsx'Aslfcija, ia.es
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST
RAILWAY STATION).
Ii? tbcS* Pays of High PrcSSCir*
When the incessant grind, necessary for a decent existence, is severe
enough to knock vital sparks out of the constitutions of the best of us
who shall deny that they are wise in their generation who, without
waiting for a danger - signal, appeal periodically to some proved
medicine which can be implicitly trusted to cleanse and reno-
vate the marvellous mechanism of the human system ?
At no time since the days of Adam have bread-
winners, whether man or woman, stood in such
pressing need as they do nowadays of a sure,
convenient, and, at the same time, perfectly
harmless antidote against brain fag, irri-
tability, and drooping spirits. Well,
to balance the bitters, you will
generally, even in this hard
world, find the genuine
sweets somewhere,
and undoubtedly
it is just here
where
w
V
►
come cheer-
fully and cheaply, to
the rescue. A remedy
always pleasantly speedy
—for we have no time to rest
by the way certain in its curative
power, safe and gentle in its action, and
permanent in its results, is it any wonder that
Beecham’s Pills have found, and are ever find-
ing, their way into the waistcoat pocket of every wise
man and into the cupboards of every thoughtful woman—
maid or matron ? Beecham’s Pills have long been prized for
their distinct virtue of pleasingly appealing to the brain vid the
stomach, and by dispersing all' “ cobwebs,” at once fitting us to face
the struggle of modern life. Vast numbers owe their good health to
Beecham’s Pills— nay, more, we repeat the old, bold, but honest statement
that Beecham’s Pills save thousands of lives yearly. Therefore, we con-
sider the forcible assertion that first caught your eye on this page to be the
plain truth, viz.: that “in these days of high pressure ” Beecliam’s Pills
Are ai? Absolute Necessity.
ftOOK OF aATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVIN&S.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, complete idition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kod», post free, Is 3d.
komancb of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Merhik England, by post 61.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Bb, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou's Harem, post, free Is 6d.’
Short Stories ok Love and Frol'C, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the trench, 422 pages. Full-page illustrations by
Gustave Dor<s. 2s 6d. *
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in Frenchl/Assassinvt ; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chenier ; Is 6d each post free, or 3 for 4s.
1 he Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post. free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private hook. Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new' work, contain-
tng all tlie trteks and dec pt.ions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d. ’ F
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is : post. Is 4d.
The Wife's Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Pos' free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new w ork, Is, post free.
ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Book Oepot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
— *♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d-


«54
‘Dubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
r-THE-'
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- he»
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiDgtoi) P6(i)pii>g Epgiije Conjpapy.
(Australasian Branch.) SimpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
WORTHING! ON
32 Clarence-
TRADE MARK.
•ydney, X.S.TT.
REGULAR PATTERN.
-A.gen.cies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St, Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND :
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINCrTOM Pumps for all Services
IsC'or>-fc Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
I*? - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S RILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfor»-st., London. fW"’ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N OTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King 1 Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Ag enta H. PATESON, MANAGER.
■'-s'.;
/
W 0
*■ ■J*"'
FOR THREADING PIPE.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY
STOCK.
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
THE
OSTER PDTEDT RD3USTHBEE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With. Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes of pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - - ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHIN ES.
CHASTITCH
Baking Powder
V INSOLVENT ESTATE Y
—OF—
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GTJNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
i Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut stock, double grip, box spring' triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
±lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
leach
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual priced-21, reduced£7los ea complete
8 Single-barrel Breech-ioading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip snap action
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s 6d each, complete. ’
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced t'4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price £l5
reduced £5 5s each.
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies, A Fair Trial given with every gun.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
' * INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoOQiDgtoo’& Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.
