

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Louis Roederers Champagne,
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.” i
LANCET.
•*
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— _
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Smoke
TWO SEAS
Tobacco.
Smoke
TWO SEAS
Tobacco.
tr,
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
o Aj
&
<RAcaArocK>
c» * ou
I %
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
IN N.S.SjV, & QUEENSLAND.
ROBERTS’ Wioe & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (next GEORGE STREET).
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
RUIN ART’S CHAMPAGNE (“recommended”), Quarts 10s., Pints ss.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
A Splendid. Lunch for is. 6d.
Bed and Breakfast, 5/-; Board and Residence 10/-per day.
Before vijiting the Gty writer (he Manager for
<sra cf Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,.
BRISBAKTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage .
WILLIAM PETEBMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
THE
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
B
est
icycle
uilt
THE
.
A-rv?
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sydney.
Depots-
(■MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
[WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
THE
OUBA.FBST &: H33E3ST
FOR ALL KINDS OF
STRIPPERS
AND
. . Harvesting Machinery.
Specially Made and Waterproof.
Width 2i 3 3£ 4 4i 5 6 in.
Price: 9d. 10jd. 1/- 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/11 per ft.
Raw Hide Laces and all kinds of Fasteners in stock.
Correspondence invited. Price Lists mailed free.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence ill per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
UK I,BOURNE.
Good accommodation lor Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
THE
PITT and HUNT
STREETS,
JNTER
S,
EMPIRE
SYDNEY. HOTEL
First-Class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. Write for Terms.
HOBART.
—
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
xL Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Established over 20 Years.
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to all
parts of the World.
The CHEQUE BANK
System is the most
practicable and Con-
venient method for
conveying and dis-
bursing money. in
any sums, however
large or small.
FROSSARP’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
Ladies travelling alone will And the CHEQUE BANK
System an almost invaluable aid in solving the vexed
question of how to take care of money in travelling. It
saves time and the various annoyances which the changing
of money in foreign countries naturally brings up.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than ordinary
Money Orders for remittance of money to all parts of the
world. Cheques posted to any part o? Australasia.
Handbooks and all information oa application. *
James Malcolm.
GENERAL AGENT.
Sydney Agency:
135 PITA- STREET (near G.P.0.).
The Bulletin
Yoi 18.—No. 893. j
[Saturday, March 27, 1897.
Registered at the General Poßt Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Publications-
Good “bulletin” stories.
JUST PUBLISHED.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S YARNS.
Price, 1/6; post free, 1/9.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO., SYDNEY.
Australian books post-free from Thh BuMJirai
office for stamps or postal notes of any province:—
“Banjo’s” poems, ss. 4d. ; Lawson’s poems, ss. 6d.;
Lawson’s prose stories and sketches, ss. 6d. ; Beoke’g
"By Reef and Palm,” Is. 9d. and 2s. 3d.; Beoke»
“ Ebbinf? of the Tide,” 3s. and 4s. ; Louise Mack’s "The
World is Round, 9d. and Is. 3d. ; Jephcott’s Poems, 3s.
9d. ; Essex Evans’s, 3s. 9d. ; Francis Kenna’s, 2s. 9d. ;
Ethel Turner’s “Seven Little Australians,” “Family at
Misrule,” “ Story of a Baby,” “ Little Larrikin,” 3s. ea«h
Life is n>ad€ (ip of Trifles.
Trifles which make just the difference between comfort and discomfort. An iced drink, a cold bath, a well-cooked
dinner, a good novel, or a cigarette, which we cannot get just when we want them. All trifles in themselves, but all
capable of turning the temper sour and producing irritability—and a “ liver.” What slaves we are, after all, to
trifles : crying like children for the moon, and settling down to peaceful contentment because we have got just exactlv
what we wanted—no more, no less. It was only a cigarette—but it was a sine qud non that it should be a
CAMEO. Some people would scarcely enjoy life at all, if it were not for
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
THE RED PAGE.
THE FLIGHT OF THE GODDESS
A man should live In a garret aloof,
And have few friends, and go poorly clad,
With an old hat stopping the chink In the roof,
To keep the Goddess constant and glad.
Of old when I walked on a rugged way,
And gave much work for but little bread,
The Goddess, with me night and day,
Sat at my table, haunted my bed.
She narrow, mean attic, I see it now 1—
Its window o’erlooking the city’s tiles,
The sunset’s fires, and the cloud of snow,
And the river wandering miles and miles.
lust one pioture hung in the room,
The saddest story that Art can tell—
Dante and Virgil in lurid gloom
Watohing the Lovers float through Hell.
Wretched enough was I sometimes,
Pinched and harassed by vain desires ;
But thicker than clover sprung the rhymes
As I dwelt like a sparrow among the spires.
Midnight filled my slumbers with song;
Music haunted my dreams by day.
Mow I listen, and wait, and long,
But the Delphian airs have died away.
I wonder and wonder bow it befell:
Suddenly I had friends in crowds ;
I bade the housetops a long farewell;
“ Good-bye,” I cried, “ to the stars and clouds;
“ But thou rare soul, thou hast dwelt with me,
Spirit of Poesy 1 thou divine
Breath of the morning, thou shalt be,
Goddess 1 for ever and ever mine.”
And the woman I loved was now my brfd%
And the house I wanted was my own )
I turned to the Goddess satisfied—
But the Goddess had somehow flown I
Flown, and I fear she will never return;
I am muoh too sleek and happy for her,
Whose lovers must hunger, and waste, and burn,
Ere the beautiful heathen heart will stir 1
I oall—but she does not stoop to my cry ;
I wait—but she lingers, and ah 1 so long !
It was not so in the years gone by
When she touched my lips with ohrism of song.
I swear I will get me a garret again,
And adore, like a Parsee, the sunset’s fires,
And lure the Goddess, by vigil and pain,
Up with the sparrows among the spires,
For a man should live in a garret aloof,
And have few friends, and go poorly clad, s ’
With an old hat stopping the ohink in the roof.
To keep tbs Goddess constant and glad.
THOMAS BAILET ALDRICH.
A GOOD idea is introduced by William Areher
in translating Ibsen’s new play, ‘John
Gabriel Borkman.’ When an English writer
wishes to stress a word or a passage, he has prao-
tiealiy only one resource—italics. But italics
aoroam at you—thsy irritate the mind and dis-
figure the page. Often, too, their effect is out of
all proportion to the effect of delioate emphasis
desired in order that readers may at a glance
appreciate the full meaning of a sentence. So the
Germans (and Norwegians, too, it seems) fqr long
have marked a slight stress by putting a small
space between the letters of the emphatic word.
As thus—
Mow advertised that Wm. Gay is about to be married 1
Will these ad-misericordiain appeals never cease?
• • • •
Some one wrote the other day suggesting sar-
oasms about the attempts at grammar and puno-
tuation in the prospectus of The Australian Tech-
nical Journal of Science, Art, and Technology
(mercy on us !), but the game seemed hardly big
enough to waste cartridge on. Now the Journal
itself—the Technical Journal of Tech**’-
ever that may *• * what-
—is to hand ; and it is so
and so pedagoguish, and so abominably
well satisfied with itself that one takes pleasure in
saying money was never thrown away on a heavier
and less interesting publication. (Two or three
artiolea like Owen Blacket’s are insufficient to
modify this judgment.) The corps of Sydney
Technical College instructors who issue it are
doubtless very good souls in their way, and have
much valuable information to impart, but most of
them seem to have as little knowledge how to
use words to convey thoughts as Minister Jacob
Garrard himself. And one is haunted with a
horrible suspicion that grease for Minister Jacob
Garrard will be supplied in next number, as grease
for Minister Joseph Carruthersis supplied in this.
* * • • *
N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette is a much more
creditable official production. The A.G. —partly,
no doubt, because it is given away—penetrates
regularly into country regions whioh rarely see a
metropolitan newspaper. Farmers and selectors,
as a rule, are poor patrons of literature. There is
extant a Sydney bookseller who tells how in
his young days of ideals and enthusiasm he
partly imported, partly oompiled an immense
manual of agriculture specially written rour-rl
Australian conditions of weather and drops,
and humped it laboriously into the back-blocks.
And the representative Australian farmer would
dubiously turn over the pages which showed
him with many illustrations how he could rise
lo fortune in three good seasons, while holding
bis own in the three bad seasons and the three
half-and-half seasons intervening, and would groan
as he olosed the volume that times were too hard
—he really couldn’t afford it. Then, when the
disappointed agent had packed up, and was turn-
ing away to curse the representative Australian
farmer in his incomings and his outgoings, and
his downsittings and his uprisings, and his en-
silage and his fodder and his sheep, the r.A.f.’s
eye would suddenly brighten with an idea, and he
would lean over to whisper hoarsely, ‘ Say, mister,
hain’tyergot hanything blue? What’s thishyer
“Maria the Monk” I hear them talkin’about?
I wouldn’ mind givin’ ten bob for somethin’ real
spicy.’ So the book-man laboriously humped his
ideals and his enthusiasm and his whole art and
praotice of Australian agriculture back to Syd-
ney, and sold them for waste paper; and im-
ported tons of ‘Maria Monk’ and ‘Boccaccio’
and * Plain Blue Talk ’ and the rest; and on his
next visit to the backblocks the representative
Australian farmer would ride forty miles after
him on the chance of securing ‘ one of those books
with pictures of women like yer sold to Bill ’Arris
at the Nine-Mile Scrub.’
» * * *
That bookseller’s experience is another illustra-
tion of the dominance of primitive instincts in the
oountry. The patronage given to Burton’s
‘ Arabian Nights ’ at Sydney Free Public Library
shows the same instincts at play in the city.
Burton’s version of the ‘Nights’ probably con-
tains as much unadorned houri to the square page
as any book with classical pretensions enough to
be kept in a decorous Scotch institution, and day
after day the impecunious Domain deadbeat drops
in to relieve cerebral tension in visions similar to
those of the hysterical religionist who dubs her-
self (like Annie Besant at her passionate age) the
‘bride’ of a sensuously-imaged divinity. [Not
long ago a Methodist class-leader was inveigled
by a party of jokers to the Free Public in
order to read a book which justified the ways of
God to men in a most remarkable manner; and
was solemnly planted in front of a particularly
warm passage of the second volume of Burton.
He read on for a page and a-half, shocked, scan-
dalised, but expectant of some miraculous
moral; and when he reached the end of
the episode, and found it contained abso-
lutely no moral or ‘morals’ whatever, his in-
dignation was tremendous. Slamming the volume
with the slam of an outraged class-leader, he
lifted his hands over his head in the imprecatory
fashion of pictured angels at the bombardment of
Sodom ; yelled ‘ O, that men should imperil their
immortal souls by reading such a book! ’ and
rushed in one furious stride from the accursed
and ill-ventilated chamber. —But this is by the
way.]
• • • •
The primitive instincts play a larger part in
the country than in the cities, for agricultural
bush-environment not only fails, as a rule, to
stimulate the complex tastes which we asso-
ciate with civilised life, but gives no oppor-
tunity for indulging suoh tastes when formed.
And an unexercised ‘taste,’like an unexeroised
limb, quiokly atrophies and becomes useless.
Many of the poorer bush agriculturists are re-
duced by their environment almost to the level
of savages; and their promiscuous relation-
ships shock a city moralist. He calls these
‘ depravity,’ but there is more reason for calling
them ‘necessity.’ The city moralist, if he has not
wine in his cellar, or ale in his cupboard, oertainly
has a public-house at his corner. The ‘ immoral ’
bushman is possibly twenty miles or more from a
public-house—where the liquor is never examined
by a Govt, inspector ; and with maize at a shilling
a bushel he probably doesn’t often visit that pub-
lio-house. The city moralist has schools for his
children, a church for his wife, a theatre for him-
self ; parks to walk in and libraries to read in;
music, and picture-galleries, and pleasant scenery,
and agreeable social intercourse ; a suburban resi-
dence with gas and water laid on, and dainty food,
and a white cloth on his table, and flowers, and
slippers, and sheets, and many of the other things
that help to m&ko life tolerable. The ‘ immoral ’
bushman has none of these, but he has
twenty acres of ‘ clearing ’ studded with ntnumer-
able stumps which he looks forward to digging out
in his spare time —and the average city moralist
would be a raging and blasphemous heathen long
before he had dug out two stumps. Also, the
bushman has a creek half-a-inile away with a
muddy pool and memories of dead bullocks in it,
and he has a bucket in which he painfully carries
water from the creek, and he has tweed trousers
with fifteen seats in them laid one on top of the
other, and boots which he has made of raw calf-
skin, and a hut with a bark roof kept down by
huge stones which bulge it perceptibly and keep
the casual stranger awake at night wondering
when they are going to fall through on top of him.
Further, the bushman has children neatly dressed
in oatmeal-bags, and a horse so thin that he cuts
the harness, and occasionally he takes his gate off
its hinges—if he is rich enough to have agate—and
drives three-inch nails through it, and attaches it
to the thin horse, and starts out to ‘do a bit o’
harrowin’,’ while the oatmeal-bags toddle enthusi-
astically behind. And if you are dining with him
he may offer you some ‘ goanna,’ which he re-
commends as being nice and white, like fish —if it
is a bit tough ; or a little stewed wallaby ; or even
a slice of mutton, if there is a squatter near enough
tru.borrow a sheep from in the evenings. And he
has economical damper as heavy as the puddings
boiled by North Sea fishermen between two dishes
lashed together, so that they may swell in the
stomach and keep you comfortably full for
forty hours at a stretch. And he has heat,
and flies, and scrub—and when he tires of
them be has more heat, and more flies, and more
scrub—and so on to what seems like eternity.
And be has—the creature that he calls his wife.
She is his theatre, his pioture-gallery, his restaur-
ant, his new novel, his pleasant musical evening,
and a lot of other city relaxations—all rolled into
one.
* • • •
The monotonous misery of this picture is
realised to the full—with greater or less variety of
detail—by hundreds of back-blocks families in
New South Wales, in Queensland, and in Vic-
toria—probably in the other Australian provinces
also. The city moralist shudders at the deeds of
a Dederer or a Lyfield. Place city moralists for
ten years in the environment of a Dederer or a
Lyfield, and how many of them would aot differ-
ently ?
' « * » •
A while ago an Australian social reformer,
in great favor with the We-Can-Tame-U’s,
was led to ponder these things [He was the
same social reformer of whom it is told
that after an unprofitable spell at Sunday
oratory he sank lower and lower, until he was
glad to accept the hospitality and share the
hut of a Chinese gardener at Brunswick.
A week later another Champion contributor
met the gardener, and enquired how his colleague
X. was getting on. ‘Oh,’ said Ling Fish, ‘me
only keep him two day—him smell too much.’
And it turned out that X. had been evicted with
contumely—he was too dirty for the Chinaman. —
But this is by the way.] and straight resolved to
exploit the revolution obviously slumbering among
the mallee cockies. But after a fortnight’s mis-
sion and starvation he had not persuaded one
cookie to awake or arise, so returned despondently
to Melbourne and journalism.
• • • *
This social reformer failed in the most impor-
tant article of rhetoric : he did not identify him-
self with his audience—put himself in their place;
he had not learnt the advooate’s rule of giving the
jury not good arguments, sound arguments, bub
arguments that will tell. His comparison of
country misery and city luxury fell flat, for many
of the cookies had forgotten or knew nothing of
such luxury—oould not effectively comprehend it.
To them their own state was the normal state.
That Andy Jones killed a bullock every month,
and Susy Martin had tea twice a day— there, to
the poorer cockie and his wife, was a magnifi-
cence they could understand, an ideal they oould
strive for. But museums, libraries, picture-gal-
leries —of what use were those ?
* * • •
It is exalting, inspiring, to see to what heights
the human mind can rise, to mark how it stretches
and expands till its generalisations reach infinity,
and still hungers onward through the territory of
knowledge unexplored. But it is weird and ter-
rifying to see how the human mind shrivels and
contracts when the sunlight of a stimulating
environment does not call its rootlets out and up.
Now, like the tent in the Arabian tale, it is great
enough to house an army ; anon it is eo small that
the palm of your hand will hide it. Conceivably
a man of middle age, disillusioned of the world,
yet richly endowed with memories of years of
social intercourse and action, might find in the
vast solitudes of the Australian bush, in its splen-
did silences, in its seasonal changes and elemental
strifes, an intellectual stimulant unique in
potency, an intellectual peace in which he could
concentrate and develop the best of himself to an
extent impossible in the hurry and worry
of a city, continually draining nerve-force, as an
octopus-sucker drains blood, from a thousand
tiny pin-pricks. But the ordinary ‘selector,’
uneducated, hardly stirred by refining influences
of arts or letters, with his energy often exhausted
day after day by severe muscular labor, goes into
the bush as into a mental tomb. The loneliness,
the monotony, the round of mean and dispiriting
tasks, the eternal pressure of sordid trifles—these
things poison hope and aspiration at the source.
A bushman kills the snakes on his ‘ selection ’;
but there is a snake which avenges them all—the
‘ selection ’ itself. He may come to it bright in
face and weak in body. His body grows; his
muscles strengthen; his hands are hard and
knotty ; but his face becomes vacant, expression-
less—he is mentally inert. The ‘ selection ’is
twined round his throat, stopping the flow of
blood to his brain. The pressure tightens—
tightens : presently the man is dead. Then, pro-
bably, he puts a piece of crape round his hat.
There are whole bush communities in the N.S.W.
agricultural districts where the male population
wear crape habitually, constantly. It is a trade-
mark, like the butcher’s blue apron. A stranger
asks, surprised, ‘ Has there been an epidemic?’
Not so; these men mourn as by a kind of dumb
instinct. The Bush has strangled their souls.
• * * *
The women do not wear crape in this fashion ?
Why ? Their tragedy is as deep : have they less
imagination to realise it? The daughter of the
squatter, or small stock-raiser, seems for a time
more alive than the son to the palpitations of the
universe. But, as far as the writer’s observation
extends, in the poorer agricultural communities
the women live almost contentedly in their—
well, with the picture of a struggling selector’s
home before you, you might say ‘sty.’ Many
bush women leave the impression it is no
mere legend which declares that, in some neigh-
borhoods, when a stray lover from another dis-
trict woos and wins a girl, she has to be blind-
folded to get her on the train. But the agricul-
tural youth has tor a brief period gleams that
might almost be called poetic. He has even his
* wanderjahre ’ of a month or two in the great
city of his province. Insurance-canvassers or
sewing-machine agents driving along a lonely bush
track to a township not infrequently meet a
lanky, hard-featured, slab-sided son of Australia
returning to his father’s ‘ selection ’ ten or twenty
miles further on. He wears a soft hat, a new slop
suit, and an uncommunicative expression; and says
‘ Good-day !' stolidly, without a hint of the exul.
tation within him. Yet every kookaburra is
chattering of his glory; every wallaby along the
track is an amazed spectator of his prowess ; the
sun glints down through the branches, and the
breeze blows, and the gum-leaves eddy and whirl
—all to swell a triumph greater than Pompey
ever dreamt of. ‘Er hat seine wanderjahre
vollendet ’ —he has completed his travels; and
is returning home with his concertina wrapped in
his spotted handkerchief. To-morrow the news
will fly like lightning round the district—‘ Billy
Smith’s back again ! ’ —and next Sunday after
dinner, with the spotted handkerchief tied gal-
lantly round his neck, he will sit on the big log
near the gate and make music for a mass-levy of
neighbors, while he tells of the adventures that
befell him in the great city. It is quite safe
to wager that at this moment there are pacing
along scores of lonely bush tracks scores of Aus-
tralian youths filled with pride and vain-glory,
and anticipations of how they will ‘ take down *
the boaster who came home last year. And every
one of those youths is tenderly carrying a conoer-
tina wrapped in a spotted handkerchief. Here U
his tribute to Music and Art—his response to the
sweet influences of sound and colour—and here
probably is represented the climax reached by his
aesthetic impulses ere they are stifled in marriage
and the monotony of the bush. What pathos 1
what tragedy !
• * • •
Between isolated Man and Nature in the bush
there is perpetual warfare. You must either
dominate or be dominated. Not one in ten
thousand lonely selectors can avoid being forced
into the familiar agricultural stupor. Australian
shearers, who travel much ; Australian miners,
who often travel more; are frequently compared
with Australian agriculturists in point of intelli-
gence, and to the disadvantage of the agricul-
turists. Put shearers and miners on selections,
give them the same horizon to look at, similar
trees to cut down, and different cows to get out of
the same bog from one year’s end to the other,
and their superior intelligence will evaporate like
morning mist. Of all the cries that are cried to
Australian Governments there is none with, more
force than this : ‘ Help the farmer 1 favor the
selector 1 for Australia’s sake make the cockio’s
life more tolerable! ’ If there are subsidies
going, subsidise his roads and let him brush hk
rust off by friction against his neighbour; if there
are endowments to spare, endow travelling leo-
turers, and teachers, and singers, and reciters,
and strolling players—anything to lift him out
of the slough of mental stagnation. Or a world
of good might be done during Parliamentary
vacations by giving the members monkeys and
organs, and sending them forth to earn their
salaries by brightening dull agricultural evenings
—with proper allowance made to every member
who decided to be his own monkey and save ex-
penses. Eor the men and women who are fight-
ing the Bush need all the help and all the sym-
pathy that the less plucky or more fortunate
inhabitants of the town can give them—pioneers,
as they are, who are fertilising the desert with
their lives.
* * * »
There are sufficient clumsy suggestions of
agricultural apathy scattered over the foregoing
paragraphs to make it pretty clear why that sooial
reformer failed to excite a revolution among the
mallee cockies. Perhaps, if he had taken more
time, he might have achieved better results. Only
very ardent sooial reformers, who have but just
joined the Labor party, expect to do much revolu-
tionising in a fortnight. A whole generation
came between the era of Rousseau and Vol-
taire and the day when Louis Sixteenth’s blood
bubbled under the guillotine. N.S.W. Agricultural
Department—to think that all this sermon has
sprung from the text of the Agricultural Ga-
zette ! —seems content to go slowly. It has
learnt something since the days when it estab-
lished a mulberry farm to oust China from ths
silk market —though neighboring residents to this
day find the worms the best bait to use when they
go eel-fishing. And the Agricultural Gazette,
haying a practical and energetic young Australian
editor, is doing good work in assisting to combat
the farmer’s pests, and vary his crops, and give
him a little science to eke out his ancient rule o’
thumb. Some of its articles appear too technical
and abstruse for the average farming intelligence,
and Bill and Jim have knocked stuffing out of
Dr. Cobb’s views regarding the crow; but, on the
whole, the country seems to be getting good value
for the Government’s moderate expenditure.


Medical.
PERFECT MANHOOD
Health strengths Vigor
TO A RIPE OLD ACE.
Weakness & Disease of Man
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel
a benefit every day ; soon know yourself a
king among men in body, mind and heart.
Every obstacle to a happy life removed.
Nerve force, will, energy, brain power, when
failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strength-
ened and developed.
Sufferers from overwork, ill-health, re-
gain your vigor! Don’t despair, even if in
the last stageB. Don’t be disheartened if
quacfcs have robbed you. Let us show you
medical science and business honor still
The President of the Institute is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New
York Scientific Investigation Society with
their gold medals and orders of merit, and
holds letters of congratulation for the suc-
cess of his scientific discoveriesfrom the lead-
ing practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring medical treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published—Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescrip-
tions, &c., sent free on receipt of address.
A dress the President, or
BEUNWOE, H AMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
IIA FLINDEBS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful parents, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
IQUOR
HABIT
Encrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
John Durant’s SURE CURE
CAPSULES
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or bv post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 GiP.O,, Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The hlood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
i®" MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
( Mumford’s Vivifying Verbal
(Medicated (Nervine genic (gills
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of Uie gr< atest
medicines ever discovered. Suffems say, 1 wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
iLBtructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1875.]
O 6 R* CORD’a
t.l F F* *
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for UGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope .
Agents for Australasia— Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“A BORN PHYSICIAN.”
The Greatest and Most Successful Practitioner in the World.
His mode of Treatment is unfolded in his last work (nearly 100 PAGES). PRICE —Posted, Sealed
£l, including ONE MONTH’S MEDICINE, for any Disease.
■? *'!
iiM- v P
ml
-ft*
mmim
ifcx'vi
V
ISIS
■
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emi-
nence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed in an
acute or chronic case of long standing, where other physicians
have failed. He addresses himself in particular to cases that
have baffled the skill and science of other doctors. His name
is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect cure of every case he
undertakes. Consult him this day. It may save you much
mental and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life.
YOUNG MEN.
You will find this distinguished doctor your best friend
and benefactor. If you are troubled with want of sleep, a
tired gloomy feeling, and loss of energy, which impair both
your body and brain, and absolutely unfit you for study,
business, or the proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering
from these or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before
it is everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat it
with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN.
There are many of you afflicted with weak, aching back
and kidneys, loss of mental and physical power and vigor,
and not unfrequently accompanied by an impairment of the
general health. In justice to this celebrated specialist it can
be truthfully stated that in all such cases of middle-aged
men, as well of young men, his success has been almost
invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female complaints,
liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder, kidney and heart
disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE.
Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double com-
press, price £2. Constitutional or acquired weaknesses
treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering. New edition of my latest work, Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free to men. , . .
N.B. —The only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng, 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this Paper.
MADE A MAN OF ME ♦
One year ago I was a physicial and mental wreck, and had lost all hope
of ever getting cured. Hearing of Dr. Irving s Homeopathic Institute,
I applied there, and am today perfectly cured. —K.T.K.
The Homoeopathic Treatment is a complete cure for Nervousness.
Full particulars of this certain remedy I will send you (free) sealed.
The Homoeopathic Treatment cures in 4 weeks.
Dr. IRVING CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
BNO WEEK.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients ab
137 Elizabeth-sfcreet, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble thab affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, Clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Sr. c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt off 6d. in Stamps He) Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE l’OUNl) is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sib down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
JJ Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions thab will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded thab their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
1 during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Eos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
o«Ylm
Dr. WALLACE, tl 1 e Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure of Nervousness.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from an}% or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply:—Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorstful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-sb., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILY.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
L A 13 I E S !
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that ID**.
Sheer’S invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
29 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
\U<
®v>
S
ei?
Franoisoo, U.S.A., or W.
Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
“Dr. PIERCE’S
Galvanic Chain Belt.”
A perfect Electric Body-Battery
for curing all Diseases. It im-
parts vigor and strength where
medicines fail. “Pamphlet
No. 2” contains full information.
Write for it, enclosing 2d. in
stamps. Address: MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San
11. SOUL & CO., 158 and 268
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Jure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Addr6S3 “ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
""medicine sent FREE '
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
nlain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
CONSULT Dr. FREEMAN.
This well-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases.
He CURES ALL DISEASES. His NEW PAMPHLET
sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding their trouble.
PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and Medicines sent free
from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st.), SYDNEY.
A Golden Shanty.
CONTENTS I
Verse : How he Died and The Last Bullet, by
John Farrell— The Old Wife and the New, Mid-
summer in a Hawkesbury Valley, Two Sunsets,
Dreams, Hail to the Dead, Even So, The First of
May, A*t the Opera, The Ghost, and A Sunset
Fantasy, by V. J. Daley— In Memoriam Marcus
Clarke, and Frank Denz, by Henry Kendall-
Old Pardon the Son of Reprieve, and Clancy of
the Overflow, by “The Banjo”—The Drivel of
Our Fathers, by Jas. Edmond—Seen Again, by
E Lowe— M'Gillviray’s Dream, by Thos. Bracken
—Shadow-Hunting, by Francis Myers—Faces in
the Street, by Henry Lawson-The bong of ie
Kooti, by Arthur Desmond—Peter and Paul—
At Sandy Crossing, by J. M. Marsh.
Prose : His Father’s Mato, by Henry Lawson
—Up a Northern River, by Jas. Edmond—A
Golden Shanty, Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat, and The
Washerwoman of Jackers Flat, by E. Dyson-
North Queensland Journalism, by litus Salt—
Between Two Bottles, by J.K.


-
1
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
address.
“ TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
s
DONCASTER H. April 17.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Address
SYDNEY C.
April 19.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
TAM WORTH C. May 6
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
ADELAIDE C
May 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
BIRTHDAY C.
May 24.
50,000 Subacrib
ers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
riease allot roe
shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read
our Printed Circulars.


Alt Sorts SCiited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “ youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE—ONE—SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern &jj ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMAR3SET (ONLY).
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. «J. O. Ayer Sc Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., TJ. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
OST Beware of cheap imitations. The
name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
flo Dot Hesitate J
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, inBolb Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler A 1 Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
Ladies'
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20in. long, each ss. 6d.
PRTNGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBINGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. 2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Wllliam-st. Only, Sydney
IVTaclame Rodney,
rnHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
SOPAY
We shall see a Federated Australia, some day we
shall have a common Capital, some day Australia
may be enrolled among the nations of the earth,
and some day
YOU MAY WANT
a pair of elegant, well - fitting Boots. When
you do, remember the man who combines elegance,
durability, and cheapness, and send
NALF-A-6UINEA,
adding Is. for postage, to JOHN HUNTER,
stating your size, and whether you prefer broad
or narrow toe ; and in return you will receive a
revelation in footwear.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Corner GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can he obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Biid's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
BcSSoq’s Prototype
Brass Band Instruments
These are Superior to any Other- Maker in the World.
All the leading Prize-Winning Bands of Great Britain use no others.
All the leading Australian Bands are following their example, and
no Band can expect to be successful in Contests unless they use
BESSON’S
CELEBRATED “PROTOTYPE” BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
asr Instruments supplied for Cash, or on Easy Terms.
APPLY FOR PRICE-LIST TO
A_. P. SYKES
227 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and Western Australia.
Rubber Manufacturers.
•9
■■■ WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING BOOTS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
COATS. OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE. 1
GARDEN HOSE, SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’
SUCTION HOSE, STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, FIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
HOSE,
Australian Rubber Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. t>d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O ; DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer & Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles & Bicycles,
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owin'* to the lar<*e increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-paypient
System I have decided to CLEAR MY STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY. The whole of
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
•w*
—vr
ALWAYS
ORDER
“ Schweppes”
As other Waters of inferior quality are now often supplied
bearing labels of same style and colour as Schweppes.
SCHWEPPE’S WATERS ARE SUPPLIED TO THE QUEEN.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SYDNEY COVE, JANUARY, 1788.
She sat on the rocks—her fireless eyes,
Teased and tired with the thoughts of yore,
And paining her sense were alien skies,
An alien sea and an alien shore.
In gold-green dusks she glimpsed new flowers,
And the glittering wings of gleaming birds,
But haunting her still were English bowers,
And the clinging sweetness of old love-words.
A soft breeze murmured of unknown shores,
And laughed as it touched her with fingers light,
But she mourned the more for the wind that roars,
Down sullen coasts on a northern night.
Like topaz gems on a sable dome,
The stranger stars stole shyly forth,
She saw no stars like the stars of home,
That burn white-fired in the frosty north.
A restless sea was at her feet,
A restless sea of darkest blue,
The lights burned dimly on the Fleet,
And these were all the ships it knew.
She watched the dark tides rise and fall,
The lion-tides that night and noon
Range round the world and moan and call
In sad sea-voices to the moon.
Through hour and hour they ebbed and flowed,
Till last with sudden splendor day
Lit all the scene with gold and showed
An arrow black on a garb of gray.
RODERIC QUINN.
MY CITY OF SAD THOUGHTS
I love the Night, the lonely Night,
When darkness like a pall,
A dewy pall, enshrouds the earth,
And silence covers all;
When in the low and quiet east
A faint band marks the sky
In dim and mystic undertone,
And sad-winged night-fowls fly.
When fields are lone and wet with tears
By dewy Earth-breaths shed,
And shadowy trees disturb the breeze,
And stars lie low o’erhead ;
When hushed and rare the sounds of air,
And Slumber spreads her courts—
For then I roam a queen within
My City of Sad Thoughts.
I am its queen, I reign alone ;
My servants come and go ;
Dim shadowy hosts of shapeless ghosts,
My sovereign will they know ;
They bring me dreams long past and gone ;
They bring me visions lost,
To move before my eyes again
Like scenes on white screens tossed.
A magic wand at my command
Waves wide o’er land and sea,
And all my sweet, far-drifted hopes
Brings memoried back to me.
Ah, dear the sights by Night revealed
That throng its visioned spots,
As I drift down the shadowed streets
In my City of Sad Thoughts.
I am its queen, I mount my throne ;
No other enters there ;
No foot profane its gates may gain,
No eye its spaces share ;
But in its solitude secure,
Lapped in its silence wide,
The mask I must by day endure
I here may cast aside.
For sheltered from the world’s cold eyes,
And guarded from its sneers,
The heart may breathe in freedom here,
Although it breathe in tears.
Oh, sweet respite from Fate’s despite,
From all Life’s fever spots,
I find within the twilight halls
Of my City of Sad Thoughts.
N.S.W.
G.M.V.K.
"WHEN I AM OLD."
When I am old
And my short span of years—•
Of mingled smiles and tears —
Is nearly told,
What will the bright world be ?
What will it seem to me
When I am old ?
When I am old
Will Life’s sun roll away
In evening mists of grey
And shadowy fold '!
Or in a golden light
Sink softly into night
When I am old ?
When I am old
Shall I find old friends true ?
Shall I find others new
My hand to hold ?
Will friendship prove to be
A bitter mockery
When I am old ?
When I am old
Will you, who love me best,
Have passed away to rest
Beneath the mould ?
Or living, will you still
Love me through well or ill
When I am old ?
When I am old—
Who knows how great the change—
What hearts the years estrange ?
Should yours grow cold,
Then every bitter breath
Shall be a prayer for death
When I am old !
When I am old
Surely thou shalt be near ;
No rusting years shall sear
Thy heart’s true gold !
May the great gods of grace
Grant me my light—thy face,
When I am old !
ZADIG.


■■a A B g ■ m ± g Established 1849.
AGStraliai? MfitOal p ro vid£i)t Society.
The Oldest, Mutual Life Assurance Soeietv established * * . *
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established __, _
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY A EAR i
—
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.U.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.: THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.,
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary ’ ' ""
JL L E/IL.J Y/LIIAI , Esq.; Xi. »» . -
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling-
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office : 8 7 3P IT T STREE T, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
IF YOU ARE COMING TO SYDNEY FOR EASTER
HOLIDAYS OR AGRICULTURAL SHOW YOU WILL
DO BEST BY RESIDING AT THE AUSTRALIA.
FIRST
OF AUSTRALASIA’S HOTELS.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office ; is most conveniently situated as regards
Theatres, Banks, Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room at every hour
of the day and night—advantages which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12/6 PER DAY UPWARDS, INCLUSIVE OF
ALL MEALS AND ATTENDANCE.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager, Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
DRY ANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
azicl
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
2o p r i Z e Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST TN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
jm
LIAN BRANDY
(Joshua Bros. 66 Boomerang ” Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
tS' Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. *@3i
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
ZRO-A.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
'
mm
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
mining machinery, steel WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd
\ HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street 9 SYDNEY,
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The tondon m Melbourne Tailoring fio.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR STOCK
is selected from the
Leading London Houses.
CALL for PATTERNS.
Measurement Forms and
Tape Post Free.
Perfect Fit Guaranteed.
We Buy for Cash
and are 20 per cent. Cheaper
than other Houses.
For Example :
Corkscrew Worsted Sac Suits 50s.
Serge Sac Suits 50s.
Scotch or West of England Tweed ... 455.
S. M. BAUMASCHE, Manager.
UNEQUALLED
FOR
QUALITY
AND
WORKMAN-
SHIP.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO.
zfurie -A-isriD nvn-A-ißiiisriE.
FTRE and MARINE INSURANCES Effected on Every Description of Property at Lowest
Current Rates. WO'OL INSURED from Sheep’s Back to London.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL ■
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVE
£1,000,000
£435,000
Agencies in all the Principal Towns of New South Wales.
new south WALES BRANCH 81
S. HAGUE SMITH, Manager.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. MINNETT, Assistant Manager.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE set one guinea.
THE
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes : “ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
(KIT - Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
Head, Office:
lQ6(iraiK£ Co.
(LIMITED).
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also insured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Row.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
EVERY VARIETY OF
II
T3El3£LUnr
yrjiY
BLAKE
\smm
H. P. GREGORY AND CO„
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
- —ALSO, —
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St, Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
£3T INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896— divided with Policy-
holders —is now payable on renewal of policies,
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894 —
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc. I
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks,
J.P., Directors. Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jkssop,
Director. Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia'
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- EX.DBIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DIXSON & SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yankee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a time. During the last two years the increase lias reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
Cooqderor.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
PixSoo’S New CofyqGeror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
CI)an)pioi) Aromatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS Uncle Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS— ' Golden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OE PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties,
AGENTS FOR
CIGARETTES.
Moijopole RotbScbildS, La RoSioa, Flor d? ViSto Cigars-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 18. —No. 893.
SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1897.
Prick, (>i>.
. LOXUOS, ttft fiWtkm
fate Marquis of Londonderry, seconded toy
Hefiniker Heaton, M.P., the colonial Pre-
miers ti-ho wilt visit England hi connection
wiffi ttoc refofd reign celebrations Lave been
elected as honorary members of the Carlton
Clrtb _
"fjV /tjive-iij llje- fflTrj
\ui tr.fl.tj W st-m fiji H-S-lV prfßjifir
Os jve- appeal's aifUit Carlfcn| Club
after a Ijmied. discussion vJittj tfje ?ruice
of Wales, say, apoy tf]t JHuns £,\du.sioi] BiVX.
'lliCc'rtjfU] lo J)orjf |in - (j if
up 4vM<i! " „// M
Pas^r ftr
. V) l '*5? rejoice !
Tlje ij fy
'to Celeb rate ffje ftecorcl Refpp
O.’jjfr (jraciouj 1
\v/o Qtorj t s •
A\\ Theory oj
True,
////.// . nv\vVVi
4l . .
RECORD REIGN CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... 0 Q
Quarterly... ... ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
•which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. •
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in JilacTt and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Sc Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — ll- A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
T^e'^ullelzoi.
SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1897.
Federation Must Wait.
Premier Reid finally announces that he is
going to England, after all, to assist in the
great “record-reign” grovel, and otherwise
go on all-fours in a loyal crawl before his
beloved sovereign. In this matter, he is on
much the same level as most of his fellow-
Premiers, the crawl being nearly, if not quite,
unanimous. The only respect in which
Premier Reid is lower down than the others
is that he is the only one who struck a lofty
posture at the beginning of the trouble, and
announced —like the boy who stood on the
burning deck—that he would remain at his
post whatever happened, and that, whoever
else went to England to abase himself, G.
Reid would maintain an erect democratic
attitude, as befits an animal of large discourse
looking before and after. Then the succes-
sive gradations of Reid’s downfall became an
interesting study. First, he would only go
if Parliament and the nation showed clearly
that they thought it his duty to do so.
Secondly, he would go if strongly pressed.
Thirdly, the Government whip went round
canvassing M’sP. to see if they could be
induced to press him, and, just here, the
scornful refusal of Opposition-leader Lyne
to assist in pressing Reid nearly upset the
great scheme. It was also announced that
the matter would be left to Parliament to
decide ; and finally, G. Reid, without wait-
ing for Parliament, announces that he is
going. He isn’t going like the other
Premiers, because he wants to have a holiday
and an orgy, and to get any title that may be
going, and to wear a uniform and associate
with the Royal family, and have all his
expenses paid at a gorgeous hotel, and to be
an honorary member of a particularly aristo-
cratic club. Premier Reid is going from a
cast-iron sense of duty to see that the Anti-
alien Bill isn’t vetoed. The fact that the
sense of duty struck him like a pile-driver
just at this especial moment is mere coinci-
dence.
* * * *
All this, of course, makes very little
difference to anyone save Reid himself. To
all appearances, all the Premiers will roll up
to the great celebration. Whether they grab
effusively at the chance as Nelson and
Br addon did, or whether they go after the
emotionless fashion of Turner, who seems
absolutely indifferent whether he goes or
not, but is going all the same; or whether
they are reluctantly dragged by a sense of
duty like Reid, it is all one. Each man
goes after his own fashion, and Reid’s
fashion is naturally circuitous and apologetic
and crooked. The point which really inter-
ests the community is the conduct of public
business in the absence of all these poten-
tates. The present is the very worst time in
the year, and also the worst time in all the
country’s history, for such a unanimous
absence. Most of the Treasurers present
their annual statement and tell the annual
lie about the deficit early in July, and the
finances of five provinces will have to be
hung up and left to drift till the various boss
politicians get back from their gilded riot in
London. This, however, is a comparatively
small affair ; the finances are accustomed to
drift a good deal, and the absence of Nelson
and Reid can’t make them much more in-
comprehensible than they usually are. The
most lamentable feature of the case is that the
Federation question, which looked as if it was
really getting into motion after forty years
of suspended animation, has also to be hung
up, and what the consequences will be no
one can say. The Convention is expected to
finish drafting its constitution some time in
April. Then, according to the original plan,
the document should be immediately con-
sidered by the various Parliaments at a time
when there was no financial trouble to dis-
tract their attention, and the Convention
should meet again about August to discuss
the proposed amendments and make any re-
pairs to its original scheme which might ap-
pear necessary. The great record - reign
grovel breaks up this arrangement badly,
and the inevitable result is a long postpone-
ment, during which public interest in the
matter will slowly freeze, and Federation will
probably cease to be a live subject and be-
come again the abstract weariness it used
to be.
• * * *
In the first place, there will, according to
present arrangements, be no Parliaments
sitting in May and June to discuss the Con-
vention’s scheme. The absent Premiers
could, of course, delegate their powers and
let the work of the country go on as usual.
Brunker, Isaacs, Holder, and Fysh could
probably fill the places about as well as the
men who were away ; and the Convention
scheme could be put through its Parlia-
mentary stages, and the Convention could
meet again and finish its work without the
Premiers, if need be ; seeing that they would
all be absent, the balance of power, as be-
tween the provinces, would be absolutely un-
disturbed. Also, these deputies could de-
liver the financial statements at the usual
time, and be just as eloquently inaccurate
about the alleged surplus, if necessary, as
anybody else. The whole trouble is that if
the Parliaments meet as usual, the fact
that the Ministerial party is one vote short
and is minus its most important man will
be a source of weakness; and the locum tenens
may steer badly ; and the cablegrams which
keep explaining what a particular fool the
head of the Government is making of him-
self in England, and the fearsome manner in
which he is screaming after a title, and the
impossible things which he is being beguiled
into promising by the astute Chamberlain,
may break up his party, and the Govern-
ment may go to pieces like a house built of
cards. Consequently, a cablegram might
reach the Australian potentate just as he was
in the midst of the anniversary procession,
informing him that he was a Premier no
longer. Then, the reason for his presence
no longer existing, that politician, if he was
a strictly conscientious person, would get
down off his horse, if he was on one, and
quit the pageant then and there, and pay his
own hotel bill for the rest of his stay, and
drop right out of the show. The business of
the country is to be suspended so that the
Premier who is away grovelling in England
can’t meet with any such disaster as this,
and may have his grovel out in peace and
security. A Premier’s billet is essentially
precarious ; there is nothing in the country’s
contract with him to the effect that he shall
be especially secured against disturbance
while away neglecting his duty and attending
to private grovel ; and to suspend the
nation’s business indefinitely for the con-
venience of six or seven men who want
special facilities to flatten themselves out in
the presence of royalty is, at the very least,
unusual.
♦ * * *
As far as can be foreseen, the Parliaments,
instead of being ready to consider the
Federal constitution early in May, w r on’t meet
until the Premiers get back about August.
Then, instead of being able to devote their
time to the Federal question solely, they will
also have to deal with financial business
and other arrears. Most probably, if the
Premiers have been led into the usual
foolishness which every Australian politician
seems to get into when he visits England—
if, under the influence of champagne and
dazzle and titles and royal associations and
Joe Chamberlain’s persuasiveness, they
have promised to enlarge the Naval Tribute,
or to lend military aid in time of war, or
have committed themselves to some other of
the innumerable devices for strengthening
the “silken bonds’’—some of them will
have to face a motion of censure, and as
likely as not one Government at least may
go under. Then Federation will be again
suspended till an election takes place and a
new Ministry is formed. Even if there is
no such downfall, it is not likely that the
Convention will contrive to hold its second
meeting till November or thereabouts. By
that time some of the delegates may be dead ;
and some fresh inter provincial squabbles
may have arisen to disturb the always-pre-
carious harmony ; and the returned Premiers
will probably be in a beautifully loyal frame
of mind, as all returned Australians are, and
will want a very different kind of Federation
from the one they previously advocated ;
and the public enthusiasm which was roused
with such difficulty and which flickers out
so very readily, may be dead ashes once
more. If there ever was a subject which
wanted to be struck while it was hot, Fede-
ration is that subject. It has taken forty
years to get it even reasonably hot, and the
proposal that it should be immediately hung
up to cool and dry and moulder again for
anybody’s personal convenience is treason to
the Australian Commonwealth.
* T * *
There is no special reason why the Premiers
should not go to England—except that they
will probably be of very little use to any
Democratic community when they come
back, and that the spectacle of seven middle-
aged gentlemen trying to walk on their knees
is absurd at any time, and that George
Reid’s stomach and George Turner’s spec-
tacles won’t look notably beautiful in any
royal procession ; and that John Forrest’s
stupendous legs are not eminently calcu-
lated to decorate a Windsor uniform. In
fact, Bradpon is the only one of the seven
who is calculated to look like an ideal duke
and to reflect credit on this country so far
as personal picturesqueness is concerned.
But there is all manner of reason why the
business of the country should not be stopped
short, merely to insure any Premier against
loss of his billet while he is away grovelling.
The country doesn’t insure any Premier
against loss of his billet when he isn’t absent
in a state of moral abasement, and there is
no cause why neglect of work and a habit of
going on all fours at the other end of the
globe should carry with it any special privi-
leges. It is impossible to suppose that
Parliament can’t get on with its work for a
few weeks without the Premiers ; it will get
on without them when they die or are ejected
from office, and it can do so now also. The
Federation of Australia is too important a
matter to be hazarded for any mere ephemeral
crawl in London, and postponement is a
serious hazard. The Federal movement of
1891 died out from delay and sheer weari-
ness, and the Federal movement of 1897 may
easily do so likewise. Moreover, the work
of constitution-making was entrusted, in
part at least, to the Premiers as five sober
men with whom the country was reasonably
well acquainted. The five drunk loyalists
who will probably come back to take up the
work next August are quite a different con-
sideration. The country didn’t elect any
drunk loyalists.
Lone Leperland.
Queensland stands alone. A black-labor-
loving Government has admirably succeeded in
shielding her from the contamination of alliance
with the Democratic provinces of Australia.
It is amusing but sad to follow out the tricky,
shifty course of evasion and lying resorted to
by Queensland politicians to keep the province,
as a pariah, out of communion with the rest of
Australia, while not admitting the real reason
why isolation was so much desired. But the
reason can be proved to demonstration, and,
being known, the course to be pursued by those
provinces that have kept faith with one another
and been true to themselves is abundantly
clear. The curse of black-labor which makes
Queensland unfit to associate with white-labor
countries impels her Government to find excuses
for isolation which will sound better than the
cry, “ Unclean, unclean ! ”
* * * *
Look back a few years only, and what do we
find ? At the Convention of 1891, which
evolved the Commonwealth Bill, Queensland
was effusively loyal to Federation. The prin-
ciple that the presence of colored races in Aus-
tralia should be under the control of the
Federal Government was embodied in the cele-
brated clauses 3, and in the accompanying debate
the representatives of Queensland defended and
advocated that clause. The point to be remem-
bered is that Queensland was then a white-
labor country. It is true that colored labor
was still being employed, but the white labor-
party had triumphed at the ballot, and the
victory seemed so overwhelming that the advo-
cates of black labor were forced to abate their
demands and declare that, though not con-
vinced, they bowed to the will of the people as
expressed at the ballot-box. Alas ! the white
labor-party had not reckoned among the possi-
bilities that a Parliament elected expressly to
keep black-labor out of the country, could be
manipulated in such a way as to turn round
and bring it in. Yet the unexpected and the
marvellous happened; and by an act of gross
and treasonable treachery the filthy thing was
in violation of all constitutional precedents
again forced upon the country.
Mark the immediately changed attitude of
Queensland towards the rest of Australia. The
Premier of South Australia, Playford, imme-
diately after the proposed re-introduction of
Kanakas, respectfully suggested to Queensland
and the other provinces that a “ Conference of
representatives of the various Australasian
Governments should be held immediately with
the view of discussing the colored-labor ques-
tion and adopting a federal course of action in
the matter. To this federal and statesmanlike
&nT Sa w eV n y P rovince assented-but Queens-
i wu*" G ? vernmen t wriggled and shuffled
worked the wires to try and seduce Westralia—
the last hope of the Queensland Tory—to back
out; and at last, driven into a corner by the
remorseless logic of the S. A. Premier, consented
to take part in a “ purely consultative confer-
ence to discuss the question of coolie immigra-
tion into the Northern Territory, or intc
Australia generally, provided that no resolu-
tions are formally submitted.” Then one pro-
vince after another gave way and the proposed
conference was consigned to the limbo of abor-
tive federal projects. Since then the course of
the Q. Govt.—plausible generally and disingenu-
ous always—has been distinctly anti-federal.
Its pretended acquiescence in the resolutions
agreed to by the Premiers at Hobart, and its
subsequent violation, were strictly in keeping
with every other action of the province since it
took the leprous Kanaka back to its bosom.
How any sensible person can be surprised at
the Q. Govt.’s perfidy, or how any ordinary
truthful person can affect to believe in the
multifarious and fantastic excuses put forward
by the Premier and his colleagues, passes com-
prehension.
* * * *
The whole position is, and always has been,
clear as crystal. In The Bulletin of 26th
March, 1892, very shortly after the unscrupul-
ous planter-cim-banker party had got from the
M'llwkaith-Griffith combination a promise
of all it wanted, it was written :
The plantation aristocracy of the Southern States [of
America] came into collision with the white democracy of
the North, and the result was the bloodiest civil war of
modern days, and for the same causes, should the capi-
talistic party in the North succeed in making- Queensland
a plantation State, with servile labor for its corner-stone,
alas for the cause of Australian union !
* * * *
Alas, we repeat it, for the cause of Australian
union ! The magnificent province was thrown
again into the hands of the black-labor party;
and a reign of bribery and corruption was ini-
tiated such as has never before disgraced Queens-
land or any other province of Australia—a reign
of bribery and corruption so open, so flagrant
that even the capitalistic press is now crying
“shame” upon the Government. So utterly
immoral and debased has the prevailing tone
become that the Government does not take the
trouble to cover up the nakedness of its
infamy, and the marvel is that it took the
trouble to fling a tissue veil of mendacity over
the determination to stand out of the Federa-
tion. Queensland, governed by a colored-
labor clique, will never desire nor consent to
join a federal union. It is, therefore, the clear
duty of the Democratic provinces to proceed to
frame a constitution suitable to their circum-
stances ; if the constitution so framed is based
on broad and Democratic principles, it will be
accepted by the people of Queensland when
they resume the Government of their own pro-
vince.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Land Grant Railway Jobs.
Some more of the joys of the private lancl-grant
railway built by foreign capital are coining
home to the people of YVestralia. The present
trouble is over the W.A. Land Co. and the
Great Southern line. According to the original
agreement, the co. was to build the railway as
its own private spec., and receive from the
State, by way of moral support and encourage-
ment, a subsidy of 12,000 acres for each mile
completed. The land was to be selected by the
co. anywhere within 40 miles on either side of
the line, sections already sold and those re-
served for public purposes being alone excepted.
Thereupon the co. proceeded to t elect all the
unsold lands in all the towns along its route.
This was a vast amount more payment than
the State had reckoned upon—it had merely
contemplated giving 12,000 acres of agricultural
land per mile, and even that was worth about
twice as much as the whole railway. Conse-
quently, the Forrest Government flatly refused
to give away any town lands whatever. The
case has since then wandered back and forward
from the Governor-in-Council to the Privy
Council and the Supreme Court and other
places, and the general tenor of things has
been in favor of the co., but the Govern-
ment, so far, refuses to budge. It intended to
make an atrociously bad bargain, and appa-
rently, by sheer stupidity, it made one that was
several times worse, and now the only remedy
is to sit hard down and turn a deaf ear to
everything, and postpone the trouble as long as
possible. The province has paid for its railway,
first of all, by giving for it nearly 3,000,000
acres of land, which looks pretty good value
for 243 miles of line through easy country.
Secondly, it paid for it again by taking it over
at the price of =£1,100,000, or about £4520 per
mile, which is a very exorbitant figure, seeing
that the Government built its own lines at
.£3804 per mile. Thirdly, it seems to be in a
fair way to pay for it a third time by having to
hand over the best part of eight townships to
the co. bodily. At least, the letter of the law
is apparently on the company’s side, and unless
the Government simply takes its stand on the
ground that the land-grant crowd has been paid
nearly three times the value of the property
already, and decides to meet any adverse de-
cision of the courts by calling out the perma-
nent forces, if necessary, and bombarding the
syndicate, the probabilities all point to the miser-
able railway having to be paid for over again.
At present the co. and the Government are
engaged in an undignified process of hustling
and shoving over the matter, and their corre-
spondence consists mostly of irrelevant dash
and cuss and football scrum, and the point at
issue is avoided principally by bad language.
The private land-grant syndicate job almost
always ends more or less like this, which is one
good reason why Australia isn’t taking any
more private railway swindle at present.
“ ’Ats Hoff!”
It’s a queer and little-known circumstance chat
“ God Save,” at present almost as offensively
in evidence as “Ben Bolt,” is actually the pro-
duction of those to whom the House of Han-
over was the rankest of abominations. James
Stuart—“ the King over the water ” —was the
King the Jacobites wanted God to “save;”
“ send him victorious” clearly didn’t refer to
the mutton-headed monarch already on hand


And, queerer still—out of the nine stanzas of
ignominious fustian first mouthed in honor of
George 11., the six appended Hanoverian
howls have got somehow dropped by the way ;
so that, with the substitution of “ Queen ” for
“ King,” the wooden-legged psean, as it limps
along to-day, is, word for word, the original
Jacobite whoop. Miserable stuff enough, but
hardly such abject balderdash as the Han-
overian additions—per example—
Confound tall Jemmy’s plot ;
Pope, French, and Spanish knot—
Confound them all !
Villains notorious,
Their fears inglorious
Never shall conquer us—
Confound them all!
Now, if the Briton must have a “ hanthem ”
what’s the matter with “Rule Britannia”?
That chunk of national arrogance at all events
is national, and not fulsomely personal to a
family of stolid and undistinguished Germans ;
and Thomson’s words, though they embody a
vainglorious absurdity, are at least decent and
dignified verse—while the music, with its large,
defiant swing, doesn’t give you the impression
that you are assisting at the obsequies of a
deceased donkey. That’s the way “ God
Save” takes this paper, at all events ; while, as
for the sentiment, far better be a brazen “ bar-
racker” for the accident of one’s nativity than
the invoker of greasy blessings upon the head
of a prosaic lady in whom one is profoundly
uninterested.
The Federal Financial Muddle.
According to last year’s returns the revenue
which N.S. W. derives from public works (rail-
ways, tramways, telegraphs, telephones, &c.)
constructed with borrowed money is £802,000
per annum short of the interest winch has to be
paid on the public debt; therefore that amount
is the shortage which it is necessary to raise by
taxation. Victoria’s shortage is £754,000, and
South Australia’s £288,000. In other words
the shortage in N.S. VV. is 12s. 7d. per inhabit-
ant annually; in Victoria it is 12s. per in-
habitant ; in South Australia, which comes out
w r orst in the calculation, it is 16s. Id. Figures
for Tasmania and Westralia are not available.
The above is another of the pleasant aspects of
things which the Convention will run up
against if it tries to adopt Minister Car-
ruthers’ plan by which the Federation is to
take over the provincial debts and the
assets which they represent on a valua-
tion. Most of the N.S.W. delegates strongly
advocate the valuation principle, the idea
being that the N.S.W. railways pay so much
better than those of the other provinces,
and especially than those of Victoria, that it
would come out a heavy loser if the debts and
the corresponding assets were taken over in a
lump, without inquiry. But, though that part
of the N.S.W. debt which is represented by
railways and tramways pays remarkably well,
the very large portion which has no assets
against it, except fortifications, immigration,
forest-thinning, roads and bridges, public
offices, and the like, doesn’t pay at all.
Similarly, the part of the S.A. debt which is
represented by railways pays very well, but the
huge loan expenditure on roads, bridges, light-
houses, “geological examination of the pro-
vince,” etc., pays so very little that S.A. comes
out the worst of the three. In Victoria, the
railways pay badly, and the irrigation loans pay
still worse, hut there is so very little borrowed
money invested in roads, bridges, defences, and
other absolutely non-paying works that Vic-
toria, despite its miserably unprofitable rail-
ways, would come out the best of the three
under the proposed valuation system. There
are so many ways of adding up the figures,
however, that the valuation system is
likely to produce more blood and hair than
information. If any province will pay the pre-
sent writer a reasonable fee, he will guarantee
to produce a perfectly plausible-looking state-
ment of accounts proving that that province—
whichever it may be—will be the biggest loser
by Federation, and must receive large con-
cessions from the others to make things square.
And if they will all pay him a reasonable fee
he will prove that every one of them is the
biggest loser. This is what the respective
Statisticians are going to Adelaide to prove,
and when they get fairly started on explaining
each other’s unreliability the results should be
battle, murder, and sudden death.
Parsons and Politics.
A big noisy Wesleyan conference, sitting some-
where in Victoria, has resolved—
That in order to lessen the evils of intemperance at
election times, and reduce the cost of the general and
federal elections, as well as save the time of those who
live far away from the centres of population, the con-
ference strongly urged upon the Government of the
colony the advisability of introducing the plan of voting
by post.
This preposterous proposal to abolish the
secrecy of the ballot comes appropriately from
a corrobboree of parsons. That they should
give gratuitous advice to the world at large is
only to be expected. If the parson stopped
preaching he might have time to reform him-
self, and that would be disastrous to churchi-
anity. But when the cloth ventures to put a
sacrilegous hand on the political liberties of the
people, it is time for at least ink to be shed.
The secrecy of the ballot is a perpetual check
on the machinations of parsons, priests, fat
men, and bosses generally. It is now the cus-
tom in certain banks to insist on every clerk
producing proof that he is on the parliament-
ary roll—but Fat-man has to content himself
with the assumption that his quill-drivers
wfill vote the Tory ticket. It can never
be proved to him that they do or do
not. With voting by post, a regulation
would be made enjoining that the manager
must post all ballot papers (simply to prevent
neglect)—and the clerk that did not vote like a
“ right-thinking-person ” would suddenly hear
that the alarming continuance of the prevailing
depression necessitated further retrenchment,
and the wrong-thinking clerk would “go out
on his ear.” Likewise, the pleasant parson
would instruct the young men of his Bible-
class to bring their voting apparatus along
to his front parlor, so that they might
all plump for the prayer-and-property ticket.
The squatter would take a particular paternal
interest in the political antipathies of his varie-
gated staff. The contractor and the factory-
owner, and the militia colonel, and the priest,
and the landlord, and the mortgagee would all
adopt a most amiable, but undeniable, curiosity
concerning the voting of their subordinates.
Mr. Fatman would send canvassers round
the country buying up ballot-papers at
half-a-crown a piece, and the Argus would be
able to record an overwhelming Tory victory
at the next elections. Under the present
system (may the Lord be praised !) no man can
know for certain how his own son has voted.
The U.S. Fatman paper, the Nation, complains
that “ men took their employers’ money and
wore M'Kinley buttons, but voted the Bryan
ticket.” That is to say, the voting shows that
many must have done this, but under the ballot
it is impossible to prove any specific instance of
it. Under voting by post, men “who took
their employers’ money'” would have to take
their employers’ political opinions. Which
would just suit the trivial parsons down South.
■ ♦
The Libel Law.
Dear Bulletin,— Of all the laws of N.S.W.
the law of libel, as it affects the press, has been
the most execrated ; but as there are two sides
to every question, perhaps you can find room
for a line or two in favor of it, together with a
few suggestions for improvement. The sole
object of the libel-law is to protect the public
and to enable a man to keep his good name. A
man may have a “past”—that, as a rule, con-
cerns no one but himself, and it is expedient
that no one should rake up that past save on one
ground—that it is for the public benefit. The
exception protects the public at large ; the
general law shields the individual. Why
should a newspaper proprietor, whose sole aim
and object is to make money by his paper, be
placed in a better position as regards the libel-
law than a man who does not run a paper? In
N.S.W. there are no press laws, strictly so-
called—there is only a Defamation Act, which
applies all round—and on this account the
press is the power it is to-day. Once give the
press special rights, and inevitably the demand
will be made that special duties shall be im-
posed on it. The printer is as free as any other
member of the community—he is under no dis-
ability ; why, then, should he expect special
immunities? It must be conceded, however,
that a newspaper proprietor is often the prey
of the blackmailer, yet here again the ordinary
citizen is in the same position. • Both may be
sued by a man of straw, and in defending
themselves be put to expense that they cannot
hope to recover from him. There is only one
way to escape this evil—that is by giving the
Judges power—in any action, not in libel-
actions only—to order a plaintiff to find security
for costs unless he can satisfy a Judge that he
has a good cause of action. This will effectually
wipe out the blackmailer. Further, provide
for the consolidation of suits when they are
brought by one party against several, or by
several parties against one, provided that they
arise out of the same cause of action. Amend
the general law in these two directions, and I
think that the libel-law will be found fair and
liberal enough for any newspaper conducted on
decent lines. —Rus. Roberts.
Rev. Wardlaw Thompson, foreign secretary
of the London Missionary Society, addressing a
meeting in Melbourne the other evening, said :
“God has given the Anglo-Saxon race an
amazing hold of the best part of the earth, and
has surely done so for some high and holy pur-
pose.” Why drag in God? Shouldn’t the
obligation be put the other way about ? But,
taking the statement as it stands, it looks
“ uncommon steep.” The hordes of Tamerlane
—the Tartar humorist who used to built towers
of human heads—overran a considerable portion
of the earth in their time. Did God allow them
to do this for some high and holy purpose ? The
followers of Mahomet— whose representative
in Stamboul delights in butchering Christians
by proxy—were lords of most of the earth
worth having at one time. Was this in accord-
ance with some high and holy purpose of the
Deity ? To do them justice, they themselves
always said it was. So did Attila when the
horse-hoofs of his Huns trod the green
fields of Europe into dust and mud.
So did Ferdinand of Spain and his
successors when they sent the Inquisition
with its racks and thumbscrews and autos dafi
to convert the Aztecs. And so precisely does
John Bull when in more civilised, but quite
as relentless, fashion he grabs all of the earth
that he can lay his large, fat paws upon. He
regards himself as the agent of the Almighty,
and is mean enough to say that all who pre-
ceded him in the billet were frauds. One of
these years the tallow-eating Muscovites, or
some other crowd out of chaos, will come along
and say that Bull was a fraud, a blasphemer and
a rapacious ruffian, and will scoop in all of his
conquests for some high and holy purpose known
only to themselves and the Creator. It is facts
of this sort which make one think that the
Almighty must have gone on a long journey to
the other end of space shortly after dumping
Man on the Earth and that He must have ior-
gotten all about that little monster ever since.
The remarks of The Bulletin re the immense
effects which flow from trifling causes are well
illustrated (writes “M.A.8.”) by President
Zeal’s election for the Federal Convention.
Purse-proud, mediocre and self-sufficient, no
one had less claim on the democratic vote
which put him in. As The Bulletin remarks,
his inclusion in Syme’s list can only be ac-
counted for by the fact that he stood by the
Age in the big trial. And in connection with
the fact that Zeal stuck to the Age, it may
be noted that he had a little quarrel of his own
with the Vic. Railways. In one of his journeys
the President desired to take in the carriage
with him a favorite dog. The porter objected
that the free-pass system did not extend to
animals, and insisted that the dog should go in
the van. The station-master, when appealed
to, sided with the porter. Then the potentate,
incensed at the suggestion that his dog was not
good enough to travel with the ordinary paying
public, sought redress from the Commissioners,
but Speight stood firmly by his subordinates
and—well, he did not make a friend-for-life of
Zeal. When the big trial came on, Zeal’s
condemnation of the railway management was
comprehensive and thorough—though, of course,
he was probably not consciously influenced by
the dog-incident. Now Richard Speight is
seeking his fortune in the gilded West, and
Zeal, perhaps in no small degree through the
instrumentality of his dog, is going to help us
to fulfil our manifest destiny, and to establish
an eternal bond of union between the peoples
of this island continent. Who can tell what
changes in the course of history, what conse-
quences to millions yet unborn, may result
from the fact that, in times gone by, a porter
and a President had a row on a railway-station
about a puppy ?
♦
In a somnolent sort of way Tasmania adopted
the Hare system of voting. Several times the
island has come within an ace of doing a great
thing in its sleep, but, unfortunately, it gener-
ally manages to wake up in time to prevent
itself becoming really famous. The other day
it became necessary to call the newly-elected
Parliament together, just to show that there
was such an institution in the country. As
there was so little business to be transacted it
was agreed not to trouble Governor Gormans-
ton to step around and make an exhibition of
himself and of Tasmania’s standing army,
Premier Braddon proposed to dispense with
the Speech from the Throne and other in-
augural flummeries that ought to have been
ridiculed out of existence years ago, and to start
things without any fuss and feathers whatever.
But at the last moment he repented of his
bright idea, and a scratch commission was ap-
pointed to hang around in giddy rags and go
through the usual formalities. The Usher of the
Black Rod summoned the Commons to the
House of Lords, the Commissioners read their
letters patent and formally announced that
they had nothing to say, and the Jawsoleum
was set fairly going without a solitary gun
being fired. Naturally, the local law’n’horder
press ponderously deplores the “ attempt to
degrade and bring into contempt Parliamen-
tary institutions,” but Democrats hope yet to
see Australian Parliaments meet and do their
business in a rational manner, without the
absurdities of wigs and gowns and Black Rods
and fal-lals, and men in false hair and petti-
coats, and the letting off of big crackers & la
the Chow Joss-worshipper.
♦
Mr. F. A. Rochford writes to The Bulletin
from Port Moresby, New Guinea, on 19th
February :
Govt, is yetting out two parties to open two tracks
into the interior, and to build huts about every four miles
along the clearing for the use of those travelling. One is
to go towards Mt. Scratchley, and the other will open a
way to the main ranges 30 miles to the east. No commu-
nication has been received from the Mambare field for
many weeks ; and the last news was not reassuring, as it
was stated that no one was making anything like wages
and the men were about flooded out. Rumored that a
Malay and some whites (the latter must have come from
the Mambare fields) are on gold on this side of the ranges
near Mt. Musgrave. The information, however, is so vague
that little reliance can be placed on it. The only thing
that tends to give it color and hope is that the Malay (a
well-known man here) remains out during the wet season,
and those who know him say he must he on something or
he would have returned long ago. He had been out be-
fore, and found faint colors in black (iron) sand. Then he
took out a miner’s right and left here with the intention
of returning to the same place. That is about two months
ago.
A party of 13 men (new arrivals) has left here for the
interior by way of the Vanapa River. This is the route
that Gov. MacGregor opened, and one which is to be im-
proved by one of the clearing-parties. It is also the
route to where the Malay is supposed to be. The country
is slate, and there is a very large extent of slate formation
right through to the main ranges, which offers a fine
opportunity for prospecting, and no doubt contains gold.
My warning as to the difficulty of getting carriers is
justified by the trouble in procuring “ boys” for the cut-
ting party for the Vanapa route. The party was sup-
posed to start about 15th instant, but the comple-
ment of natives has not yet been secured. When natives
will not engage with Govt, it is of little avail private
parties trying any inducement. This question of carriers
will be the greatest obstacle that men going inland have
to encounter, and not one-twentieth of the men who are
said to intend visiting these shores will ever see the in-
terior. Until Govt, makes a good-horse-road—which will
probably be when the other track is rotting with the
bodies of the poor unfortunates who came here with
hopes of a “ rise ” —there is simply nothing to be done.
Gov. MacGregor thinks it more incumbent on him to
look after a few natives in the extreme west of the colony
than to help his own countrymen. To complicate the
situation, from Ist March a new law takes effect,
that “no person shall have in his possession a firearm
unless such person holds a license. The word or term
‘ firearm ’ shall mean and include any kind and variety of
gun or pistol used or intended for the discharge of any
projectiles of any kind, and also any part of a gun or
pistol.” The license is 20s. per annum. Such a tax in
Australia would not mean much, for there a person can
do without firearms, but in a country where his very life
depends on his being armed the effect is serious. Govt,
admits it is not in a position to protect those going
inland, and a man is asked to contribute 20s. per annum
for the privilege of protecting himself! And the head of
the Government is to be absent during the period when
every official resource will be strained to the very utmost.
A big rush is expected, and not the slightest preparation
has been made to cope with it, with the exception of the
two cutting parties. The work now is more than the
staff can get through by working a reasonable time. In
fact, one or two of the civil servants are doing the duties
of two. As an explorer the present Governor cannot be
be;ken, and all men must admire his indomitable courage
and perseverance, but something more than mere courage
will be required in dealing with the mass of men who
visit these shores. What the country requires is an
administrator on the spot, not an autocrat in the far dis-
tance.
In conclusion, every man who comes here should pro-
vide himself with a compass or two before leaving Austra-
lia. It is absolutely necessary. A man in the scrub is per-
fectly helpless without one, and it ought never to leave
his person. I owe my life to one, which during a most
trying journey seldom left my hand. In the mountains,
even if you can see the sun you have a sky more or less
densely cloudy, and without the compass it is impossible
to know where you are going.
One-Eighth.!
One who believes in the Woolgrowers’ Co-opera-
tive Association, Ltd., tenders this statement to
The Bulletin :
“ The conflict, Sydney Woolselling Brokers’
Association v. Woolgrowers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., acts and re-acts on the chief industry
of N.S.W. The main cause of the conflict is the
woolselling brokers’ charge to the buyer of per
lb. ; which £d. is not only allowed for by the buyer
when bidding-, but is passed on with doubled
measure by him to the grower. For because of
this |d. charge, and because of the trade law that
no buyer shall advance less than |d. per lb. bid on
wool, the buyer who would bid, say, Bd. per lb.,
stops at 7fd ; for, did he bid Bd., he would have
to pay the broker Bd. + Jd., whereas, if he stop
at 7fd., he pays 7fd. + Jd. = 7gd. Thus, the tax
in its operation causes the buyer a profit of £d.
and the grower a loss of id. The buyer’s stopping
at 7|d. further injures the grower per medium of
this market. For, on comparison with the London
market, wool value here appears to be Jd. less.
* * * *
“In addition to the nominal §d. and real id.
the grower has paid, from Ist July, ’9G, and will
pay until 31st March, ’97, a further distinct £d. per
the broker. Here are Goldsbrough. Mort
and Co. s charges for past season \\ p.c.' + id.
per lb. to buyer = on 6d. per lb. wool, £2 Is. Bd.
p.c. + Jd. per lb. to grower = another £2 Is. Bd.
p.c. ; total =£s 13s. 4d. p.c. This percentage
on the 1 000 bales at <£lo per bale—often sold,
in one day—amounts to £3966 13s. 4d. ; not
a bad day s commission these dull times.
Yet Mort and Co. from the beginning of the wool
business up to their amalgamation in ’BB with
Goldsbrough and Co. made a fortune, built
magnificent stores on expensive land, and paid
handsome salaries out of a broker’s charge varying
from 3 p.c. to p.c. without any Jd. per lb. levy
on either buyer or grower. Contrast 3i p.c. on
one day’s sale of 7000 bales at £lO per bale with
past season’s charge of £5 13s. 4d. p.c. = £2450 as
against £3966 13s. 4d. Up to ’B9 the broker’s
charge was from 3 p.c. to p.c. inclusive ; from
’B9 to ’95 it = 3 p.c. on grower+£d. per lb. on
buyer, which on 6d. per lb. basis =£s Is. Bd. p.c.
From July, ’96, to 31st March, ’97, it = 1J p.e.+
sd. per lb, to grower + £d. per lb. to buyer =
£5 13s. 4d. p.c. From 31st March, ’97, it will=
3 p.c. on grower + £d. per lb. on buyer=
£5 Is. Bd. p.c. And as the £d. to buyer really
means %d. off grower, the latter’s virtual tax is
£7 3s. 4d. p.c. Against this the Wool-growers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., will charge 3 p.c.
commission inclusive.
* * * *
, “ The £d. charge to the buyer was introduced in
89 from Melbourne, for the purpose of enabling
big firms like Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. and the
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. to meet the
losses resulting from banking business and pas-
toral advances. All growers who could estimate
the whole value of fractions quickly formulated
the impost’s effect—' the grower shears the sheep
and the broker shears the grower.’ The growers'
actual loss during past season, indeed, pans out in
surprising figures. 1£ p.c.+|d. to grower+the
nominal £d. to buyer which is a real |d. to grower
P-c. +£d.+|d.=just about £d. per lb. ; or, on
a £12,000 clip, averaging 6d. per lb. =£lloo=9j
p.c. off grower. Yet Mort and Co. made a fortune
by deducting from 3 p.c. to 31 p.c. from grower.
Most of the growers, however, were unable to
oppose the impost. They, in the first place, had
generally to remain on their stations during shear-
ing, and by the time the shearing was done three-
fourths of the clip would be sold. Again, scarcely
a grower felt himself capable, single-handed, to
successfully fight the big ring with its knowledge,
its tactics and its power. Many growers, indeed,
are held hand and foot by the big financial com-
panies, and each of these compels its growers
to send their wool to such broker as
is concerned in the said company. The
buyers, on the institution of the Jd. charge to
them, struck for the first five weeks. Con-
sidering, however, the non-organisation and other
general constraining circumstances of the growers,
they saw that they could not only make the grower
pay the buyer’s £d., but also that the buyer’s
nominal loss was his actual gain.
* * » *
“ The power of the brokers’ ring being so great
and comprehensive, only the big growers whose
knowledge, facilities and bank-balances made them
independent of everybody were in the position to
offer battle. The first to move was Jas. Leslie, of
Leslie Bros., Lerida, Muttaburra, Q. Leaving
his brothers on the station, he stored his wool
in Sydney premises, preparatory to selling it
privately or sending it to London to sell it there.
Wool-buying experts at first offered him his price
less the tremendous fraction, but, as he was his
own broker, they promptly closed on his terms. His
saving on 3000 bales was £lO4B. Other wealthy and
free growers refused to sell in Sydney, and shipped
to London, as the Sydney brokers’ charges were
equivalent to costs of freight, insurance and in-
terest ; so that Bd. in London is as good as Bd. in
Sydney, also, there is often a difference of Id.
per lb. in favor of London.
* * * *
“Last Xmas about a dozen growers, including
Jas. Leslie, Duncan M'Master, Jas. M. Allison,
C. S. MThillamy, and Francis Bacon, met and
decided to try and form a co-operative wool-sell-
ing co., unless the ring of associated brokers
reduced or modified their charges. Their pro-
spectus was published in the first number of their
official organ, The Co-operat:or, on Feb. 6 ; they
offer 20,000 shares at £3 each to wool-growers, and
will sell wool at a consolidated rate of 3 p.c. for
shareholders, or 6s. per bale, as against £5 13s. 4d.
p.c., or Us. 4d. per bale, as will now be taken off
the grower by the latest charges of the big ring.
♦ * * *
“ The ring, in its latest circular, sets forth that
the charge of ljd. p.c. + Jd. per lb. to grower
will, from Ist April, ’97, be altered to an inclusive
charge of 3 p.c. That Ist April manifesto, how-
ever, must not make it an All Fools’ Day for the
grower. The concession pans out, indeed, to
tremendous figures ;it means on 6d. wool 11s. Bd.
p.c., and, therefore, on the 379,000 bales sold in
Sydney from Ist July, ’96, to 27th Feb., ’97,
estimating the bales at £lO per bale, it reaches
the formidable total of £21,500. The conflict will
still wage while the brokers’ charge remains 3 p.c.
to grower + nominal |d. to buyer or real |d. to
grower. And as this 3 p.c. + £d. off grower
represents on 6d. wool a percentage of £7 3s. 4d.
off grower, the Wool-growers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., charging a 3 p.c. inclusive rate,
should make the brokers’ ring more uneasy every
day of its existence.”
“ General ” Booth, ever fruitful in raising
the wind, now advises all his customers to estab-
lish the Lord’s corner. It means this: You are
to set apart one hen, concentrate her, her eggs,
and chicks, for the Loard’s treasury. So with the
milk and butter of one cow, the profit of one line
of grocery, drapery, and the like.
The finding of those two dead prospectors
by the Calvert Relief Party when they were look-
ing for Jones and Wells is another commentary
on how swagmen die in Australia. They passed
out of existence unsearched for and un missed
because they had not taken the high-sounding
name of “ explorer,” and their corpses were dis-
covered by a pure accident. In one page of S.A.
Govt. Gazette (4th March), giving the names of
persons found dead in public places in the pro-
vince during the previous six months, occur these
entries : —Benjamin Wood, aged 64, bushman ;
Charles Richardson, aged 47, found floating in the
Murray near Calperum station; Duncan M‘Aully,
aged 35, run over by train, body found on line ;
John Patschke, digger, aged 70, found dead near
Tiver’s well; Thomas Donnely, aged 30, found
dead on bank of Rocky River; James Murray,
aged 56, shepherd; John Hisgrove, swagman,
aged 60, died from want of water near Cadelgo
station ; Guy Mannering, aged 65, swagman, died
from want of water near Undoolya station ; Albert
Blanford, aged 22, found on Christmas Day on
Anna Creek station, died from thirst.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ...
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£45,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
552,744
190,646,265
540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that
any other Life Office' in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT MT.fl.
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’ »
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
LADIES’ BLOUSES.
REAL FRENCH CAMBRIC
p£U?r ded *° »' ApSfcT
B. MOUHTCASTLB & SOUS
BRISBANE*
A sceptical doctor recently called at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
to test the effectiveness of the X rays. He placed
his hand upon the fluorescent screen, and straight-
way saw several shot pellets which had been
lodged in his hands in boyhood. The latest
novelties for the Vitascope, sensational and
humorous, provide more entertainment than all
the numerous imitators put together. Other
attractions are the Edison Kinetoscope and
Kinetophone.*
What
We .
Do, .
We .
Do .
Well
We pay special at-
tention to sitters—
to the pose, to the
lighting. We make
a study of each pa-
tron, endeavouring
in every case to suit
and satisfy his or
her wishes. . , .
THE RESULT may
be seen and exam-
ined at our Studios,
where you will easily discern the
superiority of our work in the
Vestibule Specimens. They are
not specially worked=up, but
just fair samples of our work.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,")
with beautifully Finished Enlarge-(
ment in Permanent Bromide or |
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras;
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground FLOOR NO STAIRS.)
OPPOSITE
ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Matsa.”
Criterion “ The Bookmaker."
Lyceum “ Nemesis.”
Palace Rickards’ Variety Co.
Tivoli Rickards’Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Two Littl e Vagabonds. ”
Royal “The Derby Winner.”
Bijou Brough Go. Farewells.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
“Nemesis,” a sketchy, gauzy thing, with
a good deal of fun and bustle and pretty music in
it, yet with no very tangible characteristics except
the bustle, is this week’s bill at Sydney Lyceum.
It was produced in Sydney once before at a rather
uncertain date by someone this paper can’t dis-
tinctly identify, but to all intents and purposes it
may be set down as new. The music consists
largely of judicious steals from many sources, and
the name is a misnomer, for all the nemesis which
strikes the bad, giddy hero is that he gets hugged
by two very nice girls, whereas if he had adhered
strictly to the paths of rectitude he would only
have been hugged by one girl. Bracy is the man
who falls into this pitfall. He is engaged to one
nice girl, but about 1 a.m. another steps out of
a sea-side hotel in a species of undress cut low,
to shed poetry in the moonshine on the sea-shore ;
and Bracy mashes her, and her fierce military
uncle rushes out, armed with ironmongery, and
causes him to become engaged to her on the spot.
Thereafter the play consists of the usual comic
troubles of the man with turn girls on hand, set to
music. Ha has to dine with both fathers,
and consequently has to eat a great deal more than
is good for him, and he has to explain many things
, with much difficulty, and to get out of the way
judiciously when the two fathers start bashing
each other. Knight Aston is possibly rather the
better of the pair, but John Forde as the other
father is close up, and they are two particularly
, admirable old men. Also, they have two very
admirable daughters, Julia Spencer being the
one whom Bracy wants to marry, while Mabelle
Darley is the lady whom he reckiessLy mashed by
moonlight on the shore. Miss Darley made a
marked success on her first appearance at the
Lyceum, and she seems to improve both in her
singing and her acting as she goes on. When she
finally gets rid of her nervousness, and can let her
belldike voice go without wearing the anxious
look which now pervades her two pathetic eyes
she should do even better. A number of other
people, including Bracy and Mrs. Bracy do very
well; the chorus is drilled to perfection, and it in-
cludes more commendable legs than this paper
ever saw before in a chorus of the same size ;
Pack’s orchestra is practically perfect; and the
scenery is all that could be desired. The only
thing which can be complained of is a certain
want of meat about the play, which is a jumpy
and gassy little trifle with more leg and gauzy
frock in it than anything else.
• * * *
A casual interval in the story, when the
confused Bracy is away getting married to both
girls at once, is filled in by Albert Whelan, a
young solo humorist of the Knowles order, but
with'far more versatility than Knowles has dis-
played up to date. Whelan vaguely suggests the
lamented Frank Lincoln in some respects. He
can mimic almost anything and anybody, and in
the course of a few minutes he does banjo, man-
dolin, and violin solos with no other instrument
than a large and expressive mouth, gives perfect
imitations of several well-known actors, renders
“ I won’t play in your yard ” in the childish treble
of the little girl actress, and throws off several
other trifles. They are all admirably done, and a
little more experience and a little encouragement
in the shape of .£6O a week salary should develop
Whelan into something far above the average.
The Bulletin particularly wants to hear him mix
that spectral cocktail which used to be a refreshing
feature in Frank Lincoln’s programme. Years
have elapsed since that gratifying drink was last
heard of, but this paper has never come across a
cocktail to equal it since, and never hopes to,
unless Whelan can supply it.
** * *
Thornton’s new venture at Sydney Cri.
has caught on much better than this paper
anticipated after a first night’s inspection of the
garish “Bookmaker” and his uncouth munifi-
cence. Perhaps it is the simple little love-story
which appeals to the public soul. Every one
knows how unaccountably the domestic Sarah
Jane will get her hair on fire over the kitchen
candle, while she sheds a grimy tear on the grimy
page of the Jernil that is grasped in her copious
red hand, and reads about the woes of the lovely
girl who was blighted in love. There is a lot
of the Jernil element in humanity generally,
and as the “ Bookmaker ” has two agreeable girls,
both blighted, and two pleasant young men
both ditto, it appeals strongly to this side
of the public character. Bessie Rignold and
Noney Seabrooke, when they weep jointly over
their wrecked affections, are a soulful picture.
And the pathos of it is relieved by the turfy man
living in an agony of embarrassment all over the
stage, and shedding gold on the insolvent family
at every turn. He is a quaint mixture of Guppy
and Monte Christo, and though the humor which
consists in dropping a very aggravated Guppy
into the middle of an aristocratic family is by no
means new, the lavish generosity of this particular
Guppy, and the nobility of character which he
attempts to conceal by devouring peas with his
knife, make him look more or less novel. The
utter want of any redeeming feature in the
character of the marquis may also have something
to do with the popularity of Thornton’s party.
The marquis in the Jernil is always a very bad
rich man, and when the blackened Sarah Jane is
resoued out of a blazing kitohen, with the remains
of the paper still clutohed in her hand, it is gene-
rally discovered that the menial’s hair combusted
over the candle just at the place where his perfidy
began to fully develop itself.
* * * *
Westmacott announces that the “ Sham-
rock and the Rose ” both wither to-morrow
(Friday), two weeks of the noble-hearted Irish
peasant and the process-server and the informer
having been sufficient for a tired public. The
last night of the dual herb is to be signalised by
the distribution of a Red Bird bike to some lucky
ticket-holder, who will probably hie forth and
break his neck falling off the machine shortly
afterwards.
# # * *
There is little to say this week about
“ Matsa,” except that that brilliant spectacle is in
its usual good health. Knowles’s songs, “ P’raps ”
and “ The Benches in the Park,” are not quite so
young as they were, but that comedian is still
advertised to grind them out nightly; and he
tells most of the same old stories in the same old
hurry, with th s same bashed hat and white pants
and long black coat and rather venerable boots.
Gulliver mail tains an air of novelty which the
other weary jokist has long since lost. But even
if Knowles was several dozen times more ancient
than he is, “Matsa” could stand him ; the pic-
torial magnificence of that spectacle, and the soul-
fillingness of the Rising of the Nile, and the view
of modern Cairo, and Lauri and Howard Vernon,
and the legs and other things would cover almost
all the sins in ten shattered commandments.
# * * *
All the good old names appeal as usual on
the programmes of Sydney Tivoli and Palace.
Godfrey appears at both houses. The Allisons,
Jessie de Grey, the Leslies, and Frank
Lawton, that successful whistler and unsuc-
cessful pantomimist, are at the old establish-
ment ; while Granville, Cogill, Coleman, and
Alice Leamar haunt the Palace. The shiftings-
about of these people from one theatre to the other
are difficult to follow, but they can always be
found at one of the two institutions. Most of
them have settled down to be almost as regular as
washing-day by this time.
* * * *
A benefit is being organised for J. W.
Sweeney, an old favorite and probably the best
Irish comedian in Australia. As an artistic and
amusing stage ruffian in red hair and a shattered
hat, there are very few men in Australia who can
even approach within gunshot of Sweeney. That
gentleman, despite his many years of good service,
has never yet had a benefit, and he wants to see
what it is like, so it is to be hoped he will have
a big one.
* * * -*
The latest cinematographe, a very fine
one, has opened at the Crown Studios, 382 George-
street, Sydney. The special glory of this show is
a series of mountain views taken from an express
train —a beautiful piece of scenery which
skedaddles past the spectator in red-hot haste and
produces a weird effect. This makes the sixth
cin. that has struck Sydney, and already another
one is rumored.
* * * *
A theatrical man, who saw “Two Little
Vagabonds ” in London, criticises the Melbourne
performance with reasonable severity, pointing
out that much of the pathos is sacrificed to melo-
dramatic effect in the adult-character acting, and
that one or two of the secondary parts have been
strangely misread. But shortcomings in the
pathetic scenes may not be business faults where
an Australian audience is concerned. The trouble
is that only a small percentage of the population
takes kindly to plays which bring tears into the
eyes. “ Two Little Vagabonds ” was not intended
for a country where callousness is cultivated by
the rising generation as a virtue, and a lump in
the throat produces a sense of false shame.
* * * *
“ Two Little Vagabonds,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, is only a moderate success thus far, and
The Bulletin, looking for reasons why the very
pathetic points of this melodrama have not hit
the managerial mark as expected, finds a principal
reason in the fourth act, which presents a series
of hideously impossible events in the Gaffer’s
garret. It is here that the enterprising vag. and
his long-lost father turn up, one at a time, for the
purpose of obtaining a bundle of letters. The
father proves himself an unprecedented ass by
drawing cheques for largo amounts whilst Gaffer
and Co. are preparing to take him into captivity ;
also the heroic small boy, who ultimately
steals the precious letters and rescues his
parent from bondage, rubs a lot of sentimental
bloom off his character when he passes the gin-
bottle to a drunken harridan and sprinkles the
last remaining drops of liquor upon her dishonored
head. A wild acrobatic finish to this scene of
squalid dissipation is foolish beyond endurance.
A few urchins in the amphitheatre applaud voci-
ferously, and the rest of the congregation stares
aghast. “Two Little Vagabonds” would be
vastly improved, for Australian purposes, by the
instant suppression of Act 4. The festive nipper
might steal the letters when the curtain was down
and return home in the last act to be formally
presented to his old man. However, the easy
possibility of dispensing with Act 4 entirely is
not worth discussion, seeing that no such reforma-
tion will be attempted.
* * • *
Other glaring faults in “ Two Little Vaga-
bands ” are, firstly, the death (by a fall from his
horse) of an incidental soldier who gets robbed of
the aforesaid letters, and, secondly, the hazy
assassination of the consumptive boy. The corpse,
in both cases, is quite uncalled for, serving merely
as an excuse for a melodramatic blood-splash on a
white shirt-front, and a solemn removal—in the
soldier’s case —of some rigid remains upon
a stretcher. The boy would be better left alive
than dead when the curtain falls, but since the
authors chose to kill him in the interests of Gloom
they might as well have added a grand funeral
tableau.
• * * *
Miss Florence Terriss and Marie Neilson
improve carefully on their first-night performance,
and all the places where the audience ought to
weep most freely are now saturated with tears.
Miss Terriss, indeed, begins to seem thoroughly
well suited to her character after she gets into
velvet knickerbockers. Miss Ferrar is the same
warm, gushful—perhaps too gushful—mother as
before, whereas Julius Knight weakens a good
deal on acquaintance, and the vulgar Gaffer side
of the drama, misplayed at the outset, is getting
jvorse in its extravagant unreality.
** * *
“ A Village Priest,” with a somewhat new
cast, fetched an appreciative crowd to Melb.
Bijou on Saturday. The revival is for six nights,
and, although a long, searching enquiry into the
religious character of Grundy’s play (from the
French) justifies a verdict of guilty against con-
fessional oaths, and notwithstanding that the
drift of the famous miracle text is quite incompre-
hensible to ordinary mortals, The Bulletin accepts
l’abbe Titheradge with thanks. He means well, no
doubt, and his piety does no harm to anyone except
convict Brough. For that matter, even Brough
comes out all right in the end, when he returns to
prison for a short twelve months —a trifling cir-
cumstance compared with his previous incarcera-
tion—and thereby wins a Martyr’s Crown. Many
people would be glad to win a place in Heaven on
the same terms. H. R. Roberts, in the character
of young D’Arcay, is not so filling as Miss Watt
Tanner’s performance of the blind widow, but it
passes muster, whilst all the old favorites appear
to greater advantage than ever. Time is bring-
ing them nearer to the ages of the people they re-
present. Next Saturday “The Passport,” fol-
lowed by “Mrs. Tanqueray ” on Wednesday.
** * *
The last nights of Bland Holt’s show at
the Royal will extend to April 2. Then a fort-
night of “A Woman’s Revenge ” previous to the
lurid production of “ St. Paul’s ” at Easter.
Meanwhile “ The Derby Winner ” hasn’t moulted
more than two feathers of its early popularity,
and a cardboard announcement that the dress-
circle is full hangs outside the Royal every Satur-
day.
At Poverty Point .
Two Hambourgs are coming to Australia this time :
Mark, as pianist, and his younger brother Jakoff as
violinist. The pianist, though petted and feted in Paris
and London m! Vienna, still yearns for Australia—all
along of a Mtlb .urne girl, it is said. Or can it be that he
wants to be picknicked again by the 27 Sydney ladies who
took him out for an afternoon and refused to allow any
other male to be present on the occasion ?
Melb. demise : Sylvanus Angus, compo. A fine bass
vocalist, unrivalled from 30 to 40 years ago. His singing
of “ Ruddier than the Cherry,” from “ Acis and Galatea,”
was thought almost as good as Melb. ever heard. The
Philharmonic was never complete without him.
Mr. and Mrs. Caleb Porter, who arrived per last mail
under engagement to Williamson and Musgrove, are
pretty well known on the London stage. Caleb was for
three years stage-manager at the Adelphi, and for two
years with the “ Niobe ” co. on tour. He is a cousin of
Softgoods Sargood, but that’s not his fault. Mrs. Porter,
otherwise Marie Neilson, has been associated with several
of the Adelphi successes, and will appear in Australia as
Stephanus in “ The Sign of the Cross ” and one of the
“Two Little Vagabonds.” The husband is a good black-
and white artist.
Last week’s cables brought news of two men who
appeared in the first English production of “Cloches de
Corneville.” Shiel Barry, the original Gaspard, is dead ;
Harry Paulton, the original Bailie, is coming to Aus-
tralia, where he will meet his old colleague, Knight Aston,
the tenor fisherman of the show aforesaid. Shiel Barry,
having started his stage life on this side, some years
before he recrossed the sea, ranks up to now as the
strongest of Australian actors. At ’Ome he soon made a
mark in the Irish “informer” line of character, and his
name became identified with Boucicaultian drama in its
halcyon days, when author-actor Dion B. earned and
squandered thousands a year, and the virtuous colleen
hadn’t yet lost her freshness, and his riverence the parish
praste was a comparatively new personage. No subse-
quent process-server and blayguard informer has quite
come up to Shiel Barry, though they all do their best to
reproduce him. His Harvey Duff, in “The Shaughraun,”
was a remarkable performance which prepared the London
public for his thrilling success, two or three years later,
as miser Gaspard. “ Les Cloches ” dates back to ’7B, but
Shiel Barry will not be really dead until the last surviving
witness of Father Gaspard’s terror has ceased to remem-
ber that awfully serio-comic spectacle.
Frank Cates s tw r o daughters, the younger of whom was
shipped ’Ome the other week, have been adopted by a
great-aunt. His two boys remain in Melbourne under
the care of Tom Kennedy, and are supported for the
present by the Cates fund, which was raised from a
benefit performance in Sydney.
Signora Guidotti was the most curiously looked for
amid the principals at the Coy benefit, in Melb. During
the years since she became Madame Rubira she has
almost doubled in size.
Dear Bulletin,— With Cecchi passes out the last of
a notable trio of Melbourne voice-tutors in the main
responsible for the vocal predominance of the stink-
ful city. Taking results, Sydney has never had three
teachers like Madame Simonsen, Lucy Chambers and
Cecchi , nor is Melb. likely to get worthy successors to
those “mighty dead” until the papas of fashionable
Misses find it safe to float a fresh lot of limited com-
panies.—T.D.
Writes a fair-sex correspondent“ Walter Baker in
passionate scenes rouses a wild desire in one’s breast to
heave a brick at him, or do something to liven him up a
bit. Women admirers, bound to find some excuse for
their idol s strange apathy, profess to know that Walter’s
nearest and dearest relative by marriage sits “ in front ”
every evening, not necessarily to restrain his ardor but
as a guarantee of good faith. 6
Carey was an unconvincing Lord Petworth in Brough’s
recent revival of Grundy’s “Sowing the Wind,” at Melb
Bijou One looked for Boucicault’s hard, ratty little
man, desiccated m the furnace, with heaps of brains for
evil, and a withering contempt for virtuous stupidity
Boucy s Petworth was not less real than his wicked old
uncle in “ Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith.” k d ld
Seeing Harry Roberts, a bright young actor not want-
ing in versatility, attempting the character of Sir Richard
Cursitor, in “Sowing the Wind,” one feels added re«r,tof
for the lank boy who first played it at Melb. Princess’s
Roberts is too pretty, and he cannot give the flavor of
Fielding and Smollett that his predecessor imparted so
cleverly. It must be remembered, though that Rnhei-ta
has not got “Dot” Boucicault behindTm, Dot ”
“ Wehed°„ kn Tv. c i aracters from aII time as if he had
batched with them. [Besides, the original “lank
boy is probably destined to thicken into a fine actor-a
son of the Kendals and nephew of Tom Robertson The
breeding is very favorable.-Ed B] ° n ' lhe
to penetrate so rough a caricature of anointed humbug
a caricature which makes the judicious grieve Thl
judicious need not go to the theatre to grieve-they Sn
sit and mourn in a few local churches where unwholesome
shepherds of the Pretious stamp preach sermons that
should be entitled “ Religion made easy for brethren in
easy circumstances.”
Dear B., —Your scribes3es all seem to hold a brief for a
nice young Melb. man who has designed divers some-
what-garish dresses for pantomime, and been credited
with every created thing in this line that has come along
during the last two years. “Cleo” has joined in the
chorus, and remarks that whilst “ his color is all right, in
form his designs rather need simplifying.” This is picked
out of the jam. The reference is to “Matsa” dresses.
Really, the color is nearly always a crude and trying com-
bination of reds and blues, with an occasional yellow
that gives an artist bilious symptoms. The prettydresses
in “Matsa” are mainly imported, notably those worn in
the flower-ballet, which were sent out by Musgrove. This
artist’s designs, too, with their hard lines, are usually
suggestive of nothing so much as the picture-cards in a
fantastic “ Murkan ” euchre-pack. There are good spots,
and the dresses of the girls representing the local papers,
when “Matsa” was in Melbourne, were worthy of a two-
line benediction.— Dead-Hkad.
In response to Hazon’s invitation, the chorus of Sydney
Philharmonic has been materially strengthened by the
addition of nearly 100 new’ singers. Sydney Liedertafel
is rendering substantial assistance ; and the performance
of Berlioz's “ Faust,” set down for next month, will wit-
ness Josephine Deakin and Jules Simonsen in the soprano
and tenor rOles respectively.
Kennedy, now on his way to Australia again, was lately
reported to be running his awful mesmeric show with
women subjects in the States. A mesmerised female
stiffened across two chairs, with the fleshy professor
squatting on her chest, would probably be a great draw.
Also, there are possibilities, principally in the way of
stocking and ankle, when the lady subjects begin drop-
ping off their chair 1 and accumulating in an insensible
heap on the floor.
Walner Gregory (M ss Watson’s husband), who is looking
after the front of the house for Bland Holt, owes his
stage Christian name to a printing error. An ingenious
compositor set-up “ Walner ” for Walter on a playbill
when Gregory was quite new to the profesh, and the
mistake suggested an easy means of distinguishing him-
self from other actors of the same surname and initials.
Critic Archer hints Mrs. Pat Campbell could not get a
part in the last new London production. How’s this?
Bubble reputation.
Some One :—“ Why don’t the ‘ Lucifers ’ get themselves
photed with some little regard to anatomical possibilities?
In a recent Australasian photo, the male Lucifer shows
on his left shoulder a huge mass of cable-like muscles,
while his right shoulder looks quite different. The only
defect of those cables is that from their position they
could not have Buckley’s chance of attaching to bones
anywhere. Wonderful is the power of the brush in photo-
graphy, but the brush might at least lend artistic veri-
similitude to a bald and unconvinoing narrative.”
Bertha Rossow, now on tour with Antoinette Sterling,
is being well boomed by the publishers of a new song of
Tosti’s— Resurrexit, to wit—which she warbles in sup-
port of our old social-purity friend. Antoinette has Orlando
Harley still in tow, and is only now recovering from an
extended American trip.
Shifter : “ Brough’s stage-management has been in evi-
dence since Boucy left, and is as good on rather different
lines. Old Boucy was too martinet-wooden in handling
the stage, treating people like bags of sawdust. D.G.
veritably relaxed, and Brough is yet freer. Wooden
staging comes from France. In Germany and Italy there
is more ease.”
“ Don’t talk too much about dates,” says Bracy. “It
is 22 years since I came to Australia, but 10 out of the 22
have been spent in London.” Bracy has played every
prominent tenor part in comic-opera during that score of
years.
Ada Lee is said to be engaged to a rich Indian planter
(white, black, or brown not stated); and Jennie talks of
returning to “dear old Melbourne,” where crossing-
sweepers are appreciated on the stage, because unknown
in the streets.
Self-denial comes easy to a great musical artist. Jean
de Reszke, lately married, crossed the Atlantic to fulfil an
American engagement, and didn’t take his wife with him
Several more or less recent importations suggest
the idea that the alleged “artists” have paid tneir
own expenses and a stiff premium to boot for the privi-
lege of appearing on the Australian stage. It is well-
known that one lady of nondescript ability was related to
a couple of “stars” who would not come without her,
which may explain—what some people have found very
hard to understand—why a generally astute manager
should encage such a “ hopeless case.”
Irving’s rather serious knee-sprain came about in an
odd way. After the Richard 111. premifere, he chickened
and champagned the critics, as per usual. After going to
bed he got hungry as a hunter, crept down stairs, and
wolfed some cake. Going back he hurt himself, so that
the house had to be raised and the medico telephoned.
At Brunswick, Vic., where horrible
ructions were expected on St. Patrick’s day, there
were policemen enough along the line of march
to have eaten the Hibernians. At length the
people raised a cry : “ Get away, and let’s see the
procession ! ”
THE SEVENTEENTH.
You fool, with green looped in your coat,
You other fool with yellow,
Each hungering to clutch his throat
And choke the other fellow;
Leave men in lands afar from ours
Their quarrels dunder-headed,
And learn horse-sense in bushland bowers,
When o’er the hills the wattle flowers,
And green and gold are wedded.


Owing to increase in business, Mr. R. A. Her-
vey has found it necessary to move from 28 Pitt.etreet,
Sydney, into more commodious premises at 171 Clarence-
street, next King-street.*
Bleach i no- Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98 100 /, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than llrng
Houses. 11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
.. «« i' » « A 178William-st.,Melbourne;
tjy. rni 3 r K W 310, Peel-street, Adelaide.
® AS
Hrai
The Dolly Superseded.
Every Miner should have the
KOERTZ PATENT
“Little t»lnnt *
Prospectors’ CRUSHER.
Saves Time and Labor.
Price only £3
THIS MACHINE is very Port-
able, extremely Durable, has
enormous Power, is worked with
less labor than any Crusher now
known. Pulverises fine as flour,
and cannot possibly get out of
order. Sole Agent—
Fredk. Mason,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SIB JOHN - -
Power’s Whiskey.
From the POT STILL only.
has removed his Assay Office & Chemical Laboraioiy 10
S,MOORE ST, SYDNEY
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
IF YOU ARB
OF BUYING
THINKING
A (Sood SO Iky . .
Send to
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
75 K ng Street, Newtow,n, Sydney,
For Illustrated Catalogue and Particulars.
P.S. — You’ll be sorry if you don’t.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
According to the Town Clerk’s report, the total
Income of the Municipality of Sydney for 1896 was
£166,500—£40,000 less than it was two years ago—and
this left a deficit of £40,000. It was suggested, the other
day, to add a penny to the current year's rate with a
view to slightly reducing the deficit—it would have re-
quired an extra rate of 4d. in the £ to quite fill the gap—
but even this very moderate suggestion was set aside.
Sydney municipality is a blunderingly-managed concern
which has had woeful ill-luck with its officers and its
accounts, and in many other ways, and it badly wants
some new blood in its municipal billets. It is expected
that Mr. Robert Anderson, of the Bank of N.Z., will be
the new City Treasurer —the former Treasurer being
“in trouble” over an affection of the chest—and if so, it
ought to be the beginning of a much-needed reform in
one department, anyhow.
• • * * •
Sydney City Council recently floated a per
cent, loan of £150,000 privately at £99, and was rather
proud of the operation. Apparently it would have done
much better by calling for tenders. The third-rate town
of Geelong (Via) has just put a 3J4 per cent, loan of
£13,000 on the open market and it realised £lOO 2s. sd.
At this rate the Sydney operation was a needless loss of
£l6BO, even assuming that Sydney’s credit is no better
than that of—ye gods!—Geelong. Sydney municipality
has always had a fine record for financial blundering.
• * * •
This is about the time when N.S.W. Treasurer
Reid should begin to think hard about faking the surplus
for 30th June. Under the old system of keeping the
accounts, each year had to be charged with all the expen-
diture belonging to it, and the Treasury was so slow in
finding out what expenditure belonged to any particular
year that the accounts, of 1892 were not expected to be
closed and the deficit actually arrived at till 1895 or ’96.
Under the “ cash basis” inaugurated by Treasurer Reid
the year is credited with all the money received and
debited only with the money actually paid. There is no
obligation upon the Treasurer to pay all the year’s
accounts that he possibly can and merely leave unpaid
those which can’t be got in. He may, if it suits him, re-
verse the order of things, and for the last three months
or so pay as few as possible and leave as many as possible
unpaid, and by leaving £300,000 of the year’s accounts
unpaid he makes a * 300,000 surplus quite easily. There
is no independent authority to inspect him and see that
he doesn't do this, the matter being outside the Auditor-
General’s province, so naturally he does it. At the end
of February, with only eight mon f hs of the financial year
gone, the N.S.W. deficit was already £442,000, so to pro-
duce even a £58,000 surplus it is necessary to save half-
a-million inside four months. Therefore April is about
the time when a spell of hard, consistent faking should
commence.
• • * *
The N.S.W. wheat-market is in a curious con-
dition. In Riverina alone it is reckoned that there are
250,000 bags of wheat in store, and at present un-
saleable. The quantity in other parts of the province
is unknown, but the sum total is believed to be something
enormous. The Sydney market is glutted with imported
supplies, and further shipments are still pouring in. The
farmers are now willing to sell to the Sydney dealers
below the price of imported grain, but the dealers are so
loaded up with shipments to arrive—ordered under the
impression that the N.S.W. harvest would be a poor one
—that they cannot buy further at any price. It is a
quaint combination of Freetrade circumstances. The
Riverina farmer can’t find a buyer in Sydney, yet on the
17th March some 4000 sacks of Maoriland grain were
landed there. On the 16th 39,000 sacks wheat arrived
from San Francisco. On the 13th over 12,000 bags of flour
from the land of the fragrant leper were fired ashore per
Chinese steamer; on the 11th some 2000 bags flour
dropped in casually, mostly from Maoriland ; on the Bth
over 2800 sacks of flour turned up per Japanese steamer ;
21,000 sacks flour arrived on the 4th from Vancouver ; two
or three small consignments arrived from other provinces
on the 3rd ; the San Francisco steamer brought in 5000
sacks flour on March 2 ; and so on ad infinitum. A really
busy day recently was February 25, when three vessels
arrived from places outside N.S.W. and dumped down big
lots of grain and flour on the Sydney wharves simul-
taneously. No wonder the Riverina farmer finds the
market glutted.
* • * *
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria pub-
lishes its last balance-sheet as a separate institution,
being now in proa ss of amalgamation with the National
Mutual. The figures show a steadily declining business ;
despite its unquestioned soundness, the Mutual of Vic-
toria has been doing a smaller and smaller business ever
since 1887. The large amounts written off for deprecia-
tion last year have apparently further “knocked” the
institution ; an office which admits and writes off its
losses, and goes in for absolute soundness even at
the cost of small bonuses, has no chance with
the average insurer against the one which pays
big bonuses and denies the existence of losses, and
gaily dashes the consequences. The Mutual’s income
from renewal premiums is £100,304, against £102,533 in
’96, £107,272 in ’94, and £113,112 in ’93. New premiums
are £7641, whereas in ’93 they were £8489. The total
income from premiums is therefore nearly £14,000 less in
’96 than in ’93. Interest and rents are £44,851, which is
onlv £9O more than it was four years ago. Death losses
(£34,689) are very moderate, but nearly £24,000 goes in
surrenders. In ’95 the surrenders were over £24,000 ; in
’94 they were over £29,000, and in ’93 they were nearly
£28,000. Another sum of £lll3 is added to investment
fluctuation fund to cover possible depreciation of assets,
making this reserve £22,523, and with all these heavy
drains upon it the amount added to the funds is £36,000,
which is perhaps rather more than might have been ex-
pected, making a total of £901,000.
The interest earned upon the invested funds is £5
Is. 6d. per cent., which is decidedly good, and the fact that
the amount of interest in arrear is very small indeed and
steadily growing less speaks well for the safety of the in-
vestments. The only depressing item is “ Freehold pro-
perties acquired by foreclosure, £85,274 ’ which is an
increase of £20,000 over the figures for ’95, and is £51,000
larger than the figures for ’94. As a rule.it is a bad
thing to see a large mass of foreclosed property on hand ;
foreclosures too often mean that the advances made on
mortgage have been so near to the full value, or so much
over the full value, of the properties that the borrowers
found it cheaper to let the society have them than to pay
up. Also, it is in some cases a much worse thing not to
see a large mass of foreclosed properties on hand ; in the
absence of any independent State audit, or any law
to regulate life assurance business, it is apt to mean that
the situation is too painful to be revealed, and that pro-
perties which are really abandoned to the society are
therefore left to figure among the mortgages, instead of
appearing under the proper heading. The Mutual of
Victoria’s expense rate remains practically the same as
last year (29 per cent, on premiums) and is still very high,
but amalgamation will doubtless reduce this immensely.
The foreclosed properties sold during the year have yielded
£lBOO more than the value put upon them, which cer-
tainly looks as if values had been cut down to bedrock
and any tendency to inflation strictly avoided.
The Mutual of Victoria, to all appearance, is a
very sound and solvent office that was crippled by exces-
sive competition, a high expense rate (partly caused by the
said competition), lack of energy, perhaps, in the manage-
ment, and unappreciated honesty. An office which, in
bad times, fully explains its position, writes off all losses
regardless of consequences, and cuts down its bonuses todo
so, is at a big disadvantage with the unthinking mass
compared with the one which conceals its losses, writes
up the paiper value of its assets and calls the imaginary
wealth thus created profit; which takes credit for interest
not received and never likely to be received and calls it
income ; which creates an imaginary surplus by estimat-
ing probable future interest too high or probable future
mortality too low ; and pays gorgeous bonuses out of the
imaginary funds thus created. And until the State fixes
the method of valuation, and values the assets and audits
the balance-sheet, the society which is too painfully
honest will be at a serious disadvantage compared to the
one which is mainly flashy and gorgeous and sensational.
* * • »
Vio. State Land Bank i 3 putting another
£20,000 worth of 3 per cent, bonds on the market. This
will make £45,000 worth issued, and as the bank has
already granted loans to the extent of £45,000, and the
money for the new bonds won’t be available for some
weeks, and as the bank is receiving applications for loans
at the rate of 45 per week, and has a hundred or two
accumulated on hand, it deserves all possible credit as a
very calm and deliberate institution. Any bank which
was in a reasonable hurry, with such a business doing,
would dump £lOO,OOO worth of bonds on the market and
push things ahead.
* * * *
A week or two ago, it was reported that the
second reconstruction of the A.J.S. Bank was practically
arranged, and that the solicitors were drawing up the
needful documents. No details of the rearrangement,
however, have yet been made public, and the state of the
share-market shows no revival of confidence in the
harassed institution. The shares (£7 10s. paid up) were
on offer last Saturday at 155., without attracting buyers.
A 5 per cent, dividend would mean 50 per cent, to the
buyer at present rates, but perhaps the 5 per cent, looks
too far off to be worth gambling about.
* * « *
The Queensland National Bank’s wonderful re-
construction has practically got through, and after this
almost anything in the way of reconstruction should be
possible. The institution is at present paying interest at
41 per cent, on £5,996,000 —equal to £269,820 per annum.
Under the new arrangement it is only to pay 3J per cent,
on £4,497,000—equal to £157,395 per annum—so that it
saves £112,000 a year interest off the depositors. It
claimed in its last balance-sheet that it only needs to save
£3200 a year to make ends meet, so the above, by its own
showing, is largely a gratuitous looting of the miserable
depositors who are cornered by the operation of the
Government’s prior claim, and have to agree to almost
anything that is offered them. The Q.N.8., by its new
arrangement, pays 3£ per cent, interest on three-
quarters of its deposits, and no interest at all on the
other quarter, so the real rate of interest is
only £2 12s. 6d. per cent. Also, the institution strikes a
truly ingenious way of owing money, and yet not
owing it. It is admittedly *2,163,446 to the bad—
if not more. The shareholders, who are morally
responsible for the whole of this, contribute £464,264
by writing off half their capital; £200,000 comes out
of other accounts; and the remaining £1,499,182 is
provided by writing off one-quarter of the deposits. The
bank admits that it owes this £1,499,182, and promises to
pay it by instalments out of the amount'saved in deposit
interest. But while it thus owes the whole £5,996,000 of
deposits, only £4,497,000 will seemingly appear as a debit
in the balance-sheet, and thus things will look beauti-
fully solvent—at least that is the apparent meaning of
manager Ralston’s explanation. It seems certain that
private deposits are to be treated on this basis at all events.
There is something so simple about the idea of making
things square by omitting a lot of liabilities that it is a
wonder the idea didn’t occur to anybody before.
Under the published scheme, which has appa-
rently been fully adopted, the Government deposit is to
be repaid by 1922. After that, the repayment of the
private deposits may commence, or it may not —there is
apparently no compulsion to repay the private deposits at
all. Out of the profits created at the expense of the de-
positors by the reduction of interest the bank keeps one-
quarter, and the other three-quarters are to be used in
repaying that £1,499,182 of deposits which the bank owes
but doesn’t apparently include aniong its liabilities. After
this is repaid, the whole £112,000 a year saved at the
expense of the depositors apparently goes to the
bank. In order to attract new business, new
depositors are to have a nominal priority, but
as the Government is really to rank as first creditor, and
the new private depositors only come in a bad second, the
priority isn’t so good as it looks. The Q.N.8., with a
saving of £112,000 a year, ought to be able to get straight
in the course of years, unless there are more revelations,
but the cast-iron assurance of the crowd which could
propose such a scheme as the above is an amazing circum-
stance.
• • « •
Queensland National Bank deposits are now
offered at 10s. 6d. in the £ without finding buyers, and an
offer of 10s. in the £ would probably bring in any
quantity of them. A.J.S. Bank deposits are offered at
12s. 6d. with little demand.
* * * »
The London Bank of Australia is reported to
have its second reconstruction scheme practically fixed
up, barring a number of formalities that have yet to be
struggled with. The institution has already repaid 30
per cent, of its deposits ; another 5 per cent, is to be pay-
able in 1899 ; and similar instalments in 1902, 1904, and
1906 ; 30 per cent, is payable in 1915, and 20 per cent, in
1920. This is 13 years later than the date fixed by the ’93
agreement, which is a pretty large extension. Interest
arrangements are weirdly complicated. Up to 1900, de-
posits are to carry 3 per cent, interest ; then preference
shareholders are to get 5J4 per cent, dividend ; and out of
the remaining profits, if any, depositors are to get an-
other 1 per cent. This, however, isn’t to be paid them in
cash, but is to be set aside as a reserve to make up any
future shortage in the above-mentioned 3 per cent., and
if any of the reserve isn’t used for that purpose the
balance is to be divided among the depositors in 1915,
and 1920, or whenever the last payments are made.
This reserve has just three years in which to accumulate,
so it can’t get above £lOO,OOO. After 1900 depositors are to
get 3 per cent, interest; then preference shareholders get
5J per cent. ; and after that depositors get another 1 per
cent, in cash if the profits allow. The bank is not
allowed to pay its ordinary shareholders more than 2 per
cent, dividend until all depositors are paid off. This is a
beautifully circuitous arrangement, but the general tenor
of it is that the interest can’t exceed 4 per cent., whereas
it is now 4J, and as the deposits are £3,350,000 the Lon-
don Bank must save £16,750 a year. Also, as it can
reduce interest to 3 per cent, if required, it may save
about £50,000 a year. Last balance-sheet showed that,
after paying 5J per cent, to preference shareholders, it
was going to the bad at the rate of about £lO,OOO a year,
so the new complicated device leaves plenty of margin,
unless the fading away of the profits continues very
persistently. New deposits are to have a prior lien on the
bank’s assets.
• • * *
The Union Bank shows a profit of .£48,837 for
the half-year ending 31st August, 1896, after applying
£lO,OOO towards depreciation. This is £lO,OOO better
than either of the two previous half-years. A 5 percent,
dividend (£37,500) is paid, and the other £11,337 goes to
increase the available funds. The Union now boasts that
it has £4,641,000 in coin and bullion, and over £3,000,000
in readily realisable securities, against liabilities to the
public of a little over £20,000,000, so its position looks
about as strong as it well can be.
**■ * •
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) pays its usual 7J4 per cent, dividend with
some difficulty. The profits of the insurance business for
the year were £1679, and £4142 received as interest on
investments made £5821. The dividend absorbs £5625,
so the co. adds £196 to its funds. There is not much joy
in the insurance business at present. In 1893 the Stan-
dard realised t'4918 interest on investments; in ’96, with
larger funds, it earns £BOO less. Five years ago the profit
on the insurance business was £13,000 ; now it is difficult
to keep i't up to £l7OO, and in ’95 it got down as low as
£770. The irruption of the underwriting Goths and
Vandals from Europe has taken most of the glory out of
the business.
• * * •
The Federal Coffee Palace (Melb.) takes advan-
tage of the new Companies Act to write off as lost £109,989
out of its £122,752 paid-up capital. The shares, which
were formerly paid up to 195., are now reckoned as 2s.
paid up only. This is about the worst Cold-Tea calamity
of the century.
**» * *
During the coming “ season ’’—floating season—
a well-known Sydney brewery will be put on the London
market. It is intended, with the additional capital ob-
tained, to go in for spirit-distillation on a large scale.
* * • »
It is a matter of much wonder to suburban pro-
perty-holders about Melbourne to find the property of
building societies invariably valued for rating quite 20
per cent, below that privately held. Some of the cases
are very glaring. When there are two houses exactly
alike in every particular in the same locality, one owned
by a building society and the other by an “ornery”
citizen, the former will be found to be valued anything
from 20 to 40 per cent, less than the latter. So far this
circumstance has escaped general attention, but Tin?
Bulletin brings it up as an interesting study for Melb.
property-owners who have no “influence” worth men-
tioning.
» * « ♦
Melb. :“I own a furnished house. An agent
came round to my tenant the other day offering him half-
a-week’s rent to clear out into another house. Agents
get the first week’s rent on letting. The ramifications of
this swindle need only be hinted.”
* * * *
London Financial Times falls with a dull,
sickening thud on the prospectus of the Inverell Diamond
Co. —capital, £450,090, of which only £25,000 worth of
shares are issued ; and wonders why, if all that has been
said of the show is true, the promoters don’t negotiate
with Rhodes and Co., who have much to lose by barrow-
loads of diamonds being put on the market.
* * * *
Hillgrove, N.S.W. “At the Garibaldi, a sus-
pension of labor has been applied for, to allow time to
get more money to open up the mine.” Some persons
have also suspended their growls against the writer for
anticipating this result for poor Bull a year ago.
» * * *
Turn-of-the-Tide, Gundagai, N.S.W. : 25 tons,
2500 z. A well and truly named mine ; Gundagai wants
all the turns of this sort it can get.
* « • *
The recent flotation of the Carbine Gold-Mining
Co. (Coolgardie) has a unique appearance. The vendors,
who “ refused to receive any monetary consideration for
the property,” were content to take £6OOO of working
canital for a sixth share. After spending “ close upon
£6OOO in developing the mine ” and being assured by the
manager “ that he has an enormous body of gold-bearing
stone available for treatment,” the fortunate holders
parted with a sixth share to the public instead of pro-
viding some more of their own good greed fora crushing
plant. The generosity of such speculators is touching.
They risk a considerable sum in proving the richness of
their claim, and when it is proved beyond “ all shadow of
doubt whatever ” they decide to let the public buy a slice
of the sure thing.
• « • *
57 tons of telluride ore from the Boulder Main
Reef, treated at Adelaide, yielded lOoz. per ton.
* • • •
There is gold—and gold. Some W.A. mines
sent large parcels (200, 300, 500 ounces) of gold to Melb.,
which was duly chronicled as sensational yields from
miraculous mines. Nothing in particular was said
about the value of the gold. Fine gold (i.e., ab-
solutely pure, never supplied by Nature the adul-
terator) is worth £4 ss. per ounce. This W.A.
“gold” fetched from 6d. (sixpence) to 2s. (two shillings)
per ounce. The proceeds of 200 oz. at 2s. per ounce
would not pay freight, insurance, bank charges, etc.,
from the field to Melb., but it reads fine in print. “ The
Plethora of Bullion reports a yield of 200 oz. from a crush-
ing of 10 tons.” A little thing like that enables the
directors to unload their shares on the mere public. The
game is not being played so boldly just now—but it is not
abandoned altogether. Large parcels of gold alloyed with
lead (the like of which Nature never produced unaided)
are now being received from the “Gilded West.” And
oh 1 the ingots are a genial shimmering yellow that
sparkles in the sun—just like gold. Add 33 per cent, of
lead to a 3oz. yield, and you bring it up prettily to a 4oz.
yield. The mining managers out west have struck the
philosopher’s stone—that turns lead to gold. They are
quite shocked when the bullion assayers, with unsympa-
thetic, unemotional acids, decide that the yield is worth
£3, perhaps only £2, an ounce. Many mining folk on
Westralian fields add to their splendid ignorance of
mining a pathetic ignorance of how to make auriferous
lead look like fine gold.
• * * •
Great Boulder, W.A. : fortnight, 792 tons,
25760 z. The latest from this mine is the discovery of a
rioh leader “of almost pure gold.” It is supposed to be
identical with the leader in the “jewel chamber,” where l
ever that is. Anyhow, 1200 oz. were picked out, and some
of the nuggets exhibited in a Kalgoorlie window. “The
public are much excited over the great future of the
Boulder and other mines of the locality.” Naturally !
They could hardly be expected to get excited over the
past of many Westralian mines.
A Queensland paper par. : “A wire from Kal-
goorlie says ‘ the Brisbane syndicate claim at Mt. Margaret
has been forfeited through neglect of the labor conditions.
An intending purchaser was within a few miles.’” The
last sentence was probably sent as a consolation, not
as humor.
* • * •
“Morning Star, Mt. Magnet, W.A., cleaned up
4540 z., being an average of 14dwt. to the ton, showing a
profit of £1400.” The profit end of it is probably ex-
aggerated. Manager Bryant has pulled this mine through
many troubles, and the Ballarat crowd owning it has
given a lesson to the Bull managers on the Murchison in
economy of working and management. The yield would
not be worth more than £1760, and to mine and mill 700
tons on the Murchison for £350 looks over-tall.
Iho Brisbane boom in Westralian mines has
gone right off. Queensland Norseman paids 5?d., .contri-
buting 2jd. ; Kalgoorlifes and Glenorehys paids 3Jd. and
4d. ; M‘Clay’s Welcome, 10Jd., lid.
* * * «
The world has received the wired assurance of
Randolph Bedford that “ there is nothing wrong with the
mines at Bulong (W.A.), that they are looking well—only
market operations.” Perhaps Mr. Bedford will be'good
enough to wire something of the same sort re the General
Gordon mine and pups, the shares and shareholders of
which have gone wrong and are very sick. Strange that
the market does not lose its reason concerning the
Boulder, Lake View, and Ivanhoe.
* * » •
Cable interruption last week, and as usual, Wes-
tralian stocks were very much depressed. Confidence
was only restored with the wire. The confidence appears
to be not in the mines, but in Bull, and it is the fear that
Bull may be selling that almost knocks the bottom out of
the W.A. market whenever the line is down.
» » • »
Coolgardie : “Some rich specimens of fine and
coarse gold were brought into town yesterday from the
Bendigo-Coolgardie mine. There is a battery on the pro-
perty, but ft is hung up owing to want of water.” Not a
word re the facts that this bat tery has been hung up over
two years for the want of gold, that thousands of shares
have been forfeited, and that over £20,000 have been sunk
in the show.
* * * •
Meeting of Dresden G.M. Co., Coolgardie, held
in Brisbane to consider a cable offer for the mine; con-
ditional, of course. Anyhow, it was unanimously decided
to accept. When mining men agree to sell, their
unanimity is wonderful. The mine is under exemption,
has more liabilities than shareholders are disposed to pay,
42,000 shares have been forfeited, and Bull is asked to
remit £3OO for working exes. Certainly the best thing to
do with a mine like that is to sell it. What may be
thought of the buyer is another matter.
* * » *
S.A. exported 4002 tons of metallic copper in
1896.
* * * *
Mr. Leslie Jolly to The Bulletin, from Laun-
ceston, Tas. He your par., 13th March, on the
departed glory of the Lefroy mines, a line may in-
terest you. So far as proved on the field, all payable
stone runs out at 400 ft. from the surface. The stone
goes on down, the gold does not. Only two mines so far
have had the pluck to go to a depth. The New Pinafore
is down over 1100 ft., and sinking. The Volunteer over
1000 ft., and still sinking; both these mines will make or
mar the question of deep sinking on Lefroy. Each is
on a distinct and well-defined line of lode! Their records
to date : New Pinafore—capital called up, £460, dividends
paid, £72,000 ; Volunteer—capital called up, £2500, divi-
dends paid, £60,625, good enough to pay a few
calls to fi d out if the gold shoots make again.
The*countrv rock has not changed, the reefs look just the
same —everything is there, bar gold. No official records
before July, ’B6, hut from then to Dec., ’96, the Lefroy
field has produced 84,776 tons of quartz and 88,9190 z.
gold, valued at £355,676, and none of this gold has been
got below 400 ft. But provided we don t strike Tophet
first, we will keep on sinking and hoping.”
* * * *
West Golden Gate (Tas.) just floated with a list
of 28,000 at Is. each. But, so far as is known, there is
only one road to fortune thereabouts—through the Golden
Gate. As the latter is looking better than ever, the
name of the new float ought to be worth something for
scripping purposes.
* • • •
Mt. Lyell has sent away 153 tons blister copper,
and there is another parcel of 100 tons ready. Tipsters
persistently predict another boom in copper, by the way.
* * * •
Oonah (Tas.) sold 100 tons ore, the other day,
for £1558 10s. lid. Despite a lot of deadweight, shares
steadilv climbing up.
* * • *
Apropos of the gorge to celebrate'the opening of
the Lyell Co.'s railway, it is interesting to scan the list of
those invited (remarks an irate Bulletin correspondent).
Shareholders generally were ignored, but useful person-
ages whom it is advisable to propitiate were there in
grand array, and included Ms.P., other local big-wigs,
and last, but by no means least, Gov. Gourmandston. It
is also rumored that the go. pays all travelling expenses !
And why ?
• * • *
Last four weeks’ output from Mt. Lyell: ore
treated, 5667 tons, matte produced, 387 tons, containing
238 tons of copper, 1106 oz. gold, and 15,7440 z. silver. In
mining enterprise before production, this mine has no
equal in Australia. The railway cost £129,000 ; smelting
plant and other machinery, £135,000 ; mining and sun-
dries, £7o,ooo—total, £377,207.
* • » •
Gov. Macgregor’s three-years’ exclusion of
Chinese from the New Guinea goldfields is all right. And
N.Q diggers are reminding each other that, when a hun-
dred or more Chinese sought to invade Towalla goldfield
(near Cairns) on the very day when its three years ex-
pired, the whites simply rolled up with their gups and
warned off the pigtails. Although Cairns always stank of
Chinamen, never a Chinese has fossicked on Towalla
since. The Palmer experience was too recent and too bitter
for the Towalla whites.
• • • •
Mt. Morgan has paid dividend duty to the ex-
tent of £93,750 since its opening, and £6154 royalty.
Struck Oil, a place employing 200 men a short time ago,
is again deserted. The old story in the Crocodile district
—refractory ores. Mt. Champion is a small, but pro-
mising, concern that turned out 7J tons for 50oz. lately.
* * • *
Some Q. crushings : Gympie 1 N. Phoenix, 388
tons, 908 oz. Charters Towers, Kelly Blocks, 436 tons
3760 z. (if this is from the new shaft it is somewhat disap-
pointing); Victoria, 285 tons, 4850 z. Croydon, True Blue
P.C., 1060 tons, 16070 z.; Croydon Consols, 300 tons,
18570 z.; gold worth about £2 ss. per oz.
* * * *
Charters Towers dividends for February totalled
£29,433 6s. Bd. and calls £7336 13s. 4d. For two months
of this year calls were £19,181 13s. 4d., and dividends
£40,704 3s. 2d.
* • • *
Phillip Mennell, once of the Age and now run-
ning the British Australasian, is said to have cleaned up
some £70,000 from the W.A. boom.
9 • » •
In another column appears the prospectus of the
Rutherglen and Carlyle Deep Leads Company, Ruther-
glen (Victoria). The property consists of 3600 acres of
alluvial ground, which has been proved by bores passing
through favorable strata and striking wash from 3ft. to
lift, in depth, in some of which gold was obtained.
The Rutherglen and Carlyle Proprietary G.M. Co.—the
vendors—retain 14,000 shares, fully paid up to £l, and
7000 contributing shares, paid up to 2s. 6d., in full pay-
ment for the property, the balance of 19,000 shares being
now offered to the public at Is. per share on application,
and Is. 6d. on allotment. The brokers are Messrs. Walter
and Harris, Messrs. Boyes and De Little, and Mr. W. O.
Bury, Melbourne ; Mr. Fred. Barker, Bendigo; Messrs.
Stoddart and Binnie, Ballarat; and Messrs. Wilkinson,
Harrison and Porter, Adelaide ; and Mr.,W. Grant Meu-
dell (Messrs. Meudell and Cameron) is legal manager, pro
tern. *


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRULTH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
in all textures, suita Je for
RIDING
BUSH _
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 407-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any radway station or seaport in the colonv
h urnishmgs excepted. J '
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE <&, BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
FINE,r Havana tobacco-ed. Each
** the name CORTO <m the bands, and before of imitation,.
SOCIETY
COOLALTA
pear Bulletin,— lt may sadden the heart
of “Melb.” to know there is a Chinese mission
hall in Pitt-st., Sydney, close to Paddy’s market.
The other night I saw sever*! sleek and cherubic
Chows emerge, and behind them two girl-teachers.
One Celestial, more wily than the others, escorted
the ladies down street. He wore tan-shoes, a six-
penny nosegay, and his trousers had the accepted
Piccadilly fold at the ends. Evidently a love-
sick Chow.—T.D.
* * * *
A CONVERT.
(Founded on Facts.)
Miss Zeal: “You come my mission class
Thursday night, Mr. Lung, learn be very good
man ? ”
Wun Lung : “No feah, Lung no be good man,
no savee.”
Miss Zeal : “ But you attend the mission one
time, long time. Why you leave Miss Stiggins’
class ?”
W? N Lung : “ Miss Stiggin too muchee skinny.
No like’m all a same bone.”
Miss Zeal (severely) : “What has Miss Stig-
gins’ figure to do with the truths of religion ? I
very much fear you no good Christian man, John.”
Wun Lung : “No feah Chlistian. Wha’ for ? ”
Miss FLORENCE SCHMIDT, the Rockhampton Soprano.—A Falk
portrait for “ The Bulletin .”
Miss Zeal : “ Well, all I can say is that we
never buy vegetables from the heathen.”
Wun Lung : “ Huh ? ”
Miss Zeal : “We cannot deal with you, Mr.
Lung, unless you are converted to the true faith.”
Wun Lung: “ Me belive him baptize you buy
’m cabagee me, letucee me, callot ? ”
Miss Zeal : “Yes, John; you come my class.”
Wun Lung : “ You get’m other lady buy Wun
Lung cabagee, Wun Lung letucee, all a-same
Missee Blown, Missee Jackson, Missee Young ? ”
Miss Zeal : “Yes, John, all.”
Wun Lung: “Welly good, o ki; me believe
baptise, same Ilish.”
Miss Zeal : “You good man, Lung; you go
Heaven by and bye.”
Wun Lung : “You buy cabagee me. Missee
Young, Missee Jackson, Missee Blown buy
cabagee me, Lung baptise ? ”
Miss Zeal : “Yes, yes; all buy your vege-
table. ”
Wun Lung ( insinuatingly ) : “You buy tea
Lung? Missee Blown, Missee Missee
Young all buy tea Lung ? ”
Miss Zeal (dubiously) : “ Perhaps.”
Wun Lung ( making a bargain) : “ You, buy tea,
Lung believe blanky hell. ”
Spagnoletti : “The pious girls have to
instruct the Chinamen, because the white-fellows
go to Westralia.”
♦ * * *
H. : “The best-preserved white woman I
know has been married to two Chinamen. She
says she will only marry another.”
* * * »
The Cairns Chinese have been banqueting
again, to the unspeakable joy of the whites of that
sultry town. Various unspeakable soups, mysteri-
ous condiments of grasshopper flavor, sharks’
fins, stewed slugs and fried frog were present in
abundance —to say nothing of a weird, unspeak-
able stink as of sulphureous sheol. White guests
have much ado not to offend their pig-tailed hosts,
inasmuch as etiquette demands that the guest
should partake of every dish offered, and when
the number of dishes mounts up to 20 or 30 the
order is rather big—even for a Cairns man.
* * * *
The “ sassiety ” lady, who lost her balance
one night whilst attempting the Court curtsey in
“ Prisoner of Zenda,” and who subsequently
“ threw up her engagement,” has not retired
altogether from the dramatic profession The
fair artist is “ resting ”at present—on her laurels.
It may have been her laurels that she was resting
upon when the Ruritanian courtiers rushed to
assist her train-entangled form from the Princess’s
stage.
♦ * * •
Somebody writes from Sunbury (Vic.) to
protest against the assertion that Baronet Clarke
and family are objects of local worship. At the
same time the writer admits that the neighbor-
hood is infested by marriageable Ethels and full-
grown Ruperts, christened after the infant
Clarkes of former days. This is a useful thing to
know. When you see a nice girl, with a yearning
maidenly expression of countenance, leaning over
the garden-gate of a Sunbury villa residence, you
just rush up to the vision and whisper “Ethel! ”
and ten chances to one you’ll .be right.
* * * *
Matrimony in three acts—l. Coalition.
11. Collision. 111. Collusion.
Rockhamptonites are
blowing their trumpets
at present over the great
future generally predicted
for gifted Florence
Schmidt, of whom an
excellent portrait, speci-
ally taken by Falk for
The Bulletin, is printed
herewith. And in this
case their confidence is
probably not misplaced.
Before she left the Tropics
to study in Sydney, and
gladden the heart of her
patient and able tutor,
Steffani, the cheerful,
practical young Queens-
lander constantly acted
and sang, as if to the
manner born, with a
fashionable local operatic
company of amateurs.
With her in the leading
role, there was never any
trouble in keeping good
old Gov. Norman awake,
at local entertainments
arranged in his honor,
on his occasional visits
to Rockhampton. And
that says volumes for
Miss Schmidt’s grace and
go. At an earlier period,
when the debutante of
to-day wore short frocks,
she was a most pro-
mising juvenile pianiste,
and, at children’s balls
and such-like, was always
conspicuous as the nimble
and graceful leader of
minuets, gavottes, or
cotillons. Thenherfamily
history is all in her favor,
for though neither her
deliberate German father
nor her buoyant Irish
mother ever laid claim
to unusual musical ability
their children, without
exception, are gifted in
that respect. I lorence, the youngest and only un-
married daughter, is a well-grown, shapely girl, not
pretty, perhaps, but with charming manners, and
hair a few shades warmer than Ada Crossley’s. The
languid, sticky climate of Rockhampton is ap-
parently not unfavorable to the development of
musical talent, though so far only the subject of
this paragraph and Mary Bourcieault have ven-
tured to think of a public career.
• * • •
The first lady inspector of schools ap-
pointed in S.A. gets,<£2so yearly. The male
inspectors receive double that pay. Sweating !
* * * m
This month the Gothenburg system of
selling liquor has been inaugurated at Renmark
irrigation colony (S.A.) previously run on prohi-
bitionist lines. The Act authorising the new
departure was passed last session,, and under it a
committee manages the hotel on behalf of the
town, the profits being devoted to objects ap-
proved by the Treasurer,
* « *
Voice-from, the crowd at “unemployed”
meeting : “What we want is more work—and
less of it !
A FEASIBLE EXPLANATION.
MR. MAC MISERLEY (of Skinbonolong station): “What! twenty bob and
your tucker. Good lord, do you know that I had to work eighty
hours a week for five bob when I was your age?”
FLASH JACK (looking for “ graft ”): “P’r’aps you wasn’t worth more,
boss!”
From S.M. Herald, 16/3/’97 :
\\7 A NTED, a MAN to assist clearing: paddock at
' YVahroonga, rations only given. Reply, Rations,
Hkkald.
Australia for the white man !! ! After this, who
will object to a Chinese invasion ?
* * * *
Recent Sydney D.T. “ wan teds ” :
TAT ANTED, Girl, 12 years age, to mind baby, light duties,
* ' comfortable home, pocket-money return services.
TAT ANTED, General Servant, three in family, no shirts,
'' gas stove, ss. weekly.
TATANTED, Man to assist clearing paddock, receive
' ' rations.
\A ANTED, Girl for Waverley, comfortable home, low
wages.
TAT-ANTED, Lady Help, for country, all duties, small
’ ' family.
WANTED, good Lady Help, all duties, four in family,
' ’ ss.
Lady helps. The Lord help them !
* * *
Maorilanders are
just now so inflated with
pride as to be abso-
lutely unfit for any-
body to associate with.
M.L. has just pro-
duced the meanest man
going; hence the infla-
tion. This person-
adopted an orphan niece,
and for five years kept
her hard at work on his
farm carting earth,
grooming the horse, dig-
gingpost-holes, andother-
wise saving the cost of
a laborer. She got no
wages, and was flogged
regularly to keep her up
to her work. At the
age of 19 the niece infor-
mally resigned her billet,
and bolted with her world-
ly possessions, which com-
prised one pair of shoes,
a skirt, a blouse, and one
or two other trifles ; she.
bolted with them on, as
they were the only ones
she had, and the outfit
didn’t include stockings,
as the old man dis-
couraged such uncalled-
for luxury. Then the
uncle had her arrested,
and demanded that she
should be severely pun-
ished for embezzling the
skirt and shoes. When
the Bench declined, he
requested that the skirt
and the other things
should be returned to
him on the spot, which
would have left the girl
with practically nothing
on. Failing that also,
he retired in high dud-
geon. Maoriland is
thinking of sending its
mean man to England
as a rare exhibit, to take
part in the rejoicings on
Victoria’s 60th anniver-
sary It thinks that something should be done to
celebrate sucn monumental meanness
*** ' *
The ho omi of a gtate gchool c
at Port Melbourne the other night was one of the
most stupendous horrors that has struck a suburb
long famous for its abominations. The children
to the number of 1000 were nicmV.Wi ,
u y , and after being
2r eS IL„T w 7™ ln a atea "\ er * 4”
sea. Result . 700 or more little bovs and
girls heaped and tangled in a chaotic and un
thmkable sickness The local Board of Advice’
cit the instance of the shin-ownv, o p ■» *
draw a substantial cheque over the’ awfulscene of
this grand, unanimous public illness. *
The question
of issuing an
afternoon edition
of the morning
papers at a half-
penny is reeei ving
the serious con-
sideration of a
large Sydney pro-
prietary. Th e
Australian hi s-
tory of attempts
at ha’penny
papers is not en-
couraging. By
the way, machin-
ery has been
ordered for an-
other Sydney
morning paper ;:
but as the people
concerned are
much addicted to ■
twaddle and are ■
not known to •
have any opin-
ions in particular
(except that the
railway should be
brought to Cir-
cular Quay) the'
result will doubt-
less be failure..
* *
Raphael Tuck:
and Sons, t h
Christmas- c a r dl
people, state thalt
“religious cards
do not sell well
in Australia ”;
also, that the
“ motor-car card”
will supersede the
“bicycle card”
in popular favor
in the ’97 season.
* *
Journalist:
“ I jotted this in
a Melb. Court.
Magistrate: ‘My
little fellow,
where will you
go if you tell a lie ? ’ Boy (defiantly) : ‘ I don’t
know. I always tell the truth.’ Magistrate:
‘ Shocking ! ’ ”
*. * * *
“Standing on Prince’s Bridge, Melb., the>
other day,” writes a Bulletin w I
saw a market-gardener returning home wiph a
load of manure, on top of which were sonip. two ,
dozen empty fruit-cases with a thin piece o£<aanvas .
between. I know of my own knowledge that
these cases are seldom washed. Seeing this, I was •
reminded of two persons at present lying under -
sentence of death, and two or three more getting ■
that way ; —-each alleged to have killed but one poor
little individual. Evidently the wholesaler can do ,
what the retailer mustn’t even think about. ”
* * • *
N.S.W. Judge Simpson to female peti-
tioner for divorce last week :—“ Women must-
understand that they owed a certain amount op
submission to their husbands, and if they defied!
AT THE WHEEL MEETING.
“I believe Scooter got a couple of lap prizes on Saturday ?”
"Well, you might put it that way; I know his wife presented him
with twins!"
nlrlfrvKiu 3 and consequently brought on rows
and ti°ub le they could not go into court and obtain
a judiciai separation. He reserved judgment.”
i&TW 30 Jt W - as had been attending
wishS ai TK T* e 1 against her husband’s
n i."' ba s put his finger on the
2™ -° f day ’ but not . to sol^e it; - The
mu. v J' s i , ), v , mu °h submission does a woman
owe her husband ? ” The judicial answer is, “ A
certain amount.”
* * * *
Gilbert Casey, the mouthy New Australia
cnairnmn, is said to be writing a history of the
j / re * , y}G company has been wound up
?" gc nera l division of the land has eventuated,
° <JO <; should contain some interesting items.


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Life Assurance Only.
Purely Mutual.
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO POLICYHOLDERS.
ASSETS
ANNUAL INCOME
SURPLUS
£38,513,663
8,053,406
5,490,123
RESIDENT BOARD:
(with power to ISSUE POLICIES, PAY CLAIMS, etc.)
The Hon Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President of Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. C. WKSTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Office for Australasia:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Kuppers Elberfeld La
MATRIMONY.
HAPPY and Advantageous MARRIAGES
ARRANGED. Strictest Secresy. All
replies to communications sent under plain cover.
Write for particulars to
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association,
57 PHILLIP STREET,
or Box 656 G.P.0., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk S'tkipe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUHTCASTLE !s SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
A Melbourne girl-wife left
her home the other day and
stepped gently into the Yarra,
whence two or three interfering
persons promptly fished her out
and removed her to the hospital.
Then the usual large policeman
clumped seriously to her resi-
dence in S. Melb. and informed
her husband, and it was agreed
by all parties that “no reason
could be assigned for the rash
act.” Great Scott ! Isn’t the
prospect of a life in clamorous,
crowded, muddy, bricky South
Melbourne enough to account
.for any act ? Think of being 23
years of age, and sentenced to
iook at the brick wall opposite,
and to open the grimy front
door to the Chinese vegetable-
man, and to have the stairs
opening straight out of the
dining-room for life ! Also,
think of a life spent in getting
21bs. of sugar from the corner
grocery, and trying to keep the
dust off the threepenny china
ornament on the mantelpiece,
and gathering up the brown-
paper that blows into the yard,
and occasionally speaking over
the fence to Liza Ann next door !
If there was any poetic senti-
ment in the police force, it
would know exactly why a South
Melbourne woman wants to com-
mit suicide, and would take her
to the hospital reverently, and
get her the usual seven days in
a sympathetic spirit when she is
sufficiently recovered to get
anything. The fact of having
the bedroom stairs going right out of the dining-
room is one of those tragedies whose cheap,
sordid, dull-brown unpicturesqueness eat into
the inmost consciousness of the woman with a
soul.
* » * *
The “great” Sydney dailies watch each
other like jealous cats. The Telegraph recently
gave prominence to Newcastle news by putting it
under a special heading like those given to inter-
provincial paragraphs. The Herald followed
suit, and also set three men and a boy to work up
news-items in the coal city. Now one of the
evening papers likewise devotes a separate column
to Newcastle matters. What the Newcastle daily
has to say is probably unprintable.
Both theD.T. and S.M. Herald now lay them-
selves out extensively on country news, with the
result that “mullock” which would only be
inserted at ad vertising rates in the average country
sheet takes precedence of metropolitan news.
Samples :
COOLAMON, Monday.
The convent school just established here opened to-day
with a good attendance of pupils.
GOSFORD, Monday.
A library has been established in connection with the
local public school.
A telephone is to be placed in the local post-office. The
wire has already been fixed in position between the rail-
way-station and the telegraph-office.
COROWA, Tuesday.
Messrs. Piggin and Co. bought 500 bags of wheat to-day
at 4s. Id. The same firm sold to-day 50 draught horses
up to £35 a head.
It might also be noted that “John Smith’s bull-
calf might have broken its leg to-day if it had
fallen into the hole at the corner of Mrs. Smith’s
paddock.”
* * * *
There was a noticeable absence of Sydney
cabbies at the farewells to their generous patron,
Primate Smith. “In journeyings (too) often ”
at a bob a time.
Apropos, a certain very “adjacent ” ecclesiastic,
after handing up a shilling through the roof-hole
at the end of a journey, sang out to cabby (whose
horse suddenly became fractious and kept on the
jump): “My good man, cannot you keep your
horse quiet until I alight?” “No,” said the
cabby, “it ken’t be done. It’s these shillin’ fares
as worries ’im.”
“In journeyings often.” Where the circus is
there will the Premiers and Primates be gathered
together.
* * * *
Australian Primate Saumarez Smith, on
departure from Sydney for England, the other day,
said “ he supposed he might, without affectation,
apply phrases of the great missionary apostle to
his own case, ‘ In labors abundant, in journeyings
often,”’ &c. Quite true, though there are some
little differences between the two cases. For in-
stance, Paul journeyed “in thirst,” whereas the
Right Rev. Saumarez no doubt travels with a
flask. Paul travelled “in weariness ; ” the Pri-
mate goes in carriages and bob cabs; Paul “in
watchings,” and Smith in sleeping-cars. Paul
was flogged by, whereas St. Smith dines with, the
Governor. Where Paul travelled “in naked-
ness,” his right reverence sports apron and
breeches. The strongest parallel between the
pair is to be found in the facts that Paul journeyed
“among heathens” and the Primate among
beastly colonials.
¥ * * *
Shriekingly-funny social item from Melb.
Argus :
During the course of a meeting in the Temperance-hall
last night of women workers, who are engaged in the for-
mation of an association on trade-union lines, Miss Good-
win presented Mrs. S. Mauger with a silver teapot and a.
biscuit-barrel as a recompense for the loss of her husband’s
company through his attention to matters connected with
the Factories and Shops Act.
Poor consolation, but most excellent humor.
» • * •
About nine months ago a Governor’s
daughter was married in one of the Australian
capitals, and the Ministry made her a wedding
present. The unfortunate member of it who paid
DOUBLED UP.
Mr. and Mrs. de Byke are not mad, neither are they suffering from stringhalt. But they have just
accomplished a record tour on their tandem, and have been unable as yet to discard the postures
acquired in propelling that exhilarating machine. Hence the sensation.
up for the rest has, so far, been unable to col-
lect the share of the expense which ought to have
been paid by certain of his colleagues, and he now
discreetly avoids being made paymaster for the
Cabinet in any other joint transaction.
* * • *
The contrast in the mannerin which our great Christian
dailies report the several killings done by the Christians
in Eastern Europe, and the horrible massacres perpe-
trated by the Turk is most gratifying. A spirit of chas-
tened melancholy broods over the former, whilst a lurid
atmosphere surrounds the latter, an atmosphere full of
crimson foam, shrieks, and human fragments :
NOT HIS OWN MASTER .
MISS MINSTER : “ You do not come to my mission-class now , John.”
AH CHOW: “No sabee. Me mallied man now!”
Apropos of a question put by The Bulle-
tin a week or two ago, if N.S.W. Judge Gibson
did the other day give a man three years for
stealing a tin of baking powder ; Mr. Gibson has
as yet taken no steps to contradict the printed
report that, in awarding this monstrous penalty,
he explained that he was determined to deal
severely with prisoner, on the ground that instead
of pleading guilty in the magistrate’s court, he had
got himself sent before a jury (as was his legal
right!), and put the country to an expense
of something like =£2o. The Bulletin now wants
to know whether the prisoner had a record as an
incorrigible criminal, or whether, as rumored, he
Was a harmless and ordinary sort of person who,
under the circumstances, should (taking typical
Australian police-court sentences as a criterion)
have got a day’s or a week’s gaol—or been simply
fined and cautioned. Three years for a tin of
baking-powder ! There has been nothing like this
since men were hanged for the larceny of forty-one
shillings.
* * * *
A very, very well-known sport is said to
be deeply grieved at his wife’s indisposition to go
for a decree nisi. Since the lady cast him off for
ever, he has made a reasonable show of wanting
to be led astray, without much success. Candi-
dates for platonic friendship are numerous enough.
The sighing grass-widower has found lots of girls
ready to ogle him, drive with him, and even dine
alone in a private room with him, but the maiden
who will go partners in a grande passion and bear
him away to the Blue Mountains, or even to
Healesville, from Saturday to Monday, is not yet
forthcoming. Wanted a co-respondent tall,
handsome, fond of horses, and warm in tempera-
ment. Here is a first-class billet going begging.
* * * *
Fluffy : “Be a new name for N.S. Wales.
What about ‘ Sydneyside ’ ? This is the name
affectionately given to N.S.W. by Vic. old-timers.
It expresses its own meaning definitely enough ;
it has already been in use for years, and it is
euphonious. Does it go ? ”
The agitation
by a Sydney subur-
ban council for the
popular election of
mayors meets with
determined opposi-
tion by other coun-
cils, though the pro-
posed system would
be infinitely better
than the existing
one. The rule in
N.S.W. is for office
to go round in as
near regular succes-
sion as possible ;
but the favorite
method is to train
the two most igno-
rant aldermen into
fierce mutual hat-
red and set them
at each other’s
throats on some
date within the
time determined by
the Act. The death
of a returning-offi-
cer’s father lately
postponed the elec-
tion of an up-
country mayor be-
yond the legal date,
and the recent Bris-
bane deadlock is a
notable instance of
how the business
should not be done.
• •
All the Melb.
spook - raisers ad-
vertisings the Age
are women. Spooks,
for some reason or
other, fight shy of
men. They don’t meet an emotional Windeyer
every other evening.
* * * *
The tick is rapidly disappearing from the
Far North. In his place, myriads of beetles and
grasshoppers have entered the field, the latter
having developed a most remarkable liking for
human clothing. Also, the multitudinous fly is
slightly more übiquitous and multitudinous than
ever, and the sausage-machine scoops them in in
myriads. “Downy” Northerners never touch a
sausage in fly-season.
The Turkish beast, with bloody hands
And clotted clothes, in slaughter
Wades to his knees, and fills the lands
With tigerish howls whilst he commands
The death of some pale daughter.
He tears the shrieking babe in twain
Before its mangled mother;
Then, throned above a heap of slain,
He gloats upon the hellish pain
Of slack-baked son or brother.
The Christian kills in sober wise—
Disguising well his club, he
Requests the wife who bleeding lies
To please avert her streaming eyes
Before he brains her hubby ;
And so, although he kills his foes,
And still to slay is lusting,
And burns and shoots whole crowds in rows,
As every “ Keristian ” paper shows
He’s never quite disgusting.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Wiremu A.: You evidently don’t read The
Bulletin R, Cooke : Unavailable A. : A free pardon
is given because the man did not commit the offence
Gauntlet: A hoary veteran C. :£ £ Smith (who was
never very seriously alive, politically) killed himself by
strenuously advocating, in last Vic. Parliament, the man-
hood suffrage vote “and an extra vote for thrift.”
K. : The postponement of a criminal case has often more
in it than meets the public eye. Lawyers know that cer-
tain Judges are very severe in certain oases—or, again,
the panel mayn’t suit the jury-riggers .... Sancho P. : No
use inflaming the row Dugald M‘L. : Understand it to
be bona fide C.L. : Mr. Ward is not dead. He is very
much alive—married an heiress lately A.A. : Neither
W. B. Dailey nor Chief Justice Martin was a University
graduate Gemini : Like hundreds of other things,
held over. Cyril G. : But we couldn’t print it
M.F. : He alleged official neglect, write to the Minister of
Justice. Cannot answer your other question G.W.M. :
So far as is known, there is no warrant whatever for the
mad rush to New Guinea. You ask, “ What to take with
vou.” Well, among other things, quinine and
repeating-rifles, and a compass. And there is some-
thing you should leave behind you—your will
6xB: Of course the white man engaged to cut
burrs would not, like the wicked Cow Bung, collect
ripe seed and put in a burr-crop for the next year
Chirritta : Poem duly dashed with all the dash-power of
the office G.M. (Sydney): Tale hopeless. You take
half-column to say the infant’s name was Brown and he
ultimately fell down a well D.B.G. : Declined
J.M. : Two yarns old ; third, old and stupid ; fourth, old
and stupid and dirty J. Hunt :Do you seriously be-
lieve all the yarns about modern Spanish tortures ? They
mostly come from English papers. The English papers
know a lot more about Australia than about the Phillip-
pines, and one of them reported last month that coal had
just been found here for the first time J.F.D. : Dreary
psalm. Aren’t taking any psalm Tam bo : Sounds
American. “ The blanky mule ” isn’t common in Aus-
tralia H.S.T. : Uninteresting swindle Boris :
Splendid lie. Will use Nemo : What was the great
local joke you played on G. Reid, anyhow? L’Eere-
visse : Your digger, wide awake, was fatally chewed by a
snake and didn’t even notice it. And the other digger
drank a whole bottle of laudanum in his brandy and
didn’t notice that. Such men wouldn’t have noticed Mt.
Kosciusko at ten yards distance Max Murphy :
The “ beautiful maiden with red hair and feet of another
color,” who was attacked by a shark 27ft. long
and weighing 2tf>cwt. is under consideration
T.A. (Canoona) : The bushman’s lonely grave again !
Ju Jah : You complain that in W.A. the import duties
make vegetables enormously dear. Then, for heaven’s
sake, grow vegetables and sell them, and become rich,
instead of looking for non-existent gold and being poor.
M.M.C. : Can’t say. The office poker expert is dead.
Erebus : The most original point seems to be the dirti-
ness of the bigamist’s nails. The fact that the bigamist’s
teeth were black is also noted Tassy (Hobart): You
say 15 per cent, duty on a seed drill landed in Victoria
is only £3. Then you assert that the landed price
is only £2O, though the drill sells at £4O, and that the
importer gets 100 per cent, profit. Do you know what
you are talking about? Joseph Taylor :No one knows.
China has no census, and the population is absolute
guess-work J. O’B. (Bendigo): You are either a bad
romancer or a bad lunatic. Either way, you are a very
bad writer Pica: No good Sambo: “Dogs” and
“Cats” declined W.A.C. : A £1 totalisator is run in
the grand-stand enclosure, and a 10s. in the Derby-stand
enclosure at all A.R.C. and S.A.J.C. meetings and Tatter-
sail’s Club meetings Miner : Our advice is—keep your
head out of the lion’s mouth Tombola : Jewism never
did make a convert, and never can. Every Hebrew must
be a descendant of Abraham J.I.F, : Please see editor re
sketches. Address mislaid Cyril J.M. : Shriekingly
funny. Too funny to print F. j.E, (T.): Many thanks,
Bert de V. : Sorry unavailable Starlight: Name,
please Forest Ranger : No value E.M. : Not up
R.B.H, : The lines are about the same length, and they
rhyme more or less, and they have a certain meaning,
and they are about as far from poetry' as the modern par-
son is from his alleged Master Tinopener : Better drop
it L.R.M, : Pretty thin Nil: Doesn’t shed any new
light on the subject R.F. : Some merit, but too long
for it; and the situation is stale Fitzclajrence : Sorry
unsuitable S. : The Argus will never help its friends
until it has learned to dissemble its love. There would
be hope for even Gillies if the purblind Tory organ would
only spring off its tail, gnash its teeth at him, and curse
him from Dan to Beersheba as a ravening Anarchist
W. : The Vic. G.M.A. Association, C. Towers, is in
150,000 shares, 6000 unissued ; divs., £180,000; started
paying four years ago never ceased; prospects good ;
many more divs. a certainty C. 0.: The story fails, be-
cause, you see, you can’t get into London Truth office
“ disguised as a tramp and interview the editor with a
poem.” You couldn’t see the editor at all under such
circs F.S.F.: Of course it’s “original.” No man born
of Mary Jane would dream of stealing things like that
Maxillus: “Gulf” stale; K., point small A.R.D. :
Chances of Bulletin acceptance are in inverse ratio to
poem’s length quality being generally in direct ratio to
brevity Ursula: Pretty little baby yarns, in nice long
clothes, with frills. Do you like nice long clothes, with
frills? J.J. : Verse tedious T.A.B. : Yarn about
“ The Great Stone Devil of the Blue Mountains ” rejected.
If it had been the Little Mud Devil of the Pink Mountains
we would have rejected it just the same. D.D. : Mere
rhetoric Max : Tame, inoffensive little items. Nothing
quite as unpromising as a tame, inoffensive little item.
Where there’s life there’s h0pe.....V.K.: “Fiction” dull
X. : You make the girl put up her ripe, ruby lips half-
a-dozen times before you kiss her once. Can’t countenance
this shocking waste of good lips J.T. (Vic.) : Rhymed
dust and ashes, versicular jam-tins, lyrical broken bottles.
P.V. : Bite the big words in four pieces, and bury the
blankies in a dark place in the scrub, and bribe the local
editor to print it N. : “ Pal” pretty lurid, pretty dull.
Pariah : Accept six words—“ the porcupine ha 3 a
peculiar voice.” Next year we’ll accept six more
L. : Not up H.E.K. : What’s it all about?
G.L. : Yes, but suppose the fair woman had been Queen
Victoria’s maiden aunt by a former marriage, what effect
would Ibsen have on the minimum wage for a swaggy
with calf-hide boots and one eye named Butler?
L’Ecrevisse : The magical musician in the miners’ camp
died of extreme old age Jan. 27, 1841. R.I.P Ignotus :
Will use L D. : “ Visits ” doesn’t read real S.O.S. :
Wants novelty in idea and treatment G.G.G. : Little
interest J.D. (Boulia) : One may do J.B. : Not in
this paper Z. : So all things are vanity. Neat senti-
ment, bqt too darned novel for this conservative journal.
Send it to a frisky paper like the Catholic Press —which
doesn’t mind what it prints now the Kyardinal is licked
' : +
Crowned heads of Europe have always
fiven their royal patronage to Ed. Pinaud, of
’aris, but never so much as lately ; his perfumes
are now recognised as incomparably the best in
Europe. The biggest hits of Ed. Pinaud have
been “ Violette Reine ” (quite different from
“ Rhine Violet ”), and “Preciosa,” the sweetest
and most delicate perfumes ever made; in fact,
they are known everywhere as the quintessences
of the richest flowers grown in France, and are
sure to be rushed by everybody.*


Tf>€ Prettiest Show
in Sydney at the present time is
at our popular establishment, where
we are making a unique display of
the latest London and Parisian
novelties in Trimmings, and the
newest and most fashionable Dress
Fabrics for Autumn and Winter
wear. If you fail to see this dis-
play, you will miss a great treat.
W. T. WATERS &. CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George nnrl King Streets, Sydney.
CELEBRATED
LOTION.
Greatest Discovery
of Modern Times.
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed
, . E y e s, Dimness of Sight, Granu-
lations &c. Recommended by the Leading Sydney
Oculists. H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-street
Sydney. By Post, 3s. Bot. All Chemists & Storekeepers’
BUCKLEY & UUNU Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBQUENE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England). J
LADIES’ I!- HU
angent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free for 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through l
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTBERB,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silki
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 23,1897.
Mr Dear Mtee—
At the farewell concert given by Herr Kretsch-
inann to his pupil, the clever Yvonne Leverrier,
last week, Sydney Town Hall was packed by a
wildly-applauding audience. Large quantities of
flowers were handed up to the girlish performer,
cheers given for everybody connected with the
show, handkerchiefs waved, and all was enthu-
siasm. It was a free show. And now, because of
this display, and because the four housand or so
invited listeners sat through a long and classical
, programme, including a Rubinstein concerto and
a Schumann ditto without turning restive, every-
body is congratulating everybody else on the love
for the musical art prevailing locally. Miss
Leverrier’s crashing touch often wants tone—she
plays more from her head than from her heart.
When she returns with developed qualities, and
: gives a concert which the cambric-wavers will each
pay the necessary entrance-fee for, then it will be
time to crow over the great local music-loving
public and its appreciation of native talent.
The Saturday night meeting of the League of
Wheelmen’s carnival showed that there is a
demand here for open-air evening amusement. It
was gay and bright to see the trams disgorging
multitudes at the Cricket Ground gates, and to
hear the band playing in front of the lighted-up
stand. All the stands were filled with a crowd
surprisingly dressy, considering it was a night
show. Red gleamed everywhere, the tint was
universal.
Theatrical managers must feel warmly about
Town Hall concerts, bicycle races, and other
attractions. Depressingly thin dress-circles greet
all performers’ eyes just now, and there are
i rumors of some managements dropping much coin
weekly, except at Her Majesty’s, where the long
tin-trumpets quaver Egyptianly to satisfactory
houses, and Bathurst rolls his big blue eyes
upon many juveniles who seem to enjoy the out-
of-season panto. The children devote much
critical attention to the animal procession, and
generally give first place for realism to the camels.
But, then, anything is like a camel—it is such a
miscellaneous animal.
Twenty-six loving couples took advantage of the
day, like Sam Weller’s “gentleman in difficul-
ties,” and were married at St. Mary’s Cathedral
on “the Seventeenth of Ireland.” Lenten re-
strictions are removed on 17th March, and College-
street was a busy matrimonial mart last Wednes-
day in consequence. The bridals were of all
degrees of display—a gorgeous procession with
youthful pages was the most interesting to the
wedding-haunting women who hung around the
portals nearly all day, and didn’t seem to tire of a
spectacle which must have become as monotonous
as a ten-mile bicyele-race. Over two dozen
weddings mean hard work in one day’s business
hours, and several official solemnisers were occupied
in knot-tying with quickness and despatch.
The cinematographe is an optical barrel-organ,
and grinds out pictures instead of tunes. A small
crowd of press-folk was accorded a private view of
yet another cine, on Thursday afternoon at the
Crown Studio, in George-street. A mountain-
gorge unrolled on the screen as it was snapshotted
from a moving train was the newest view shown.
A burning-building scene gave some real effects
in the way of hose played on the smoke ; and the
same red-headed dancer made familiar by other
local exhibitions smiled and shook her flounces
under changing lime-light. Had the boy at the
piano only restrained his ardor in the “ Poet and
Peasant ” overture, the exhibition, which included
the x-rays, kinetoseopic and other scientific toys,
would have been an unalloyed success.
The Lady Hampden, a swagger new ferry-boat
belonging to the Balmain N.F. Co., was lent to
the Engineering Association on Thursday evening
last for a moonlight harbor-trip, It was a most
hilarious outing. So many guests crowded on
board that the white-coated waiters had hardly
room to slide their trays about. There was a con-
cert by male voices and a lively band, and some
lightning-sketches by Mr. Souter, and a loud pop-
ping of soda-water corks all the time. On the re-
turn journey (there was no destination—the ex-
pedition just went there and back again) much
speeohifying took place, and the whole eo., being
mostly engineers and named Mac, sang “ Auld
Lang Syne ” with the fervor of a religious cere-
mony, and shook hands all round, and an impas-
sioned gentleman arose and thanked God for the
existence of the B.N.F. Co.
“ A Night Out,” the piece in which Paulton will
first appear in Australia, is a translation of the
French farce “ L’Hotel du Libre Echange,”
which had a long run at a Parisian Boulevard
theatre (Nouveautes) two years ago. Almost
every manager in London went over to have a
look at it for business purposes, and G. R. Sims
boomed it for tourists by writing it down in the
Referee as too shocking even for Paris ; he con-
sidered it untranslatable, and was, consequently,
aggrieved. It was given up as hopeless, until
Seymour Hicks (husband of Ellaline Terriss) Eng-
lished it presentably by altering the leading
motive completely. In French it was steep, but
funny, and Mme. Pailleron, nice, though naughty,
wore the first chiffon blouse I ever saw. They
were a novelty two years ago.
W. Impett, of Wellington (Maoriland), has
written the “ Chimes Gavotte.” It has gavotted
merrily into a 4th edition on the notes of a bell-
peal. The style suggests that the composer is an
organist. “ Somewhere,” song by Sydney Turn-
bull, only wants a girl with tow hair and a music-
hall manner to sing it into success as a “ serio ”
ballad in a variety first-part, where it should have
a long and useful career. But what is the sense of
Shall I find her ’neath the wave,
Or in some misty cave ?
Is author Bernays going to put on a diving-suit
and search for his love at the bottom of the
’arbor ?
Tasmania has a Governor who knows how to
make the best of both worlds. The Mt. Lyell Co.
invited him to a banquet at Strahan last Friday,
but Gov. Gourmandston, as a devout R.C., had
scruples about feasting on a Friday, and a Lenten
one at that. He begged the spread-givers to
hurry up the banquet and have it the day before —
not the day afterwards, mind you.
The Austral left the Quay last Saturday with
the usual crowd of farewelling friends on the
wharf and a large deck cargo of flowers on board.
This ever-increasing habit of handing nosegays to
departing globe-trotters is solely a first-saloon
attention. The most distinguished passengers on
Saturday’s boat were travelling second —William
Michael Rossetti and his daughter Helen, whose
stay here was curtailed by quarantine. Miss
Rossetti gave her friends some lively grumbles on
the horrors of detention and its dulling effects on
the mind, though it didn’t depress hers very much.
When toney dames and damsels meet to take,
what in Dr. Johnson’s day was called “ a dish of
tea ” together, French is fast becoming the fashion-
able tongue in which to chatter recitations and
sing ballads. Those who pretend they speak the
language watch the performer’s face and smile or
sigh accordingly, while those who don’t pretend
sit in solemn silence in a dull, dark drawing-room
and wish it were bedtime. A Sydneyite was
lately taken to one of these mild foreign dissipa-
tions by his wife, who enacted a bereaved widow’s
part in a playlet. Her accent and manner were
quite perfect, and next Saturday hubby had the
pleasure of reading in social columns that his wife
“ played the widow to perfection.”
“Nemesis’’was played the second night to a
d c. composed almost entirely of show people.
Myra Kemble, J. MacMahon, Meta and Lala
Pelham, the young Bracys, and others were there,
and all seemed to wear the same perplexed ex-
pression, wondering why the piece doesn’t take
better. The crowded audiences that stay away
from the Lyceum would feel glad if once they
were inside, but apparently no attraction is strong
enough to induce them to come in and conceal
those yellow plush chair-backs. The dressing is
all new and bright—there is a tradition that Zidore
de Filoselle and his friends should wear stage boy
clothes. But if the whole piece were put into a
modern dress, and a topical song or two thrown
in, it would go like a Gaiety show. Nina
Osborne k la Florence Lloyd, and the beach-
loungers and belles in fashionable toggery, would
bring the show up to the modernity of Whelan’s
imitations, for which he gets vociferous encores.
At the distribution of medals and certificates to
the Sydney College of Music, on Monday last, so
many girls and women attended that the meeting
overfilled the vestibule and had to be proceeded
with in the big hall. Strings of girls, big, little
and middle-sized, streamed to the platform to get
the awards. In the throng three or four boys
shamefacedly shuffled up. Instructors are some-
times masculine —pupils rarely. Music is looked
at as a girl’s game. Very few of the girls walked
well, they strutted, or waddled, or crept, or jerked
along. And some of them not yet in their teens
had waists !
The ladies’ reading-room at the School of Arts
is at the end of a long passage, in the most
secluded part of the building, and contains half-a-
dozen Queens and other fatuous fashion journals,
and some local weeklies. It is not an enticing
room to read in, so that the lady members will
not be likely to grumble much if, as is proposed,
the committee turn it into a billiard - room.
Some prehistoric prejudice exists about allowing
men and women to take their periodic in-
stalments of literature in the same room,
so the lecture - room will be allotted to
ladies, and the male members will Continue to
have the run of all the new journals and maga-
zines, while in the ladies’ room will be dumped
the same old “ ladies’papers.” In all up-to-date
libraries women sit and read together with men.
The silly distinction of penning off the sexes is as
prudish as the old maid’s arrangement of her
library, which contained separate shelves for male
and female authors. At present, if a woman
wanders into the School of Arts general reading-
room, she attracts as much surprised attention as if
a dodo had fluttered in among the placid pabulum
absorbers.
Nicholson and Co. issue their new music cata-
logue with an up-to-date artistic cover. The list
guides the intending singer through every phase
of vocal sentiment in all the most sought-after
songs, from “The Lost Chotd ” to “The Tin Gee-
Gee,” and a range of piano pieces which takes in
sonatas marked “ very dif.,” as well as the “ Bal-
lyhooley,” is also entirely comprehensive.
The Edison Electric Parlor, in Pitt-street, has
an attractive window illuminated with bulbous
incandescent lights, and inside the hall a bewil-
dering variety of shows. The. cin. is in good
working-order, and, like others of the same,
exhibits chiefly prancing horses and dancing girls ;
applause is always given more to legs—equine and
human than to any stationary objects on the
screen. The X-ray apparatus is weird and creepy,
and relentlessly shows up one’s bony structure. If
it only had been invented in Svengali’s time, he
could have gloated over Trilby’s “ beautiful bones”
by the fluorescent light. All the contents of a
purse can be revealed through the outside leather
and a thick wooden plank. A money-bag, which
I saw myself, laid bare 6d. in silver, two coppers,
and three J nibs, bathed in pale-green luminosity.
Of course, it was a woman’s purse.
An Australian Premier’s wife, preparing to de"
part for the Diamond Jubilee, alleges as the
reason for her anxiety to accept the Royal invite,
that “ the Royal family are expecting us, and will
be so disappointed if we don’t go.” Under the
circumstances, it will not be surprising if a few of
the kawlinies never see their Premiers and
families again, for extra expenses at the Hotel
Cecil will run high, and when the “Premiers of
Old England’s dependencies ” are handed in the
hotel-bill for board and lodging for Mrs. Premier
and suite the total will be alarming. The turbot
and fizz they will so gleefully absorb, under the
impression that the British taxpayer is shouting,
will all be carefully noted in their accounts and
presented to H.M.’s “ paying guests ” as they
leave.
Some local musicians are jibbing at the “com-
plimentary concert” nuisance, which deprives
them of many an evening’s fee. One professional
fiddler counted up his gratis appearances last
year as close on four score, and then, added to this,
he often has a bundle of tickets handed him to sell
for the entertainment. Philosophical professionals
accede to these requests and count the advt. as an
asset, but most of them are agreed that the amount
of gratuitous warbling and strumming required of
them is altogether excessive.
A divorced man comes into town every morning
to business on the cable-oar. One day lie confided
his sorrows to an acquaintance sitting next him
on the dummy. “ It's the way Fate has of rub-
bing it in,” he complained, “ that I should stop
every day exactly opposite the door of the
Divorce-court.” “ What’s wrong with sitting the
other side of the dummy?” asked the friend.
“Never thought of it before,” murmured the dis-
united one—who at once stepped around, and now
rides always with his back to the scene of his dis-
ruption.
A ponderous, but distinctly Nice, person, who
has quite lately taken to learn the bike, astonished
an afternoon tea-party by arriving in its midst
in correctly-cut habit, announcing that she had
travelled the quarter of a mile from her home per
wheel “ after only four lessons, my dear, and I’m
not a bit heated either.” Another arrival, who
had walked unbeknownst behind the portly
cyclist, murmured mysteriously to her next neigh-
bour: “ She is ungratefully suppressing her push-
ing power,” and the two friends, leaving shortly
after, passed on the lawn a muscular boy lying on
the grass panting and prostrate.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“ It is announced up North, although the rumor
originated from the lidy herself, that the gay Mrs.
who lately toppled off her bike and hurt
her nose, has made arrangements to marry an earl.
To prevent misunderstanding, let it be added that
this earl is not the earl, but another one—in India
at present.
“ Melbourne’s pluckiest woman knicker-cham-
pion now admits that cycling in aught but skirts
is a social impossibility. She regrets it. Rode in
‘ rationals ’as long as she could, and still holds
that they are the only sensible clothes for cycling
purposes. But bloomers have been ballooned out
of possibility by ridicule, and by their use by the
socially objectionable. So says this lady, who
ought to be an authority, having ridden in
knickers and skirts of nearly every invented pat-
tern.
“ The solid charms of matrimony are very ap-
parent nowadays in a one-time slim and famous
hunting spinster, who ‘ settled down ’ a year or
two ago. This double-chinned heroine is settling
down so rapidly that her favorite ’orse—if she
means to hunt next season —will probably find its
burden of life greater than it can bear.
“ In the dazzling halls of Holtian splendor, re-
vealed in ‘The Derby Winner,’ several girls be-
longing.to Melb.’s smartest set make their appear-
ance, and cavort sedately in the cotillion. The
most admired is Miss Adelo Kerr, divinely tall
and most divinely fair, who with her superb red-
gold hair and alabaster skin would, as far as look-
ing the part goes, make an ideal Flavia. Miss
Helen Robertson, daughter of a fashionable M.D.,
also looks very well in cream satm and a tiara
like a gas-lit shop sign. The ill-fated Dacres gave
Miss R. her first theatrical engagement, and
during it she went through some exciting and
turbulent experiences.
“ It came as a shock to many Melb. spinsters
to learn that an extremely high-toned and flirt-
some bachelor has been married secretly for several
years past—to a lady of uncertain English and
age. The painful fact was revealed by the excur-
sion into stagedom which several unwitting
damsels lately made ; in that strange realm many
secrets were brought to light, and many little
mysteries which have puzzled female sassiety for
ages past have been cleared up.
“ I hear that a mainland gentleman who lately
took unto his bosom a gilded Tasmanienne had
an experience with Slowbart Customs officials.
Amongst the ’groom’s presents to the bride-elect
was included a valuable diamond necklace. The
Customs people were on the alert, and when the
wedding-presents were announced in the local
press, they arrived on the scene with an enquiry
as to when and how the necklace came. The
finale was that the newly-made hubby had to pay
■£sio duty.
“The composure with which Mrs. Maesmore
Morris, the much-photoed amateur, plays her part
in ‘Two Little Vagabonds,’ is a really remarkable
illustration of Australian ‘cheek,’ or rather self-
esteem. One hears experienced actors speak of
their early struggles to stand motionless, at per-
fect ease, upon the stage. Mrs. Morris, un-
troubled by nervousness, finds no difficulty in
being cool as a cucumber—not a tremor of the
voice, or twitch of the hand, suggests the least
misgiving as to her ability to carry out a few
simple instructions. Up to a certain point, and
under the necessarily calm conditions, there is no
visible difference between cold, natural ‘ cheek ’
and the art which conceals art. People are already
saying that the pretty lady will ‘ do well ’ on the
stage. Well, so she will, as long as there is no-
thing in particular to be done.
“R.C. Archbishop Carr is rousing his Melb.
flock to some more zealous enthusiasm re the com-
pletion of St. Patrick’s Cathedral. On a recent
Sunday, in all the Catholio churches of the arch-
diocese, his priests read a statement of the pro-
gress made, the money expended, the co-operative
efforts and benevolence of the Catholic body, the
chief priest’s own personal solicitations among
the people, and so on. Archbishop Carr’s heart’s
desire is to get the big building completed and
return to headquarters in Dublin. The event
stands a reasonable chance of coming off in No-
vember, when, in the words of H.G., ‘ for
beauty, solidity, and majesty,’ St. Pathrick’s
latest will rank as the finest cathedral in Aus-
tralia. After which a Cardinalship may be the
reward.
“ Local sensation-seekers have just narrowly
escaped a breach-of-promise case. The defendant,
who is wealthy and well known among smart folk’
shrank from the publicity of a trial and settled the
affair out of court by paying five hundred as a
salve to the lady's wounded feelings.”
To hear of John Chinaman’s gifts and graces
(especially his gifts) one has only to visit the
mission-schools and Bible-classes conducted by
young ladies in Lilly Boulke-street and Cabbagee
r Oll. After-hours the zealous teachers can
talk of nothing but ‘my John,’ his fluent reading
his tendency to sing in tune. Then there are
ecstasies over the offerings from grateful converts
—silk handkerchiefs (why not silk stockings’)
lacquered trays, packets of candied ginger One
provident damsel has stored all hers up with a
view to future pecuniary profit.
“Every year the Chings give their teachers a
tea. First time they employed a Chinese caterer
but were quick to notice the poor appetites of
their guests. Now they patronise a European
confectioner, but reserve to themselves the privi
lege of bringing along the ginger, chow-chow and
nuts. Sometimes the fair missionaries quarrel
over the merits of their respective scholars
One boaster cracked up her class unduly at the
teachers’ conference, so a colleague rose and
told the following story (gleaned from her
own John ) at the expense of the braggart’s
pet pupil. The latter bought a dog, she said
from a European market-gardener and gave 255!
for it because the seller declared it was so marvel
lously intelligent. Whenever you said ‘Go inside ’
it did so, an 1 at the order ‘Go outside! ’ its
obedience v, as no less prompt. The purchaser led
the animal home and took it into his hut full 0 f
kerosene-tins and rubbish. Then, not being very
strong in English, he remarked affably ‘Go in si ’
The brute took no notice—perhaps because it was
inside already—so its master tried ‘Go out si'’
with no better result. Then he began to lose faith
and jabbered at lightning speed, though in soft
non-emphatic tones, unheeded by sleepy Toby’
‘Go in si, go out si! go in si ! go out si ! go any
si you li ! You one pound five silling bluggie
letchie ! ’ Naturally the zealous teacher resented
this anecdote, which was further condemned y
the horrified hearers as ‘ most unedifying ! ’ J
“ Apropos of Chinese cult, it’s not only goody-
goody girls that pamper Ah Sam. On various
stations out back the celestial cook is as pleased as
Punch when the mistress of the house goes into
the kitchen with her young lady visitors to bake
cakes. At such times old ‘ slant-eye ’ lays himself
out for fun, dips his fingers into the dabblers’
dough, chases the younger girls round the table,
smears their cheeks with flour, and plays up any-
how.
“At one establishment the pig-tailed gar-
dener rushed into the kitchen one day with bronze
gauntlets on his hands and attacked his compat-
riot, the cook, with a lacquer sword. The latter
a sufferet - from chicken-heart, promptly gave
notice, and his assailant succeeded to his sauce-
pans. Soon, however, the station-proprietor got
a 'letter from a Chinese society in Sydney saying
that the assaulted Ah Curry was related to some
Mongol magnate and blaming the employer
severely for not taking better care of his servants.
At this news the supplanter packed up his swag
and departed, hoping by prompt submission to
avert the threatened vengeance of his countrymen.
-Then the evicted tenant, who had been biding his
time in the nearest township, returned triumph-
antly to his kitchen.
Melb. girls have been badly stage-struck
lately. One of the very prettiest of them goes
Umein an early mail-boat to challenge fortune on
the London boards, where, if beauty and brains
have any value, she should make a name for her
self.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Speaking at Adelaide “Toby” Barton
said he hoped and expected that the whole of the
Australias would live to recognise the value of the
glorious fourth of March (the day of the Federal
Convention elections). Glorious Fourth ! alas for
the mockery of the coincidence. Every second
was e *^ er an actual or expectant
K.G. M.G.
Byrnes goes to England chiefly to mind
Nevermind Nelson, and see that he isn’t bothered
between drinks. In responding to the toast of
his health before leaving Brisbane, Byrnes referred
to the rumor that he did not intend to return to
Queensland. He said the rumor was too absurd
for a serious denial. The Bulletin smiles at the
idea of any man not returning to a country which
pays him as Byrnes is paid and lets him do with
impunity the things that Byrnes is allowed to do
with impunity.
Just when the press organs of right-think-
ing opinion have announced that the “larrikin
pushes ” of Sydney must be “ put down ” anew
and an officer high in the police department ”
has expressed the opinion that nothing but the
lash would do the “ putting down ” effectually, one
police officer is committed for trial on a charge of
brutal assault upon an unfortunate man, just out
of hospital, sleeping in the Domain, while another is
alleged to have stood by and looked on ; and Chief
Justice Darley, after hearing a case in the Supreme
Court in which a third police-officer was con-
victed of assault and battery, said that—
A most gross outrage was perpetrated on these two
young men (the complainants). The police had an oppor-
tunity for apologising for the outrage ; but, instead of
doing that, they sent in reports which the jury by their
verdict had found to be false, and that these young men
about whom these insulting reports were made, who were
of good character, and against whom not one word could
be said, had been grossly outraged. He did not now in-
tend to take the very severe course which at one time
passed through his mind as being his duty to adopt; but
the conduct not only of the police, but the police authori-
ties, was most unwarrantable.
Not only the police, but the police authorities ”
—probably including the officer “ high in the ser-
vice who clings so fondly to the lash—are con-
nected in his Honor’s severe condemnation. And
be it noted that none of the three officers above re-
ferred to is an ordinary constable. One is a
senior-constable, two are senior-sergeants. Ex-
cluding from consideration and comment the case
first mentioned, of which the prima-facie aspect
may or may not be borne out, there is in
several recent conflicts between civilians and
the police more than sufficient warrant for
the assertion that some of the latter, presuming
on the thick-and-thin support of several of the city
magistrates and their own superior officers, are
accustomed to tyrannise over the poorer classes,
who are in no condition to resent ill-usage. It is
°P e ? indeed, whether the “ police
P^ s “’ ” with its outrages unnoticed by a purblind
officialdom, is not a greater menace to law and
order and the public sense of justice than any
larrikin push ” which ever existed.


EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
OF THE
Liverpool & Condon & Globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates,
Head Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ...
Total Claims Paid
Total Claims Paid in Australasia
Income for Year 1895 ...
£9,708,495
32,790.549
2,259,404
2,339,622
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
rpADE
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
* —OK —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- ■ • LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Can’t Rob this Safe.
Hardly a week passes but what some audaciously
successful safe robbery is announced ; and size,
make, or strength does not seem to baffle safe
theives. The only safe that has resisted all efforts
to lower its precedence, depreciate its value, or ro]b
it of its enviable reputation, is Warner’s “ Safe ”
Cure. It is positively proof against all diseases of
the kidneys and liver. Mr. P. J. Heatherington,
Edwards River Hotel, Deniliquin, N.S.W., writes:
“ It affords me a pleasure to be in a position to
acknowledge the benefit I have derived from the
use of Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure. I had for a long time
suffered from kidney and liver disease, which
caused intense pain in the back and sides, for
which I had tried several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, but without any
permanent relief ; so I resolved to give Warner a
‘ Safe ’ Cure a trial, and after taking eight bottles
I am thankful to say I have quite recovered my
former good health.’’ This safe is a safe worthy
the name. It protects life, which is more im-
portant than property, and those who rely upon it
are never robbed of good health. The cost of a
trial bottle, 2s. 9d., is within the reach of all.*
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Pisease,
TYPHOID
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman Melb.
Health Board, says : “ Out and
out Jeffery’s are the best fil
ters.” The Professor of Hy-
giene, Melbourne University,
says : “ Ordinary filters are
powerless against germs so
small as //r-fin.s ;
usea JEFFERY FILTER.”
The Jeffery filterprinciple
is highly recommended
by the President of
N.S.W. Health Board.
Sole Asrent for N.S.
Wales & Queensland :
J. S. Peardon,
4 Bond St.,
SYDNEY.
f
USE A
Jeffery
Filter.
Personal Items.
Strong grounds for the current assertion
that Gov. Brassey is going to England, and won’t
return.
George Giffen will be 36 and Clem. Hill 19
on March 27. On the same day another successful
Australian, Mrs. Campbell Praed, will be 46.
A Crown Minister whispers that District
Court Judge Murray will receive an offer of pro-
motion to next N.S.W. Supreme Court vacancy.
Lord Magheramorne, the recent visitor to
the Brasseys, pronounces his dreadful name
“Mar-morne.” The family name is M'Garel-
Hogg. Thus is Pigdom covered up with titular
straw.
Melbourne sassiety, which is rather rocky
in its own Hinglish, has lately been heaping all
the sins of Mrs. Malaprop upon the head of a cer-
tain knight’s very good lady. Her alleged re-
marks are, as a rule, much too old and ingeniously
droll to be accepted for truth.
A HARD LOT.
“ Vin anything! S’help me, there vas nobody on the flat but Jcws and
Scotchmen! ”
Extract from Mr. Lionel Phillips’ memo-
randum-book : “Don’t forget to see that Miss
Flora Shaw gets her shares.” An Africander
paper digs up the item by way of discounting the
lady’s evidence before the Rhodes Inquiry Com-
mission.
“Tom” Bent, ex-Speaker and boss boomer,
was in the recent Warmambool (Vic.) railway
smash. He did not “experience any shock.
Pooh! After all the smashes “Tommy” has
been in he was not likely to be upset by a little
thing like that.
Old Lord Justice Kay, whose death was
reported by cable la t week, had, when at the bar,
one of the richest practices of the century. Judges
used to pay such deference to his learning that it
used to be remarked that, when he was in a case,
equity was spelt with a Kay.
Died, at Ballan, Vic., the other day, Peter
Tilling, aged 76, original discover and first worker
of the famous Egerton reef, which he and a couple
of mates sold for a song. The mine subsequently
made the fortunes of dozens of Ballarat men,
including the late Martin Loughlin and not a few
lawyers.
Of the 50 members at Adelaide Federal
Convention 10 are knights, made up thus: N.S.W.,
1 (Abbctt); Vic., 3 (Turner, Berry, Zeal) ; S.A.,
2 (Baker, Downer); Tas., 2 (Fysh, Braddon) ; and
W.A., 2 (Forrest, Steere). It is estimated that
before the Convention closes .the forty commoners
will “ have got there.”
A certain N.S.W. minor Judge used to
excuse himself for passing drastic sentences, on
the ground that he did so in order to attract the
attention of the Legislature to the absurd seventy
of the existing enactments. That was many years
ago. The Legislature has taken no notice, and the
Judge is still drastic.
Edward Warland died in Scone hospital
last week. He was the last survivor of the volun-
teers who hunted down the “Jew Boy gang in
1840. The gang consisted of seven desperados, ot
whom Davis, the “Jew Boy,” was leader. 1 iey
had been the terror of the Hunter, and working
up towards Murrurrundi they attacked the smal
station home of Edward Warland, who escaped
from their clutches, and from that hour devote
himself to running them down. Ihe whole gang
was captured, and the seven hanged in Sydney,
16th March, 1841.
Dr. Todd, who figured in a medico-legal
case in Sydney last week, and was also conspicu-
ous at the Dean trial, is the only N.S. W. barrister
who is also a legally-qualified medical man.
Apropos the cable that ex-President Cleve-
land and his wife are separated and have lived
apart for a year, allegedly owing to his cruelty :
well? He was 53, she only 20, when they married.
French tenor Napoleon Boffard, who lately
departed from Sydney, never got a very tough
grip on ze Engiees’ lang-wedge. A couple of days
prior to leaving he told the writer: “It will ren
to-morrow —-I know by ze seeekness of my corned
feet. ”
The wish is likely father to the thought,
but there are people who think that Chief-Justice
Way, who will stay in London till August, will
find by then that the two judgment seats are too
far apart, and will be easily persuaded to elect to
stay in Adelaide. Then the reversion of the P.C.
seat goes straight to Windeyer. At any rate,
there are friends of the ex-major who so interpret
the announcement that “ Mr. Justice Windeyer
will remain in England for a considerable time.”
So Oscar Wilde
has been liberated, and
has gone to the bosom
of his family in some
out -of - the - way, bar-
baric place, and his
wife, it is gravely
stated, will devote her-
self to reclaiming him.
What a task ! Have
you read his clever
essay on murderer
Wainwright, “Pen,
pencil and poison.” It
is an appreciation of
the poisoner, full of
Wilde’s quaint moral
topsy - turvyism and
shocking epigram ; but
the delight in Wain-
wright’s sin is no mere
pose —the writer makes
it apparent that he
has discovered a con-
genial spirit, and the
two men certainly had
a great deal in com-
mon. Says Wilde :
“ He had that curious
love of green which,
in individuals,is always
the sign of a subtle
artistic temperament.”
Then he raves about
Wainwright's lea n,
long, lily-white hands,
his lies, his laziness,
his love of costly bric-
a-brac, his adoration
for the beautiful that
made the poisoning of
his sister-in-law a plea-
sure, her thick ankles
outraging his finesense
of form. Will the re-
claimed and converted
Wilde write tracts or
edit the British
Workman ?
W. E. Adcock, recently prominent in a
Perth law-suit, is perhaps the champion Austra-
lian litigant. Adcock, formerly a big N. Terri-
tory merchant, stopped in gaol in Adelaide for
four years in defiance of an Insolvency Court
order to furnish details of certain assets which it
was alleged were concealed in Melb.
FORCE OF EXAMPLE.
S HE: “ What are you looking for?”
H E: “Just looking to see if there’s a woman under the bed, my dear; you're always
looking for a man there! ”
Joe Cook, P.M.G., and James Blanksby,
M.L.C., are portion of the committee which runs
the Primitive Methodist newspaper. Blanksby,
when a full-blown reverend, one time edited that
paper, and F. W. Ward, now of Brisbane
Courier, began his, N.S.W. journalistic career as
editor of the same sheet.
H. H. Lusk, ex-M.H.R. (M.L.)
and ex-barrister of N.S.W., has an
article in the Forum for Dec. on
American women and American litera-
ture. When disbarred in Sydney, he
went to England and entered entirely
upon literary work.
“If you ask me to wliat this
success is due, I will let you into a
secret. Many people think that for
a journal to be popular it must fol-
low public opinion. This is a grand
mistake. A journal that waits for
public opinion to be formed before it
expresses its own, will infallibly in-
cur the contempt of the public. A
newspaper, to be read, must have
opinions of its own.” —David Syme
in 1868, on receiving the public sub-
scription of £750 over the Langton
libel-case.
The much-advertising Inclement
Wragge, of Queensland, modestly de-
mands that he should be appointed
Federal Weather Prophet for all Aus-
tralia, with the head office of the de-
partment at Brisbane, and writes to
the Age a letter mostly “I” and
“ We,” in which he mildly explains
that his “forecasts” are by far the
best in these provinces. Nobody
reading this effusion would imagine
that Wragge has been wandering over
the face of the earth almost continu-
ously for the last two years, while
“ our ” forecasts at Brisbane were
mostly issued by some unnoticed subor-
dinate. The present writer, by the
way, used to study Wragge’s weather
fiction a good deal, in the days when
Wragge was his own “ we,” with a
view to Sunday harbor excursions,
and as the result of much disaster he
regards that long, ill-fed-looking scien-
tist as about the most disappointing
gasmeter, for his size, in Australia.
When the Federal weather prophet
is wanted, how would it be to appoint
a committee to watch and verify
all the weather prophecies for two
years, and let the man with the big-
gest proportion of successes have the
billet?
Hobart Clipper :
The defeat of Bully Purves at the Victorian federal
polls was probably brought about by the failure of the
noted barrister to keep a sufficient number of his admirers
out of gaol.
Purves was counsel for the successful plaintiff in a
recent libel-action against the Clipper.
Gov. Brassey has had a rubber stamp
made for signing documents, as his right arm is
still unusable. The millionaire’s normal signature
is a curious one. He does it in two big splashy
halves. The first half is “ Bra,” and the second
“ssey,” and his kind friends remark that if he
divided it “ Br-assey ” he would attain the obvious
and disarm criticism.
When the Age exploring expedition left
for New Guinea in the latter eighties Dawvid
Syme called Walker, the leader, into his sanctum
for final instructions. “Mr. Walker,” he re-
marked, impressively, “I am led to understand
that most of the troubles wi’ the blacks have
arisen over the native women. So if you find that
any immorality is takkin’ place when you are in
New Guinea, you have the authority of the Age
to suppress it.” This is probably a lie, but it is a
lovely lie.
Artist “ Jack ” Longstaff only a week or
two ago got the medal which goes with the
Travelling Scholarship won by him a decade ago.
The delay is alleged to have been due to difficulty
in securing a suitable design. One was got in Eng-
land, where the token was minted. It is a solid
gold affair worth about £2O.
“BOB” FITZSIMMONS, Champion Pugilist of the
World.
Photo, by Brand.
It is alleged that one fat Australian politi-
cian who has “ gammoned ” unwillingness to ac-
cept Chamberlain's invitation, within a fortnight
of receiving same got his tailor to measure him
for a Court suit, and had the monstrous measure-
ments sent ’Ome so that the suit aforesaid might
be ready agin his arrival. Diplomacy.
Dean Cowper, now in his 87th year, bravely
undertakes the duties of Bishop’s commissary
during the Primate’s absence in England. A year
or so ago the Dean’s health was feeble, and some-
one reported he had resigned on the score of old
age. The shock of the report set him on his feet
at once, and he has kept well to the front since.
T. W. Stanford, of East Melbourne, has
not seen his native ’Murka for 35 years. He has
such a horror of sea-sickness that he won’t even
cross the Pacific to see the University founded by
his brother, to which he intends to leave nearly
all his money and pictures. T. W. was the firSt
man to introduce kerosene lamps and oil info
Victoria, and he made a pot of money out of the
deal.
It is not generally known why the late
Dean Sheridan (R.C.), of Sydney, retired from
active missionary work. Under the old State-aid
regulations Dean Sheridan enjoyed a salary of
.£2OO. The R.C. Church authorities desired him
to give this amount to the “ general fund,” alßo
to surrender a house in Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney. The dean refused to comply, hence his
retirement.
While Crick, M.P., was addressing an out-
door Convention election meeting in Sydney, the
other night, it started to rain, whereupon the
speaker closed up. “Goon 1 ” yelled the audience
—every audience likes to hear Crick. “‘Go on ’
be hanged,” replied W.P.C. ; “not me. It’s all
right enough for you fellows to stand in the rain.
You badly need a wash. I go for a swim every
morning myself. Ta-ta ! ”
Poor old Baron Von Mueller, ever craving
for public recognition of his life-work, left expresß
instructions that his grave in St. Kilda (Melb.)
cemetery should be merely covered with grass until
such time as the Vic. Government, or the world in
general, might care to acknowledge his services
with a “ brober memorial.” Von Mueller, the
shabby-looking old man, was an ardent admirer
of Von Mueller, the baronial botanist.


THE WOLE AT THE DOOR.
“The N.S.W. public expenditure for the first eight months of the financial year was £442,000 greater than the revenne, The Premier still hopes, however, to end the
year with a substantial surplus."-Daily paper item.
PREMIRE REID: "Great Scott! There's that animal turning up again. I must fix up some disguise for him before June, and make people think he's a lamb."


A VETERAN “KEEPS HIS HAND IN."
A tottering old man named John Jones, aged
84 years, was charged at the City Court yester-
day with the larceny of a purse containing 2s.
6d., the property of Mary Brown* , g ftrgeailfc
Eason stated that in the absence of evidence by
the boys alluded to, there was no proof of
accused’s guilt. But every time accused was
allowed out of the Benevolent Asylum he went
to the market to “try his hand" there.
Accused was discharged with a view to being
taken back to the asylum.
4 s
c A'-
£ v ,£V
seifei-ctl j Ct 7
,, A-
Sa.llfi\%f y^T/x
/{ **
C /*/ J* #
Would ° r 'T d t 0 ! he time «’l>en giant steamera
won d b " ?M nK r‘° tho , and «»« cottiers
ari l „„d » h ° the,r Products to the
and and eager markets in atber parts of the
srK,c b .’ ssr
'la M nag,VC G ommHt‘ he of The
t o/~'i*s £i rci. ,
ST. PATRICK’S DAY
PROCESSION THROUGH THE CITY
passes off quietly
It was probably on account of the "stir”
that was raised before the event and the com-
plete calm that attended .its fulfilment that
made yesterday’a St. Patrick’s'day procession
with its bands and ribbons and gaily colored
banners, appeal rather tame and commonplace.
r ' /VeurS //cm, .
ore
fa~t/ig f- no
, -
c# 5V •
\ V " * ffl' 1 c r o '
iw^'VVS^
i * \ \j--y
MELBOURNIANA.


OLD SAWS RESET.
“ Ol AVE the pennies ” —for a pound of -
Billy Tea.
“ Once bit ’’—always eaten
Grranuma
“ One man may take a horse to the water/’
but unless he is an ass himself he will
always drink
Billy Tea.
GRANUMA “gathers no moss,” but it makes
muscle.
GRANUMAandFODAH and pureBILLY TEA,
The more they be taken the better yoo be.
GRANUMA cures Indigestion.
BILLY TEA prevents all ailments.
“ TRUTH is always best.”
BILLY TER is TRUTH.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
W ,LL,A M FLEMING,
r-MERCHANT-^
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
„ A ln st °ck, and to Arrive -
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
■PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
T , ro _ nr STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
„„ . RELIABLE BUGGIES
.TAIION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE”
Particulars Prices, &c, apply to-
MO E’ S UTTLE & SOM LTD.,
ONCASTEB, ENG., and MELBOURNE
Or 'PUP r„ „
Or the following Ag
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney; GOLDSBROUGH, MORT <& CO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney; JAMES M‘E WA N - * nc\ t a
Geelong; P. LEARMONIH & CO., Hamilton; A. HARRAP tfc SON, Launceston, Tasmania* ROBERTS &CO Ltd Hoha v*~ '!'• . • Ltd., Melbourne; DENNYS T A^rrm’
Kingston, S.A.; QUEENSLAND MERCANTILE CO. Ltd., Brisbane; BLACKBURNE & Co’., Christchurch, N.Z. ; M‘BEAN, 'bOWKER
POLITICAL
POINTS
‘ ‘ Victoria is monarch of England, but I
am monarch of Greater Britain.”— Chamberlain
(to his wife).
Napoleon said that in a hundred years
Europe would be Republican or Cossack. It is.
Russia reigns.
S.A. Assembly chamber, where the fifty
Convention delegates will meet, has accommoda-
tion for 54 members.
The four candidates whom the people care-
fully deposited at the very bottom of their respec-
tive polls were Smith (Vic.), Brown (Tas.), Jones
(S.A.), and Robertson (N.S.W.).
One of the older members of S.A. Assem-
bly is in shaky health, and an ambitious resident
in his district has already intimated that he will
be a candidate for election when “ our esteemed
member, Mr. , dies.”
Old-fashioned Tasmania again. At the
Federal elections 22 names had to be crossed out.
Result : eighteen hundred informal votes out of
eight thousand ! The most common mistake was
the leaving of eleven names on the ballot-paper.
Apropos the exodus of Australian
premiers, Colonel John Hay’s couplet :
As the meek beasts in the Garden came flocking for Adam
to name them,
Men for a title to-day crawl to the feet of a Queen.
Apropos opening Federal Convention with
prayer. There was a great fight over it in launch-
ing the Victorian Parliament, 185fi. Assembly
negatived, Council agreed to the Lord's Prayer.
O’Shanassy used habitually to talk loudly just
outside the bar, while the prayer went on.
To the hobbled Queensland politicians
listed last week, add M ‘Master, secured with the
Brisbane mayoralty. Grimes, who has ever shown
himself ready to do Govt.’s dirty work, is so far
left out in the cold, but he is a nonentity who has
probably been passed over as not worth rewarding.
Herbert Parsons, a nephew of millionaire
Angas, who is an articled clerk in Premier King-
ston’s office, wrote to tell him that he could not,
for political reasons, vote for him on Federation
election day. Kingston replied that he did not
ask, nor did he care, how Parsons voted. Par-
sons is standing for the Parliamentary vacancy
caused by Ash's death, and one of his methods of
obtaining votes is the publication of a letter from
Mrs. Ash, saying how good Parsons was to her
husband, and how sure she is that Ash would like
to see him succeed him in the district. The
Parsons politics are of the rigid Individualistic
order, as were those of George Ash, to whom he
was articled.
Premier Reid’s yearning after surreptitious
Protection is evidenced by his desire to keep the
railways under provincial instead
of Federal management. There
will be no Freetrade inside
the Commonwealth
unless the rail-
ways are under
Federal man-
agement. The
only change
will be that in-
stead of keep-
ingout the pro-
duceof thenext
province by
Customs duties,
it will be kept
out by prohibi-
tive ra i 1 way rates,
and instead of
helping local indus-
tries by differential
tariffs they will be
helped by carrying
their products at one-
quarter the rate
charged on the products
of the people over the bor-
der. For instance, Victoria
threatens to put a duty of 2s. fid. per ton on
N.S.W. coal ; that’s Protection. N.S.W. charges,
or recently charged, a special railway-rate of
2s. 6d. per ton on Victorian coal at Albury, in
addition to the ordinary mileage charge; that’s
Freetrade, but it gets there just the same. And
if the railways remain under provincial manage-
ment, it will keep on getting there just the same.
The artificial ports of Queensland are
wondrous contrivances. Towage, lighterage and
pilotage of the Ettrickdale, steamer with 4780 tons
of wheat, up Brisbane River, amounted to one
thousand pounds! This was discussed in Bris-
bane Chamber of Commerce, and it was admitted
that the river was no better than it was 30 years
ago. And something like a million has been spent
on it in various ways !
The troubles of Tozer,
the dummy-Premier-elect of
Leperland, will begin shortly.
A nice little plant has been
worked on him. The Labor-
party, whose leaders he tried
to nobble last session, may be
trusted to bark at him pretty
vigorously, the discontented
Ministerialists will show their
independence by assailing
him on the flank, and the
Byrnes faction will be stok-
ing up in the background.
When things get to about
their worst Nelson will bob
up serenely with Tommy,
and “go for ’’ Tozer for
having made a holy mess of
things.
The Kanakaland Impe-
rialists are whipping the cat
over the Convention elections
in the democratic provinces.
They think now they could
have squeezed in on a popu-
lar vote. The Labor-party
would have adopted the same
stupid tactics as their breth-
ren in N.S. Wales —run a
full list, talked a hurricane
about what they were going
to do, and got snuffed out;
the Catholic and Orange fac-
tions could have been sooled
on to one another ; and the
Government could have plan-
ted their ten black-labor ad-
vocates solid. All but. It’s
doubtful whether they could
have worked their big gun
(Griffith) even then. He is
a completely burst piece of
ordnance. There are not
many fear him, few trust
him, he is loved by none.
Windsor and Richmond Gazette (N.S.W.):
Bulletin calls the Protectionist party in Victoria the
Liberal party. Why ? In Canada, the Liberal party is
that which espouses Freetrade ; in N.S.W. ditto; in Great
Britain ditto; and ditto ditto everywhere else where
there are two parties.
Then The Bulletin is to assume that the Argus
is a. Radical paper, and that it was the Murray
Smith crowd who brought the Tories to their
knees in “ the Berry Revolution.”
Adelaide people are wroth because the
Federal Enabling Act, as passed there, gives each
of the ten S.A. representatives £2 2s. daily from
the date of election to the time the Convention is
dissolved, or about =£3so per man. They think
Ministers and legislators, who are paid already,
should forego their claim to payment, and that
the others should be content with fees while the
Convention is actually sitting. But, per contra,
it cost Solomon, M.P., quite .£lOOO to secure his
seat, while the legal members of Convention argue
that they have to sacrifice briefs in order to serve
the electors.
NOT TO BE HAD.
AUCTIONEER: “ How much for him, gentlemen—
upstanding, and only four-year old? If you
doubt me, look at his mouth. ”
BUYER: “ Mouth be blowed! Look at his bloomin'
brand!”
S.A. is the only province which has not
returned the Speaker of the Assembly among its
representatives. Jenkin Coles did not stand
because he thought his office should keep him out
of controversial politics.
A SMALL RESERVATION.
REV. BROWN : "Smith, I hear bad accounts of your youngest son;
wants checking ; spare the rod and spoil the child, you know."
SMITH: “No, sir! I don't believe in severity. Moral suasion's my
motto. I've reared seven sons now, and I’m proud to say I
never struck one of them yet—except in self-defence !”
The latest alarmist writes to the papers to
poin > out that no provision is made for a possible
deadlock in the Convention through the votes on
some important question being equal, and dread-
ful consequences may ensue. For that matter, no
provision was made for the equally horrible pos-
sibility that all the candidates who put up might
have got exactly the same number of votes, and so
no one been elected at all. It didn’t happen, of
course, but if it had happened the situation would
have been simply awful.
In the Tasmanian Federal Con-
vention election, although only 88.' 5
electors recorded their votes, there were
1194 invalid papers !
The Prudent Federation crowd,
with its doleful tale about the loss of
N.S.W. trade through Federal railway
management, and the necessity of stick-
ing to provincial control to retain this
trade, pas got its facts upside down.
Under the provincial system, one-
quarter of the N.S.W. exports go out
t ’id Adelaide and Melbourne. There-
fore, provincial railway management
doesn’t keep the trade of the province
for its own ports, and the claim that
N.S.W. should stick to provincial
management in order to keep the
trade falls through with a crash. There
is nothing to be gained by pointing out
that Federal control will allow part of
the N.S.W. trade to go to outside
ports when it is going there in any
case, and has been doing so all along.
“I have heard of a rather ex-
traordinary proposal made to the British
Postal Department by the German
authorities,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “It is that
each European country should carry
and deliver the others’ mails free on
a reciprocity basis. At present the
English mails landed at Naples or
Brindisi pay a toll-tax by weight to
both Italy and France. Altogether
England would not have much the
worst, probably it would have the best,
of such an arrangement, yet the autho-
rities at St. Martin’s-Le-Grand profess
to be much shocked at the scandalous
socialism they discern in the proposal.”
By some inexplicable muddle some of the
N.S.W. Federal election votes were counted twice
over, and the figures were considerably inflated in
consequence. Barton’s sensational i 04,000 votes
are thus diminished to 98,000, and there is a corres-
ponding reduction all round till Robertson, of the
Mangy Dog party, brings up the harmless neces-
sary tail with 1983.
The supremest absurdity in connection
withN.S.W. Premier Reid’s trip to Great Grovel-
land was “Johnny” Hawthorne’s endeavor as
Govt, whip, to nobble support for his boss. The
enthusiastic unanimity which he reported to exist
m favor of the project is ominous of a big splutter
when Parliament meets, and an attempt to jump
Jolly-an’-Fat’s reserved seat. If Lyne and Co
could only induce Carruthers to go a-grovel-
The other day Melb. Argus recovered
sufficiently to start demonstrating by an awful
confusion of figures that the Federal election
after all shows Victoria to be thoroughly Tory a*-
heart. Considering that the returns were made
up of ten Liberals and on'lv two Tories and
these two got in mostly through the support of
the Liberal paper, this is rather steep, but the
Argus says it is quite satisfied with the result
bo now everybody is quite satisfied, barring the
Labor-party, and everybody has won a moral
victory.
Can ballot-boxes in sparse country elec-
torates be shuffled or otherwise manipulated?
The delays in the Vic. Federal returns suggest
the question. Apropos of this, a neat definition of
“ poll ” is given, with the help of a comp., in a
standard law dictionary. It is “ the art of regis-
tering votes at an election.”
Premier Turner is the only one of the five
who takes all his official work with him to
Adelaide and proposes to run his department by
night and attend the convention by day. Practio-
ally the whole machinery of the Premier’s and
Treasurer’s departments goes along with Turner,
and he also proposes to draft one or two Acts and
get his financial statement started, and shove
things ahead generally in view of his visit to Eng-
land. As the results of all this will probably be
fatal, the other Premiers will be quite handy and
convenient for attendance at Turner’s funeral.
Truthful Tozer, at present gallivanting in
Tasmania, says Queensland will come into the
second Federal Convention. Tozer isn’t such a
fool as not to understand that anti-Federation, on
top of leg-irons, land-grabs, black-labor, and
Q.N. Bank horrors makes the load of infamy too
heavy for the present Q. rulers to hump out of the
way of the steam-roller of Ba.nanaland Democracy.
So he would jettison anti-federalism, and, if neces-
sary, black-labor, in order to save the other goods
and chattels. But what a splendid asset the
Q.N.B. will be to the Federal Government!
More than one Convention member con-
siders that the Federal Constitution makers will
be invited to determine whether or not members
of the Federal Senate shall be distinguished by a
life or hereditary title. W. C. Wentworth put a
plank of this sort in his first Australian Constitu-
tion Bill, but it is pointed out that circumstanoes
are now different, and that “the practical
unanimity lately shown to federate under the
Crown ” proves the popular tern pier favorable to
innovation. The popular temper will, in the
event of such a resolution being carried, prove it-
self unexpectedly lively.
The Queensland Labor-party is at its very
worst in Parliament, and at its very best on the
stump during the recess. Throughout the land in
factory, workshop, and on the hillside, the Labor
politician exalts himself and propounds the gospel
of discontent, and the hearts of the people are
touched, the realities of life and their own political
responsibilities are brought home to them. How
different from the average Government supporter I
After lazily dozing out the session within call of
the division-bell, he thinks he has done well if he
meets his committee in a back parlour where, safe
from the mob, he can read them a list of the jobs
he has been able to put through for them.
PROOF POSITIVE .
REV. VISITOR (at bush school): “ This little man has only
been at school a week, and has counted up to fifteen
for me without a mistake. Now, boys, what does
that prove?”
BOY IN FRONT SEAT : “ The teacher boards at ’is place,
and it proves it’s true about the teacher playin' ‘crib ’
with ' im every night instead of markin' our
exercises!”
Tlie accumulated Protestant preachers of
Australia are already formulating a demand that
the k ederal Parliament, when there is one, shall
he opened every day with prayer, after the fashion
ot the U.B. Congress. Each House in the U.S.,
ley thoughtfully point out, keeps a chaplain of
its own, who has nothing to do except open it
with prayer and who gets 900 dollars salary per
annum, the pastors are so deeply interested in
thts point that they twice recur to the thrilling
tact that the chaplain gets 900 dollars per annum.
Australia should remember in after years that the
hrst men to grab energetically for Federal billets,
before there even was Federation, were the
c er gy, w anted to open Parliament with
prayer for 900 dollars per annum. This paper’s
opinion is that all the opening the Federal Par-
liament will want can be done with a corkscrew.
* or Politicians to go through the farce of praying
blasphemy o!^ars per annum —is sheer


Wm. Dymock, the well-known Sydney
bookseller, of the George-street book arcade, issues
Ttfa a „ oon ?P r ® hensi ve “Guide to Sydney and
JN.S. W., which contains information on every
point that can possibly interest an inquisitive
tourist. The public buildings, the sights and
scenery, the places to visit and the best way of
visiting them, are all dealt with in abundant
detail ; and there are excellent maps of NS W
railway routes, the National Park and Port ilack-
ing, Kurmgai Chase and the Hawkesbury river
and a complete plan of Sydney. Many illustra-
tions are scattered throughout the book *
THE CROWN STUDIOS
Cinematograph and X Hag Exhibition.
382 GEORGE STREET
(Seven doors from G.P.0., Sydney).
Entertainments EVERY HOUR; Commencing 11 a.m,
ADMISSION 1/-; Children Half-price.
Radiographs for surgical purposes by appointment.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes
©
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoo’s Noted Accordeoi)&,
Or call at one of our Branches— lB2 King-st., Newtown ;
3 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland ; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
H. F. COX ON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of f> per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
Government Railways.
PECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION,
to and from
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
TICKETS at SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations to
all Main Line Stations, Menangle to Junee Junc-
tion inclusive, and also to Wagga, The Rock,
Yerong Creek, Culcairn, Gerogery, and Albury,
by the undermentioned Special Train, available
for return by Ordinary Trains (Melbourne express
excepted) on any day up to and including THURS-
DAY, 15th APRIL, 1897
THURSDAY, Ist APRIL, 1897.
Return Tickets at Specially Low Fares will also
be issued to SYDNEY from all Main Line
Stations, Albury to Yarra inclusive, by Special
Train Leaving Albury at 6.30 a.m., and from
stations Goulburn to Menangle inclusive by Special
Train leaving Goulburn at 3.45 p.m. on FRIDAY,
2nd April.
RETURN TICKETS at 2d. per mile first-
class (minimum 10s.) and Id. per mile second-
class (minimum 55.) will also be issued from
stations on the Main Southern Line to stations
Goulburn to Mittagong inclusive, by the above
Special Train from Albury.
These Tickets will only be available on the
outward journey by the Special Trains named,
but passengers can return by Ordinary Trains
(Express excepted) leaving Sydney up to and
including FRIDAY, 16th April, 1897.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
“ The Last of Six.
The Seventh Year
of Success.
75,000 iriDailyUse.
Easiest Running
Typewriter known.
Requires less
Movements to
Operate.
Manifolding
Unexcelled.
f tx
f 8A Qt
IS MISn r)
*P
S'*
S**.
TYPEKHIIt*®
Corrections Easily
Made.
Keys all Locked at
End of Line.
Triplex Ribbon
Movement.
Direct Interchange-
able Platen.
Fixed Rotary
Type-Brush.
Solid Ball-bearing
Carriage.
The SOUTH PREIDIER THPEHIRITER SICES
• • EXCEED all others . .
THE, KEYBOARD is specially constructed for Australian users, and the characters are inter-
changeable. The platen is self-feeding. Line-spacing automatic, adapted for column-writing.
Automatic n^ti t and left margins. Solid steel typebars. The only typewriter with solid ball-bearing
carnage. Direct-lateral reversible ribbon movement, with interchangeable spools. Regular rectan-
gular keyboard. Punctuation marks do not puncture the paper, and the only machine that writes
direct on lines without alteration of gear. Special attachment for card writing and envelope
addressing.
NOTE.—Second-hand Machines, of various makes, from £3. Write for specimens of work.
Edison Mimeographs, Stencil Paper, Ink, Silks, Yarnish and Paper, Carbon and Ribbons for all
machines.
. . See Our Special Typewriter Table . .
Fisbcr&LiQgban),
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY.
Sole Importers for Australasia,
1* 2 & 3 Victoria Arcade* Sydney*
15-carat Gold.
Twin Swallow
Brooches.
JGI 2s. 6d. per Pair
(post free.)
15c. Pearl Set.
Twin Swallow
Brooches.
£2 2s. 6d. per Pair
(post free.)
NOTE :
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS—
'/a//re,
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Lot)doQ Bai?k of Australia, Limited.
PROPOSAL POP AMENDMENT OP EXISTING
SCHEME OP ARRANGEMENT.
1. All the extended Deposit Receipts, which will amount to about .£3,350,000, shall be cancelled
and replaced by Transferable Deposit Receipts as from Ist July, 1897.
2. The Transferable Deposit Receipts shall bear interest at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum,
payable half-yearly on Ist January and Ist July, with an additional 1 per cent, per annum out of
profits after payment of Preference Dividend, but the right to such additional 1 per cent, shall not
come into force until after Ist July, 1900, the amount during the interval being carried to a Special
Account as provided in Article 5.
3. The Transferable Deposit Receipts shall be payable as under, namely:—
As to 5 per cent, of the original amount on Ist July, 1899
5
5
5
30
20
1902
1904
1906
1915
1920
or at the option of the Bank at any time before those dates on giving three months’ notice, in sums of
not less than 5 per cent, of the original amount.
4. The holders of Transferable Deposit Receipts shall rank, as regards principal and interest, pari
passu with each other, and after the other Creditors of the Bank.
5. After payment of 3 per cent, on the Transferable Deposit Receipts and the Preference
Dividend, the following provisions shall be made out of surplus profit, namely :
(a) Until Ist of July, 1900, a sum equivalent to 1 per cent, per annum on the Transferable
Deposit Receipts outstanding shall be carried to a Special Account to secure primarily the
interest at 3 per cent, on such deposits, and ultimately to be repaid, so far as it has not been
used for that purpose, to holders of the Transferable Deposit Receipts pro rata on the dates
when the last 50 per cent, of those receipts are repaid.
(b) After Ist July, 1900, to payment of additional interest up to 1 per cent, per annum on the
Transferable Deposit Receipts outstanding, making the interest up to 4 per cent, per annum.
6. No dividend in excess of 2 per cent, per annum shall be paid to Ordinary Shareholders until all
the Transferable Deposit Receipts have been repaid.
London, sth February, 1897.
.
.
■
W. H. PALING & CO.
limited,
INVITE INSPECTION OF THEIR MAGNIFICENT NEW
SHOW ROOM AND STOCK OF
fllUSiCf InSTRUffIEHTS
Violios - •
Well-made models of all the Best Masters, at lowest possible prices;
also a large stock of Old Instruments.
Corpus . .
Besson & Co's “New Star,” Boosey & Co’s “Victor,” Couesnon’s
“ Student's Model,” a Marvellous Instrument at the price—viz.,
555. in case.
(SCiitarS . .
Spanish, French, German, and American.
Strings ■ ■
For Violin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar, or Harp, specially suited
to this climate.
FlGtes • •
Boehm & Pratten Systems ; also Boys’ Band Flutes at very lowest
prices.
ACitobarps . .
Meinhold’s—Three and Six Bar—the Best Instrument in the market.
Mapdolios . .
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CoocertiQaS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and English by the Leading
Maker of the World —Lachenal.
- -
“The Imperial.” These Instruments are beautifully finished, and
the quality and volume of tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices
are extremely moderate.
Tlk Polypbop fiOSical Box . .
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music unlimited.
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Return Mail.
W. N- PALING & CO., Lirpited,
338 George Street , SYDNEY;
AND AT BRISBANE & NEWCASTLE.
BECAUSE
they are PURE beyond all
others, is the reason why
you should always insist on
taking only
ARNOTT’S
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
The Children’s Food.
WILLIAM ARNOTT,
Biscuit Manufacturer,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
BEWARE
or
IMITATIONS.
Every Variety of
TEA !
AND EACH OE UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
ta- SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.


WOKT’X wash clothes.
WOJXT’T WASH
cr.OT rTHia.
BROOKE’S
MONKEY BRAND SOAP
For Gleaning-, Scouring, and Scrubbing Floors and Kitchen Tables.
FOR POLISHING
Metals, Marble, Paint, Cutlery, Crockery, Machinery, Baths, Stair-Rods.
For STEEL, IKON, BRASS and COPPER VESSELS, FIRE-IRONS MANTELS etc
Removes Rust, Dirt, Stains, Tarnish, etc.


Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Leura, Saturday, March 27,12 noon.
Hubbuek, Tuesday, March 30, 5 p.m
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Hubbuck, Tuesday, March 30, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Hubbuck, Tuesday, March 30, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, March 27, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, March 30, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Peregrine, Sat., March 27, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April S, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Mouths.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings corner Gectgf and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, ORABTC.
LAUNCESTON WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
■apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
'Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
—THE—
APELAIPE STEAMSHIP Co.
(LIMITED.)
lExpress Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
IFOR
'MELBOURNE
AJ3ELAIDE
KOffiT PIRIE
Aaxd (ffIULF PORTS.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Saturday, April 3.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Friday,
April 9.
ALBANY,
FREMAOTLE,
Transhipp'nstg-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Saturday April 3.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Friday, April 9.
ESPERANCE BAY }■ Steamer from Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. South Australian (from
Sydney), Tuesday, April 6.
Best <£• Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
171 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape 1 lorn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Erancisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorite terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBAN Y,
-COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatehed MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, =£2s to =£7o, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company s
-Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIKTHEK Itlltmil) KATES.
PAWN BROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.¥. YV.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I CO. (Limited).
* Onf.Y Address:
74 CASTLEUEAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. par month for every <£l to =6lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. permonth for every pound over <£so
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
Loan department.
Advances- made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy. Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SirDNKvr Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities ioi dealing
in Bullion, Bdls of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate vfrhich can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,955,281 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Menres, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Eredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers : John M'Cuteheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant. E. C. O. Howard.
London Office l Sishopsr/Ute Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIiGE STREET.
Manager: John Bla~ Accountant- Lindsay Deuohar.
Broken Ilill, Haymarket, Gosrora (with agency
at Wyongi, Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
, Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
John Maogreg'er
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S. W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BEIOICEHEI.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Cable Address— ltlEMSElL.
Code— Mousing & Neal, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE KEILLOR, of Dublin, Ireland,
last seen in Sydney, September, 1893, is
anxiously sought for. Tram-shares profitably sold.
May have assumed another name. Age, 32;
medium height, prematurely bald. Authentic in-
formation about him will be rewarded. Address—
E. J. CARRICK,
65 Pitt-st., Sydney.
ETTER for B. C. at Bulletin Office
Please forward address to the Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <0 Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
iih< <1 in I lie Conipam .« business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Uriahs, Trusts
and < •limits, 31st Dec inher, 1808 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfkky, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith. Es C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Viee-ehnirai.m ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E q., lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
.TAME® BORROWMAN, Manager.
FR EDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
piicniH Jjssurance Qampany
OF LONDON.
Established, over One Hundred aud Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... £2,088,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,180,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed <£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital ~ .. .. .. t'4,000,006 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,658,659 18 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Cailed-up .. .. 91,340 110
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
— 2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Brandies throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc.. Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. Al. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
Sir VV. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;/ud tors: W.U.Tunkett,
Esq.; Andrew Linn s, Esq. Chief Ma eager Francis Grev
Smith. South Australia (Adi lade, with Branches
throughout South Australii. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addhon. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Direclor: Hon. VV. M'Mil an, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australi. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. M maser: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-strcet Within, E.C. Manager:
W. VV. Oswald.
HE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
T. J. I LIM N,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
TV. A. Kingsborough,
SIIA REBROKE It.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
The Universal Land & Deposit
BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act of 1874
Offices : 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
All business arising out of Real Estate transacted.
Fixed Deposits received to limited amounts.
Address all communications—
THOMAS LEAFE, Secretary.
Legal Notices. ”
Patents Office,
Sydney, 12th March, 1897.
APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF
LETT FRS PATENT UNDER THE
PATENTS LAW AMENDMENT ACT,
1895.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person or
persons intending to Oppose this application must
leave at the Patents Office, within one month
from the 12th instant, notice in the prescribed
, form of his or their objections thereto.
Letters Patent No. 453, 21st January, 1888,
granted to T ’.e Cassel Gold Extracting Com-
pany (Limited), for “ Improvements in obtain-
ing gold and silver from ores and other
compounds.”
The Australian Gold Recovery Company
(Limited), as assignees of the Cassel Gold Extract-
ing Company (Limited) [through their Patent
Agent, Fred. Walsh, manager for Edward Waters],
have applied for leave to amend the Specification
of the Letters Patent above referred to.
The proposed amendments are as follow :
1. To insert after the paragraph terminating
with the words “or closed vessels” the follow-
ing :
“ Whereas a claim simply and broadly for the
use of cyanogen or a cyanide or cyanogen-
yielding substance might be held to in-
clude solutions of any strength, and
whereas solutions containing cyanogen in
a proportion not exceeding eight parts of
cyanogen to one thousand parts of water
are most advantageous, having a selec-
tive action such as to dissolve gold and
silver in preference to the baser metals,
whilst stronger solutions, besides being
more costly, are of less practical value, we
hereby disclaim the use of such stronger
solutions.”
2. In the claim to strike out the words
“cyanogen or cyanide or other substance or com-
pound containing or yielding cyanogen substan-
tially as specified,” and to substitute therefor the
following words :
“ A solution containing cyanogen in a propor-
tion not exceeding eight parts of cyanogen
to one thousand parts of water. ”
A. PARRY LONG,
Examiner of Patents.
[8269]
Shipping. .
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company wil.
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at. the usual Intermediate Forts.
son May 10 May 15 May 19
♦Cabins: at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, "35 to <£7o.
Return, 1. 65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, i 37, £4l, '55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Koyal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—Every Three Weeks.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street,
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd.
Hotels.
Federal Palace
HOTEL,*
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
• &
If rililiililiiliiil.iiiiii
TT
Every Modern Coinfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible v ariety of rooms to
choose from. " Beds, 2-to 10 - per night. TWO
DINING ROOMS. Boarders, 30 -go £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Business Announcements.
High-Class Tailoring.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
IMPORT DIRECT
All the Latest NOVELTIES in vogue in the
Fashionable World for
<a€l)tl€fl?€Q’S SClltiQgS.
OUR SPECIALITY SERGES are Guaranteed.
—Vickerman's Serges and Vicunas—
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Samples Posted Free on Application,
I - T-til/vriKn AT REFORM
Ladies Tailoring . prices.
Ladies ’ Walking - -
or Cycling Costumes
Made on the Shortest Notice.
This Department is presided over by a Cutter of
high-class London Experience in Ladies’ Trades.
CYCLING SUETSJtade to Measure.
All Regulation Tweeds in Stock.
Cycling SWEATERS, GLOVES, and every
other Necessary for Cycling.
Our Celebrated KNITTED WOOLLEN ROAD
RIDING PANTS, 10s. 6d. ; postage, Is.
(Give size of waist when ordering by Post).
DAVID BRAHAM & CO. are the Sole Agents
for Cellular Clothing.
/CELLULAR PYJAMAS.
The most comfortable that can be
worn.
CELLULAR SOCKS.
Cellular Underwear, Tennis and Day Shirts,
White Shirts, Linen Fitted, with Short Fronts
for every-day wear. Dress Shirts, &o.
CELLULAR CLOTHING
DEPOT,
D. Brahani and Co., 384 GEORGE-ST.,
Sole Agents. Sydney.
TAILORING DEPAPTMENT,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George and York Streets).


Packets
Of
Ft CARS
0 PUR£
r, r^jop/4/u> JL
fftanu/acrured by k
' J<t »i ~ P ° j&\
fs\Y£RN£ sw,ril*,AM MM
Is.
WAHOO!
The Remedy of the Age.
For INDIGESTION, lIVIJIt & KIDNEY
Complaints, CONSTIPATION, LOSS of
APPETITE, SICK HEADACHE, &c.
WAHOO
Is a purely Herbal tonic which has
effected the most Marvellous Cures
after the failure of Doctors and
Patent Medicines.
Its wonderful curative properties have been
proved by large numbers of relieved
sufferers, and confirmed by an in-
dependent Press enquiry.
WAHOO
Guaranteed to cure DYSPEPSIA
and to stimulate the WHOLE
SYSTEM.
From all Chemists and Storekeepers, 2 6 per Bottle
(90 doses), or Post Free from
Loasby’s 1 Wahoo’ Mfg. Co., Ltd., 171 Kent-st., Sydney.
We reply on scientific, mining or general
matters for is. Every other subject by arrange-
ment. We will act as your agent in any way at
lowest fees. If you nave money to invest in
mines or property, or want to buy a few shares
only, consult us ; it will pay you. Australasian
Answers Bureau, 35 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. od. everywhere.*
“The Patents, Trade Marks and Copyright
Laws form one of the most complicated branches
of legal science ” This is true, and it is practi-
cally impossible for any one unacquainted with
their technicalities to draw specifications and
claims, &c., that will stand the test of a law-suit
Hitherto expert Patent agents have made charges
simply prohibitive to most inventors but Mr
Arthur Griffith M.L.A., of 39 Castlereaghl
(n ® x H °\ el Australia), Sydney, and Bolton-
street, Newcastle having established reciprocal
arrangement with leading Patent agents in all the
principal countries in the world is now prepared
to do the work accurately and effectively at rates
that will place a patent within reach of the poorest
inventor *or the sum of £2O (exclusive of cost 3
drawings) he will obtain a certificate of Provisional
Protection (in the first instance) for any invention
m the seven Australasian colonies and Great
Britain and full Patents all over the world at
similarly reasonable rates. Mr. Griffith also
makes a specialty of designing and registering
Trade Marks and Copyrights.*
LfMBARFIA
3/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
A™ERMAN E i T
S;”,;™' “> He.eford.sU., IS
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months I
can recommend it to all.” tns ‘ - 1
CYCLISTS
SHOULD
HAVE THE
lonup Tyne.
COMBINES
Speed with Strength
Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
(LIMITED),
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY,
Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Christchurch.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicyck.
For LADIES and GENTS.
“pMRODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
_ fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing all vihration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc iQtercbaogcabk
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T. Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines—
wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “RAMBLER
Grade ” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “ High
Grade” as a sign of Excellence —have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
npßa flvOTrillo ABSOLUTELY the
-Lilt; UTi evilie, CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and fuU
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
Ascot: Racing: ClOb,
MELBOURNE.
1000
November 1897
SOVEREIGNS IMA
in Stakes. iU JU
—November
SOVEREIGNS
in Stakes.
1000
The Great Ascot Gold Cup
500 SOVEREIGNS 500
SECOND, 100 Sovs.;
THIRD, 60 Sovs. ; and FOURTH, 40 Sovs.
Offices: JOSEPH WEBSTER,
Maritime Chambers, Secretary and Proprietor.
135 & 137 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
“I^OWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
P er »on who Is not a millionaire, there are
£ TVVO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
, one 18 “ 1,,K CItKSCBMT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
u tmV. "‘ s * ree 4 Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KIiSG bTREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor «KO. IV. EM.IS.
Wanted.
TJCT"G^ e ptleman with <£soo to Buy
Kar.iT ; lar ® m a Patent. Can get money
nrtioi m ( SIX . Inon^ls > making 500 per cent, ow
article of universal demand.
Bona Fide, Box 2187, 0.P.0., Sydney.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Good as is Newhaven, it is perhaps too much to
expect him to win Sydney Cup with the thumping impost
of 9st. 51b. Resolute is the blot of the handicap, and he
only has to be delivered at the post fit and well to win.
The Meddler, Hopsootch, Tom, and Reka appear his
most dangerous opponents. Kelso seems to hold the key
of the Doncaster, and his selected should about win,
although Pharamond, Dalmeny, Valiant, and Phillip may
be expected to run well. The crack two-year-old Aurum
is much fancied by a lot of good judges, but Bst. 61b. is a
crusher for a youngster in such a race.
• * • *
The weights for S.A.J.C. Autumn handicaps
give promise of good acceptances. In Goodwood Handicap
the Newmarket failure, Staffa, has been given a good
chance, whilst the well-bred Thunder Queen looks, on
paper, very like the winner of Adelaide Cup.
* * * •
The Caulfield Cup winner, Cremorne, is gaining
many friends for Doncaster by his good work at Rand-
wick, but he will probably find 9st. 91b. a steadier for a
fast mile. The Newmarket disappointment, Valiant, is
going well at exercise, and he may show something like
true form when the punting public is not “ on.”
* * * *
Sweep-money considerations brought out a good
field of handicap horses at Moorefield (N.S.W.) last Satur-
day, when Kelso simply farmed the big event by running
first, third, fourth and sixth with horses under his charge.
The winner turned up in the hitherto unlucky Reka, and
this raking brother to Portsea will have a big say in the
Doncaster and Sydney Cup, in which races he is nicely
handicapped with 7st. 91b. and 7st. 51b.
• » * •
Cabled that the Queen’s Bench Division has just
upheld the claim of the Anti-Gambling League that ready-
money betting at Tattersall’s, in the ring and at race-
courses, is illegal. A Sydney case will be affected by this
decision. And generally the gentle gambler will have his
occupation gone, in theory anyway, until the Court of
Appeal upsets the Q.B.D. or the House of Lords upsets
both. But it is significant that nothing is said about
betting on credit.
• • • *
The fashionably-bred youngster Carbinier (Car-
bine—Barley) is to be put through his pas by Walter
Hickenbotham, the trainer of Newhaven. Barley is an
imported mare by the mighty Barcaldine out of the very
handsome Lonely, an Oaks winner, so, if fashionable nicks
go for aught, this colt should turn out a hummer.
• » * *
M.L. Amateur Athletic Association, just dis-
covering that bookies did howling biz at its last cham-
pionship meeting, has turned wrathfully censorious and
denunciatory. Yet everyone could see it on the day.
Not only the public, but competitors, backed themselves
or their fancies. The “ lily-white” amateur, who doesn’t
race for money, but who puts his year’s savings on his
chance and then sweeps down the ’straight for a pawn-
shop medal, is a truly wonderful product of modern
athleticism. Writer knows of one alleged amateur who
won £2OO at a minor meeting a while back. And it isn’t
easy to scoop in that sum in M.L. just now.
• • • •
Gov. Jerry Smith has given up horse-racing
in Westralia. He had a string of horses, but they seemed
to have Gov. Jerry on a string too.
* • •
In North M.L. a most astute turfite got taken
down in a painful way. A Maori priced an indifferent
galloping crock in training, which the owner was glad to
sell, giving three weeks’ credit. The neddy skinned the
pool at an outback meeting the week afterwards under a
false name, and next day the heathen returned the prad
saying he couldn’t raise the selling price. Result: a dis-
qualified horse in a respectable stable, and a vanished
Maori with pocketed stakes.
* * * *
W. R. Wilson takes with him to England, this
trip, a St. Alban’s stud-book and history of the stable
during his six years’ reign. Which suggests that “ the
master of St. Alban’s” will be open to receive- offers for
all or any of his blood stock.
* * * *
Paragraphs in the Melbourne, “respectable”
press, re the send-off dinner to bookmakers Arnfield and
Sam Allen, gave an air of decent convivality to what was
really a vulgar oiyie. It is time that editors ceased to
provide free advertisement for Ikey Mo’s little bean-
feasts, unless they (the editors) like to show a little
public spirit by publishing the truth about the behaviour
of the guests.
* * * *
R. Hesketh, the blind mat-maker of Tamworth
who won about £4OOO in a sweep lately, was waited upon,
when the telegram announcing the fact became known, by
representatives of the local Ladies’ Benevolent Society.
These produced an account showing that in the twelve
past years the old man had been relieved by them to the
extent of £lB3 6s. 7d., and they signified a desire for a
liberal cheque. Hesketh gave them £lOO. “ I’d a-given
ye £200,” he said, “ only for yer greedy ’urry.”
* « * »
Donald Wallace pursues an unwise policy in
naming his yearlings; purchasers invariably prefer to
label their own purchases. “ He’s not a bad nag, and I’d
have given the price for him, only for the blanky name,”
has been heard more than once in the saleyards.
* * * •
The question is often asked by the ordinary
Sydney citizen—“ Why are the totes permitted to do
business so openly,, seeing it is illegal ? ” Perhaps it would
be worth Inspector-General Fosbery’s while taking a walk
along Pitt or King streets, for he would daily see police-
men in uniform and plainclothes detectives choosing
their doubles and backing their fancies.
* * • *
Proprietor Webster, of the Ascot pony race-
course, Melb. (a nephew of George Webster, the ware-
houseman), graduated in the thimble-and-thread depart-
ment, and when he first took to the turf showed a fond
remembrance of old friends by naming some of the events
after various “ heads of departments ” in Nunky’s big
shop. There were the James Blankets Handicap, for
instance, and the Charlie Muslins Maiden Plate, and so on
ad. lib. This kind of celebrity didn’t seem to suit the
favored parties, however. They served the racing Web-
ster with an important-looking document, desiring him to
discontinue the practice of wafting horsey odors towards
Flinders Lane.
* * » •
A third half-yearly volume of J. J. Miller’s
Australian Racing Chronicle (from Aug. 1, 1896, to
January 31, 1897) has just been issued at the moderate
price of ss.,'together with some figures showing the dif-
ference in sporting value between two half-yearly volumes
of the Chronicle (cost 10s.) and the annual Turf Register
(published at 30s. from the Argus office), which used to
be the recognised record of racing in this country.
Whereas Miller’s laboriously-compiled history contains
particulars of 1194 meetings in the 12 months the Turf
Register deals with 358 only, less than a third of
the full total. The index to this latest volume
of the Racing Chronicle comprises names and pedi-
grees of over 5000 horses, begotten by 600 odd sires.
Newminster ranks as champion sire in the matter
of stakes won by Newhaven and other offspring, but
as a wholesale producer of small winners the famous
stallion comes “ nowhere ” behind Sunrise, whose stock
captured 73 races, of one sort or other, during the six
months. J. J. Miller notifies breeders and horse-students
in general that he is prepared to supply on application
detailed performances of the progeny of any sire in Aus-
tralia, from Ist Aug. last.
» * » *
Horrors upon horrors’ head accumulate. Oh !
blessed St. Patrick, that we should live to see it 1
Here upon the very Saint’s day itself comes the yellow
agony out on the top-side. At Elwick (Tas.), on the 17th
March, no less, a £45 div. was paid on the tote, and five
accursed Chows scooped it in. For an outlay of two
shillings each flat-nosed heathen raked in nine lovely
sovereigns, and the whole bilin’ wouldn’t give the little
boy that rode the winner half-a-sov. amongst the lot of
them. The harp that once :
Ah, holy St. Pat, is it sleepin’ ye are ?
Or what are ye doin’ at all ?
To let your own childer fall into the soup,
While the Chow comes on top of it all.
The heathen that cannot, unless in a cart,
Tell the head of a horse from his tail
Crawls up to the window and rakes in the pot,
While the boys that have stood by ye fail.
The bit of a stick, the pride of our hearts,
It’s a Joss-stick we’ll make of it now ;
And greet ye wid crackers, baptize ye again,
Joss Patrick, the Saint of a Chow !
• * * *
South Australian: “ The Bulletin of March 13
rather unjustly suggested that Providence in the shape of
rain came to the assistance of the South Australians in
their recent match with the Victorians. Facts are that
the Victorians batted all one day on a perfect wicket, and
half-an-hour on the second day. S.A. had the rest of the
second day on the same wicket, and when stumps were
drawn were 66 runs on with 7 wickets, including those of
Hill and Giffen, to fall—so that it may fairly be said they
had the match well in hand. On the Sunday rain fell,
and on the Monday the wicket was so sticky that the
batsmen were at the mercy of the bowlers, yet S.A. with
its last 7 wickets made more runs than its 10 opponents,
all batting under the same disadvantages.”
* » • *
Most Australian followers of the game thought
ex-bank-clerk Corbett, after years of bluffing and play-
acting, would, at the last moment, have wriggled out of
meeting ex-blacksmith Fitzsimmons. But, after all, the
fight came off—with the result that Fitz. knocked the
American out in 14 rounds. Whatever Corbett may be
now, Australia was satisfied that he was up to champion-
ship form in 1890, when he fought a 64-round “ draw ”
with Peter Jackson, probably the greatest “ Queensberry”
fighter the world has yet produced. Jackson, at the
time, was said to be suffering from a weak ankle, but
given that in, the man who could stand before the black
until his injured limb went against him, showed himself
to be a formidable opponent. From the meagre account
to hand, it appears that Corbett had somewhat the best
of the early part of the contest, but it is a peculiarity of
most of Fitz.'s fights that he apparently plays second
fiddle until the opening appears for those sledge-hammer
blows of his. Fitz. is described as “covered in blood”
during the first few rounds, but it is not the blood-letting
hits that do the damage. Fitzsimmons—a leaf from the
book of sculler Beach —now announces his retirement.
Sensible man —to retire unbeaten and in the zenith of his
fame. No gamer or better man of his weight ever stood
in a prize-ring.
* * * *
The column account bestowed by the D.T. on
the Corbett-Fitzsimmons tussle gives the knock-out to a
tacit understanding between Sydney’s morning dailies to
take no stock in punching-bouts. The papers dropped
pugilism from their columns when the noble art was at
its height in Sydney—a piping-hot sport enlivened by
frequent manslaughter and the wrecking of public halls
by disappointed barrackers.
* * * *
Last Saturday afternoon a bleak wind and
threatening sky thinned the crowd at N.S.W. Wheelmen's
League meeting, but the sky clearing, some 12,000 people
rolled up for the night racing. These and other indica-
tions show that the cycle craze is progressing with big
strides. One Sydney cycling firm is said to have £BOOO
worth of cycles out on time-payment.
A hot field came out for the first heat of the
First Class Handicap—Martin, Walne, Green, Ken. Lewis,
Porta, Kellow, Megson, Payne, and others. It was Mar-
tin who got the reception as the competitors pedalled
round to their marks. But it was Megson who got in the
desperate sprint home. At the bell’s ringing Plugger
Bill jumped to the front, then Ken. Lewis cut him down,
then Green rushed to the lead, then Walne, then Megson
came with a splendid dash and left the lot hopelessly be-
hind. Megson, the other day, put up a new Aus. mile-
record of lmin. 48 3-ssec.
Edwards, the English flyer, won’t face Megson
now in a sprint. Edwards scratched in his-and-Megson’s
heat of the Metropolitan Handicap (one mile, *2O). Meg-
son’s dash home in this heat was a splendid effort.
“ Jim ”M Times won the First Class Handicap,
£l5 first prize. His return to form caused much cheering.
M'lnnes does not get the chance of regular training that
most racers get. He has to do 18 or 20 hours a day some-
times, stoking on an engine.
Lesna did win the Grand Paced Tournament
(10 miles, £3O), and there would have been no excuse for
his losing it. Both Green and Megson (especially Megson)
had used up their steam in previous races, but Lesna
hadn’t been on his bicycle. Lesna and Green were equally
well paced—indeed, it was the fairest exhibition of pacing
yet seen in Sydney. Green held Lesna for five miles,
then he squeaked and only just saved himself from being
lapped in the remaining five. Megson, whose real dis-
tance is not over two miles, quit early. “ Joe ” had had
a terrible day’s work, without going in for another ten
miles at night.
The handicapper, of course, is made to be
growled at, but no finish could be more close and exciting
than that of the Sydney Wheel Race, two miles. Fitz-
gerald (Vic.), Bailey, and Matthews, in that order, were
separated only by inches; prizes, £lOO, £25, £5.
The Martin-Megson fiasco was an unfortunate
affair for the League. The match (ten miles), however,
will educate the public to the fact that a rider perfectly
paced can easily beat his superior indifferently paced.
Megson rides Dunlop tyres, and Martin rides Palmer.-
Hence the strong array of Dunlop pacing was at Megson’s
disposal, while Martin had but three triplets to pace him.
The Dunlop teams, managed by James, drew Megson
away and away from Martin, till the latter, recognising
the hopelessness of continuing, threw up his hands and
wheeled off the track. “I can’t race him with that
pacing,” said Martin, “I’m not an iron man.”
They would disqualify a man in America for
looking round as Hawley did in the finish of his heat of
the Second-class Handicap. Sec. Hunter should see to
this. There have been several broken bones already. An
ungainly rider looking round at a race’s finish might pro-
vide the grand-stand with a ghastly spectacle.
* • * *
How Bilmartin does battle for the cash 1 Re-
turning to Vic. on Wednesday he won the five-mile scratch
at Geelong on the afternoon of St. Patrick’s Day, then
rushed for the train and reachedHelb. by 8 p.m., arriving
at the Exhibition building in time to start for the mile.
Bill was beaten in this, but he wasted no time and hustled
off to bed to catch the return train the next day to
Sydney.
* » * •
Troublous days have fallen upon Plugger Bill;
the time when he used to win six out of seven races in an
afternoon seems to have departed for ever. Every time
he races now his head sinks lower upon his handle-bars,
and the solid end of his back rises higher. In his heat of
the Sydney Plate he just managed, by kicks of despera-
tion, to make a dead-heat of it with Harris, and in the
Final (£2O, £7 and £3) he couldn’t get upon the track of
Lester in the run home. Taylor (Vic.), too, lost Martin
in their heat of the Metropolitan Handicap. Taylor, how-
ever, was paced by a good man all through.
* » ♦ •
Bill Martin pocketed .£145 as his earnings for
the week ending March 6 :
’Tis said that money’s meant to roll,
So nice and round they make it,
And so it swiftly rolls; but, though
Too quick for others it may go,
Plain Bill can overtake it.
* * * •
Too much Second and Third-Class Handicap
will kill the game. The public won’t pay 2s. to see a lot
of unknowns and novices compete. Last Saturday after-
noon there was not one spark of enthusiasm until the
gods came out for the First-Class Handicap.
* * * •
The Vic. rifle-team, which is to shoot at the
Bisley competitions, will consist of the best marksmen
the province can produce in a series of diverse tests. As
the majority of top-notch shooters have hitherto been
civilians, it is highly probable that the same proportion
will prevail among the leading men in the tests. If so,
the team, which is despatched more for the purpose of
showing, the noble Australian soldier ready to fight for
England’s Queen than for competitive purposes, will be
composed chiefly of common, ordinary, everyday artisans
and -bushmen, who are absolutely incapable of keeping
their little fingers to the seams of their trousers. From
an Himperial standpoint, the throwing open of the test
was a huge tactical blunder ; the team should have been
restricted to the members of the military and naval
forces.
« * * *
Mr. Matthew Seal, chairman of Tas. Fisheries
Board, an enthusiastic angler, well-known as a fish-
acclimatisation enthusiast, was found dead alongside his
boat at the Great Lake, where he had gone fishing with
Lord Gormanston. Deceased, who was 63 years of age,
was a son of the late Chas. Seal, well-known in connection
with whaling enterprise in early years. For some years
he was in business at Ballarat, but had lived in retirement
at Hobart since ’74.
* * • *
At the N.S.W. Wheelmen League’s March car-
nival, Megson, Elliott, Taylor, Lester, Sinclair, Payne, all
won in decided fashion on Beeston-Humber machines.*
• PJ-kES. —Free pamphlets on Sharp’s “ Canna-
lin ” cure for the removal of old-standing cases of
piles, without operation, sent to any colony.
Australian Depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
“ Federal train ” provided to carry
the N.S.W. and Yic. delegates and their wives
and belongings—about 80 people in all—from
Melbourne to Adelaide was intended to be a
specially luxurious affair. Among other things it
was promised by the railway department that
at Murray Bridge breakfast would be served to
the travellers in bed, but this part of the scheme
fell through. The refreshment-room keeper, hear-
ing of it, telegraphed that he was a respectable
male person, and that he flatly declined to carry
in breakfast to other men’s wives and daughters in
bed -in fact, he wouldn’t intrude on any lady’s
sleeping apartment, not even if the lady guaran-
teed to completely disappear under the bed-
clothes till he was gone. So that luxury was
declared off. ;
The wing of the Melb. St. Patrick’s pro-
cession which marched into the city from Bruns-
wick was an extraordinary spectacle. Hitherto
there were no minor processions at all, but, after
“ the battle of Brunswick ” last year, the bhoys
couldn’t resist asking the Orangemen to thread on
the tails av their coats by arranging a little celebra-
tion on the same spot. As a sort of final gage of
defiance, a small, unobtrusive advt. was put in the
Herald on the night before, calling upon citizens
to assemble at Brunswick to “ discuss equality ”
and when the hour arrived 40 massive Hibernians
with lengthy upper lips, belltoppers, frock-coats,
and big blackthorn sticks, turned up. On the
spot they found 27 troopers and 40 foot constables
who had apparently been there all night, and all
hopes of a little harmless fun were knocked on
the head. Then a start was made for Melb., and
down the Sydney road they marched, the 40 green-
sashed Irishmen in the middle and the 67 coppers
walking on either side. No wonder a marvelling
nevv-chum diagnosed the procession as a police-
man s funeral.


Mr. Jas. Peddle, architect for Atcherley
and Dawson, is erecting at N.S.W. Agricultural
Society’s grounds a huge globe, 45 feet high, for
the use of those celebrated tea men during the
coming show. Here cups of tea will be dispensed
gratis to thousands of thirsty visitors, and the
merits of the famous Globe blend can be practically
tested by any to whom it is still a boon untasted.*
A Popular Verdict.
Frossard’s Cavour Cigars are unequalled any-
where. They are a delicious smoke ; mild, fragrant,
aromatic and medically recommended as being free
from nicotine. They are absolutely uninjurious,
and retain all the fragrance of the fine leaf em-
ployed.
T. B. Browne’s “Advertiser’s A.B.C. and
Advertisement Press Directory ” —now in its 11th
year —is a handsome volume of 1100 pp., chockfull
of information concerning newspapers of the
present age and all countries. The various sec-
tions are embedded in a mass of information con-
cerning population and trade and resources,
which adds considerably to the value of this well-
known handbook as a work of reference.*
Edison’s [atest phonographs
Marvellous results, Light and Portable, working without
electricity. All Phonograph supplies—Finest selected
Records, Blank Cylinders, Sapphire Needles, Double
Resonant Diaphragms, Glasses, Twin Nuts, and all parts
and duplicates.
Representative Agent, MORRIS E. COHEN
(S. Cohen, Son sand Co., Wholesale Hardware Merchants),
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
If YoG Warjt . .
TO BUY OR SELL AN HOTEL,
TO BUY OR SELL A BUSINESS,
TO BUY OR SELL A FARM,
TO BORROW MONEY on Mortgage,
Call on us or Write.
REYNOLDS BROS. & CO.,
Auctioneers, Hotel Brokers,
ESTATE, FINANCIAL and GENERAL
BUSINESS AGENTS,
73 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Near Kino Street).
w. W. &R EENER’S
Celebrated GUNS and RIFLES
pi AN now be purchased through all the principal dealers
in the Australasian Colonies. Mr. C. H. Gorrick, the
champion pigeon-shot of N.S.W., used a Greener gun
when he wrested the championship the other day from
Mr. A. W. Eales. Address, C. W. Buckland, 16 Curral
Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. rep.), or Box 326
q.P.0., Sydney.
Wbat is Wolfe’s Scboapps?
IT IS said there are still some few unsophisticated persons who
ask the above question. Well, Wolfe’s Schnapps
is a medicinal diet drink of eminently salutary quali-
ties, and is manufactured by the proprietor at his
factory at Schiedam, Holland. It is made from the
best barley that can be selected in Europe, with the
essence of an aromatic Italian berry of acknowledged
and extraordinary medicinal properties. The distress-
ing effect upon the stomach, bowels, and bladder
produced by impure water is well-known; Wolfe’s
Schnapps is an absolute corrective of the injurious
properties of bad Water, and consequently prevents
the diseases which they occasion. Wolfe’s Schnapps
is sold in large and small bottles by all respectable
Publicans and Spirit Dealers.
Tlie ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Eepairs a Speciality.
UOti)bcr - -
Bicycles
Are PERFECTION.
Sole Australasian Agents :
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT HAS ARRIVED !
IT HAS ARRIVED I
IT HAS ARRIVED I
The FOWLER.
The FOWLER.
Acknowledged by Experts in America and England
to be without rival for Elegance, Lightness,
Rigidity, and especially Easy Running.
When you see a High-Grade Bicycle with a
Truss Frame you will recognise
The FOWLER!
Australian Agency :
Hoffnung’s Buildings
171 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and see us, when the various improvements
will be exhibited to you.
HUSTON - IDMIEK. - GTGIES
FOR STRENGTH!
FOR BEAUTY!
They are all that the Best Constructive Science, Experience and Careful Supervision can make them.
Not an Ounce of Superfluous Weight. Not a Defective Part Anywhere.
Meo’SOll rode a TTTTIVI BER (fitted with Dunlop Tyres) for the Pil'St TilllG
° when he WON THE INVITATION MILE SCRATCH RACE at the
- - CYCLE SHOW SPORTS - -
Defeating- MARTIN, WALNE, PORTA, PARSONS, BOIDI, etc, etc.
And again, at SYDNEY, on 17th MARCH, 1897,
ME6SON, oi) bis HUMBER, LOWERED tb« MILE RECORD
_ mo
ONE MINUTE EORTY - EIGHT
GO
mi 03
Ul
and three-fifths seconds.
W. J. C. Clliott, 01) a NUMB€R fitted With PUNLOP Tyß€ aod plain chain
Defeated LESNA (who rode the Simpson Chain) in the Five-Miles Challenge Race.
FA.CTS KTESED KTO COMMBKTT.
these
Sole Australasian Agents
, WOLVERHAMPTON AND COVENTRY HUMBERS,
Sop ' TRniMPH BALEISH - SINGER - SWIFT - COVENTRY
CROSS AND ARIEL CYCLES
Tb£ AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LIMITED.
Head Office : 285 Collins-st., Melbourne.
BRANCHES at
229 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
393 George Street, SYDNEY.
33 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
O-ill Street, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Hay Street, PERTH.
George Street, DUNEDIN.
Workshops —Niagara Lane, Melb.
Stores —376 Flinders Lane, Melb.
Manchester Street, CHRISTCHURCH, and at
LAUNCESTON and HOBART.


Special Advertisements.
FRANZ JOSEF
pilsener Eager jeer.
PURE AND WHOLESOME.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS,
AND ALWAYS INSIST ON
GETTING
FRANZ JOSEF.
Irritating and Disfiguring
ERUPTIONS
On the Face, Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Remarkable Experience of Miss Dorothy
Maher, Fitzroy, Victoria, whose portrait
we are privileged to give below:
“I take pleasure in testifying to
the great benefit I derived from
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I suffered
from eruptions on my face of a very
irritating and vexatious nature.
For a considerable time I experi-
mented with various so-called blood
medicines, but without any allevia-
tion of my trouble. At last, your
famous Sarsaparilla being strongly
recommended to me, I began to use
it, and after taking two bottles it
was most gratifying to see and feel
the effect in allaying the irritation
and reducing the eruptions. When
I had used three bottles the erup-
tions disappeared altogether, with-
out leaving a mark on my face, and
I have never been troubled with
anything of the kind since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
(ELLIN'S
Is not Farinaceous and
is entireiy free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
Wlieu added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLSN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Pcckham, London, England.
rp H
LAST
O F
SIX
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
.^V'v'w'ytvS
<3-0 TO ZETZEIjIEj-
JGOLAND for Pretty Stumps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. «<1
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
-t 'red Hagen
(Late'D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
Cloudy
Household
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath.
Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, etc.
Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRT7BB & CO., London, England,
MANUFACTURERS OF SCRUBB’S ANTISEPTIC SKIN SOAP.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS.,® LIMITED, SYDNEY.
pitt, son and j)adgery,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
WOOL & PRODUCE SALESMEN.
Sydney, 15th February, 1897.
CIRCULAR.
Dear Sir,
, O We , now beg to notify to you that on the Ist prox. we add to our well-
known Stock and Station Agency business that of Wool and Produce Salesmen.
This is quite a legitimate branch of our business that we now take ud with
confidence. v
We have secured the services of Mr. Edward N. Row, lately with Messrs
Campbell, JSnmno & Co., formerly with Messrs. Goldsbrough & Co., and Dalgetv
& Co., of Melbourne, who will conduct this branch of our business under the
supervision of our Managing Directors, and whose acknowledged business
capacity and energy, combined with the well-known position and standing of
this Company, are sufficient guarantee that any Wool or Produce entrusted to
our care will be disposed of to the best advantage.
Our Produce Stores are situated on the Circular Quay and Macquarie Street
are large, well-lighted, and in every way convenient. Wool Stores we will secure
before the opening of next Wool Season, our present accommodation being ample
for any Wool offering during the Winter months. 6 p
As in our Stock business, you may rely that we will conduct this branch of
our business strictly as Selling Brokers only ; neither directly nor indirectly will
we entertain any interest in Produce committed to our care beyond that of realis
ing the highest price. Buyers, too, may know that they will ' compete only with
legitimate competitors. u j
Our Produce Sales commence after the Ist March ; but our Stores are now open
for the reception of consignments, which, small or large, shall have equal attention •
a g innnTi hair ’ & h ° r , DS ’ * hee P skins - or sha nk bones, will be cared for equally
with 1000 bales ot wool, casks of tallow, or hides. *
Kindly note also that we remove from our old offices to new and more com-
modious ones in O’Connell Street, on Ist April.
Yours faithfully,
W. WRIGHT, Secretary,
Pitt, Son & Badgery, Limited.
Forbes’s PHOSFERRINE.
It 1. . .nd Po»,„,„ „, Blood.
The Genuine is prepared only by Wea^ness > Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
Martin & Pleasance,
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
HOMCEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
mm
p
•HUNTER s
££PIN&Y,:
BAKCR’S
STANDAED
Sheffield Razors.
gin. (as illustration), 5/- each.
‘ e ' 1 ost we t° any address in Australasia.
7 lease sa y round or square point preferred.
' Cutler, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney
Gold Medal for Cutlery, Albury Exhibition, 1896
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
r 3-v
i«f32S
as
9
Bender’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The aged.
Bee-poison, according to the Australian
Christian World, is a sovereign remedy for
cancer, rheumatism, snakebite, and lots of other
things. But, in this paper’s opinion, pigeon’s
milk is even better, for it will make brains grow
where there were none before. Emu’s milk, also,
will, on application to the feet of the unemployed,
cause to grow thereon immediately a pair of 225.
6d. kangaroo-leather spring sides, and, applied to
a bald head, it will promptly adorn it with a full
thatch and a silken tile to protect it from the
weather.
There are now in N.S.W. only 4397 acres
under wine. Bijiji vineyard, Corowa (200 acres,
and now seven years old), is the largest in the pro-
vince, and the yield this year will be 25,000 gallons.
In the English market, Mr. Bray, the owner, has
cleared over 2s. per gallon for 18 months’-old wine,
after deducting all expenses.
Letter received by relief-officer in Bris-
bane from a hard-up : —“ I thank you for setting
the police on my track. I came to Queensland
some years ago with =£so in pocket.” (Here fol-
lows a really pitiable tale of destitution). . . .
“But keep your pauper relief; keep your brown
sugar, and help to pay immigration-lecturers to
bring out more unfortunate dupes to this sunburnt
Gomorrah, where an honest man has as much
chance of prospering as a vine in the Arctic
regions. ”
New Australia, as an example of true
mateship, has gone into liquidation. All its life
it kept coming wallop against the disastrous
question, “ Who is to wash up?” Apparently it
struck against this problem once too often and
foundered. There is to be a general division of
the assets. Ihe original concession is annulled,
and instead the Government grants a separate
farm to each settler, where he can put a fence
around his house and warn off other mates with a
hoe if he wants to. Also, the grant of 800 dollars
per month from the Paraguayan Government is to
be continued, only presumably each mate will get
his share of the grant separately. To go all the
way from Australia in order to set up a model
settlement and be a bright and shining light to all
the world, and then drop to living, in part at
least, on the charity of a kind-hearted Greaser
Ministry, is a great fall, but it is at least a blessing
that the charitable Greaser was there to fall upon.
As regards Bane’s Cosine settlement, nothing has
been heard for quite a long time ; now and then a
faint echo alleges that Bane is in England looking
for recruits, but the Cosmo colonists themselves
have almost dropped out of knowledge.
Q. Electric Telegraph Gazette quotes
Q. electrical engineer Hesketh on the reasons for
the Postal Conference’s decision to change from
the Morse code to the Universal. Abridged—
The present lack of uniformity in the codes used by the
different Australasian provinces is objectionable in the
extreme. Westralia uses the Universal alphabet but
special figures. S.A. has altered the letters L X and the
figure 9 to render its code less liable to error. Between
the codes in use in Q., N.S.W., and Vic., there are a few
minor differences. M.L. already uses the Universal code.
Any code which uses three signs to make its letters is
more liable to error than a code which uses only two.
The combination of two I’s for Y is distinctly erroneous.
As regards speed of working, counting the number of dots
and dashes required to signal 1000 words in either code, there
is a slight difference in favor of the Universal code. The
same cannot be said of figures, but Q. has always to check
its Morse figures by words. With the Universal code
there is not the least doubt about a figure. But the main
reason for change is the consideration of uniformity with
the rest of the telegraphic world. In Australasia to-day
there are in use three codes dissimilar to any in use in
any other part of the world. Including the code used by
military and naval authorities, there are four. By the
introduction of the Universal code, we shall come into
uniformity, not only among ourselves, but with the rest
of the world, the U.S. alone excepted. The inconvenience
the operators will feel is temporary and slight —unless
they are obstinate or lazy.
It ought to be generally known that Rose’s
Bime Juice Cordial supplies a delicious cooling
drink in water—effervescing in all mineral waters
and an excellent stimulant blended with spirits,
wholesome and refreshing in summer. It is en-
tirely free of spirits. Recommended by the
Cancet. It possesses valuable medicinal pro-
perties, cooling and purifying the blood, stimu-
lating and assisting digestion. Purchasers should
be careful to order only Rose’s Cordial, all others
being imitations.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
“ Government is a conspiracy of the well-
to-do.”
On the Murchison lately, a blackfellow,
while winding a sgal. drum of water up from a
deep shaft, took a spell half-way and let go the
windlass-handle to spit on his hands. The handle
went round and knocked his brains out. Now it
is a hard job to get a Murchison blackfellow to
touch a windlass at all.
In one of the trashy feminine penny
weekly imported papers the domestic servant’s
hours are laid out in a programme of hard-graft
extending from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. No mention is
made of nights or Sundays off, and “ younv
wives” are specially warned against “possible
petty pilferers.”


-
A
L
m
Herr Rassim,
Tilt. €ELIiKKATEI>
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies
—FOR THE —
BLOOD & NERVES.
AN INTERESTING NOTICE OF A MOST
SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
MARVELLOUS TESTIMONIALS.
FLATTERING PRESS OPINIONS.
- - - MIRACULOUS CURES.
A few words as to the progress and growth in
public favour of the Registered Alfahne Herbal
Remedies would not be out of place here, and
would be additional evidence as to their real
genuineness and great virtues as claimed for them
by Herr Rassmussen, their discoverer and sole
proprietor.
The grea,t virtues of the Alfaline Herbal Reme-
dies are so well known that it is quite unnecessary
to say much in regard to them in this notice ; the
very fact of their having been before the public
for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite- sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should, be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented
in the History of Herbal Remedies.
About twelve years ago Herr Rassmussen intro-
duced these Remedies to the Australian public by
opening a Depot for their sale at 547 George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., his present Head Office,
and although at that time he did not advertise in
any journal, the wonderful virtues of these Reme-
dies were known far and wide within a few
months. Orders for them came from every
quarter, not only from all the Australian colonies,
but from all over the world. In 1891 the clamour
for the Alfaline Herbal Remedies had become so
great that it became impossible to supply everyone
from the Sydney Depot. Letters arrived by thou-
sands, many orders came by telegraph, and some
people even travelled over a thousand miles to
make sure of obtaining some of these God-inspired
Remedies. What was to be done ? It was Herr
Rassmussen’s duty to see that every sufferer from
the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver, and other affec-
tions, whose very life and happiness depended on
these Remedies, should be able to obtain same
without undue delay. Herr Rassmussen had thus
no other alternative than to open Branch Depots
for the sale of the Alfaline Remedies in every
colony, and, if possible, in every country in the
world, as he desired to keep the sale of his Herbal
Remedies in his own hands entirely, and thus
avoid the agency of chemists, who generally have
a substitute which they prefer to sell instead of
the real article. A start was made at once in that
direction, and a very large and palatial Depot
was opened at 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in
1891. Immediately after, a fine Branch was
established at 154 Rundle Street, Adelaide, fol-
lowed by the opening of an extensive Branch at
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand. A
large Branch was then established at the corner of
Hay and William Streets, Perth, W.A., and
shortly after another Branch, next to Coolgardie
Hotel, Bailey Street, and N 0.2 Lin-
dell’s Chambers, Hannan street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
not to forget the very extensive Branch opened
some seven years ago at 160 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, which is now the Head Depot for Queens-
land, and finally a Branch just opened at Charters
Towers, North Queensland.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of Testimonials to that
effect.
The whole of these Branches are each doing a
large and flourishing business. There is not a
country on the face of the globe where these Re-
medies have not been heard of, and orders arrive
daily from the uttermost parts of the earth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Tliem.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
succt ss, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush. —Yours very truly, B. BUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a w’aggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. I am pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, w'hen all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMtTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Derr Rassmussen.
I am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful Alfa-
line Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate com-
plaint ; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall always be
grateful to you.—Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rasmussen.
1 am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Blood Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootafnundra,
N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —x hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE lIAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
A Sufferer Cured of Piles.
I suffered terribly from Piles, but, thank God, I got
immediate relief from your Alfaline Pile Remedies. I
have not been troubled with them since, and it is now
two years ago. I have recommended them to many
friends, who bless the day I told them about it. I cannot
thank you enough for the cure your Remedies effected
in my case, and the relief it gave me from continuous
suffering. *1- KILLERIDGE,
Lucknow, N.S.W.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your «lfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case w as a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press has fully recognised the noble
mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise bestowed upon
him from this important source has not only been most
whole-hearted, but also very generous. Our space will
not permit to repeat one-tenth of his best Press notices,
but the following will suffice to show the public the esti-
mation in which Herr Rassmussen is held by the Austra-
lian Press:—
Sydney Rulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
North Melbourne Advertiser. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies have done more good
than all other known remedies put together.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington.—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—"Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Coolitown Courier, Queensland.—-“ Herr Rassmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land.”
Flashes (Society Paper), Brisbane, Q.—“ Herr Pass-
mussen’s labors have resulted in a manner most gratifying
to himself, inasmuch as he has received the highest re-
cognitions of the most important scientific authorities.”
Chemist and Druggist Journal, Melbourne. —
“Herr Rassmussen has opened a branch depdt at 150
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Alfaline Pills will pro-
bably become as well known in Victoria as they are in
New South Wales.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanical remedies.”
Sydney Trut*. — “ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well
known not to r quire any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wondetful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.—“lt may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over ten years.”
N.®. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rasmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist of
Sydney.”
The Australian Workman, Sydney.—“ Having
seen and examined letters from all parts of the world, we
are assured that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
have saved a world of suffering, and his remedies have
cured many people of complaints which were held to be
incurable.”
The Nord Australischc Zeitnng, Brisbane.—“We
speak from personal knowledge, and can vouch for the
great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful
Remedies. Having seen many cured sufferers, and ex-
amined letters from all parts of the world, we are satisfied
that he is deserving of universal thanks.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
The above selected Press opinions are quite sufficient
to show the esteem Herr Rassmussen is held in by those
who have the best opportunity to watch his career.
Important.
l&T ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, e/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street.
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 20S, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
WARNING,
HERR RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should al-
ways obtain Remedies direct from his own establish-
ments, as advertised on this page. All HERR
RASSMUSSEN'S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFI-
DENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlets sent unob-
served in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans
Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head Office
or to his Branches.
>ts AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
IpALS'
0*
1
■
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD * NERVES.
A Certain Cure for the Nerves,
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Are a guaranteed Cure for all Nervous Affections,
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
The BLOOD PURIFIED by taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
(registered)
Which Cure all
Blood and Skin Affections.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
ORDINARY COURSE .. 235. 6d
Smaller Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuiiant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Neives. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
THE “NATURAE DOCTOR.” - A VALUABLE BOOK.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S new Book, the “ Natural Doctor,” just issued, sent post free on receipt
of ONE SHILLING in Postage Stamps ; any Colony’s stamps will do. This Book contains a large
number of valuable Recipes, and the complete treatment for all Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Liver and Kidney Affections, and any other complaint. No one should be without one, as the
information it contains is honestly worth a Guinea. Send for one without delay.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies
Can Only be Obtained from his Head Office,
547 George-st., Sydney.
And from his Important and Complete Branches, as follows:
Melbourne - - - 150 Bourke-street.


Prospectus.
£>UTHERGLEN and CARLYLE DEEP
JlV> LEADS COMPANY
(To be Registered as a No-Liability Company).
CAPITAL—4O,OOO, in 40,000 Shares of £1 each.
14,000 shares fully paid-up, and 7000 contributing
shares, paid up to 2s. 6d., are to be retained
by the Rutherglen and Carlyle Proprietary
Gold-mining Company No Liability, which
is the vendor company.
19,000 contributing shares are now offered to the
public at Is. per share on application and
Is. fid. on allotment. The whole of the pro-
ceeds, less flotation expenses, to be placed
to the credit of the company.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
Samuel R. Walter, Esq. (director Great Nor-
thern Extended, Great Southern, Great
Southern No. 1, Rutherglen; Chiltem Valley,
Chiltern, &c.).
Sidney Smith, Esq. (director Great South
Long Tunnel, Walhalla; Great Southern
No. 1, Rutherglen, &c.).
Alex. Byres, Esq. (chairman New Mariner,
Steiglitz).
A. C. Allen, Esq., F.R.G.S., London.
K. S. Gair, Esq. (director Catherwood Gold-
mining Co., W.A.).
C. J. Bird, Esq. (director Catherwood Gold-
mining Co., W.A.).
All of whom are directors of the vendor company.
BANKERS:
Bank of Victoria Limited, Melbourne and
Rutherglen.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. Haden Smith and Fitchett, Temple-
court, Melbourne.
MANAGER (pro. tem.):
W. Grant Meudell (Meudell and Cameron), 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
Melbourne —Messrs. Walter and Harries,
Queen-street ; Messrs. Boyes and De Little,
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen-street ; W.
C. Bury, Esq., Collins-street.
Bendigo—Fred. Barker, Esq., The Beehive.
Ballarat —Messrs. Stoddart and Binnie, The
Exchange.
Adelaide—Messrs. Wilkinson, Harrison, and
Porter, The Exchange.
This company is being formed for the purpose
of acquiring from the Rutherglen and Carlyle
Proprietary Gold-mining Company No Liability
all their right, title, and interest in an immense
area of alluvial ground, approximating 3600 acres,
situated at Rutherglen. The property has been
proved by bores passing through favorable strata
and striking wash from 3ft. to lift, in depth, and
in several of which gold was obtained. The
ground was bored so as to prove that the lead,
which is a junction of the Wahgunyah, Lanark-
shire, and Robert Burns leads, traverses, as far as
it is possible to judge, through the entire length of
the property from south to north. Consequently
it is a most valuable one, and the preliminary
prospecting work having been completed, the pre-
sent proposed company is thus placed in a most
favorable position to sink its shaft and drive on
the wash.
East St. Kilda, 17th July, 1896.
Messrs. Meudell and Cameron, 31 Queen-street,
Melbourne,
Dear Sirs, —
In response to your request for a report upon
the property of the Rutherglen and Carlyle Pro-
prietary Gold-mining Company, I beg to submit
the facts and general conclusions already set forth
in my official report of May, 1894, with such fur-
ther remarks as are justified by records of borings
since executed on the property.
As shown on the plans, the area occupied by the
company contains about 4000 acres, bounded on
the west and north by the Murray River, the
greatest length (in the western portion) from north
to south being nearly 3| miles, and the width from
east to west, in the northern portion, about 2|
miles. The southerly extremity of the western
portion is about one mile wide, and lies between
two well-defined outcrops of silurian bed-rock,
that on the west being at Wahgunyah, and trace-
able thence along the river to near the north-
western corner of the ground, while that on the
east is on a contiguous area, shown on the plans as
once held by the Golden Valley Company. There
is no other possible passage than between these
outcrops, and through the entire length of the
western portion of the property, for the trunk
lead formed by the combination of the Bobbie
Burns, Lanarkshire, and Wahgunyah leads, once
very profitably worked on shallower ground to the
south-east, and trending towards the Rutherglen
and Carlyle Company’s area.
There is also strong evidence in support of the
belief that another trunk lead, formed by the com-
bination of the Great Southern, Garibaldi, Rose of
Victoria, Rose of Sharon, and other leads, will be
found to pass into the norther portion of the
ground on the eastern side, and trend westerly
across it to join the first-mentioned lead.
The evidence is distinct that the property cer-
tainly contains a length of nearly 3£ miles on the
course of one lead, and very probably to 2 miles
on that of the other.
Since the date of my official report, a series of
bores have been put down in search of the exact
position of the first-mentioned or western trunk
lead, and the records show that the deepest ground
with coarse wash sft. thick was proved at a depth
of 370 ft. from the surface, in the central part of
the western section of the area.
With respect to the probable auriferous quality
of the ground, satisfactory evidence is afforded by
its position directly over the course of prolonga-
tion of the auriferous belt of rocks which supplied
the gold at the sources of the leads. The strike
Prospectus.
of this belt carries it directly under the property,
and it may therefore be confidently assumed that
the gravels in the deep ground contain gold, de-
rived from the abrasion of rich local auriferous
matrices, equal to those which supplied the leads
near the source of the latter.
I feel justified on the above-stated grounds in ex-
pressing the confident opinion that the property of
the Rutherglen and Carlyle Proprietary Company
presents a most legitimate and promising field for
mining enterprise, fully warranting the expendi-
ture of the capital necessary to develope the ground
and provide adequate machinery.
The close proximity of the Wahgunyah railway
station is most favorable for the easy delivery on
the ground of all machinery, timber, and other
mining requisites.
I am, See.,
REGINALD A. E. MURRAY, F.G.S., London.
No. 1 LINE of BORES, 25 Chains from South-
ern Boundary:—
No. 1 bore bottomed at 258 ft. on bed-rock
No. 2 bore bottomed at 311 ft. 6in. passed
through lift, washdirt, carrying gold
No. 3 bore bottomed at 279 ft., soft reef, gravel
on top
No. 4 bore bottomed at 284 ft. on bed-rock
No. 5 bore bottomed at 294 ft. on bed-rock
No. 2 LINE, on Gooramadda-road, If miles
north from No. 1 line:—
No. 6 bore, lost
No. 7 bore, lost at 278 ft.
No. 8 bore bottomed at 328 ft., 2ft. wash
No. 9 bore bottomed at 238 ft. on bed-rock
No. 10 bore bottomed at 350 ft. on bed-rock
No. 11 bore bottomed at 374 ft., sft. 6in. very
coarse wash, carrying gold
No. 12 bore, half-a-mile east of No. 11 bore,
bottomed at 310 ft. on bed-rock. This bore
indicates another system of leads coming in
from south-east, which will be proved by
further boring.
The terms upon which this property is offered
are most reasonable. The vendor company asks
for no cash, and in part payment for its vast area
is accepting 7000 shares, in lieu of cash, paid up to
2s. 6d., for distribution amongst its shareholders,
who are a representative body of mining and in-
fluential men in Melbourne.
The directors of the vendor company offer this
property to their shareholders and the public with
every confidence, and from the recent develop-
ments of the leads at Rutherglen it is anticipated
that there is a great future before the proposed
company.
Agreements have been completed with the
various owners of the ground, and in no case has
royalty to be paid, which is a most favorable
feature in regard to this company.
The large area now offered by the present com-
pany is sufficient to allow of several extensive
claims being formed therefrom, from which holders
in the proposed company would derive substantial
benefit.
Any further information desired can be obtained
at the offices of the agents for the company.
MEUDELL & CAMERON,
Agents for the Company, 31 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne.
Amusements.
PfRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
» Lessee and Manager ... Frank Thornton.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING,
FRANK THORNTON,
As Sir Joseph Trent, the Bookmaker, and his NEW
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY, in J. W. Pigott’s
Successful Comedy,
Tlae Bookmaker.
A SURE SUCCESS. A SURE SUCCESS.
Prices —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Plan, Nicholson’s. L. J. LOHR.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson and Musgrove’s Grand Spectacular Musical
Extravaganza, by Bert Royle and J. C. Williamson,
Matsa : QtieeQ of Fire.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
CALON CINEMATOGRAPH E,
*** (Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre),
237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
125 THOUSAND PEOPLE have already thronged the
beautiful Salon in Pitt-street. On the front of that same
Salon is emblazoned the legend, “ HERE TO STAY.”
This is no mere fanciful phrase; it is the crystallised
expression of a comprehensive fact. Having just secured
another 12 months’ lease of the Salon, the Cinematographe
is here to stay. JAMES M‘MAHON.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Henry Bracy.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
Of the screamingly funny Operatic Extravaganza,
Nemesis; or, Not Wisely But Too Well
Last Nights of the New Ballet,
DANSE DES BLA NCHISSE USES.
PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Mr. C. B. WESTMACOTTS COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Tbe Sbanjrock ai)d tbc Ro&c
(By arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway).
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. No Early Doors. Box Plan
at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
rpHE MUSIN CONCERTS.
FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR!
OVIDE MUSIN, the World-renowned Violinist.
ANNIE LOUISE MUSIN, the Highest-ranged Soprano
in the World.
EDWARD SCHARF, the eminent Pianist.
CONSTANCE HATTERLEY, the charming Harpist
(pupil of Oberthur, Medalist of London
Academy of Music).
ALFRED HILL, the Australian Composer (composer of
“ Hinemoa ”).
tsr FAREWELL AUSTRALIAN TOUR!
E. A. WOODWARD, Manager.
Address all Business Communications to John Laure,
c/o Paling & Co., Sydney.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lesssee and Director ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
SUCCESS, ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
Mir. Harry Riclcards’a
PALACE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Each and every Artist a Star. Acknowledged to be the
Greatest Combination of Vaudeville Artists ever placed
before an Australian Audience. Prices—3s, 2s, Is. Matinee
Every Wednesday, at 2.30, at Reduced Prices.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Barry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY CO.
CS'” Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
gTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
LAST PERFORMANCES in Melbourne of
The Brough Comedy Company.
LAST NIGHTS of “ A VILLAGE PRIEST
March 27 —“The Passport” ... ... 3 Nights only
March 31 —“ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” 2 Nights only
April 2—“ Dandy Dick ” ... ... 2 Nights only
Box Plan at Glen’s.
•ORINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Sensational Sympathetic Success, by George R. Sims
and Arthur Shirley, entitled,
Two Little Vagabonds.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies. Day Tickets at
Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre CafA
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS I
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury-lane Sporting: Drama,
“The Derby "Winner.”
It is Bright, Sparkling:, Fascinating.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
Public Notices.
Engineering and Electrical
EXHIBITION.
Under the Patronage op HIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOVERNOR.
A. D. Nelson, Esq., M.E.A., Chairman.
INTENDING EXHIBITORS are hereby in-
formed the DATE for RECEIVING
APPLICATIONS for SPACE has been
EXTENDED to MARCH 31st.
HENRY V. AHRBECKERI Joint
GUSTAVE FISHER /Hon. Secs.
Union Chambers,
70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
I —c odalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I —coda-lla Bac on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
§—{ocialla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agext,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
And yet another Cure of Locomotor
Ataxia,
SYDNEY INHABITANTS ASTOUNDED.
PARTIAL PARALYSIS, SUPPOSED BY
MOST PEOPLE TO BE INCURABLE,
HAS AT LAST BEEN CONQUERED
BY DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
MIRACLES ARE BEING WROUGHT IN
OUR MIDST.
INVESTIGATION BY A NEWSPAPER
REPORTER.
A wonderful instance of the recuperative power
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is just to hand, says
the Press Association, and an account is given
below by our representative, who interviewed the
lady in question (Mrs. Nellie Denver, of Countess
Cottage, William-street, Double Bay), who, for
over the last six years, has been a martyr to that
dreaded affliction, locomotor ataxia, and it is the
almost instantaneous benefit derived from the use
of these Pills that makes the following little
history an item of such trilling interest. In Mrs.
Denver’s own words she stated :
“About six years ago, when residing in
Hobart, Tasmania, I had the misfortune to meet
with a serious accident, which happened in the
simplest manner possible, as I will endeavour to
relate. On leaving my house by the back gate the
bolt slipped, whilst I had hold of it, which caused
me to fall very heavily, which I subsequently dis-
covered had seriously injured my spine, although,
strange to say, I felt no ill-effects for about two-
years after. I then commenced to suffer from
great weakness and dizziness, and an intolerable
feeling of exhaustion; in fact, I felt so nervous
and uneasy that I feared to cross the street,
alarmed that I might meet with some accident
from a passing vehicle. Not at first recognising
the really serious condition to which I was reduced,
I did not seek medical attendance, but when I at
last became aware of my serious condition, I was
persuaded by my friends to go to the Sydney Hos-
pital, where I remained two months without re-
ceiving any permanent benefit. On leaving the
hospital I again rather neglected my state of
health, and on applying for re-admission was in-
formed that my case was perfectly hopeless. Being
unfortunately not over-blessed with this world’s
goods, I obtained admission to the Newington
Asylum, where I remained seven months ; yet
still I got no better, being unable to swallow any
nourishing food. I then took two courses of
electric baths, for which I paid six guineas, and
after them, with the exception of some slight al-
leviation of my suffering, I cannot say that they
did me much good ; in fact, I could not even walk,
so I returned home feeling very despondent, and
imagining that there was no cure in store for me.
One day, on reading the daily paper, I noticed an
account of a marvellous recovery effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and consider-
ing that this case (the one of Boilermaker Jarvis,
suffering from locomotor ataxia) closely resembled
mine, I determined to make a trial of them, and
sent a boy from the house to buy some for me. I
experienced relief after the first box, and have
steadily improved ever since-; my appetite re-
turned and I ceased to suffer from that terrible
feeling of nervousness. lam now in my seventh
box, and can can confidently assert that I am
most decidedly improved in health. My friends
also notice a marked improvement in my condition,
and this I entirely attribute to the health-giving
properties of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills ; in fact, it
must be solely due to them, for I have tried no
other remedy. The proprietors of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are at perfect liberty to make whatever
use they may think fit of this statement, for I feel
deeply grateful for the benefit I have derived from
them.
(Signed) “NELLIE DENVER,
“ Countess Cottage,
“ William-street,
“ Double Bay,
“ Sydney, N.S.W.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured numerous
cases of paralysis, locomotor ataxy, spinal disease,
rheumatism and sciatica ; also of diseases arising
from impoverishment, and vitiated humors of the
blood, which cause scrofula, rickets, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
anaemia, pale and sallow complexion, general
muscular weakness, lass of appetite, palpitations,
pains in the back, nervous headache, early decay,
all forms of female Wteakness and hysteria. These
Pills are not a purgative. They are genuine only
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and are sold by chemists and by Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who will
forward, post paid, on receipt of stamps or post
order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half dozen for 14s 9d.
They are unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.*
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Publications.
T>OBERT EMMET’S FAMOUS SPEECH,
on thick paper for framing, post free, Is.
London Book Depot, 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
£3lOOO
for Is.
£3lOOO
IS
THE
First Great Prize! °
and 123 other Prizes, value £lBOO.
TWE LVTE MONTHS’ TRIP ROUND THE WORLD (First-class).
All expenses paid, and £6OO in CASH for incidentals.
A Fortune for Is. to be WON in the
2nd, £2OO
3rd, £lOO
EIGHT HOURS’
41st ANNIVERSARY.
Easter Saturday, April
Grand Demonstration and Fete.
17.
41st—EIGHT HOURS’ ART UNION 41st
” *' "" POPULAR OF ALL I
Grand Programme of Sports and Amusements.
THE OLDEST AND MOST
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE. Day and Night.
Total Bicycle Prizes, 413 Soys. The EIGHT HOURS’ GREAT WHEEL RACE, 335 Sovs. Total Bicvcle Prizes 413 S
£lOOO for Is. Tickets, ONE SHILLING EACH, admit to the Sports and give a chance in the ever- popular Eight Hours’Art Union *' ’
This great Art Union will be drawn publicly at a Bazaar, to be held at the Hibernian Hall, Swanston-street, Melbourne, on the 29th APPTT iqqv tp-tt t Tr , for Si
STANCES BE POSTPONED. Every ticket sold, and no other, has a chance in this Art Union. Tickets for this great Art Union Is. each 11 for Iffe lost n, UNDER ANY CIRCUM-
of prizes, to any address on receipt of Postal Notes or P.O. Order (with stamp for reply), made payable to ’ ’ M r M tor LI, will be forwarded, with full list
CHAS. HARRIS, Secretary Eight Hours’ Committee. Tracies’ Hall, Carlton.
MENZIES' HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
MODERNISED & RENOVATED at a cost of £30,000.
The MOST PALATIAL FAMILY HOTEL
m Southei n Hemisphere.
* Terms from /4
SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS map I* W a<f, wWWn<r ™ **


Finney, isles * co.
ARRIVAL ARRIVAL
OF
Q.R.M.S. Duke of Argyll, French steamer
Australien, German steamer Barbarossa, etc.
Second Shipments,
COMPRISING
289-CASES & BALES—2B9
Now Opened Up and put forward
into Stock.
Total Cases and Bales Autumn Goods to hand
to date, 496.
. . Finest Assortment to select from . .
Lowest Prices in Queensland.
Samples, Prices, Self-measurement Forms, Fashion
Plates, Catalogues, &c., &c., Post Free on
application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
Brisbane.
X
RegiQald A. F. MCirray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Co.lins Street, M SLBOORNE.
X
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen.
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application*
The SAN IT AS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
jJC' A NOVELTY!
» AliTj kinds of *
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural, perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists, J
CfC StO'CS, Perfumers,
oe or direct from
Street
The Pickering Steam Engine Governor.
SHUTTES “ROUTING’S” Boiler Feed INJECTORS.
MASON’S REDUCING VALVES, for Steam and
LUDLOW GATE VALVES, for Steam and Water.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Send for prices and particulars.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH LDREN S SWEET)
Lancet
(THE CEL
fL'^«
3 SWEET)
' Jj
a Joima Works, W.C.
LONDON.
“This is a case of connubial bankruptcy,
through malversation of the conjugal assets.” — '
Divorce Judge.
A recent hunting up of old records shows
that the first galloWs in N.S.W. was erected not
on Gallows Hill (Essex-st.), as is generally sup-
posed, but on the spot in King-street where now
stands the Jubilee statue of Her Gracious. j
Dear Bulletin, — Re old and present
Scotch oath. From Supreme to police-court this
impressive oath is administered by the Judge, not
gabbled by a mere slovenly usher or policeman as
in Australia. Hence, in part, its impressiveness.
Lord Craighill, a recently-deceased and conscien-
tious, but very verbose, Supreme Court Judge,
when swearing a juvenile witness used to frighten
the sold out of him thus : “ My boy, do you know
the sanctity of an oath?” “No, sir.” “My
boy, do you know what it is to speak the truth ? ’
“Ye yes, sir.” “Well, my boy, if you speak the
truth all will go well with you ; but if you swerve
from the paths of verity you will find yourself
landed in a concatenation of circumstances from
which you will find it well-nigh, so to speak, im-
possible to extricate yourself.” Collapse of boy !
—Writer.
Religion does not pay a squatter. A fit
seized Old Hundred, and he asked all the travel-
lers to attend prayers at the homestead. The
text unfortunately was, “Do untoothers as ye
would be done by.” The travelling parson did
not give it out as a verse of the Bible, but only as
a valuable proverb. But Scotty the Bummer was
on hand, and bailed up Mr. Century (in presence
of the preacher) for rations, tobacco and the loan
of a Bible. He parted, but the service is now
more select.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“The Patentees—Macniven & Cameron—deserve
A NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.”—Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen, The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Dear Bulletin, — I write to propose that a
company of three or four swagmen be appointed
to rejoice on the 20th of June and have their ex.’s
defrayed from the track to London by the various
Governments of Australia. The candidates would
number at least 10,000, but I imagine that the
selections would lie among :
1. Myself, Scotty the Wrinkler.
2. Henry Lawson, if he ranks still as a swaggy and has
not swelled head, “ By merit raised to his proud emi-
nence.” (Milton.)
3. 6xB.
4. Boiling Billy. (Where has he got to, by the way ?)
You will acknowledge that the nomads of the
bush are of far more importance than the toy-
soldiers or premiers of the various States (that’s
the new word, isn’t it ?) The conditions of em-
bassy ought to be thoroughly practical, explana-
tory and illustrative ; the passages, necessarily,
being either stowaway, cadged, worked, or
steerage if provided by Bill Cow, which is the
younger John Bull. Their (the vopageurs’) uni-
form ought to, and must be, that of everyday
wear, no togging out in store clothes, laundried
shirts, shiny boots and hard-hitters. I know
places of entertainment where the presence of
such exponents of the grand bush-life would be
welcomed. I even believe it could be made a
means of profit, and if the selected were
true men, the funds might be employed
in taking up a swagman’s home or rest on
one of the fishing-grounds, where there were
also rabbits and ducks. Nicest and respectable
and stake-in-the-country folks will jeer at this
proposal; the soldier-delegates and the Agents-
General will probably militate against outspoken
information re travellers’ huts, shearers’ pig-
geries, coolie-barracklike bunks, darn and creek
water with green scum, autocratic Phoenician
move-on traps, honorary dishonorable J.P.’s; but
the swag movement will catch on, and it will
attract vauriens who can be assured of tucker,
leisure, sport, literature, argument, tobacco, and
periodical eruptions under the fostering influence
of dear old Matilda. So, round ’em up again,
“Tramp.” Good-bye, Mother Publichouse.
Here’s another off the track, and that’s—Yours,
Scotty the Wrinkler.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
y*
111 Try It.”
CAPILLAME!
Posted (under cover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,6
'*>
The Result.
Sole A pents:
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st J( Sydney
Brandt’s REFRIGERATOR,
For Keeping BUTTER, MEAT,
MILK, &c., COLD.
The Hotter the Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. 6in. x 6in., Bs. ; loin, x
Bin., ss. ; and upwards. By post,
Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS, LAMP
MAKERS, 236 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ;
& 422 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
00YOU WNy
CATALOGUE?
«-<TY POST
V^TCriES-CLOCKS-JEM/ELLERY-BIRTriDAY«
Weddii\lg z CH ristei\!iNg Presents
H NENA/MAfsl- 1755t77-EUZAEETH ST*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q-
MELBOURNE-
Tb€ Leading Pipe
GBD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
X
-DESTOYS-
Every Species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden.
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Cats, and Fowls of
Parasites.
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. -- Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
&
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
m hm store, w.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
BST Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
HAIRDRESSERS ANB IYIGMAKERS
To tlic Trade.
Just Landed.— Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
varietv of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (ail makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N,B,_We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. eaoh. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG «Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
«S 0 A 082 George Street, Sydney.
Whitehead’s nJSSnfi? *
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Dbispatch Store: Washington-st., PnTYI 9U TT
near Druitt-street. UUliijJcLliy .
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
wiih Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, wnicli
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbeiiz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne, _
France, and Birmingham. Introducer ot the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “Arbenz,” with trade
mark “A” in Swiss cross for first quality, and B”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
gp
TTGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
ED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat,and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. VV. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. 1 tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. Cd. ; Large, 4s. (id. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
c°
CUR
OR. J. COLLIS
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
m'
THE drum
IN POSITION
Pcaffycss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String-.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatios?
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises,_ Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Crsjbrocatioij.
?-W~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. iW Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford street, London, they are
spurious.
THE SMELT! COMPANY OF AUSTRAL!
LIMITED.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
Managing Director: JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office- Mutual Life BuiHings,
Corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place, directly opposite
General Post Office, Sydney.
rnllK Works are now in course of construction at Lake
-L Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, a.l classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
ASSAY OFFICES and LABORATORIES, equipped in
the most Modern Style, have been estabished at the
Works, where samples of ores of all classes will be
tested for the guidance of those not familiar with the
value of same.
~ Publications
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Bookse.lers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities


Remington
STOTT & HOARE
SELL
THE FAMOUS
200,000 in Daity Use,
as compared with 80,000
of 27 other makes.
Many new Improvements
on the new No. 7 Model.
Typewriter.
The REMINGTON STANDARD TYPEWRITER maintains unquestioned supremacy, because
it does the work quickly, easily, and clearly, by improved mechanism of unequalled simplicity and
durability. We also sell the REMING'I ON BICYCLE.
STOTT & HOARE,
Temple Court, 426 Collins-st., Melbourne;
—AND—
-49 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Q6?€Q£laod Internationa! Exbibitioo.
Under the Special Patronage of the Queensland Government.
Committee of Management: Thomas Finney, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman; Messrs. J. D. Campbell
J. Forsyth, J. Greaves, J. T. Isles, T. Welsby. Secretary : Henry C. Wood. Auditor :F. A. Mulle r ’
This EXHIBITION will he OPENED in BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE,
on sth MAY , 1897, for 3 i Months.
AND BE DIVIDED INTO TWO DISTINCT SECTIONS-Namely,
1. INDUSTRIAL, embracing FINE ARTS, MUSIC, EDUCATION, FURNITURE,
POTTERY, GLASS, JEWELLERY, PAPER, PRINTING, TEXTILE FABRICS, LEATHER,
FOOD, CHEMISTRY, ELECTRICITY, LIGHTING, HEATING, CUTLERY. CARRIAGES,
MACHINERY, PRIME MOVERS, NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING, MINING,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, FISHERIES, Women’s INDUSTRY & Artisans’ WORK.
2. AGRICULTURAL, embracing HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP, SWINE, DOGS,
POULTRY, WOOL, SUGAR, FARM and DAIRY PRODUCE, HORTICULTURE.
N.B. —For Schedules, Entry Forms, and all particulars, apply to
JULES JOUBERT, General Manager, Courier Building, Brisbane.
DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depftt, 484 George-streefc, Sydney, for photos and
ft particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, walnut or ebony—direct from the makers
at prices that will‘effect a saving of 50 per cent, as \compared with’buying them from dealers
The actions are all check-repeator with front escapement, made bv the foremast firms in Germany
The hammers are covered with best felt, and are rivetted. The sounding-board, which is th(
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at ali
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climatej and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.B3 wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wires are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, hence
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES. ‘
Hammer-shanks ot
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
6how the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
be had in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold . engraving, with
carved panels, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch'is easy 7 elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing quality
m the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find the timbre
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss in transit. . The price includes
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
chasers will be submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide celebrity. Governors of
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and publi.c institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales.
THE
* Plum ’
* Plum’
('I ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price -f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
e (.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
T>OOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6 ; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Piping Hot, Nana, and all Zola’s Novels,
posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free, Is 3d.
KOMANCE OF A FAIR GIRL’S BATHROOM, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Hepta.meron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Fox's Sensational Series, French Novels, fully illus-
trated, 2i 6d eich ; posted 3s.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
New ReA'istic Novels:—Wife in Name Only;
Thais, or the Vengeance of Venus ; Decoyed ; Modern
Don Juan ; Rose’s Confession ; With Unchaste Pur-
pose ; His Last Passion ; Spanish Decameron ; Is 3d
each, post free.
Short Stories, by Guy de Maupassant, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Deoz, posted 2s.
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Madame Bov ary, from the French, posted 2s.
Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife, posted 2s.
The Human Heart, by Maupassant, posted 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Maupassant’s Contes Choisis (in French), posted 2s.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
Tub Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post. Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Royal Patronag-e.)
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
Contains' over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all. Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens,; Imperial Institute, and in the
midst-qf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road,, London, 5.W.
i
«S
mi
Tobacco
Brand @
AVrJ
INyWsTIW-l/A
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
TRY
i<SHT
To
Extra Larpe Caftes6 y &/i
So/eAge fife HOMEffl/LE TOBACCO&
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
AGENTS:
SOAP.
M‘Lean Bros. & Bigg 1 Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
EASY RUNNING
SEWING MACHINES.
im
STYLE NO. 14.
€9 9a. CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL &TDEAL
HrtND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES. CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns.
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, 6d.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Macliine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL & CO-
A Skin of Beauty is said to be a Joy for Ever-
THEN WE RECOMMEND :
CLAY SS he C ° lnplexion ’ to render already
A ' SOY d l di|eft A on™ «>°tliul E !o reJn'be e a r uty n ’ USed paStry ’ &c ”
BERTRAND CO.’S CHOICE ESSENCES for tw t> ~
bottle, emit a pleasing, lasting, and beautiful ai^ma°° m ’ 8 ‘ per
Dr. THOMPSON’S COUGH LINCTrT<S i i ,
CARBONATED' FLUID ‘"lid ETT ™, R E-
preparations. ' uu is - ed., ;ll '° both elegant
Dr. JONES’ CORN CURE Is ner Wti o
one to have beautiful feet. iemoves excrescences, and causes
****££.*2* n L t YoUtt Requirements.
Prescriptions faithfully Compounded at Moderate Prices.
WASHENSTGN H. SOUL &CO N l’cP c
ISO & 268 Fitt- S treet S^' 5 SK-S.,
_ ======; _ .. CHUECH STREET, PARRAMi T ?r ey ’ "*


One of the first hotels in Brandy Creek—
now Beaconsfield, Tas. —was syndicated by Rook,
Titmus, and Crow.
Melb. Age remarks of the late J. B.
Patterson’s famous “kick-out” by the protectionist
majority: “ Polling day saw him routed hip and
thigh from the mallee to the sea.”
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Pancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Tb« Address is
Still:
RK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE NETTING,
iLnci see tliat you get it.
«|\DET
PROOF
EY
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND,
«HT BROS.
LIMITED.
IMP
£
mm
s
musm
mJmfrjSSb.
S£gi
PROOF
EX
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb djanjbers, Biigb-st., Sydoey,
W orlis —
CbiSWick, Parramatta River.
A “COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
I 24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Home-coming .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He staggered back against the wall ; the
hand that held the heavy stick sank slowly to his
side. An awful look of horror was in his eyes.
Then his muscles seemed suddenly to collapse,
and he fell loosely into the chair beside him ; a
clammy perspiration came over his white face,
and the stick clattered on the ground.
What was he doing ? he wondered ; where was
he ? He gazed vacantly in front of him—at the
window half open where a ray of early morning
sun was peeping, at the cobwebs hanging from
the sash, and the vine tendrils clinging to the
verandah - post. There his eyes stayed, never
travelling to the huddled figure crouching on the
floor. Then a smile came to his face, making
more ghastly the horror it could not hide. Oh,
yes, he knew where he was—he was home at last;
m his own home, the home that held every pure
thought and every affection he had ever possessed.
Yes, that was the window where his mother had
lifted him, a small, toddling child, to watch the
cattle being rounded up—the window through
which he had crept many a time on his return
from some boyish escapade. How stealthily he
used to creep through, holding his breath the
while, but what tell-tale marks of muddy boots
were left on the chintz of the window seat. Never
mind, mother would beg him off, or if father’s
stick were too near his hand she would steal at
night to his tiny bedroom with plum-cake and
apples and soft words to soothe his hot-headed
fury of rebellion. His resentment was always so
uncontrollable and passionate. He could remem-
ber how, as a mere baby, he would answer back
his father’s blows with all the force of his puny
fists, giving blow for blow, and unable to check his
passion though he knew it must bring greater
punishment. Once he had caught up a knife, and
with his back to a corner of the room defied any-
one to touch him, and even his mother’s pleading
was slow to bring contrition.
Ah, God ! how had he repaid her for her love
and pity ? He had gone from home and left her
to listen for the truant feet which never returned.
He had deserted her all these years—a bad son
and a profligate. He had broken his mother’s
heart; and her dying moan, they said, had been
for her boy, her boy, to see him before she died.
Who had said that ? It was a lie, for he had come
back, and here he was in his happy home.
It had been hard work, though, that home-
coming. He could never have done it if he had
not known that those dear lips would plead for
his forgiveness, and welcome him with the won-
derful, unvarying mother-love which he so little
deserved. He felt an unresting anxiety for a
glimpse of the sad, love-filled face. And for her
sake he would bear patiently with his father’s
reproaches. Heaven knew there had been good
cause for them. He had always been a hard
father, upright and inflexible—too hard, in those
long-ago school-boy days—but it was rough luck
that he should have a blackguard son.
He had no money to take him home. Well, he
must tramp it, and get an odd job or two to help
him along. He hated work, but his mother’s face
was before him in all his dreams, and he must go
to her. And so he had tramped it, with his swag
at his back, and had rolled himself in his blanket
at nights, and tramped again at daybreak. His
clothes were ragged and his boots torn, but what
matter ? She would not think of his clothes.
Nearer and nearer—but his courage began to
fail him. He unrolled his swag and took a good
strong nip from a bottle, and then went on feeling
more cheerful. It was night, but there was a
good moon. He could see the homestead with
the dark cedar-trees and the straight prickly
bunya, and the spreading fig. One more nip, a
stronger one, to make a man of him. He put his
swag down and knocked with his heavy stick
upon the door.
* * ♦ *
It had been far easier than he had hoped.
His father had said no word, and his mother had
put out her arms to him with the same tender,
forgiving look he had so often pictured. She was
not changed, she was just the same. Dead? Who
had said so ? Someone had said she was dead and
had cursed him for having killed her, and for that
lie he had struck the speaker to the ground. She
was here but a moment since, smiling through her
dimmed eyes. Where was she now? She must
have gone back to bed, and why should he sit there
so still ? He mhst follow her. He had his story
to tell and her forgiveness to ask. His limbs had
grown so heavy and strange, and what was this
damp like the dew of death upon his face ? Why,
there .was his father beneath the window; but
what was he doing on the ground ? Fallen asleep?
* * « *
The ray of sunlight slanted downward into
the room as the sun rose. It fell on a grey head
that hung backwards, and then on a great, black,
swollen bruise on the temple, on a few drops of
clotted blood, and then on the riding-whip which
was still fiercely clenched in the stiffening fingers.
The watcher staggered to his feet. His strain-
ing eyes stared forward, then fell on the stick at
his feet with a dark stain on one of its knobs.
rhere were sounds of coming feet, an opening
door, and cries of horror and dismay. He did not
heed them nor the rough grasp upon his arm.
His eyes had travelled back to the grey head on
the floor, where the sunlight streamed ever hotter
and brighter.
MAMOOSE.
Old Johnny.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The old man looked about him with satis-
faction ; the rocky ridge of apple scrub and hill man-
grove, the distant flat of white mahogany, were all
in view.
“ Ain’t it good, Jack ? ” he said to the boy, “ a
hundred splendid acres, and all our own ! We
came from the land, we go to the land —it is a
man’s place. I should have been here years ago.”
“But what’s the good of all this scrub to us,
dad ? ” said Jack, tentatively ; “ there’s no soil to
plough, no grass, no nothing.”
“ Never you worry about that, lad ; we have got
all the soil we want down on the flat, and we can
shift it here with a wire tramline ; or, I’ve got a
better scheme—this is a good site for a township.
We can peg out allotments, and they should fetch
—yes—at the very least, a pound a foot, with
extra for corner blocks, particularly if we left a
reserve for recreation and others for a church and
school of arts. Pay ! It would pay like a gold-
mine.”
It was the day following the confirmation of
their conditional purchase, and old Johnny and
Jack were out on the place to build a house, so that
the house-mother could follow. This construction
of the dwelling was a lasting pleasure to the old
man; fixing on the site, splitting the wall slabs,
and stripping bark for the roof.
“ I read somewhere, Jack, that every man ought
to build his own house, as a snail builds its shell.
Build it to suit and fit him ; to be part of himself
and his character. A man should be known by his
home. Fancy living in a Sydney terrace, or a
room in a coffee-palace, known by your number —
as well be a rabbit in a warren. While here we
carve destiny with our own hands, and stand for
what we are. Yes, the bush is the place, my lad ;
never you go back to be a nobody in a city crowd.”
“It’s jolly hard work, dad; my hands are all
over blisters,” said Jack, picking up the axe
daintily.
“ Hard work, lad ? Yes ; but healthy ! Finest
thing in the world—make you grow six-foot-six
before you know where you are ; and think of the
appetite you get ! Why, there’s many a man
would give a thousand pounds for your appetite
alone ! ”
J ack had never regarded his digestive longings
from their economic aspect, and remained silent,
wondering.
* * * *
“Isn’t it just beautiful, Maria ?” the old
man said, as he led his wife proudly into the
newly - finished humpy. “Two rooms—a king
on board ship does not have a state cabin half the
size—chimney, and loft; and all ours. No rent
to pay, no taxes, no firing, gas, baker, or milk-
man. Fish in the creek, honey in the trees, and
should we want a bit of meat, hares and wallabies
come hopping to us.”
“ All very fine,” said the wife, “ but you don’t
mean to say we are going to live in this ! ” and she
looked at the open slabs, burnt clay floor, and
rude bark roof with a sniff of disdain. “ And
what’s an old man like you going to do with all
this ? ” —and she gave a sweep of her finger that
embraced all the land prospect. “Fish in the
creek, indeed ! Fish in the sea ! You ought to
have more sense at your age than to drag us out
into this wilderness —ten miles from anywhere —
to camp in a stable. And I’m sure there’s snakes,
it looks just like the place for them ; but I warn
you, the first one I see off I go. And so this is
our wonderful country home ? ”
“Now, Maria, you are quite wrong about the
snakes. I won’t say but down on the flat you
might see an odd one”—the old man had killed
three that morning—“ but up here on the ridge
we never saw such a thing all the time we were
building the house.” Johnny here winked very
hard at his son, who was on the point of speaking,
for he recollected how a maternal diamond and
her brood that had been sacrificed on the founda-
tion of the chimney.
“And you’re not going to smoke your nasty
tobacco in here to make us all sick.”
“ All right, my dear. I’ll smoke outside.” And
from that day forward, as Johnny and his pipe
were inseparable, wet or dry, hot or cold, his place
was a tree-stump in the foreground.
* * * *
Next day the man and boy began the task
of clearing the flat, whereon grew giant maho-
ganies, apple trees, and white gums which needed
tank-like excavations to reach their roots, and
fell finally with a crash that resounded and
echoed for miles.
At every fall old Johnny beamed with delight,
walked round the tree, counting that space as
already cleared, and reckoning in anticipation the
corn that was to come off it.
“ Why, you’ll never get it done,” said his wife
critically, regarding the progress made, “ and how
are we going to live ? ”
“ There’s an acre down in a month, Maria, and
think of the value of the timber ! In Sydney we
should have to pay a pound a load for it.”
“We are not in Sydney, worse luck ; and you’ve
got to burn all that off just like other people.”
“ Remember the pipeclay Jack found this morn-
ing under the hut—beautiful white clay in a big
seam, at a penny a block—supposing we only sell
three hundred a day, that is twenty-five shillings,
and with machinery—which I shall order at once
—we shall turn out ten times as much. Think of
twelve-pounds-ten a day ! ”
“ Fiddlesticks ! Do you think people are going
to eat your clay, build houses with it, or wear it as
clothing? You will be lucky if you sell enough
to buy your nasty tobacco.”
“ I never saw such a woman as you, Maria.
Here we have a house and an extensive estate of our
own, all our simple wants supplied ”
“And why don’t you say, ‘And work like
niggers from week’s end to week’s end, and never
a penny better off, or likely to be.’ ”
“Think of the free and independent life, my
dear! ”
“ Free and independent grandmother ! ”
* * * «
The flat, with its rugged surface of pits and
mounds like a vast pock-marked face ; the old
man’s head just discernible as he delves at the
top of a red-gum. Jack wearily cross-cutting a
slain monster of barn-like proportions.
“ So you have taken up this selection, have
you ? ” The speaker was a man on horseback, who
had ridden up unobserved.
“ Yes, a hundred acres of it; and I was just in
time,” answered Johnny, as he climbed out of his
hole.
“ And what are you going to do with it ? ”
“ Why, live on it. It will feed us, I suppose. ’’
“ Feed a bandicoot! Why, man alive, this fiat


WILLIAMS’
f-rALE irEOPLE
CURE AFTER ALL OTHER MEDICINES FAIL.
Interview with ex-Champion James Corbett. . . . What he says of his coming fight with Fitzsimmons.
From the St. Louis, Mo., Chronicle.
James J. Corbett’s history as a ring hero will reach the end
bf the chapter when his battle with Bob Fitzsimmons is won and
lost, for, as the world knows, Corbett is matched to fight Fitz-
simmons. Corbett, attired in a frock-coat of the period, plug hat,
and shod in patent leathers, sat in his apartments in the Southern
Hotel at St. Louis the other day, and delivered of a few opinions
regarding his coming fight.
“I am fully aware that Fitz will give me the most scientific
battle of my career,” said the champion to a Chronicle man.
$
iH
%
X
“He is a hard
hitter and cool-
headed. I saw him
fight Dempsey and
posted myself on
his style. He is
my equal almost
in height and
reach, though
after carefully
comparing his
method of boxing
with mine, I can’t
see where he has
any ad vantage over
me, as I am
younger, stronger
and shiftier, hit
oftener and mix
my blows more.
Fitzsimmons is
foxy—he was cute
enough to feign
grogginess in seve-
ral of his battles,
thus throwing his opponents off their guard. He can’t fool me by
working the groggy dodge. I will take no chances with him, I
think I can whip him within fifteen rounds. After my fight with
Fitzsimmons I will devote my entire attention to my theatrical
enterprises and retire permanently from the prize ring. ”
Corbett is now the picture of health, weighing 214 pounds.
“ I am bigger, better and stronger than ever before,” replied the
champion when asked about his health. The rheumatic com-
plaint that held me captive off and on some time ago has left me
completely, and I know I am cured of it. I contracted rheu-
matism before training for my fight with Peter Jackson,” con-
tinued Corbett. “ How I got it or where I got it is a mystery to
me, but that I had it is a fact that I am not likely to forget very
soon. I suffered a good deal with rheumatism after that fight.
Some days my arms, wrists and fingers would be so stiff and
swollen that 1 could not use them at all. My legs also pained
me, but to a less degree. Then, again, all this would leave with-
out any apparent reason, and I would not be troubled again for
weeks." Of course I doctored for my complaint continuously, but
the attacks seemed to come every few weeks just the same. A
short time after my fight with Jackson I went east and met and
defeated Dominick M‘Caffrey, though I was handicapped by
rheumatism in my right leg in my encounter with M‘Caffrey.
These periodical attacks of rheumatism affected me un-
til a few weeks before I began training for my fight
with Mitchell. One day I sat in the Coleman House, New York.
My eye chanced to cross an advertisement of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. I had never heard of them before, and as
an experiment purchased a box. I consumed two boxes and was
pleased with the results, for the pains began to leave my arms and
legs. After taking four boxes according to directions, I found
myself greatly improved. The improvement is permanent, lam
sure, for I haven’t been troubled with rheumatism since. Before
using the pills the rheumatic attacks returned every month or so,
I
sn
<3
JAS. J. CORBETT.
especially if I caught a cold. When I trained for my fight with
Mitchell in Florida I suffered from malaria, and used the pill as a
tonic with splendid results. I found that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills were efficacious in building up the system after a malarial
attack.”
The above I attest as entirely correct.
Signed, JAS. J. CORBETT.
MR. JUSTICE STIRLING AND DR. WILLIAMS-
PINK PILLS.
IMPORTANT DECISION.
In the High Court of Chancery, London, Mr. Justice Stirling
granted an injunction recently, with costs, against a London
chemist, which is of much public importance. The terms of the
order are : “ that the defendant, George Goss, his servants and
agents, be perpetually restrained from supplying to persons who
ask for or order Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, under
that or any abbreviated title, such as ‘ Pink Pills for Pale People,’
Dr. W illiams’ Pink Pills,’ or ‘ Dr. Williams’ Pills,’ any pills not
being the plaintiff’s p .Is, and also from passing off such pills by
thp *is© of the term ‘ Pink Pills for Bloodless People,’ or in tiny
°? k . er . wa Y-” The defendant is also required to give up to the
plaintiff all labels, &c., containing the term “ Pink Pills for
Bloodless People,” and account to the plaintiff for all profits made
by the illegal use of that title.
The numerous cures effected in Australia by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People have led to fraudulent substitutions
being attempted. Anyone who knows of Such substitution, or
attempted substitution, is asked to communicate (in strict confi-
dence) with the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who
will take legal proceedings for the enforcement of the company’s
PALE AND SALLOW GIRLS.
bat cs.il be more distressing than to see a girl drooping and
fading in the spring time of youth ? Instead of bright eyes,
glowing, rosy cheeks, and an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale,
sallow or greenish complexion, and a languidness of step that
espeak disease and an early death if proper treatment is not
promptly resorted to and persisted in until the impoverished
blood is enriched and the functions of life become regular. Upon
partn s rests a gieat responsibility at the time their daughters
are budding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale, corn-
et WW 1? , tlr ? d , out ” upon the slightest exertion;
Wet tro “bled ' vlth headache or backache, pain in the side ;if
Pverrt i Pei ' and her appetite poor, she is in a condition of
i n. S 6l . I .’ » subject for the development of that most
» wl t f t dlseases —' Consumption. If you notice any of the
above symptoms lose no time m procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink
Wlll . assist the patient to develop properly and
th! iw y ki r, ennuh t ,f ;. l ’! o<ld alld restore health’s roses to
their ,tp k ,’ if ii 'f eyes and h ffbtness of step will surely follow
‘ v w dange T ° f ““sumption and premature death will
SnXit ’n and prudent mothers will insist upon their
the neßnd WI L h T B P ‘nk pdp upon the approach of
earlv de,lv f p Tf rty ’ aud tb ' )s , avold all chances of disease and
nr o *%r?} d by fl 1 chemists and storekeepers
place Svdnev wfli f F ' ilbams Medicine Company, Queen’s-
box for -L ’ forward on receipt of stamps or post order one
full. Dr.
They are never sold in bulk or by the hundred. PP
*.. * * *
it f rom" the's v ** S b ] lb P ‘ ds . strike at the root of disease, driving
Thev^on h stitnt-l alK i re , S m ni !?, th ? patient to health and strength
ltiey constitute a perfect blood-builder and nerve-restorer curing-
paralysis, bt. Vitus’ dance, indigestion &c Thev Ire also a
burden wbich “ ak « the lives of so many women a
sal ow Zif Oh/- ?i® \ he rick glowof health to pale and
?ene7allv S m e able -i r T Chemists and Storekeepers
SV v M i “ m *’ IJet, , ici r Co ->
or excesses, will find them an undoubted specific.
you are on is swept by a flood ten-foot deep at
least once a year, and it’s the only land you have
got that is any good. That’s how it is in these
parts —where there is soil there is flood. No
flood, no soil. No one but a newchum ever tries
cultivation. I give you three years at the outside
to be sick of it; and, mind you, don’t turn any
cattle into my run, or I’ll have to impound them
—so I give you fair warning. Get up ! ” and,
turning his horse about, the stranger cantered off.
“ That’s Einlayson, dad ; the man who owns all
the land next ours.”
“ How these people do talk. ‘ Land no good t
Why has he got so much, then ? And floods ! Of
course, there are floods —that is what makes the
land so rich, and manures it without expense for
the new crop. That is the beauty of this place. J
saw the point at once when I was looking at it.
See how envious and greedy men are, Jack. That
Einlayson wants our piece of ground plain enough.
‘ Eeed a bandicoot,’ indeed ! It has been proved
that one acre of land properly cultivated will sup-
port three families. When we get the crop har-
vested I will take on fresh hands, build more
rooms to the house, and get a cow, and a few pigs
for winter bacon.”
But despite the old man’s energy it was three
long years before the first crop of corn cobbed on
the flat. It was a fine crop—green stems standing
in regimental rows, vivid green, gracious, mur-
muring and rustling to every breeze. An army
might have lain securely hidden in the mass of
foliage. It was the joy of Johnny’s heart to point
his crop out to his wife. “ Won’t feed a bandi-
coot ! ” Look at that.
Before the harvest the rains came—days, weeks
of rain ; and one night they were wakened in their
sleep by a strange noise sounding above the beat-
ing of the storm —a groaning, rushing sound with
a mighty roar. The old man got up, and even in
the blackness of the night he could see from the
door, down below him, the wide valley a shining,
foaming, glistening plain.
“ What’s the matter, Johnny?” his wife called
from the bed.
“ Only a bit of a fresh in the creek, my dear ” ;
and the old man turned in again contentedly.
In the morning, a surprise awaited them. The
flat had disappeared, and nothing but a semblance
of green grass on the surface of the yellow current
showed where the corn had been.
Johnny stood and looked at it, and for a moment
the habitual smile left his face.
“ Now, what do you say, you old fool ? Where
is your fine crop of corn?” exclaimed the wife,
speaking as though the flood had been the personal
act of her husband.
“ Well, Maria, I won’t say it isn’t vexing ; but,
when you come to think of it, the flood will do the
ground a world of good—bring down fresh soil,
make it more fertile. That is the best of our flat:
it is always being made richer. Think of Egypt— ”
“ Think of Jericho ! How are we going to live,
now our money is nearly gone? One thing’s
settled, I’m off to town. No more bush for me ;
I’ll take a situation. One idiot in a family is
enough. ”
The resolve of the wife was not weakened when,
a week later, the water having gone down, its
effects were made plain. The beautiful flat, with
its dwarf forest of shining green cornstalks, was
now a shiny morass of sand-heaps, stranded logs,
and slush. Not only was the crop ruined, but
months of labor were required to clear the ground.
So the wife departed, the old man seeing her to
the station. If he was sad at the parting, his
spirits revived before he reached home.
“ I tell you what it is, Jack. The bush, at the
start, is not the right place for a woman. While
it fits a nian like a good suit of clothes, it’s hardly
in her line, and your mother was always a little
bit particular. Now we can smoke in the house,
lad, puff away all over the shop.” And Johnny
laughed his jolly old laugh, as though it was the
best joke in the world.
* * » *
Two years more the father and son strove
and toiled. The fourth year was rainless for
months, the corn a mere shadow of the year be-
fore, and when marketed the cheque was so small
that none but Johnny could have smiled at it.
The fifth year promised better, the weather was
favorable, the corn magnificent. The old man
walked from stalk to stalk with unfeigned delight,
measuring each cob with a foot-rule.
It was a sultry afternoon. They were chipping
in the rows when the day darkened strangely ;
big inky clouds rose in the east and in the west,
and started racing up the sky, moving with the
swiftness of scenes at a theatre, arid spreading
over each half of the blue in frothing masses.
There was a flash, a clap of thunder that made the
ground tremble, as a big tree, struck from top to
bottom, fell into the creek. Throwing down their
hoes, they raced to the house. It was not far
distant, but ere they staggered to the door they
were bruised and beaten by the hailstones that
rained down on them large as hen-eggs, jagged in
shape and sharp as flints. And the storm drove
with crushing violence, smashed their windows,
perforating sheet-iron and killing their few fowls
as they ran. As they crouched in the house, the
roof went off bodily and was carried far away.
They could not hear their own voices, though they
shouted, for the bellowing of the storm. In less
than half-an-hour it was over, the sky cleared, the
sun shone again, and Johnny and his son, treading
the ice-covered ground, went down to the flat.
Not a single stalk was standing. Elattened to
the ground in mud and hail, the field looked as
though a party of giants had been dancing there.
As the old man looked on the ruin, Jack saw in
his face the first look of despair he had ever seen
there. There were tears on the wrinkled cheek.
“It's no use, dad,” said the boy, “ we must give
it best.”
With a kind of half-choke in the throat, Johnny
straightened himself.
“ It’s rough, lad, it’s rough, I don’t say it isn’t.
But man is made for trouble, and the sooner it
comes the sooner it’s over. Care killed the cat.
Let’s laugh to-day and cry to-morrow. Pigs would
do well on those cobs, and, now I come to think of
it, I’ve heard say corn pays best turned into pork.
One thing, they’d walk to market and save cartage,
besides all the shelling and husking. Yes, pigs
are the game—real Berkshires, none of your bush
hogs, all heads and tails.”
Unfortunately there was no money left to buy
the proposed live stock, so that project hung tire ;
and, crowning misery of all, the storekeeper
declined to give them further credit.
“ I tell you what, lad, perhaps it’s just as well.
We’ll go and see Einlayson.
* * * •
“ So you want to sell out, do you ? I knew
you would ; they all do. Didn’t I tell you years
ago it would not feed a bandicoot? This is my
offer, my last word, take it or leave it. I’ll give
you ten pounds for your interest.
“Ten pounds ! Why we have paid -625 on it,
besides all the improvements.”
“Improvements, you call them. Destroying
all the best of the timber. Which is it to be—yes,
or no ? ”
* •* *
They walked by the road-side, swags at
their bricks.
“ You shouldn’t have taken the money, Dad.
“That’s all right, Jack. Ten pounds is ten
pounds. Now we are free to go where we
as we like. All the world is ours to explore”
and Jolnmie stretched his hand in advance enthu-
siastically. “No more worry about crops or
weather, no more working for nix, and ten golden
sovereigns to spend, lad ! Why, we are princes,
real princes.
HENRY FLETCILLER.
Charles Booth has published, this year,
Yol. VIII. of his extremely painstaking statistical
record of London employments. The most curious
thing is the success with which women-nurses,
abetted by the doctors, absolutely block the hos-
pital training of man-nurses.
A Maryborough (Q.) paper records a
“ highly romantic wedding.” A blind lady-resident
of some 40 summers recently married a gentleman
from the South on three weeks’ acquaintance.
Verily, Love is blind ; as a compensation, how-
ever, Hymen soon learns to see double.
The state of Alabama (U.S.A.) lias enacted
that in future no woman shall wear shirt-waists,
divided - skirts, bloomers, tight - fitting jerseys,
evening-dress showing more than three inches of
undressed chest, or “ stockings that fasten visibly
above the knee.” Visibly above the knee ! How
visibly ?
McG. : “I ran across a noble example of
Thrift in Collins-st., the other day, when an old
fellow tapped me on the arm and, producing a
huge gold chronometer, asked me to read the time
for him. The aged one had evidently enough of
the world’s goods to buy a 40-guinea timepiece,
but his education had not reached the high stage
of being able to tell the time. Murray Smith and
co. ought to get hold of this old gent at next elec-
tion-time and exhibit him, like a Salvation Army
‘ trophy,’ as a clinching argument for the dual
vote. ”
Ed. Bulletin, — Be telepathy. When a
telegraph-operator, I had to exchange business
with a repeating station hundreds of miles away,
and, as was customary, the receiving operator
would take the business in batches of six, then
either giving the “0.K.” receipt or else getting
corrected repetitions of any words mutilated
in transmission. Did such “ smashing ” of
the signals occur whilst I was receiving business
my mind apparently became intently fixed
on the missing portion of the message, and
at the completion of the batch, two out
of the staff of five operators at the trans-
mitting station invariably made the correc-
tions unasked by me, and when questioned
they could not explain why they did so, except
that they were impelled to repeat the missing
word, although the whole message had, so far as
they were aware, gone through correctly. When
working with the other three operators I had to
seek corrections in the usual way. As I never met
any of that staff I had no opportunity of gauging
their temperaments, but until I left the service
my own was so excessively nervous as to make
life a burden. The subject has for many years
been almost forgotten by me, but whilst travelling
in Victoria lately I heard an operator relating a
similar experience. —Ex-Operator.
Ladies ! Now is the time to order your
Easter dress, as, of course, you are coming down
to the show in Sydney. Send for patterns, prices,
etc. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.
The Lay of the Temperance Crank.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the ancient temp’rance crank —he spake
with many a blink
(Was something weird and wond’rous in his fre-
quent wat’ry wink).
“Young man,” he cried in quav’ring tones, “avoid
the cussed drink ! ”
“Sir Crank, ’ I said, “ye sober saints, ye know
not what ye say ;
This earth, O crank, is often dry, and dull and
drear and gray,
And what were man but desert dust, did he not
wet his clay?
“ The world is mostly sham, O crank. Its hair is
mainly dyed;
Its jokes are mostly ancient gibes by ancient
heathen shied
What time the Plesiosaurus plesiosaurted in his
pride.
“ The girl we wed is not the girl we sallied forth
to woo;
Our friends depart and leave us naught beyond an
IOU;
They kick our dog—then shake our hands and
swear their hearts are true.
“ Sweet faith —alack !is leaving us. Her com-
forts go as well,
Our Heav’n’s a mystic Aryan myth (so modern
sages tell) —
The Devil’s dead—his crew are sped—and ice is
cheap in Hell.
“ The fallacies that fooled our sires we’ve bared
them to the bone ;
The lies that ruled the world of old we’ve dragged
them from their throne,
And crowned instead some dodd’ring, weak-kneed
fictions of our own.
Wherefore, O crank, I say to thee the world is
waxing queer,
She needs Illusion’s gentle oil to lubricate her
gear,
That gentle oil, O waterlogged, she findeth yet in
beer.
“A land there is, 0 gentle crank, of spreading
field and fen,
Where rots a slavish Mongol race in squalid
Mongol den—
(O milk and wat’ry virtues ! have you milk and
wat’ry men?)
“ Depart, I say, and view the sons of sandy Pee-
chee-lee ;
Go, pitch thy tent amid that band beatified by
tea
Where never mortal heard of Bass or dreamt of
J.R.D.
“ Depart, I say, and gaze thy fill, then cry from
bended knee,
‘ I thank the gods my countrymen are other men
than ye ’;
Then hie thee home and drink thee drunk, and
bless the barley bree ! ”
N.Q.
P. LUFTIG.


Ta
cm
e
TM
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
e&iSlP’s
WOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
X Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Coslveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
torted Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they win be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; St on, r thentng the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
Mick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
OUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS ; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND —
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
&3T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
. “DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for tby stomach’s sake and thine often in-
Irmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoijs’ Palace Hotel,
Soutli £ risbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
fT\OM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Mode; ate Charges, is established.
Hotel.
MA.OR.ILA.3NrD.
Mrs. BOND’S Cr€SC€l)t Hotel,
INVERCARGILL,
“The” Health Resort
FOR AUSTRALIANS.
.--THE-'
Ballet <£irl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting het
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life
Post Free X/->
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
The
Mighty Healer,
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT,
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough.
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
T. o ?.'' k u . n 8T Tonic has done wonders for me in stopping my cough and
nonnrfa* * ungs * Iti certainly is a wonderful medicine. *1 have spent
pound#, and all to no good, before I tried it.”
ADA FLETCHER, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
“Tour Lung Tonio I have used for years. I think it my duty to let
nathers know how valuable a medioine it Is for the oure of colds. I have found
invaluable benefit from it, and could not carry on my profession without it. ”
M. BIBBERO, Professor of Swimming, 416 Mile End Road, London.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors,
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., SI KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MISFIT PARLOR
REGISTERED,
18 THB CHEAPEST PLACE IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR ALL TOUR REQUIREMENTS.
OS
Shopping; Py Post.
ALL GOODS TO THE VALUE OF Is. AND UPWARDS SENT, CARRIAGE FREE, THROUGHOUT
NEW SOUTH WALES. PLEASE NOTE SOME OF MY WONDERFUL BARGAINS :
BREECH-LOADING GUNS, TOP ACTION, LATEST IMPROVEMENTS, 605., worth £lO.
MOSELEY’S BALANCED HANDLE TABLE AND DESSERT KNIVES, PINNED
THROUGHOUT, 9d.
MEN’S WATERPROOF COATS, BEST BLACK OR BLUE PARRAMATTA CLOTH, WITH
WITHOUT SLEEVES, OR VELVET COLLARS, GUARANTEED SEWN THROUGHOUT,
17s. 6d., WORTH 60s.
WATCHES AND CHAINS.
REAL GEMS, AND GUARANTEED PERFECT TIMEKEEPERS, 7s. 6d.
STERLING SILVER WATCHES, WITH CHAIN ATTACHED, FOR LADY OR GENTLEMAN
15s. 6d., WORTH 60s.
TEA. TEA TEA.
BEST QUALITY PANYONG, DELIGHTFUL FLAVOR, 30s. THE HALF-CHEST, AND 10s THB
SMALL CHEST. THIS TEA IS WORTH as. 6d. A LB.
PLEASE READ WHAT MY MARVELLOUS BALES COMPRISE :
<£2 BALE.
MY WONDERFUL
£2 BALE,
£2
Comprising One Complete SUIT OF CLOTHES out of the Best Material, any size.
Two OUTER SHIRTS (White or Colored), Two UNDERSHIRTS (Flannel or otherwise).
Six Pairs MEN’S SOCKS, Two NECKTIES, Two COLLARS, Six HANDKERCHIEFS.
One Set of STUDS, One HAT (either Soft or Hard Felt).
One Pair BRACES or BELT, One Pair BOOTS or SHOES.
£2
A GENTLEMAN’S RIG-OUT FROM HEAD TO FOOT FOR TWO (2) POUNDS.
£1 MY WONDERFUL £1 BALE. £1
NO. I.— MY DRESS BALE contains THREE DRESSES and LININGS as follows 2 Dress Lengths cf New
Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-wool Serge and Nun’s Veiling, 12 yards of Good Print, 8 yards Silesia, 2}£ yards
Body Lining, and 6 yards White Calico, 20s. the lot.
NO. 2.—MY WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL, containing 5% yards White Twill Sheeting SOin. wide ;
1 dozen yards Good Household Calico, 1 yard wide ; 6 yards splendid quality of Flannelette, wide width, soft finish ;
oa yards Cream Linen Damask ; \ dozen white Turkish Towels ; 6 yards Linen Apron Dowlas ; a grand 20s. worth.
NO. 3.—MY MARVELLOUS LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING BALE, comprising a Complete Outfit of Really Nioe
Garments, Two Chemises, Two Nightdresses, Two Pairs Knickers, all pure longcloth, beautifully trimmed with Swiss
Embroidery ; All-wool Singlets (summer weight), One Pair Corsets (state size), One Large Holland Apron, One Fanqr
Anron Two Pairs Cashmere Hose, or Four Pairs Stainless Black Cotton Hose ; the lot for 20s.
No. 4 BALE ECLIPSES EVERYTHING, BEING MY EYE-OPENING DRESS PARCEL— Contains 7 yards
double-width of any of the following fashionable materials : New Alpaca Effect, All-wool Tweed, Hopsacs, Serve
or Cashmere, Figured Lustres; also very elegant patterns in All-wool Nun’s Veiling. In fact, from materials
costing over 2s. 9d. per yard double-width. Together with sufficient of any Fashionable Trimming desired, and
all Linings, Buttons, and extras required for making a really superior dress. The ENTIRE BALE FOR £l.
No. 6 BALE FOR £l, WORTH £2 AT LEAST, comprising Table Cutlery, Spoons, Forks, etc., etc. Read,
Mark, and Inwardly Digest 6 Balance-handled Table Knives, pinned ; 6 Balance-handled Dessert Knives, pinned;
6 E.P. Page’s Best Table Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Desert Forks; 6 E.P.
Pao-e’s Best Table Forks; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Teaspoons; 1 Mustard Spoon; 1 Salt Spoon; 1 Pair Best Carvers.
” No. 7 BALE—-A SMOKER’S OUTFIT, comprising 1 Box, containing 100 splendid Cigars ; lib. Best Tobacco,
12 plugs; 1 Meerschaum Pipe (in case); 1 India-rubber Tobacco Pouch; 1 Plated Match Box; 1 Briar Pipe ;
1 Pocket Knife, two blades; 1 splendid Razor; 1 Shaving Brush ; 1 Razor Strop. THIS LOT, WORTH £3, FOR £l.
With Amazement I Read On. No. 8 SERVICEABLE BALE contains -1 Oak-frame Clock, 8-day, strikes
l-hour and hour, Cathedral Gong, visible pendulum, worth 30s. ; 1 Cloth Brush ; 1 Hair Brush ; 1 Comb; 1 Tooth
Comb ; 1 Tooth Brush; 1 Purse ; 1 Adelaide Corkscrew; 3 Packs No. 4 Jumbo Playing Cards; 1 Box Gold Paint ;
6 Boxes Assorted Perfumed Soap, each containing 3 Tablets. THIS MARVELLOUS LOT, WORTH £3, FOR £l.
ggr DELIVERY FREE THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WALES to where RAIL or BOAT CAN TAKE THEM.
Nathan Herman,
Universal . .
. . Provider
9 WYNYARD STREET (nest Bank of New South Wales), SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE Is. ... ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.


flubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
** Ptibcc”
Sold by the Leading Tobacco'
nists and Clubs of Australia.
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES.
CAUTION!
Messrs. J. & E. ATKINSON warn
their customers against the Artificial
Chemical Perfumes present so
extensively offered Though strong
they are nasty , and from a hygienic
point of view their use is to be strongly
deprecated,
ATKINSON’S '‘NATURAL” PERFUMES
are made from flowers, and possess all their
natural fresh sweetness. They cannot be
surpassed either in delicacy or strength.
ATKINSON'S “WHITE ROSE,”
‘ A charming scent ’ -H.R.H. The Duchess ofYork.
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St., London.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
Sydney, JN\S.W.
TRADE MARK*
QUEENSLAND:
TASMANIA:
McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-eta.,
Brisbane.
T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-streei,
Launceston.
Agencies:
fNEW ZEALAND : E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland-
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
Wortiiingrton Pumps
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION, MINING- GARDEN SUPPLIES,
SINKING, CREAMERIES, WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING, SEWERAGE, TANK-FILLING,
WATER-SUPPLIES, MARINE, BOILER-FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Bkst Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect,
JNO. C. LOVELL tt CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1028.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who woidd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE GO., LT
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King' Street and 23 B-oyal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Partiee.
The FISH SHOP at 135" KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE," 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agent» Everywhere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
Ropp Furnace.
Huntington Mill.
Frue Yanner.
Challenge Feeder.
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Gates’ Rockbreaker.
Knowles’ Pump.
Ingersoll Compressor
Ingersoll Rock Drill.
Krom Rolls.
Dodge Pulveriser.
Roger Rolls.
Engines, Boilers.
All Fittings.
.AA.
2-2
£-0
i: I
*5
- , s r v
Prospecting Outfit«» £l2O
Consisting of
3-liead‘Prospector’ Battery
STAMPS),
with AMALGAMATING TABLE and PLATES.
4 H.-P. VERTICAL ENGINE.
UPRIGHT MULTITUBULAR BOILER,
WITH ALL FITTINGS AND CONNECTIONS.
DOTTBLB-A.OTINTG P TJ M P.
Bcltirjg, PCilleyS, Tools, etc.
/-N
'W'
Parke & Lacy Conjpaoy Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worts:. Agents Everywhere.
Batho’s
Baking p ow( | er _
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contract*
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTRA DISCOUNT ot 6
'.ouo. ewwwwxo
Der cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion, nett).
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 r , „ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Hallo
CIGARS.
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
3 - Popular Remedies - 3
BoQQil)gtOi)’s Irish Moss
For Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S Liver Topic
For Indigestion and Nervous Debility.
o s, •
Boi)i)iogtoo’s Pills
lor Biliousness, Sick Headache, and
Liver Complaints.
