

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Mnois HHAvaa
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal- Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ OrD ” and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Cashs Knight Sevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
<RACk.A«ocK>
ife
V
■*% t £
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE &. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
Of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Iruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
enaranteed simplest arid best ; manufactured by Buston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADRENT S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broapbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elbcuical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting 1 .
PROOF
'Oa/eV^
A.KLd see that you set it.
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
S/
PROOFS
$
Af E*f*^
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CItIIETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
w
Before verting the Of/ wrilelo the Manager for
<jra Of Tariff, (jorrejpondence promptly attended to.
THE
<arosVsoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDKTBY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontages.
*
What is_Health?
T>heumatiam, Sciatica,
1 * - - Lumbago, &C,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. JF.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
/
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI Sc SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia^
ISITORSto CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
CDS
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE imi SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough's Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM,
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
A 1 LIQUEUR.
THORNE’S
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 948.]
[Saturday, April 16, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper.


George robertson and co.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
Pinero’s Princess and Butterfly, Is 6d and 2s 6d ; post,
Is 9d and 2s 9d. Norris’s Fight for the Crown, 2s 6d and
3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4d. Brailsford’s Broom of the War
God, 2s fid and 3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s. Mather’s Juggler
of the Soul, 2s fid and 3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s. Dollar’s
Horseshoeing, 18s ; post, 18s 9d. Hume’s Courtship of
Queen Elizabeth, 6 spost 6s fid. M'Cortnell’s Agricultural
Notebook, 6s ; post, fis 6d Memoirs of a Highland Lady,
10s fid; post, 11s 3d. Gleiohen’s With the Mission to
Menelik, 16s; post, 16s 9d. Worsfield’s South Africa,
Is 6d ; post, Is 9d. -Trotter’s ..Niger Sources, 2s fid and
3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s. Davitt’s Australasia, 2s 6d and
3s fid; post, 3s and 4s. Warden’dflGirls Will Be Girls, 2s 6d
and 3s fid ; post, 3s and 4s. Botdrewood’s Plain Living,
2s fid and 3s fid ; post, 3s and 4s. ThrelfalPs Laboratory-
Arts, 6s ; post, fis 6d. Montague’s The Virgil, 2s 6d and
3s fid ; post, 3s and 4s. Cooper’s The Enemies, 2s 6d and
3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s. Jenkins’s Week of Passion, 2s 6d
and 3s fid ; post 3s and 4s. Dead Men’s Tales, by Charles
Junor, Picture Boards, 2s; post, 2s 4d. _ , -
-pi i . -i 361 and 363
G-eorge Kobertson and ho., gkorob-st.
THE BEAUTY OF
CAMEO CIGARETTES
Lies In tHelr SUPERIOR FLAVOR.
It goes without saying that they are made from the Bc&t Aipcricai)
Tobacco— -but they are also made from the tyo£t Fragraijt Tobacco
it) tbc World. You will find more genuine Fragraoc* il) “CAfjEO
CIGARETTES” than in any other Cigarettes in the world.
THE BED PAGE.
In a notice of Stephen Phillips’s ‘ Christ in
Hades, and Other Poems,’on Nov. 6, ’97, it was
here suggested that his blank-verse method did
not compare too favorably with the standards.
But the new book of ‘ Poems ’ fairly wins us away
from the standards. By the side of Phillips’s
music Milton’s majesty is stiff—and Keats himself
was never tenderer, sweeter. Etiglish critics eagerly
hail the birth of a new Great Poet; and it looks as-
if English critics were right. Certainly nothing
so large and exalted as ‘ Marpessa ’ has been done
for years (the only comparable recent performance,
Symons’s ‘ Mundi Yietima,’ suffers—despite just
extolment— the penalty of a too-personal appeal
in failing to rise to imagination’s topmost sether).
And, by sis appreciation or non-appreciation of
‘Marpessa ’ anyone may certainly judge whether
se responds or not to the best in poetry. The
myth says that Marpessa, being given by Zeus her
choice between the god Apollo and Idas a mortal,
chose Idas. And Phillips illustrates the contest
and the choice. There is a preliminary passage—
Wounded with beauty in the summer night
Young Idas tossed upon his couch, aud cried
“ Marpessa, O Marpessa! ’’ From the dark
The floating smell of flowers invisible,
The mystic yearning of the garden wet,
The moonless-passing night—into his brain
Wandered, until he ro'se and outward leaned
In the dim summer: Twas the moment deep
When we are conscious of the secret dawn,
Amid the Asraness that we feel is greem
To Idas hau Marpessa been revealed,
Roaming with morning thoughts amid the dew,
All fresh from sleeping ; and upon her cheek
The bloom of pure repose ; like perfect fruit
Even at. the moment was her beauty ripe.
The god Apollo from the heaven of heavens
Her mortal sweetness through the air allured ;
And on this very noon she shall decide
’Twixt Idas and the god, take to herself
A brief or an eternal lover. So
When the long day that glide! h without cloud,
The summer day, was at h o- blue deep hour
Of lilies musical with busy bliss,
When very light trembled as with excess,
" And heat was frail, ap'd every bush.and flower
Was drooping in the glory overcome ;
They three together met; on the one side, .
Fresh from diffusing light on all the world
Apollo ; on the other w ithout sleep
Idas, and in the midst Marpessa stood.
Just as a flower after drenching rain,
So from the falling of felicity
Her human beauty glowed, and it was -new;
The bee too near her bosom drowsed and dropped.
But as the god sprang to embrace her, they
Heard thunder, and a little afterward
The far Paternal voioe, “ Let her decide.”
Then Apollo bends to make his plea—
And as a-flame blown backward by a gust,
Burned to and fro in fury beautiful
The murmuring god ; but at the last he spoke,
Ahdstpiled as on his favorite western isle.
“ Marpessa, though no trouble, nor any pain,
So is it willed, can touch me ; but I live
For ever in a deep deliberate bliss,
A spirit sliding through tranquillity ;
Yet when I saw thee I imagined woe.
That thou who art so fair, shouldst ever taste
Of the earth-sorrow: for thy* life has been
The history of a flower in the air,
Liable but to breezes and to time,
As rich and purposeless as is the rose:
Thy simple doom is to be beautiful.
Thee God created but to grow, not strive,
And not to suffer, merely to be sweet,
The favorite of his rains ; and thou indeed
Lately upon the summer wast disclosed.
'Child, wilt thou taste of grief? On thee the hours
Shall feed, and bring thy soul into the dusk :
' Even now thy face is hasting to the dark !
For slowly shalt thou cool to all things great,
And wisely smile at love ; and thou shalt sea
Beautiful Faith surrendering to Time,
The fierce ingratitude of children loved,
Ah, sling of stings ! A mourner shalt thou stand
At Passion’s funeral in decent garb.
The greenly silent and cool-growing night.
Shall be the time when most thou art awake,
With dreary eyes of all illusion cured,
Beside that stranger that thy husband is.
But if thou’lt live with me, then shalt thou bide
In mere (elioity above the world,
In peace alive and moving, where to stir
Is ecstacy, and thrilling is repose.
What is the love of men that women seek it?
In its beginning pale with cruelty,
But having sipped df beauty, negligent,
And full of languor and distaste: for they
Seeking that perfect face beyond the world
Approach in vision earthly semblances,
And touch, and at the shadow's flee away.
Then wilt thou die ? Part with eternal thoughts,
Lie without any hope beneath the grass,
All thy imaginations in the dust ?
And all that tint and melody and breath,
Which in their lovely unison are thou,
To be dispersed upon the whirling sands!
Thy soul blown seaward on nocturnal blast 1
O brief and breathing creature, wilt thou cease
Once having been ? Thy doom doth make thee rich,
And the low grave doth make thee exquisite.
But if thou’lt live with me, then will I kiss
Warm immortality into thy lips ;
And I will carry thee ahove the world,
To share my ecstacy of flinging beams,
And scattering without intermission joy.
And thou shalt know that first leap of the sea
Toward me ; the grateful upward look of earth,
Emerging roseate .from her bath of dew, —
We two in heaven dancing,—Babylon.
Shall flash and murmur, and cry from under us,
And Nineveh catch fire, and at our feet
Be hurled with her inhabitants, and all
Adoring Asia kindle and hugely bloom ;
We two in heaven running,—continents
Shall lighten, ocean unto ocean flash
And rapidly laugh till all this world is warm.
Or since thou art a woman, thou shalt have
More tender tasks ; to steal upon the sea,
A long e ) eted bliss to tossing men.
Or build upon the evening sky some wished
And glorious metropolis of cloud.
Thou shalt persuade the harvest and bring on
The deeper green ; or silently attend
The fiery funeral of foliage old,
Connive with Time serene and the good hours.
Or, —for I know thy heart, —a dearer toil, —
To lure into the air a face long sick,
To gild the brow that from its dead looks up,
To shine on the unforgiven of this world ;
With slow sweet surgery restore the brain,
And to dispel shadows and shadowy feat **
+
[lt was formerly said of Phillips that there is a
Suggestion of physical weakness—lack of vitality
—through his work : his phrases flicker where
they ought to blaze. That is still so : P. fails to
character Apollo : here would Milton sweep and
burn. But P. preserves always the same soft,
half-melancholy touch, soothing and sweet and
sometimes unsuitable. But Idas ! —never any
lover has told his love more thrillingly ! How
phrase and cadence wed fine thought in this beau-
tiful apostrophe !]
When he had spoken, humbly Idas said :
After such argument what oan I plead ?
Or what pale promise make ? Yet since it is
In women to pity rather than to aspire,
A little I will speak. I love thee then
Not only for thy body packed with sweet
Of all this world, that cup of brimming June,
That jar of violet wine set in the air,
That palest rose sweet in the night of life;
Nor for that stirring bosom all besieged
By drowsing lovers, or thy perilous hair ;
Nor for that face that might indeed provoke
Invasion of old oities ; no, nor all
Thy freshness stealing on me like strange sleep.
Not for this only do I love thee, but
Because Infinity upon thee broods ;
And thou art full of whispers and of shadows.
Thou meanest what the sea has striven to say
So long, and yearndd up the clifls to tell;
Thou art what all the winds have uttered not,
What the still night suggesteth to the heart.
Thy voioe is like to music heard ere birth,
Some spirit lute touched on a spirit sea ;
Thy face remembered is from other worlds,
It has been died for, though I know not when.
It has been sung of, though I know not whera.
It has the strangeness of the luring West,
And of sad sea-horizons ; beside thee
I am aware of other times and lands,
Of birth far-back, of lives in many stars.
O beauty lone and like a candle clear
In this dark country of the world ! Thou art
My woe, my early light, my music dying.”
Then Marpessa, in a courteous re-statement of
the god’s argument—
As he was speaking, she with lips apart
Breathed, and with dimmer eyes leaned through theair
As one in dream, and now his human hand
Took in her own ; and to Apollo spoke:
“ O gradual rose of the dim universe !
Whose warmth steals through the grave unto the dead,
Soul of the early S’-y, the priest of bloom !
Who beautifully goest in the West,
Attracting as to an eternal home
The yearning soul. Male of the female earth 1
O eager bridegroom springing in this world
As in thy bed prepared! Fain would I know
Yon heavenly wafting through the heaven wide,
And the large view of the subjected seas,
And famous cities, and the various toil -
Of men : all Asia at my feet spread out
In indolent magnificence of bloom !
Africa in her matted hair obscured,
And India in meditation plunged !
Then the delight of flinging the sunbeams,
Diffusing silent bliss ; and yet more sweet,-
To oherish fruit on the warm wall; to raise
Out of the tomb to glory the pale wheat,
Serene ascension by the rain prepared ;
To work with the benignly falling hours,
And beautiful slow Time. But„dearest, this,
To gild the face-that from its dead loots up,
To shine on the rejected, and arrive
, To women that remember in the night ;
Or mend with sweetest surgery the mind.
But Marpessa is human —
And yet, forgive me if I can but speak
Most human words. Of immortality
Thou singest; thou would'sthold me from the ground,
And this just opening beauty from the grave.
As yet I have known no sorrow ; all my days
Like perfect lilies under water stir,
And God has sheltered me from His own wind ;
The darling of his breezes have I been.
Yet as to one inland, that dreameth ione,
Sea-faring men with their sea-weary eyes,
Round the inn-fire tell of some foreign land;
So aggd men, much tossed about in life, -
Have told me of that country, Sorrow far.
How many goodly ships at anchor lie
Within her ports ; even to me indeed
Hath a sea-rumor through the night been borne.
And I myself remember, and have heard,
Of men that did believe, women that loved,
That were unhappy long and now are dead,
With wounds that no eternity can close,
Life had so marked them : or of others who
Panted toward their end, and fell on death
Even as S'diUing runners breast the rope.
And most 1 remember of all human things
My mother ; often as a child I pressed
My face against her cheek, and felt her tears-;
Even as she smiled on me, her eyes would fill,
Until my own grew ignorantly wet ;
And I in silence wondered at sorrow.
When I remember this, how shall I know
That I myself may not, by sorrow taught.
Accept the perfect stillness of the ground?
Where, though I lie still, and stir not at all,
Yet shall I irresistibly be kind,
Helplessly sweet, a wandering garden bliss.
My ashes shall console and make for peace ;
This mind that injured, be an aimless balm.
[lt is for a singular fineness of vision and dis-
tinction of statement that Phillips must have
credit : intrinsically, his thought is not impres-
sively original : it wins originality through his
eyes and utterance. Around Marpessa ap-
parently float many echoes—the beautiful ‘wander-
ing garden bliss,’for example, surely embodies a
memory of- Eitzgerald’s ‘Omar’?] Marpessa
continues—
Or if there be some other world, with no
Bloom, neither rippling sound, nor early smell,
Nor leaves, nor pleasant exchange of human speeoh ;
Only a dreadful pacing to and fro
Of spirits meditating on the sun ;
A land of bardd boughs and grieving wind;
Yet would I not forego the doom, the place,
- Whither my poets and my heroes went
Before me ; warriors that with deeds forlorn
Saddened my youth, yet made it great to live.;
Lonely antagonists of Destiny,
That went down scornful before many spears,
Who soon as we are born, are straight our friends ;
And live in simple music, oountry songs,
And mournful ballads by the winter fire.
Since they have died, their death is ever mine ;
I would not lose it. Then, thou speak’st of joy,
Of immortality without one sigh, ,
Existence without tears for evermore.
Thou would’st preserve me from the anguish, lest
This holy face into the dark return.
Yet I being human, human sorrow miss.
The half of music, I have heard men say,
Is to have grieved when comes the lonely wail
Over the mind; old men have told it me
Subdued after long life by simple sounds.
The mourner is the favorite of the moon,
And the departing sun hisQlory owes " :
To the eternal thoughts of creatures brief, „
Who think the thing that they shall never see.
Since we must die, how bright the starry track 1
How wonderful in a bereaved ear
The Northern wind ; how strange the summer night,
The exhaling earth to those who vainly love.
Out of our sadness have we made this world
So beautiful; the sea sighs in our brain,
And in our heart that yearning of the moon.
To all this sorrow was I born, and since
Out of a human womb I came, I am
Not eager to forego it; I would scorn
To elude the heaviness and take the joy,
For pain came with the sap, pangs with the bloom:
This is the sting, the wonder.
[lt is the limpid ease of this that fixes.its charm.
The words seem the natural overflow of a brain
flooded with beauty,—“ Yet should I,” Marpessa
goes on—]
Yet should I
Linger beside thee in felicity,
Sliding with open eyes through liquid bliss
For ever ; still I must grow old. Ah I
Should ail beside thee Apollo, and should note
With eyes that would not be, but yet are dim,
Ever so slight a change from day to day
In chee my husband ; watch thee nudge thyself
To little offices that once were sweet;
Slow where thou once wert swift, remembering
To kiss those lips which once thou could’st not leave.
I should expect thee by the Western bay,
Faded, not sure of thee, with desperate smiles,
And pitiful devices of my dress
Or fashion of my hair: thou wouldst grow kind;
Most bitter to a woman that was loved.
I must ensnare thee to iny arms, and touch
Thy pity, to but hold thee to my heart.
But if I live with Idas, then we two
On the low earth shall prosper hand in hand
In odours of the open field, and live
In peaceful noises of the farm, and watch
The pastoral fields burned by the setting snn.
And he shall give me passionate children, not
Some radiant god that will despise me quite,
But clambering limbs and little hearts that err.
And I shall sleep beside him in the night,
And fearful from some dream shall touch his hand
Secure ; or at some festival we two
Will wander through the lighted city streets;
And in the crowd I’ll take his arm and feel
Him oloser for the press. So shall we live.
And though the first sweet sting of love be past,
The sweet that almost venom is ; though youth,
With tender and extravagant delight,
The first and secret kiss by twilight hedge,
The insane farewell repeated o’er and o’er.
Pass off; there shall succeed a faithful peace ;
Beautiful friendship tried by sun and wind,
Durable from the daily dust of life.
And though with sadder, still with kinder eyes,
We shall behold all frailties, we shall haste
To pardon, and with mellowing minds to bless.
Then though we must grow old, we shall grow old
Together, and he shall not greatly miss
My bloom faded, and waning light of eyes,
Too deeply gazed in ever to seem dim ;
Nor shall we murmur at, nor much regret
The years that gently bend us to the ground,
And gradually incline our face ; that we
Leisurely stooping, and with each slow step,
May curiously inspect our lasting fiome.
But we shall sit with luminous holy smiles
Endeared by many griefs, by many a jest, .
And custom sweet of living side by side ;
And full of mem tries not unkindly glance
Upon each other. Last, we shall desoend
Into the natural ground—not without tears—
One must go first, ah god ! one must go first;
After so long one blow for both were good ;
Still like old friends, glad to have met, and leave
Behind a wholesome memory on the earth.
And thou, beautiful god, in that far time,
When in'thy setting sweet thou gazest down
On this grey head, wilt thou remember then
That once I pleased thee, that I once was young?”
And the closing lines —
When she had spoken, Idas with one cry
Held her, and there was silence ; while the god
In anger disappeared. Then slowly they,
He looking downward, and she gazing up,
Into the evening green wandered away.
A poem not indeed flawless, bub singularly
harmonious, sustained, and sincere. And since
Phillips is but young—26 or so—he is likely to
better this performance before the bloom fades
from his imagination. Even as his book stands,
he is decisively lifted ahove the heads of minor
poets, if not yet decisively fixed among the ranks
of major.
Besides “Marpessa,” which is perhaps its chief
adornment, Phillips’s “Poems” contain “Christ in
Hades,” already tasted; and the others from the
shilling volume. The new verses are all more or
less marked by P.’s peculiar charm —“ The Wife ”
maybe most memorable. Quotation can end with
some lines enforcing the lately-discussed dogma
that ‘ contrast is essential to consciousness ’ —
I in the greyness rose ;
I could not sleep for thinking of one dead.
Then to the chest I went,
Where lie the things of my beloved spread.
Quietly these I took ;
A little glove, a sheet of music torn,
Paintings, ill-done, perhaps ;
Then lifted up a dress that she had worn,
And now I came to where
Her letters are ; they lie beneath the rest;
And read them in the haze:
She spoke of many things, was sore opprest.
But these things moved me not;
Not when she spoke of being parted quite,
Or being misunderstood,
Or growing weary of the world’s great fight.
Not even when she wrote
Of our dead child, and the hand-writing swerved ;
Not even then I shook :
Not even by such words was I unnerved.
I thought, she is at-peace ;
Whither the child is gone, she too has passed.
And a much needed rest
Is fallen upon her, she is still at last.
But when at length I took
From under all those letters one small sheet.
Folded and writ in haste ;
Why did my heart with sudden sharpness beat ?
Alas, it was not sad!
Her saddest words I had read calmly o’er.
Alas, it had no pain !
Her painful words, all these I knew before.
A hurried happy line !
A little jest, 100 slight for one so dead:
This did I not endure :
Then with a shuddering heart no more I read.


The World-famed Specialists
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE . . .
. . . NOTED SPECIALISTS
,UM|
thpv h? 1 *^the HEAD OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
nnitp w Ve tw V f tl t further into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than their
Rproon x s success * u l associates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience is lifelong, and THEIR
KJibOBD RIGHT HERE IN SYDNEY is
t A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
THEIR HOMES USE THEY HAVE mad E THEIR LIVES HAPPY, AND BROUGHT SUNSHINE INTO
.. „,Our valuable treatises
mo?, RVOUB AND private
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Out New Medical Work,
KE sc UED at LAST,” over
ot)0 pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward <£l by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Austi’alia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
young men, mikmkj § od
Despondency, Loss of
you are thus
i? .-'° A n are troubled with Pimples, Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despond
u?rgy, Ambition, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE MEN !
. o^- re ale Thousands of you Troubled with Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
~ . a ln Urine, and other unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die of
n iiSlr^ t X ls:norant of the Cause, which is the second state of Seminai Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
OASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CUBED
without Fain or Detention from Business.
wjjjgraes
All Trains stop at the Door.
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
wo
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin disenses may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money,
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
>ll
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE!
THREE CLASSES OP MEN
To whom we would Commend reading “ Rescued at Last.”
/
SjA
ttk
U
£
(Ml
!h
w
&Mt
mm
)»
>
/ '<
0
/////
W/
r
Young Men,
Have you been indulging in a manner which has wasted your
powers, your health, your nerve force, your physical vigor, and
Manhood ? As if Nature would never ask for an accounting.
Are you weak, nervous, unfit for work, or pleasure ? Are your
vital powers weakened and on the verge of collapse, bodily and
mentally ? Don’t, for your physical and mental welfare, hide
such a weakness, but seek a cure by consulting DRS. FREE-
MAN and WALLACE.
Middle-aged Men,
There are Thousands of you suffering from Weak Back, Aching
Kidneys, Frequent Passing of Sediment, or accompanied by
Loss of Vigor or Power and Impairment of General Health.
Many die of this difficuly, ignorant of the cause, which is the
Second Stage of Spermatorrhoea.
Before it is everlastingly late consult DRS. FREEMAN and
WALLACE, who thoroughly understand your trouble, and can
cure you.
Old Men,
who, as a result of overwork, business-cares, imprudence, or
excessive indulgence in former years, now suffer from some
distressing trouble,
All May Find Immediate Belief, Many May
Be Radically Cured
by Consulting Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, who have built
up an extensive practice by making cures when others have
failed. We have permanently established our reputation as
being the
Leading Specialists of the Age.
In seeking the services of
Drs. Freeman and Wallace
you place yourself under the treatment of highly educated
physicians, whose ambition is to excel, whose whole life is de-
voted to the advancement of the science of medicine and relief
of suffering humanity. We have no single remedy which we
deal out as a cure-all panacea, nor any mechanical contrivances
which are heralded to the world as a remedy for all ills. Our
medical education condemns such methods. Our lofty aspira-
tions and honesty in practice place such modern impositions
back to the days of witchcraft and quackery, where they
justly belong. Through constant study and deep research we
are always abreast of the times. There is no new discovery in
medicine, no new apparatus to assist the physician, but what is
at our command as soon as science proves it to be of worth and
benefit. Every case that we undertake to cure is treated scien-
tifically with such remedies and such means as in our judgment
that particular case requires in order to effect a speedy and
permanent cure. We have no experiments to make, for we
are thoroughly educated and prepared through experience
already gained to accomplish our work in the field of medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS.
Write your troubles, if you are living away from the city, as
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE have a system of home treat-
ment that is entirely their own. Thousands are cured at home.
Our small pamphlets, 48 pages, post free, on application.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualifi-
cation and Registration Open to Inspection.
“rescued AT LAST.”
A treatise on Nervous and Private Diseases, 300 pages letter-
press, 16 pages colored plates, 75 engravings, highly instruc-
tive. Every farmer, mariner, miner, and other workers should
purchase a copy. Price, 10s., post free, or including our 10
days’ series of medicine, £l.
[Please mention The Bulletin when writing.]
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney. P.O. Box. 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who
TRUTHS, the PLAIN
would KNOW THE GRAND
FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Disco' ries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and. avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIEEhY
EItEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to Toe the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B. —The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.*
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled DLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
RUPTURE,
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re- i
1 lief from pain; security from Strangulated /
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible. t
Please investigate “Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic]
r Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at J
what you will learn. This Truss positively /
' does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any]
'ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free '
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
r ATROPHY in IVlen N
Waited or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLAKGrED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps. Address-
. J. HINTON-WILUS, a
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb.
JOHN DURANTS
I^l
mm
[mee4fePteFteJ uILDIREC1 '^
ENCLOSED?
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
‘BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS.
No. ll.— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, (id. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps.


TATTERSALL’S
I I I
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . shares in the above.
Name_ j .
Address
BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Name
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name.
Address -
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
I ‘ . j
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
I
Name
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Name
ROSEHILL C. June 25.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame ... .
Address__
For full particulars read our Printed


26000
BOORS
. . FROM . .
Rnthony - flordeFft’s
- 'i*"" BOTH!
No. 1. GENERAL
CATALOGUE
560 Pages. Profusely illustrated.
No. 2, Portfolio of Autumn
AND Winter Fashions
. . Over 250 Sketches.
POST FREE ANYWHERE . . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Mrs. E.
LYNN
LINTON ,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Maevern,
January 16th, 1896?
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
'KOKO'
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless. Clean. Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS GO., LTD., •
16, Bevis Marks , Bondon, England.
JJOTIC3 TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM-OLK'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest!Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P. O
THE 6RAHP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE 0.l
H 13 STOYR,
Manashr,
N.S.W.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.YV.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. lIILLIBII, 135 S 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier, 1 * is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in th*
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE■
Send for a Catalogue.
EDWARDS
I
WORLD-RENOWNED
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Speoially prepared, and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tiik World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
JSg 1 "" It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other
injurious Ingredients.
1 /-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4 6 per Bottle —from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
IDncRoBERTSon s mm sum-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works :
- Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
LOOK A.T OTJR RRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2*.
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Bend. For Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Db. MACKENZIE'S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, reilness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie's Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins.
Db. Mackenzie’s Pace Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst tor excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, .5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
CUSX4RD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury— Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
Storekeepers
Egg Powders,
NO EGGS REQUIRED S
can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard ar:d Bird’s
Bird's Baking and Bird's Blanc-Mange Powders
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Concentrated
, from David
Various Verses,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Maybe Fate's weightcloths are breaking Ms heart."
—Rudyaud Kipling.
Life’s race for all is even-lapped
To watching eyes it seems,
But how we may be handicapped
The wide world never dreams.
Ah ! well for those whose lot is cast
Where open war demands ;
But brave men fighting down the Past
Are fighting with chained hands.
The girls who loved us long ago,
With love long changed to scorn,
Will, watching, think, “How weak and slow ! ”
But never “ How forlorn ! ”
Yet by the bitterness of Fate
The night we chose to part
It was their soft hands laid the weight
Above our throbbing heart.
The memory of dark deeds done
That blot a family page,
The father leaving to his son
Sin’s ghastly heritage,
The treason of a friend, untrue,
The wild dreams better dead,
The hopes ’tis madness to renew—
These are our weights of lead.
Life’s race for all is even-lapped
To watching eyes it seems,
But how we may be handicapped
The wide world never dreams ;
Remember, when you cheer the best,
It was no equal start,
And some who toil behind the rest
Have leaden weights at heart!
WILL H. OGILVIE.
GOOD-BYE.
There are times when the mile-laps seem weary,
And minutes are ages too long,
When you feel the dull stars are but dreary
Night-lights on a wide sea of Wrong ;
When the fetters of custom are galling
And snap ’em you can’t —how you try !
For you haven’t a bean to be calling
Your own; and you must say good-bye I
So you go, with a grin and a simper,
To see her away per express,
And there isn’t a brake-tube looks limper
Than you—in your sprucest of dress ;
And you know that your still heart but wails for
The shock of the first piston-jar,
While the steam-pipes get bubbling and sobbing
“ Far-far-away—ever so far ! ”
Oh ! it’s then that the memories gather
And crush you, and jostle and crowd !
Oh, it’s then that the past pleasures wrap you
Around with a sombre-hued cloud;
Delights that may come again never,
Warm nights ’neath the old trysting-tree,
Long walks and long talks by the river,
And silences sweet by the sea.
And it’s then that the scenes you have painted—
Bright visions of Home and a Wife—
Spread over the whole of the canvas
And blot out the rest of your life ;
Oh ! it’s then with all Hell you could wrestle
For her—and be happy to die !
But—you haven’t a bean to be calling
Your own ; so you—just—say Good-bye !
Perth, W.A.
L.M.D.
A DREAM OF THUMBS.
I dreamt a dream of thumbs,
And every thumb was down /
Consider 8., that potentate
Whose lightest word is law
To all who at his bidding wait
And bow to him w th awe !
“Supreme, at least,” I thought, “is he,”
Until it struck me dumb
To learn by chance one day that B.
Was under H.’s thumb.
“The greatest, then, is H.,” thought I,
But more was yet to come,
For someone told me then that Y.
Had H. beneath his thumb !
On this I meditated when
A light began to shine,
And—talk of thumbs ! it struck me then
That Y. was under mine !
But swiftly at the thought I get
A view of Damocles :
Ihe thumb again ! A hanging debt,
And I am under C’s !
And so I traced the sequence through,
And felt my brain grow numb ;
Lo ! ev’rywhere the pinching shoe,
And someone else’s thumb !
Till doubt has reached the farthest gate —
Does God Himself succumb ?
And through the aeons’ march has Fate
Got Him beneath its thumb?
I dreamt a dream of thumbs,
And ev'ry thumb was doivn !
Sydney, Feb., 1898.
BERNARD ESPINASSE.
Dear Bulletin. —Be recent contradictory
assertions that people manage to control their
passion for washing with amazing success, and
about the extent to which the bathing debauchery
prevails, the question arises: What place, after
all, does the bath take in the history of the world ?
Do you suppose that Adam and Eve wasted much
time bathing after they had adopted clothes and
thus reduced the area that required washing ? At
the time of the flood Noah had great facilities for
washing, but it is doubtful if he embraced them.
The rest of humanity was certainly well washed,
but the results were discouraging. Did Solomon
in all his glory have a daily bath ? Did the
Apostles bathe every day ? I should smile !
Doubtful whether Bacon, or Shakespeare, or
Milton, or Burns had a good wash-down once a
year. The fact is, the human race worships clean-
liness much too sincerely ever to become very
familiar with it. Washing is an aesthetic luxury
indulged in by a few fastidious fin-de-sttcle dudes
and degenerates. It isn’t essential to virtue,
wisdom, strength, wealth, or comfort. —Dirty
Dick.


llGstraliao Wtial p ro vTdTot Society
H I The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established “ 1 IV,it y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
>' ’ * ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
HoTBLr
wfrc/n 12/6 /Mrdap&apa,
l/'KLIWV£OP ALL WEALS AND ATTENDANCE
AutTEALIA
M«*e.
EJchtCo
Ltd.,
AGENTS,
qVJBE RO/0
SwO 0 F S
SSZ/AB'lE.
24 and 26
O’Connell-St.
SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COU
SOUTH
Complete Sanitation.;
Electric Eight throughout.
cs
jg&s&g
(Under Royal Patronage.) I
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with' all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and In the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF. tfeS-v'JfSS&I
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
66
WARRANTED
Finest fland-made BRIARS.
Sole Agents-S. HOFFNUNG & CO, BRiSBANB.
AUSTRALIAN
Boomeran
DR. PHILIP MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says:-“I have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDT should bo sold in bJta of „ JL2 1
P f °r- ttat? a xT^iTA^-nT^-r!' 0 P urchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion,
or prostration.
In Flasks and. Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
teeth Prom £i is. a set.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics-,
MR. Sv D. ASHER,
Sutgleal and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
With every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, ahd Porcelain; also
Without Plates, hf/ M eans nf lividr/eu'O')'!:.
Gold and Other Stoppings, Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth With Teeth, no matter
how difficult, With or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM EBBS. 'CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-98 HESZajnLjsf-s'fc-*
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel iff Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited.
H 'rite for Card of Tariffs.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . *
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & 13. CURRA.KT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and a*, Bathurst,
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
pis’fUtjK
a
SPECIAii
P^rn
NB:li
/////////>
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Bates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street* Sydney-
KELSO KINO, Secretary.
THEU
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR, *
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities With-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * *■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
lion. J. P. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.Cr., M.L.C.; Hori. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 112,000,000,
Policies issued, 73,972 —assuring- £23,075,62(1.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553:
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. ofljO’**'* :-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager tor Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
I
pacts Respecting Jixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yankee Poodle.
The of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
CbarqpioQ. *
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqO^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CeQteQQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite MoilOpole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19. —No. 948.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
" A member of one of the volunteer regiments,
who has left the samp, called at the Sunday Times
Office yesterday to complain ‘of the execrable man-
ner in which the provisions had been provided to
the men.’ In each tent, he said, there are nine men,
and on Friday the steak supplied would not have
been sufficient for two ; while only two
pots of potatoes of about 201 b. each were
provided for 250 men. The water supply was
also unsatisfactory, and the potatoes which
tbe men received were, in consequence, but half-
cooked. Upon such food the men were expected to
go out on a four or five hours’ march. The third
and fourth sections of the Scottish Rifles, he de-
clared, refused for some time to move, but were
finally persuaded on the promise of something more
substantial on their return, with the exception of
three or four, and they were instantly dismissed. The
men, the complainant also added, not being able to get
anything to eat or drink, sought relief at the bar,
and some imbibed rather freely. About 50 of the
Irish Rifles, dissatisfied with their treatment, left
the camp in a body, and out of- the remainder enough
men to form a guard were unobtainable. In conclu-
sion, he added that in his opinion it was ‘ the biggest
blow the volunteer movement has had.’ ”
“THE BULLETIN” OFFERS THE ACCOMPANYING SUGGESTION FOR NEXT YEAR’S N.S.W. MILITARY CAMP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... - £1 P 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added ivhere required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order. Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — B. A. Tnompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. If.
Solomon and Co., 22 llout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S . Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland )'is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TT^e'^ulleizoi.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1898.
More About tie Devil and the Deep Sea.
The old familiar war-cloud came nearer to
bursting within the last few weeks than it
usually does, and though it now wears a
somewhat alleviated aspect, it is a cloud that
is always with us. Presumably it will burst
very badly some day ; everything in this
world bursts some day. Australia has grown
much more deeply interested in that cloud
within the last few years than it ever w*as
before. Circumstances have been changing
very fast, and the alterations of the map of
the world have gone on so rapidly that
geographers have hardly been able to keep
pace with them ; and almost every change
has brought the row and racket of European
politics closer to our doors. Up till a very
few years ago Australia was more absolutely
isolated from European complications than
any other place on earth—barring such lone-
some regions as Greenland and Tierra del
Fuego and Kerguelen and similar spots of
no account. Until very lately there were
no European powers other than Great Britain
on this side of Africa ; no French in Tonquin;
no Germans in Papuano Russians nearer
than Vladivostock ; Japan wasn’t, invented ;
and the harmless, necessary brown nigger
had the Pacific isles practically all to himself.
In those days Australia had no non-British
European neighbors at all except a few
slumberous old Dutch and Spanish settle-
ments, from which there was no reasonable
fear of aggression. It was then like China
before the Jap. deluge—a flowery land that
lay outside the regions wherein that little
geographical speck called Europe is always
making trouble.
• • * *
Now things have changed very greatly,
and the pleasant isolation of even 10 years
ago is altogether gone. One of the great
reasons why Australia should make haste to
federate arises out of this same change.
There is no other country in the world so
well worth grabbing _ that has so small a
population for its oWn defence. And even
that population is under six different govern-
ments, and six different military systems ;
and there are six different railway manage-
ments to mix up the mobilisation of what
troops there are, and six different plans for con-
ducting the campaign (w’hen it becomes neces-
sary toconductany campaign), and six generals
all hollering orders at one private, and six
dogs chasing the one sheep in six different
directions simultaneously, and six hens are
employed to lay the one egg—the natural
result being that what defence there is in Aus-
tralia is vastly less efficient than it should
be. The same men and money and military
pomp, and the same amount of yelling,
might supply Australia with a defence sys-
tem many times more efficient than the one
it possesses, if there was one little army under
one head, instead of six special battalions
under as many separate commands. Six
separate Napoleons, each equally boss,
and all hollering contradictory orders, would
have wrecked even the army which won
Areola and Lodi. The present situation of
affairs furnishes all kinds of reasons why
Australia should think over the situation
very hard. Five Powers have set themselves
of late to chew up the available earth. In
the course of a very few years they have
eaten up all Africa and all the thinly-peopled
regions of Central Asia. They are now
wading in gaily at China, and, when it is
done, provender will be running short. The
Spanish - American states are difficult of
access; they are dreadfully indigestible,
owing to the fighting qualities of their in-
habitants ; and they have the United States
as a sure ally, so they may probably be left
out of the calculation. This increasing
scarcity of victuals makes the situation very
different from what it used to be.
• * * *
No one knows exactly what the situation
is as regards Australia. This country de-
pends on Britain for its main defence, and
no one knows with any certainty what Britain
amounts to nowadays. That country hasn’t
fought a big war single-handed for over a
century ; its last really great effort was in
the Crimea, when the soldiers of Britain and
three other nations spent two years in taking
one Russian city—not a very large city either,
and one which had only been hurriedly forti-
fied at the last moment. Britain certainly
possesses the finest ironclad fleet on earth,
but no one knows for certain what ironclads
amount to, or what kind of luck they will
meet with in actual warfare. Anyhow,
Australia admits that it may have to defend
its own territory from invasion as best it
can by its own unaided efforts, and that in
some of the chances of that war which is cer-
tain to be raised some day by some person or
persons unknown, Britain may not be able
to defend it either by sea or land. It admits
the fact by keeping up six separate military
establishments which are rendered miserably
inefficient by divided control. And, having
thus admitted that there is a danger to be
met, it is obviously Australia’s business to
make its defences as efficient as possible by
federating its six alleged military establish-
ments—by having one decent army with one
recognised head, one system of mobilisation,
uniform weapons and clothes, Federal rail-
way control, so that the little force can be
shifted from place to place with the mini-
mum of delay, a Federal arsenal and ammu-
nition factory, and at least a vague idea
where it is proposed to go and how it is pro-
posed to get there.
• * * *
Because the Federal party in Australia
points to the possibility of invasion and the
consequent need for a solid and coherent
military system it is now described by the
provincial crowd (in New South Wales par-
ticularly) as an alarmist faction which wants
war as a means of obtaining Federation at
any price. Which is a hideously illogical
process of reasoning. If by chance invasion
did come to Australia, there are only two
cities (Sydney and Melbourne) which would
yield magnificent loot to an invader, and of
these Sydney is in most danger, inasmuch as
its lies nearer to our most adjacent enemies
in Asia, and is much more accessible from
the sea than the Victorian capital. If inva-
sion did happen this way, Sydney would
probably be the first scene of trouble, and if
invasion did hasten on Federation it would
probably be merely by making New South
Wales federate on any terms the other pro-
vinces proposed, for the sake of their assist-
ance. The national party urges Australia to
federate now, in time of peace, when the
matter can be considered in a calm, judicial
spirit; it is the small parochial crowd which
wants to leave it over, and let the matter be
hustled through in red-hot haste in some
future period of alarm.
* * * *
Moreover, the anti-Federal party is much
more distinctly a war-scare party than its
opponents. It has always kept up some
kind of military establishment. It is brist-
ling with awful amateur “majahs” like
Dibbs and Neild. It is perpetually making
an exhibition of itself in warlike trappings
on top of a gaunt horse with a view to doing
something dreadful to some enemy or other.
It imports gorgeous warriors from Britain,
and believes in the naval subsidy, and it is
the great war-scare faction par excellence.
The real difference between the two parties
in this respect is that the Provincial party
believes in having six little squads of
soldiers, so thaf there may be room for si”
separate sets of officers in gaudy rags to
shout contradictory orders when the neces-
sity arises. And the Federal party, with far
less millinery on, suggests having the force
consolidated, and one set of officers to shout
just one set of orders. And, as no army can
start out efficiently in six directions at once,
any more than one sheep can run six differ-
ent ways simultaneously because it has six
dogs after it, there is a great deal to be said
for the Federal view of the case.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t believe in the
war-scare policy—the kind which leads un-
warlike accountants and bankers such as
Neild and Dibbs to devise strange draperies
after the manner of Solomon in a fit, and.
prance at the head of battalions dressed like
themselves. It doesn’t believe either in the
kind of military fervor which requires such
an awful amount of liquor to drink the
Queen s health in. It desires to leave the
old stories of Crecy and Waterloo out of the
case, as being totally irrelevant. The real
issue is : Australia is liable to attack just
like any other place. That fact is admitted
by the provincialists themselves—the main-
tenance of six scraggy military forces in the
country is sufficient proof of the fact. If
Australia was one State, instead of six, it
would be possible to concentrate all these
forces where they may happen to be wanted,
and there are so very few of them that if
they are wanted at all the chances are they
will all be wanted very badly indeed. It
would save the cost of five commanders, and
live staffs, and five complete sets of
arrangements ; and a lot more private
could be bought with the money. It
would prevent the possibility of one province
doing a scrambling fight with its own little
force, and running out of ammunition,
while the other five States kept their
soldiers and ammunition at home lest they
should be attacked later on. It would
promote uniformity, whereas the most not-
able blessing of the provincial system is that,
if one province did lend cartridges to another
the other province couldn’t get them into its
gun. It would create some kind of Federal
control over the railways, therefore if S.A.
wanted to send men to assist New South
Wales, the Yic. railway department couldn’t
refuse them means of conveyance on the
ground that it wanted all its rolling-stock to
carry the local Fatman of Melbourne and his
goods to a place of safety, and tell them to
go overland by camel from Broken Hill. And
it would make all the provinces share the
cost of the trouble, which is something—
especially to New South Wales, which lies
rather near the most probable source of
trouble, and has valuable coal supplies on its
coast to attract a hostile fleet. If the anti-
Federal party is of opinion that these con-
siderations are of the war-scare order, its
own obvious and logical course is to disband
the local forces, and sack Dibbs and Neild
and the other giddy amateur warriors, and
go out of the war-scare business on its own
account.
A Labor-Politician.
On Wednesday last week, N.S.W. politician
Hughes, M.L.A., appeared in public to define
the attitude of the local Labor-party towards
Federation. At least, it is generally assumed
that lie was defining the attitude of the party in
general, and it was a rather lamentable atti-
tude. The N.S.W. Labor-party, in the main, is
against the present Federation movement. It
is allied, in the interests of provincialism, with
sueb. dismal Tories as Lyne, Dibbs, Jack
Want, the bulk of the heavy-going fossils in
the Legislative Council, the ghost of old John
Robertson, the Australian Star, the Cab-
bage-tree Mob in general, Heydon, George
Pile, and the like. Most people expected
better things of the Labor-party, but it has
failed most lamentably to live up to its reputa-
tion. And the reasons given by Hughes,
M.L.A. (speaking, apparently, on behalf of the
party), for this utter failure to rise to its great
opportunity, were mostly dreadful samples of
gross ignorance, or premeditated misrepresenta-
tion, or both. If Hughes is an authentic pro-
phet, and he correctly defined the attitude of
the other “ Solidarity” men, then the Solidarity
crowd deserves to have something serious
happen to it at next election, and is probably in
a fair way to get it.
* * * «
Hughes, M.L.A., speaking presumably on
behalf of his party, urged the people of N.S. W.
to reject the Convention Bill, in the first place,
because of the utterly unjust measure of power
which it gave the Federal Senate. The follow-
ing is extracted from the Daily Telegraph’s
lengthy and sweetly-approving report:—
The Lower House was subject to dissolution at any
time, while the Upper House, except on one condition,
was secure from dissolution. The Upper House must neces-
sarily be the stronger, because it was not subject to
dissolution, or the fears of dissolution. He could remem-
ber Mr, Lucas, in the Upper House, secure from all the
chances of political adversity, getting up and telling the
Assembly to go to the country. (Laughter.) He hadn’t
to go himself. He took no risk. Although one was given
to understand that in this Federation only the "most
intellectual men would be returned, still even these would
be swayed by just the same kind of motives as the man
in the street. The Upper House was not subject to disso-
lution until the Lower House came back from an appeal
to the country. Then, if they failed to agree, both
Houses went. But if the Lower House came back
strongly the Senate might knuckle down and avoid going
to the country at all. In an3' case, there never need bo
any danger to itself. ... The Senate could only be
dissolved on one condition—that was after the Lower
House had been to the country, and the two still failed to
agree.
I he Bulletin doesn’t pretend to know for cer-
tain whether this is sheer ignorance or whether
it comes under the head of bunkum with malice
aforethought. But, either way, it is an abso-
lutely incorrect statement of the case. The
Constitution (as set forth in clause 57 of the
Draft Bill) does not provide, in the case of a
deadlock, for the Lower House being dissolved
first; it distinctly provides that both Houses
shall be dissolved simultaneously. Therefore
the statement that “ the Upper House was not
subject to dissolution till the Lower House
came back from an appeal to the country ” is
misrepresentation, and fiction, and a very mean
kind of Tozee, and all the argument built upon
it about the superior power conferred on the
Senate is bosh of the worst description.
* * « •
Another lovely sample of Hughes’s ignor-
ance, or the other thing :
• STMtesrt reason for pausing was that-, once entered
into. Federation could not be receded from. Once in, we
could not get out of Federation, nor amend it, even if all
the people in N.S. Wales were unanimously for amend-
J^ccor hing to the Bill, if all the people of Victoria
“dfc-S. Wales were in favor of a change, and the people
ot Tasmania, West Australia, and South Australia were
against, the change could not be obtained. But these
three colonies, in population unequal to Sydney and
suburbs, could alter the Constitution to please them-
selves. To this day the rule of the dead hand was all
°' e J’ America, and this should be a warning. There
could be no amendment by any one colony, except by an
appeal to force of arms. That such a fearful thing as
that should be contemplated or invited by the passage of
this Bill, was a serious reflection on those who drew that
Bui, and was a retrograde policy opposed to Democracy.
It stamped this as behind other Constitutions.
In the first place, the three provinces mentioned
have not a population “ unequal to Sydney and
suburbs ” —instead they have 50 per cent, more
population. This is a small matter, but it
helps to demonstrate the ignorance and un-
reliability of this awful 'misinformer of the
public. Secondly, the three provinces of
Westralia, S.A., and Tasmania can’t “ alter
the Constitution to please.themselves.” Before
the Federal Constitution can be altered it is
necessary (as provided by clause 127 of the
Draft Bill) to secure the assent of a majority of
both Houses, a majority of the States, and a
majority of the total number of votes cast.
The only way in which the Constitution could
be altered without the assent of N.S.W. would
be by a unanimous combination of the other
four provinces. The statement that the three
small provinces can make what changes they
please is so utterly false that it would seem
either that the alleged mouthpiece of the
Labor-party has been shamefully misreported,
or else that he never read the Constitution Bill
at all, or that he invented his facts as he went
along. And Hughes, M.L.A, not only de-
nounces the Constitution because it can be
amended by the three small provinces—which
isn’t the case—but also because it can’t be
amended by one province. According to
Hughes it is “ a fearful thing ” that one
province can’t amend the Constitution “ on its
own,” and apparently without the consent
of the other four. And it certainly is—just as
fearful as the fact that one back-blox county of
N.S.W. can’t amend the N.S. W. Constitution
without the consent of the other counties.
* * » *
More of Hughes, M.L.A. :
The claims of New South Wales to the Federal city were
contemptuously set aside.
As a matter of fact, they were not. The Con-
vention, where the small States had a powerful
majority, simply decided that the matter should
be left to the Federal Parliament, where
N.S.W. will have far the largest vote. In
other words, it was left to the people. The
N.S.W. representatives themselves gave only
five votes in .favor of the proposal that the
Convention should fix the capital in New
South Wales. The proposal to fix it in
Victoria was set aside even more decisively,
only one Victorian supporting it. The idea that
the Convention should fix the capital in
S.A. or Tasmania was simply laughed out
of court, and didn’t get one vote. The
plaint of Hughes is, first, that the small States
have too much power to boss the popular
majority ; second, that they didn’t use their
excess of power in the Convention to boss the
popular majority in this particular matter,
and fix the capital in N.S.W. without the
assent of the people or even of the ten N.S.W.
representatives. In other words, he wants the
popular majority to rule when it suits him,
and is mad because the popular minority didn’t
rule in this instance.
* * * *
More Hughes :
The Bill was a subversion of the principles of Demo-
cracy and an abandonment of the rule by majority.
Which would be fine, impressive language if it
were not that Mr. Hughes neither spoke nor
voted against the Bill which deprived the
majority in N.S. Wales of the power to accept
Federation, and so fixed things that one vote
against the measure may actually outweigh
70,000 in its favor. And, considering how many
of the Labor-party voted to thus practically
disfranchise the electors, the less it says now
about its admiration for the rule of the
majority the better. Another sample from the
same orator :
Federation will cost N.S. Wales £1,300,000 per annum.
Coghlan’s figures have always showed that
N.S. Wales’s share of the probable extra cost of
the Federal Government will be under <£200,000
a year, but the other J 81,100,000 is dabbed ou
promiscuously to make the figures look large
and awful. But probably the finest thing of
all is Hughes’s explanation of the reasons why
the Federal Senate will always be a Tory insti-
tution :
Western Australia and Tasmania would probably send
Conservative members who “ gobbled ” like Mr. Dobson,
and experience of the last election had shown that only
those who were taken up by the papers, or had a big
reputation at their back, had any chance of getting
elected. Therefore, the Senate would always be a Con-
servative House.
The Senate will consist of men who have a
reputation. Therefore, it will always be Con-
servative. Consequently it seems that no Demo-
crat has any reputation.
* * * *
Hughes himself, as an opponent of Federa-
tion, doesn’t matter much. Like most of the
other anti-Federal orators up to date he does
his best, in a mean little way, to scare the
people by boldly stating things that are abso-
lutely untrue, and by putting things into the
•Federal Constitution which are not there, and
by telling of things which didn’t happen, and
by prophesying things that rest on no evidence;
but as one casual political atom he is of but
little account. The great question is—does he,
as is commonly supposed, fairly represent the
bulk of the Labor-party in this matter? N.S.
Wales had great hopes of its Labor-party at one
time, and even now that it is drifting into alli-
ance with provincial bigotry and Toryism, and
becoming the oatspaw of the Lyse and WANS’


and Heydon push, and the Cabbage-tree Mob,
and the ghost of old John Robertson, the
country still has hopes of it. There is no
reason why it should not be conscientiously
opposed to the present Federal scheme —so long
as its tactics are honest. No one ever expected
honest tactics from the rest of the bobtailed
political gathering which forms the bulk of the
anti-Federal party in N.S. Wales, and its
mode of carrying on the campaign excites no
surprise. But the Labor-party has a reputa-
tion for honesty and political decency to lose,
therefore it is reasonable to ask it, or the bulk
of it, if it endorses the utterances of Hughes,
M.L.A., and is at the back of his utterly dis-
graceful misrepresentations, and proposes to
run its political campaign in similar fashion.
If so, then it will make a fitting tail to the
Lyne and Heydon crowd; and the Lyne and
Heydon crowd will make an appropriate head ;
and there will be a beautiful finish and sym-
metry about the complete animal, and its front
and hind parts will be in entire accordance.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Representation Question.
When the Sydney Telegraph first turned
its coat on the Federal question, and bade
Premier Reid go and be some one else’s dog in
this matter, it tried to excite the public with
the terrifying information that representation
was so adjusted in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment that 20 N.S.W. voters only had as much
power as one Tasmanian or Westralian. Last
week it so far climbed down as to state that
“ the value of a vote in some colonies will be
ten times as great as in others, and N.S.W.
happens to be the colony selected for the vote
with the minimum value.” The exact situation
is explained by this table, which shows the ar-
rangement as it really is :
Members!
Populations of i
Colony at end °f House of Senate. Total.
1897. Represen:
tatives. j
New South Wales 1,323,460 25 6 31
Victoria 1,176,238 22 6 28
South Australia... 363,044 7 6 13
West Australia ... 161,908 5 6 11
Tasmania 171,718 5 6 11
Total 3,196,368 64 1 30 I 94 _
So far as concerns the Lower House, therefore,
N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. have exactly the
amount of representation their population en-
titles them to, while Westralia and Tasmania
have rather more, and five Westralians or
Tasmanians equal eight cornstalks, Victorians
or South Australians. So far as concerns the
Senate, one Westralian or Tasmanian about
equals eight N.S. Wales voters, or seven Vic-
torians, or two South Australians. As it will
be two years, at least, before the Federal Par-
liament can really get started, and as both
Westralia and Tasmania are rapidly increasing
in population, it is probable that, before any-
thing really commences, they will have just
about their fair measure of representation in
the Lower House, and the proportions in
the Upper House will be a good deal more
equal than they now' are. Taking the totals
of both Houses, as things now stand, Tas-
mania, the province which is most over-
represented, has three times (not ten or twenty
times as alleged) its fair share of votes, and its
proportion must steadily decline. Even with
this handicap, N.S.W. and Victoria have more
than three-fifths of the total votes, so nothing
very dreadful lias happened. In N.S.W’., at
the 1895 election, Marrickville had one member
for 3296 voters, while Lismore had one for 1378,
and there were many other discrepancies almost
as bad, so the catastrophe which the Little
Cornstalk Party is so much alarmed about is
happening all round it every day quite un-
noticed.
Concerning a Possible Ghost.
The arguments advanced by the anti-Federal
orators in N.S.W. mostly bump up in a lament-
able fashion against their own conduct in
enacting that the Federal Constitution can’t be
accepted by the people unless 80,000 electors
vote for it, even if nobody votes against it.
Think what an unpleasant ghost would haunt
their meetings if some strong-lunged Federa-
tionist always kept chipping in like this :
Orator : The Draft Constitution is wholly inequitable
because it makes the vote of one Tasmanian equal in the
Senate to that of eight New South Welshmen.
Ghost : But it isn’t inequitable for the vote of
one N.S.W. provincialist to equal that of 79,999
federalists.
Orator : We want representation according to popula-
lation.
Ghost : Except at the Federal poll.
Orator : If the mass Referendum were embodied in the
Bill we might waive the question of equal State represen-
tation in the Senate.
Ghost : Why not have the mass Referendum at the
Federal poll then, you dashed, dashed (tapers off into
inaudible blasphemy. )
Orator : The Bill as it stands is a gross outrage on the
principle that the majority must rule.
Ghost (getting excited): Why don’t you let the majority
rule at the Federal poll, then ?
Orator (struggling to retain his composure): Under this
Bill it is possible for three States with 600,000 population
to block the decision of two States with 2,500,000 popu-
lation.
Ghost (returning hurriedly from the pub. across the
street with a clove in his mouth): And under your
blanky Bill it’s possible for one man to block the decision
of— hie— 79,ooo, aren’t it?
Orator : New South Wales would be always out-voted
by the other provinces.
Ghost (breathing a loud gin-breath) : You don’t mind if
70,000 men aie out-voted by yourself and another fellow
when it suits you, though.
Orator: All we want is a vote according to our popu-
lation.
Ghost : Well, if one of your votes is to count for as
much as 79,000 of the other people’s votes, is that accord-
ing to your population ?
Orator : I can’t possibly make myself heard if that man
interrupts.
Ghost (who has been taking more refreshment, and is
growing fightable): And you won’t let 79,999 people be
heard at the Federal election if one fellow on your side
interrupts?
Orator : The Convention Bill to a great extent dis-
franchises the electors of the large provinces
Ghost (with a shriek): And you’ve practically dis-
franchised 80,000 of the electors of New South Wales.
Orator : The Conservative element .
Ghost (jumping on his hat with excitement): You
weren’t conservative when you put. in the 80,000 mini-
mum to prevent a new idea getting a show, were you ?
[Ghost here ; Violently shot out and given into
custody.]
The Federal Tariff Again.
With an awful, dogged persistence Sydney
Telegraph keeps rebuilding the exploded lie
about how the Commonwealth Bill “ irre-
vocably ” commits Australia to Protection in
its most aggravated form, and should be jumped
on by every free and enlightened Cornstalk in
consequence. The utter falseness of this state-
ment has been shown several times or more,
but last Monday the D.T. arose as brightly as
ever, like a refreshed infant in the morning,
and told its busted fiction all over again, in
these words:
Yet the most outrageous fetter in the whole history of
Constitution-making appears in the Convention Bill in
the shape of Sir Edward Braddon’s clause, and the power
of the Commonwealth is limited for all time, and the
tariff is absolutely and irrevocably a foreclosed question.
Just by way of exposing this unscrupulous
attempt to trade on the public ignorance in the
interests of provincialism, and further, by way
of asking the once-respectable Telegraph if it
thinks it is a gentleman, and where it expects
to go to when it dies, the clause in question
(No. 87 of the Draft Bill) is here given ver-
batim :
87. Of the net revenue of the Commonwealth from
duties of customs and excise, not more than one-fourth
shall be applied annually by the Commonwealth towards
its expenditure.
The balance shall, in accordance with this Constitution,
be paid to the several States, or applied towards the pay-
ment of interest on debts of the several States taken over
by the Commonwealth.
If the federal tariff is so framed as to bring in
.£6,000,000, this clause allows the Common-
wealth to retain .£1,500,000 or less. If
the federal tariff is so framed as to bring
in 4d. a year, this clause allows the Com-
monwealth to retain Id. or less. The
Commonwealth has just the same unlimited
powers of taxation as the States have now.
It may decide to pay its own expenses
out of one-fourth of the customs and excise ;
or it may decide to pay them out of a federal
land-tax, income-tax, dog, horse, and bicycle
tax, tax on K.C.M.G.’s, poll-tax, by running
State banks and pawnshops and lotteries and
opium-farms, or by anything else it likes, and
have no tariff at all. The clause in question
doesn’t commit the Commonwealth to any tariff,
and even if it did the tariff couldn’t be absolute
and irrevocable, seeing that there are elaborate
provisions by which the Constitution can be
amended in any and every particular should the
people so desire. Also, nothing that man can do
is fixable for “ all time.” Every sane individual
in the community knows these things, and the
Telegraph is as sane as any other individual —
when it likes. So far, the whole anti-Federal
campaign has been run on a policy of dull and
weary mendacity, and why on earth the
N.S.W. provincial party didn’t nominate
Ananias as its sixth Convention candidate is
past understanding.
More “ Tattersall’s.”
“ Micawber ” to The Bulletin :
Ed. Bulletin. —There will never be that complete satis-
faction among “ Tattersall’s ” subscribers which the pro-
moter, I am sure, desires until he (as you have always
advocated) draws each sweep on the day of the race. I
venture to say that the great bulk of those who contribute
to make up these well-established sweeps have not the
least direct interest in, or knowledge of, racing, and
rarely go on to a course. To many such the privilege of
“ laying off,” if they get a likely starter, is not of any
real'advantage. Only the initiated know what is conveyed
by the expression “ laying off,” and the great majority
haven’t the least notion of how to proceed to “ lay off
in a multitude of cases they don’t even know what it
means. The motive is very praiseworthy on the
part of the promoter, and is typical of “ Tattersall,” but
it is quite ineffectual, and the system works badly. Prac-
tically, “laying off” is rarely indulged in. One must
“approach the owner,” otherwise -well, otherwise one
hasn't even Buckley’s chance. Happily this does not
apply to all owners. Some there are, to their credit be it
said, who discountenance and, so far as they can, dis-
courage the practice ; but all the same the impression is
gaining that unless the drawer of a horse in a sweep
approaches the owner and submits to be squeezed to
the extent of a-third or half of the sweep; he hasn’t
any show of getting a run for his money, or rather
for his ticket. Apropos of these sweeps, “ Tattersall ” en-
joys a unique position. His bluff and rugged honesty is
proverbial, and he is relied on absolutely. It is because
of his straightforwardness, and his recognised desire to
deal fairly with those who support him, that some day—
soon, I hope—l shall have t.ne gratification of reading in
The Bulletin an announcement to the effect “ that, in
response to the wish of many of his patrons, ‘ Tattersall’
has at length determined that henceforth all sweeps will
be drawn bn the day of their race, and not beforehand, as
heretofore.”
The N.S.W. Jury System.
When the N.S.W. Statute Committee presents
to Parliament the Bill consolidating the criminal
laws, it would be well for the Assembly to take
the opportunity of amending it in some im-
portant particulars. One of the parts which
needs reforming most is that relating to juries.
At present, no one seems to know how a jury
is summoned. The Sheriff is supposed to do
this work ; but how he does it, or on what prin-
ciples he acts, are questions to which it is im-
possible to obtain an answer. Carelessly done
the work must be, else it would not happen
that some men on the list are never called to
serve in the criminal-courts, while others com-
plain of their frequent summonses. The public
ignorance of the whole subject leaves it open
to any person to allege that the whole thing is
“ faked ” under the guidance of a conviction-
loving constabulary. This assertion has been
so often made that the public is beginning to
believe it true. The jurors on the list should
be summoned in such a way as to ensure that
no man should have to serve a second time
while there is one juror on the list who has not
sat on a case. Again, the law as to challenging
jurors stands sadly in need of amendment. At
present the Crown, though it has only the
same right of challenge as the accused, has
nevertheless the super-added right to order
jurors to “ stand aside” till the whole panel is
exhausted. Certainly, in such an event, the
panel must be recalled, but then the Crown
has still its right of challenge. This is not
wholly the fault of the legislature, which made
a bona-fide though blundering attempt to place
the accused—as he should be —on an equal
footing with the Crown. The Criminal Law
Amendment Act enacts (sec. 336) that
“... No person shall, except for cause shown, be
allowed , . . more than eight, or, if the offence charged
be capital, twenty challenges, and the Crown shall in
every case have the same, but no greater right."
The Supreme Court in R. v. Jury (10 W.N.)
held, and no doubt rightly, that though this
section effectually limits the Crown’s right of
challenge, it does not take away its common
law right of telling jurors to “stand aside,”
till the exhaustion of the panel, so that Parlia-
ment failed in its object. What is wanted now
is an added section taking away the Crown’s
right to order jurors to “ stand aside,” which
would place accused and Crown on the same
footing as regards this matter. Another
anomaly of the N.S.W. system of challenging
is that though no one, not even his legal ad-
visers, can advise an arraignee whom he should
challenge, the Clerk of the Peace and the police
are always on hand ready to prompt —and they
often do prompt —the Crown Prosecutor as to
what jurors to order to “ stand aside.” It is
noticeable also that a challenge by the Crown is
utterly unknown ; the other formula is just as
effective, and the right to challenge is held in
reserve. Here, too, some alteration of the law
is necessary. Add to these reforms another
preventing a presiding Judge from trying to
ram his opinion of the case down a jury’s
throat, and the jury, instead of being looked
upon as an institution which has almost had its
day, will be considered the only means of trial
worthy of free men, and a strong bulwark
against oppression.
Apropos of a large variety of things. When
all has been said, the Age, perhaps, is the only
daily paper in Australia run on really sound
journalistic lines, and its unique success is due
to that fact. It is owned and controlled abso-
lutely by one hard-headed man who knows his
own mind all the time. David Svme is pro-
bably the only Australian daily-newspaper pro-
prietor thoroughly competent to conduct a
journal personally. Most of the other owners
of dailies are ignorant, grocer-souled wretches
who couldn’t write an intelligent paragraph to
save themselves from roasting eternally in
Sheol—persons who take no real pride in their
newspapers and only regard them as a means
fff making money and “ working the oracle ” in
all sorts of little tin-pot ways. Also, when
the ownership of a newspaper is cut up in com-
pany form, that newspaper is almost invariably
used as a mere “ side-show ” to help along the
more important outside interests of the pro-
prietors. So while the grim, solitary David
Syme ever keeps his keen eye fixed on the face
of his one beloved goddess, the Age, you
see the proprietor-controllers of other dailies
walking round at night, as it were, with
all sorts of strange women to the great
damage of their legitimate wives. To anyone
in the know it is indeed of melancholy interest
to watch the works going in the offices of a lot
of the company papers —to see how reports of
public proceedings are shamelessly doctored
and garbled to suit the private interests and
prejudices of Mr. So-and-so, who holds so
many hundred shares, and is “ on the board ”
to see the policy of the paper get its back vio-
lently ricked because of something that hap-
pened or didn’t happen to Missis So-and-so at
Government House or at the meeting of such-
and-such a committee—or because Mister So-
and-So’s gas-share interests are at hopeless
variance with the proposed electric-lighting of
the city. Of course, what a man owns he’ll
control—whether it’s a newspaper or a brothel.
And they’re more than occasionally just the
same thing, with the result that the position of
“ the board ” is often exactly that of bullies in
a literary bagnio.
♦
Beautiful item from Sydney Daily Telegraph
leading article of 6th April :
In his historic speech at the Town Hall Mr. Reid bared
to the public gaze a skeleton in the Convention cupboard,
the concealment of which would have amounted to an
act of most culpable deception towards the people of this
colony. That is the cut-and-dried arrangement about
the Federal capital. Concerning this matter, we have
the word of the Premier that if the Convention Bill
passes, it will mean the moral certainty of Melbourne
being made the seat of the Commonwealth Government.
And it is to be brought about by a subterfuge which, but
for Mr. Reid’s clear and candid give-away, could hardly
have been suspected. It was at first agreed by the anti-
New South Wales majority that the capital need not neces-
sarily be on Federal territory. The object of this, how-
ever, being somewhat too transparent, and calculated to
alarm the easy-going electors of the parent colony against
the Bill, an amendment was subsequently passed re-
voking that decision. It was thus made to appear that
neither Sydney nor Melbourne could be the capital, and
that in the selection of a site by the Federal Parliament
N.S. Wales might receive some consideration. But, as
Mr. Reid now informs us, this concession was an illusory
one, and calculated to grossly deceive those who regarded
it as placing N.S. Wales in any better position than before.
For all the time there was up the Victorian Premier’s
sleeve a nice little plan for cutting off a portion of Mel-
bourne containing Parliament House, public buildings,
and vice-regal residence, and offering them in a job line
to the Commonwealth as a ready-made capital.
The short answer to this boss prevarication is :
Premier Reid never made the alleged state-
ment. Instead of the Vic. Premier having the
alleged scheme up his sleeve, G. H. Reid
merely said that if he were in Turner’s place
he would make the offer alluded to, and the
scheme would, under certain conditions, be up
his (Reid’s) own sleeve. There was no revela-
tion of any plan for fixing the Federal capital
in Victoria or anywhere else. There was no
skeleton, no cupboard, no cut-and-dried
arrangement. There was also no candid “give-
away ” of anything. The whole tale is a pic-
turesque invention, a Kiama Ghost, and a
beautiful work of fiction generally.
“ L.M.” writes re the great Bush Thirst and its
consequences :
Dear Bulletin.— Why are you so severe on Thrift ? At
present it is the general habit of the bushman to “ knock
down ” his cheque as promptly as possible. No thought
is given to the morrow, and even decent wearing apparel
and blankets are dispensed with in the interests of the
unquenchable thirst for “three-star” and “fine old
Jamaica.” I have known scores of men to leave a station
with £2O or more in their pockets, and within a fortnight
to return in rags cadging for “tucker.” Is a destitute
man, who introduces himself to the manager by asking
for a pannikin of flour, in a position to dispute as to the
price to be paid for a given piece of work? The penni-
less worker aids the “ cutting-down ” process in his
anxiety to “ get off the track.” For instance, a station
wants burr-cutters at 12s. 6d. per week, or perhaps
less. The men who accept this employment do so
with the avowed intention of “ slingin’ it ” as soon
as they have earned the price of a pair of boots
or a shirt or something ; but as there is a steady supply
of toilers all wanting boots or shirts, the short-time sys-
tem makes no difference to the boss. He gets his burrs cut
at 12s. 6d. a week or less. Even in such cases it seldom
happens that the necessary boots are bought with the
money so acquired. It’s far more of a certainty to “ back”
the nearest pub. And thus it is in all classes of bush
work. Each oontract is eagerly rushed by a set of impe-
cunious lushingtons, and, providing.it will pan out a
week’s drunk, their troubles are small whether the price
obtained for their labor be high or low. I know that my
theory will be received with derision, but, nevertheless,
the average bush worker does more to blight his own and
fellow-workers’ lot than the average “ blarsted squatter.”
Let the toilers acquire the habit of keeping the few
pounds that they earn occasionally, so that they may be
in a position to “argue the point” when the next job
turns up, and I’m certain it would not be long before
wages reached a fair figure. At present the bushman
thinks he has done his duty by himself and his fellow-
man when he “ buys his ticket,” but, in my humble
opinion, he hasn’t. The worker must study thrift, for
capital, even in a limited quantity, constitutes strength.
Unity without hard cash gets left every time.
4y
Dear Bulletin;— Re your recent commiseration
of a Chinaman, who suddenly demised through
the cutting off of his opium-supply by recent
enactment of Q. Govt. Don’t you think it’s
just as well for the country that that piteous
Chow handed in his checks ? Can any person,
whose existence depends upon the use of a drug
—opium, alcohol, absinthe, or what-not—be an
unadulterated blessing to any State ? Why ! the
same fate befell a white man not long ago out
Springsure way, and, though we may pity the
weakness of our degraded brother, we must
recognise the justice of the self-imposed punish-
ment, and the fortunate escape of an unborn
progeny. Are not inordinate appetites unmis-
takeable signs of disease ? and would it be an
unmitigated blunder if all the old chuckle-
headed, addle-brained inebriates were wiped
out by a similar enactment with regard to
alcohol ?—Llewelyn.
[This is how the small, smug, prosy, untempted moralist
so frequently “ compounds for sins he is inclined to, by
damning those he has no mind to.” Addiction to exces-
sive use of any drug may be a morbid condition —there is
reason to believe that genius itself is a morbid condition
—but, specially instancing alcohol, there is no getting
over the facts that in thousands of cases the predisposing
influence is an original geniality of nature—a special well-
affection towards mankind—and that men, not only of
the widest human sympathies, but of the greatest practi-
cal value to the social system, have for long periods
virtually lived on alcohol. The strength of a small man
may be feebler than the weakness of a great one. As to
opium, it is a lamentable fact that many men of almost
genius, the work of whose brains gives incalculable plea-
sure to the world, are dependent for the continuance of
their existence upon that and other narcotics. Such men
may not be “ unadulterated blessings ” to a community,
but still they are blessings. For that matter, no man is
an unadulterated blessing to any community.—Ed. B.]
♦
A feasible way of excluding wealthy, or com-
paratively wealthy, patients from Australian
Government-subsidised hospitals—if their ex-
clusion as paying patients be found really
necessary—is to decline all payments over <£l
per week, and then to treat all patients exactly
alike. A wealthy patient who pays £5, .£lO or
£2O per week, often obtains in return a
private room, and special nurses, and extra
care and titivation—in all very much greater
service than his money represents. He
knows this, and goes for it as he would for
any other bargain. At the same time, the ab-
sorption by him and others like him of the ser-
vices of the institution, reduces the amount of
service available for the non-paying or £1 a
week patients. If only £1 a week were
accepted, and all, paying and .non-paying, were
treated to a £1 a week service, with share-and-
share-alike in hospital benefits, Crcesus would
invite doctors to attend him in his own house,
or he would seek a private and not a public and
Government-subsidised institution.
Magistrate Love’s refusal to give costs to the
prosecutor in a recent Redfern (Sydney) case
of non-attendance at school, is fully in accord
with the current practice in such cases in the
police courts of England. Magistrates there
regularly refuse costs to prosecutors on behalf
of school-boards and other educational authori-
ties, the influencing sentiment being that if
non-attendance at school be a punishable offence,
the prospective offenders should, as a condition
precedent, be freed from the obligation of
having to pay for attendance. If N.S.W.
magistrates accept influence of the same kind,
abundance of which exists, prosecutions under
the N.S. W. Act would promptly cease, for the
Department would have to pay half-a-guinea or
a guinea for every case sent into court, and thus
an important step towards free education would
be accomplished. As matters stand, N. S.
Wales Govt, professes to be unable to afford free
primary education, yet it spends £50,000 or
£60,000 a year in giving free postage to all sorts
of newspapers, bonafide and bogus.
TheS.M. Herald for once strikes a great
truth, and strikes it hard :
The Anti-Convention Bill party has, to borrow a phrase
from the French Revolution, resolved upon permanent
session. Three Parliamentary parties, all, under what-
ever disguise, attacking Federation, is surely a feature of
the situation that must have its lesson for the electors, to
whom and to whom alone the fate of Federation is re-
ferred. All this is so opposed to the ordinary working of
politics that we are bound to ask what it means. Ordin-
arily Parliament is quickly responsive to the indications
of public opinion, and seldom is it found, as in the present
case, steadily resisting the people, even to the extent of
disfranchising its own electors, as it did by the Enabling
Act Amendment Act, whereby if 79,000 votes be cast for
Federation they are cast in vain so far as Parliament de-
crees. The plain fact, which is not to be evaded or ex-
plained away, is that Parliament, as far as it can, means
to kill Federation. The only visible reason for this atti-
tude is that members of Parliament stand to lose
a great deal by this bill. Not to impute per-
sonal motives, there is a strong class bias aroused
by the prospect that with federation will come a les-
sening of the power and the dignity of the State Par-
liaments. To many members of the local bodies the
passing of the Commonwealth Bill must almost threaten
their political existence. The number of members in our
Assembly is 125, while the House of Representatives—the
more numerous body of the Federal Legislature, repre-
senting all the electors of Australia—will consist of only
about 60 members, and the Senate of 30 more, so that the
Parliament of the Federation, elected by the whole people
and discharging all the federal legislation and administra-
tion of the Commonwealth, will contain less than three-
fourths of the numbers of one House of the New South
Wales Parliament. The work of the State Parliaments
will necessarily then be less important in character than
novy, and it is scarcely likely that members of those bodies
will retain the same pay as at present. Men not of a cali-
bre that would entitle them to membership of the Federal
Parliament recognise that they are menaced with political
eclipse. Their importance at once shrinks, their func-
tions dwindle to tasks of local government, and it is in-
evitable that these diminutions will in time entail reduc-
tion of numbers and emoluments. While Federation
opens to our political leaders a career of immensely
larger opportunity, it condemns the inferior men to a
narrower and narrowing stage. They naturally dislike
the transformation. Any argument is good that will dis-
credit the Bill—it is un-Demooratic, though constitutional
authorities call it the most Democratic Constitution of
the kind ; it sacrifices the interests of N.S.W., but no one
quite defines these sacrifices ; its financial scheme is
deplorable, as to which experts disagree ; and the loss of
Freetrade appears to cause grief even in Protectionist
quarters. Under all disguises the unoomfortable fact re-
mains that the Bill threatens the interest of Parliament,
and Parliament resists accordingly.


While in Town
The best Boots in Sydney—
And just as good Shoes as Boots.
Call and inspect the choice stock of
CALLAGHAN BOOTS and SHOES;
and leave your measure for future
orders. We are here to please the most
exacting.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Silver Kinjj.”
Koval “ Cotton King.”
Criterion “A Marriage of Convenience."
Lyceum “The Phantoms.”
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ The Secrets of the Police.”
Belmore Park Harmston’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Babes in the Wood.”
Royal “ When London Sleeps."
Bijou.. “Maritana.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy.
Exhibition Building Albani.
The new “ Silver King ” opened at Her
Majesty’s to a vast house, and there is every present
sign that business will continue vast. It is no
possible use arguing against a success which blows
criticism right off its legs, and the public appar-
ently doesn’t want to hear whether Barrett’s King
is a little better or a little worse than many pre-
vious monarchs who came back with long grey
hair, and honestly repaid to Dan’l Jaikes the
’a’penny he had advanced in a time of storm.
Taking it all round, the performance is a good one,
though not the best on the Australian record by
some distance. Wilson Barrett is a trifle heavy
in the early scenes, and when he is disguised as
a sailor outside a public-house, and has asked the
deity to put back the universe, and the universe
hasn’t gone back, and then he suddenly drops on
the overwhelming news of his own death in
the evening paper, he doesn’t seem to make
the most of the situation. And when he
throws off the disguise of Dicky, and that ancient
wreck breaks loose on the astounded criminals
with a large piece of wood, his exit is rather less
stirring than it might be. The Spider and
fatherly old Christmas hardly attempt to block his
retreat, and he steps out for home in a compara-
tively peaceful spirit. Wilson Barrett is a very
respectable King, but he isn’t an absolutely enor-
mous beacon on the shores of dramatic art.
* * • •
The new Nellie Denver (Miss Maud
Jeffries) is a clever and loveable woman in dis-
tress. Horace Hodges’ Dan’l is a great success ;
looking back down the leafy aisle of years, and
considering the many Jaikeses strewn thereon, the
writer has a vague idea that there was one
Dan’l somewhere whom he preferred to Hodges,
but the memory is so indistinct, and that
alleged Dan’l is so remote, that he wouldn’t
swear to him. The Elijah Coombe of Ambrose
Manning is good, though he goes to extremes of
piety that no previous Elijah ever attempted ;
and the present Olive Skinner fills the bill well
enough, and the Spider is a very moderate kind
of Spider, and when Dan’l is balanced against
any shortcomings of the other people the net
result is certainly satisfactory. One very small
item, by the way, is that the three old gaffers
who sit outside the public-house and read about
the ’orrid murder are not allowed the usual table,
and have to put their beer on the floor. And why
these old gentlemen should be put to the indignity
of laying their beer on the floor this paper can’t
imagine.
** * *
It is an open question whether the Cart-
wright co. was well-advised when it commenced
its Sydney Criterion season with “ A Marriage of
Convenience.” That pretty and clever French
comedy will never catch on with the gallery or the
hind row of the stalls. If the Chevalier acciden-
tally sat down on a pie, and got a large beef-stain
on the rear of his green suit, or the pert waiting-
maid fell overboard with the crockery, it might be
different; but the subtle humour and old French
cynicism and the wicked but gentlemanly frivolity
of very long ago only appeal to a comparatively
small section of the community. That section
which likes to get a vast quantity of brown re-
freshment in a pot for 3d., and doesn’t care very
much whether there is a dead bee in it or not, will
probably stay away.
* • * *
The “ Marriage ’ is a story of two
people in good society, who had a loveless wed-
ding by arrangement of their parents. One
of them doesn’t care a damn, in a giddy velvet tail-
coat of the olden time, that the other is in love
with another man, and the other doesn’t care a
straw, in a costly silk train, that the first one is in
love with a different woman, and they explain
these facts to each other with the courtesy of that
bygone generation which Robespierre scragged
over 100 years ago. When they fall in love with
each other, to their own great surprise, the Chev-
alier, instead of being noisily ejected, is cour-
teously removed in a gilded chariot with perfumes
and lofty grovel and accessories. Dumas’ drama
works itself out without any loud bang-crash,
or any free-fight between a mother-in-law and
a policeman. There is a lot of French humor
in the “Marriage of Convenience,” and the
dialogue sparkles brightly in every line with a
kind of wit which is too refined and expensive for
every-day use, and the play gets through gaily
without much incident, and skates along the
jagged edge of awful possibilities, yet never once
falls in. There are situations in it which, in some
dramas, would make the coster sool the dorg on to
the missis ; and which, in others, would make
George Rignold throw his young bride out of
doors so that she would bump on 16 different stairs
in her fall. And they are all glided over politely
and morally, and the froth of threatened adultery
is blown so gently off the top of the pot that
hardly anyone really notices that it was there.
* • * *
Miss Edith Morley, the young bride
who is torn away from a weak, green lover to
make a marriage of convenience, is the member of
the co. who probably impresses the audience most.
She is tall, graceful, and swan-like ; she has a
sweet voice, and acts intelligently, and looks nice
and she is one of the few ladies who can run with
a train on. Arthur Styan, the mild, green lover,
is a highly amusing person, nevertheless The
Bulletin is glad Miss Morley didn’t marry him.
xor he is only a frivolous, shrill butterfly at best,
and the large, dreamy Soul (the writer presumes
it is Soul) which looks out of Edith’s pensive eyes
calls for something better. Charles Thursby’s
Comte de Candale is a fine-looking, manly noble-
man, and his rendering of the part is just about
perfect. The star allows himself a chance in act
111., but, though the fierce old General takes well,
Sydney hasn’t seen enough of Cartwright yet to
feel quite sure of its opinion regarding him. But
its early impressions are favorable, anyhow, and
its views on Thursby and Miss Morley are wildly
cordial.
*- * * *
That universal favorite and brother to the
human race in general, Bland Holt, opened the
rusted portals of Sydney Royal on Saturday, and
ht upits old-established gloom with the “Cotton
King.’’ And, concerning that vast drama, there
is nothing 1 at all the matter, except the drama
itself. The scenery is especially magnificent.
The fittings are intensely elaborate. When B.
Holt puts on a mansion as a background to Act I.
it isn’t merely a delusion and a painted door ; the
door is open, and there are long real carpeted
corridors, and the premises are furnished—merely
in order that the public may see the furniture
through the windows. The Othello who
blacked himself all over was nothing to
this ; Holt blackens himself inside also.
In the great mill-scene the machinery is laid on in
tons, and the air is full of big wheels turning
round, and the lift that nearly flattens the heroine
into a brighter world is a fine piece of mechanical
accuracy. Also, a very strong company takes
charge of the drama—and the drama itself is a
weak affair which hangs anyhow, or thereabouts,
and seems to be thrown together
with a fork. It suffers from
the incurable complaint that
too many things happen off
the stage, and are mentioned
afterwards. In Act I. Cos-
grove remarks casually that
he has ruined Baker, and be-
trayed the young affections of
Miss Gill. In Act 11. he states
that he has robbed the firm,
though the audience is allowed
to see him plant the stolen
notes in Baker’s cash-box. In
Act 111. remarks which drop
from various people reveal that
Baker was accused of the rob-
bery ; also that he mysteriously
disappeared in America with
another vast amount of the
firm’s dollars, and has since
been missing. Further, some-
body mentions that Miss Gill
and her aged grandfather are
both dead. Cosgrove after-
wards observes that he had
artfully shunted Baker into a
madhouse in America, and
Baker turns up later on to tell
how the madhouse was burned
in America, and how he
escaped. Barring the thrilling
crime by which Cosgrove tries
to scrunch Miss Watson’s bones
in the lift, most of the interest-
ing episodes happen in America,
and are explained afterwards.
That is what is the matter
with the “ Cotton King.”
* * *
There are quite a multi-
tude of deserving people in
Bland Holt’s co. Walter Baker
is the fine, manly actor he
always is. Miss Fitzmaurice
Gill steadily improves, and is
developing into a very finished
actress. Albert Norman is
always effective; Bland Holt
and Mrs. Bland are the same
favourites that they have been since Sydney first
made their acquaintance; and Miss Flora Anstead
is an elderly lady who is calculated to be an orna-
ment to any family. Cosgrove and Miss Elizabeth
Watson have certainly not improved since Sydney
saw them last, and the former is painfully de-
pressing at all times, but Charles Brown and Miss
Brightie Smith both deserve honourable mention.
And there isn’t one thoroughly effective character
to divide among all these people. Albert Norman
gets about the best show, inasmuch as he does his
work on the spot and hasn’t to report any lament-
able circumstance which happened in America,
and the next-best part is entrusted to the lift.
** * *
“ The Phantoms,” a play by Shirley and
Conquest, is to be staged next Saturday at Sydney
Lyceum, and until then the “Yorkshire Lass”
fills the aching void. Apropos of which The Bul-
letin presents this week a portrait of Miss Inez
Bensusan, the new Australian actress, whose ren-
dering of the wicked French lady in the evening
dress that is cut low has roused this usually ex-
hausted organ to sudden enthusiasm. It is a
considerable time since a new Australian actress
of promise rose in the eastern horizon, and The
Bultetin desires to impress on Miss Bensusan
that there is a large void to fill, and that it is her
duty to fill it. Also, it has some hope that she
will prove equal to the occasion.
** * *
The Kellino Family and a very promising
new songstress, Miss Lizzie Kirk, have been added
to the co. at Sydney Tivoli this week, and that
promising show is in its usual good health and
spirits.
** * *
Harmston’s Circus is steadily gathering in
the fleeting shekel at Belmore Park, Sydney, and
has fairly established itself as a show which
deserves public support. The cold, dank, muddy
nose of the baby elephant appeals tearfully for
public support, on the ground that the baby ele-
phant is an orphan, its large baggy parent having
died in its early infancy. And the appeal has
been liberally responded to. Hashinoto, the Jap.
who does amazing things on his loose wire, slid off
that precarious support once during the week and
bounced rather suddenly on the hard earth, and
this may be taken for a sign of good faith as
showing that Hash has no invisible supports, and
is really the Jap. he professes to be.
* *• * *
A benefit is being organised for Lachlan
M Gowan, a deserving actor, who has been before
the Australian community at intervals for nearly
40 years. He vanished from public view some
time ago, and very few people were definitely
he was still among the living. Lach-
lan M Gowan is very old now, hopelessly incapa-
citated by illness, and very poor, like most men of
his precarious profession in their declining years ;
therefore it is proposed to assist the aged mum-
mer and his family by a matinee show at Her
Majesty’s.
** * *
“Babes in the Wood,” at Melb. Princess’s,
has lost none of its massive splendor whilst grow-
ing a little brighter than at first in the song and
“gag ” departments. Anything that appeared to
pause has been cut out of the gorgeous show, and
the residue, plus latest editions, is always a rapid
joke or a moving spectacle, as the case may be.
Bert Gilbert’s inebriated baron grows more con-
vincingly drunk on further acquaintance. He
diffuses a sense of alcohol throughout the house.
One finds oneself thinking of what might happen
to the orchestra if the Baron were to fall over the
footlights and bless those fragile musicians with
his dying breath. And then comes the vexed
question as to whether he will carry his intoxica-
tion beyond the grave and be doomed to an
eternity of sobering-up. The Baron is a matter of
Miss INEZ BENSUSAN (Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
absorbing interest. Miss Reeve sings a new song
that fetches them, as usual, and the two ruffians
have a topical duet to cheer them on their way.
Also, the cherubic ruffian has a joyful resurrection
every evening after his hoarse comrade-in-arms
has put him to the sword. Robin Hood and the
thirty-five other people whose names appear on
the bill are likewise doing well, which remark
will apply with equal force to the Wedding Break-
fast, and the forest scene, and the limbs of the
ballet.
#* * *
At the Alexandra an augmented co. is
mostly blacking its face and bursting into song.
Uncle lorn s Cabin,” as produced by Dan Barry,
seems very like a variety entertainment, wherein
the horrors of slavery are set to music and the plot
has to dance for its living. Even George Harris
can’t make a bolt for freedom until he has sung
‘ ‘ The Holy City ”in a decent tenor voice. The
writer has heard worse—much worse—concerts
than *' Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” A melodious Tom is
supplied by veteran John Matlock, who, probably,
acts as chorus-master, and undertakes to keep the
old plantation in tune. It was 11.30 pan. on
Saturday ere John ascended towards the roof on a
platform of cloud, nevertheless the bulk of the
audience waited to see him go. From this The
Bulletin augurs a fortnight’s run for the weary
nigger. _ Tom, under any circumstances, is an
institution who appeals to some people, and the
desire to see him walloped whilst saying his
prayers can be gratified for sixpence at the Alex-
andra.
** * *
The gaudy circus-drama at Melb. Royal
pegs away with increasing energy. It is now in
its third week, and, judging from treasury returns,
the last of Charles Holloway’s attempts to roast
the heroine and seize her inheritance will not be
baffled for another fortnight. As the baffled cap-
tain—no need to mention that the villain is a cap-
tain—Holloway deserves some sympathy, seeing
that he would gladly marry the girl in the first
instance, and never thinks of burning her until
she has ordered him to get out. Moreover, the
scheme of placing her on an altar (in an Exhibition
building), to be licked by the flames of a small
wood fire, stamps him as a man of genius. Any-
one who looks closely into the subject will see that
the gallant captain must have intended to hide all
traces of the crime by eating his victim’s nicely
browned remains.
** * *
“Maritana” was set up again at Melb.
Bijou on Saturday, and that interesting old speci-
men of British ballad opera looked capable of
drawing fair audiences for one week only. The
Vic. Operatic Society is managing the show in aid
of the Children s Hospital, the performance being 1
mostly amateur and gratis. Charitably viewed it
is a good performance pleasing in most respects
and never deplorable at any point of the struggle
Amateur Bonynge Kelly, for instance, although
handicapped by sickness on Saturday, gave a
mild suggestion of a capital Don Jose. The light,
but wiry, tenor, William Neilson, gets through
with honors. J. Goudy, as the King of Spain,
sings up to the average professional standard, and
the funny man, Lambcroft, fills his place humor-
ously. Miss Millie Chapman (Maritana) is a
sweet vocalist, also a capable leading lady for any
amateur co., and the perils of presenting a nervous
novice in a boy character have been avoided by
engaging Miss Nina Osborne to play Lazarillo.
Miss Nina in “ Alas! those Chimes ” doesn’t
equal sister Ida, but the imitation is satisfactory.
The Vic. Operatic Society upholds its character
for chorus-singing, and if some of the figures in
the background suffer keenly from their costumes
the circumstance is no laughing matter. A bank-
clerk, who tries to look like a Spanish grandee
whilst fixing an anxious eye upon the conductor’s
beat, is an object for compassion.
** * *
Festive Lottie Moore, and Bellman, like-
wise the Hulines, the Rockley Bros., and some
other people who haven’t been there before, came
into the Opera House bill on Saturday. It is a
pretty long bill, concluding with the Three Hegel-
manns, as usual. The writer can’t think of any-
thing new and original to say about the Hegel-
manns, but after witnessing those flying German
gentlemen for the ninth time he is still disposed to
accept them as the “ most wonderful gymnasts on
earth.”
sff sff * *
The reappearance of Professor Kennedy,
at St. George’s Hall, threatens to be a great and
gruesome success. The crowd, on Saturday, was
trying to get into the premises half an hour before
the doors opened, and, by the time Kennedy had
brought his pale auburn hair to bear upon his
subjects, ’ the police were prohibiting any further
sale of tickets. The Professor’s display of hyp-
notism-CMm-humbug is just the same as last time.
Several of his old “ subjects ” are doubtless with
him once again, unless they have died during his
rather long absence from the awful effects of
Kennedy on the brain, and kerosene in the
stomach.
For “ Poverty Point ” see p.p. 18, 21.
The Atacama Enquiry.
The old gentlemen of the effete and discredited
N.S.W. Marine Board nodded over the Atacama
enquiry all last week ; and this week—after The
Bulletin went to press—they were announced to
nod still further. The Atacama, as most Bulletin
readers are by this time aware, was a wooden
Chilian ship of 1572 tons register, 23 years old.
She put into Sydney harbour in October, leaky
and unseaworthy, and the Chilian consul-as he is
by law required to do—sent surveyors aboard
to ascertain in the interests of the owners if
she was worth repairing. They reported that she
was not; and that it would take something like
.£3500 to make her seaworthy, and the vessel, in a
condemned condition, was sold for <£7oo The’pur-
chaser repaired her, as he states, “at a cost of
■*lBoo, and after repairing she was examined by
underwriters’surveyors, who declined to recom-
mend her for any insurance which might
be applied for. The Atacama was then
sent to Newcastle, where she loaded 1778 tons of
insured coal, and sailed for an American port on
Jan. 29. She started leaking, and foundered
some 300 miles from Sydney. One boat, with the
captain and three others, reached port after losing
a boy who died of exhaustion ; the other two
boats containing twelve seamen disappeared,
and will probably be heard of next when the sea
gives up its dead. At previous sittings of the
Marine Board the captain, the shipwright
who executed the repairs, and others, have
declared that the vessel was thoroughly seaworthy.
Last week, Capt. Grainger (marine surveyor).
Robert Pollock (Lloyd’s surveyor at Sydney)’
Capt. Vine Hall (marine surveyor), Capt. Laid-
man (chief surveyor to the Underwriters’ Associa-
tion), Capt. Mackenzie (marine surveyor), and
Capt. Bentley (shipwright and surveyor), and
others, gave detailed evidence to show that the
Atacama was in a rotten and unseaworthy condi-
tion when she put into port, and that she could
not have been made assuredly seaworthy without
stripping th ■ copper and overhauling the bottom—
which was not done. Before the enquiry was
adjourned over the Easter holidays, Mr. Wilshire
who appeared.for the Crown, complained of the
remarkable manner in which the Marine Board
had conducted the case. That IMr. "Wilshire had
ground for his remarks is evident to any un-
prejudiced person who has watched the Board’s
singular attitude throughout the enquiry—
as if the issue was a foregone conclusion.
The Bulletin’s remarks about the Atacama’s
drowned crew, . however, have been rewarded
by a libel - writ claiming £2OOO damages at
the instance of Mr. M. C. Cowlishaw, owner of
the vessel ; so that the public will learn the facts
of the case when they are placed in full, not before
a more or less antiquated committee of shipowners’
representatives and others, but before the high
and unprejudiced tribunal of the Supreme Court.
Placard in a St. Kilda fish shop :
Positive fact. You may laugh, but it’s true. Pilled
Cucumber will cure any disease of the stomach, also
burns, blisters, sore eyes, boils, scalds, chilblains, teeth,
throat, runiatism, drinkers, black eyes. . . . Bottles
sold here.
Dear Bulletin, —How do you account for
the fact that some quarrymen work bareheaded
under the summer sun and know nothing about
sunstroke or headache ? The sun on a hot day in
a quarry is Sheol. I know one man who has
never worn any covering on his head, except his
mass of curly hair, tanned with the sun.—K.
Inspector, examining on Victorian geogra-
phy : “ What is Ballarat noted for ? ” Boy :
“ Statues and gold-mining.” (Learnt parrot-fashion
during the year.) Inspector: “Right, my boy.
And what are statues?” Boy: “Images of
fellers.” Inspector: “What use are they?”
Boy : “To keep away sparrers and parrots.”
Adelaide Critic : “Bulletin prefers ‘pen-
lady’ to ‘penwoman,’ ’cause it ; s shorter. ‘Pen-
hen ’ is shorter still, but perhaps too disrespectful
for B.” Yes, but “penlady” includes’em all—
whereas the “ pencats ” would have to be distin-
guished from the “penhens.” Anyhow, what’s
the matter with “inkhag”?
That well-known old Melbourne identity,
Edmund Finn, died last week at Fitzroy, aged
79 years. He arrived from Ireland in 1841, and
lived in the city by the Yarra all his life. In his
early days he contributed to the Patriot and
Herald newspapers, and in ’45 joined the latter
as reporter. He remained on the staff under
Arehib :Id Michie, Dr. G. S. Evans, and others,
until lfc3B, when big John O’Shanassy, then Pre-
mier (who never lost a chance of giving a fellow-
irishman a billet), appointed him Clerk of the
Papers in the Leg. Council. He published an in-
teresting volume, “The Chronicles of Early Mel-
bourne,” and retired on pension in 1886. He was
a quiet, unobtrusive little man, and hardly ever
wandered beyond Smellbourne.


THE
Refreshment Department
OF THE
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
lIAYE ORDERED
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & A-ttwood, Solo Proprietors.
R. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Aus. I
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, ]
36/38%
atharjje,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; lit Currie-st., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisk.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The trade of the two big provinces for 1896 and
1897
N.S.W. imports N.S.W. exports
1896 ... £20,561,510 £23,010,349
1897 ... 21,744,350 23,751,072
Increase .. £1,182,840 £740,723
Total increase in N.S.W. trade, £1,923,563.
Victorian imports Victorian exports
1896 .. £14,554,837 £14,198,518
1897 .. 15,454,482 16,739,670
Increase .. £899,645 £2,541,152
Total increase in Victorian trade, £3,440,797.
* * • *
Under the N.S.W. income-tax law, the local
holder of N.S.W. Government securities has to pay tax on
his interest, while the foreign holder is exempt. There-
fore if two men —one in N.S.W. and one in England—
have £lOOO each due to them, over and above the ex-
emption, as dividends on State securities, the Englishman
gets £lOOO and the Cornstalk gets £950. In other words,
the outsider gets £3 per cent, and the local investor re-
ceives £2 18s. 6d. It was claimed that this distinction
had to be made by way of “ keeping faith with the foreign
investor.” Britain, at all events, doesn’t keep faith with
its foreign investor in this fashion. For over 50 years it has
deducted income-tax from the interest paid to the foreign
holder of consols, ami if he doesn’t like it he has simply
to do the other thing. And though the foreign holder
has wailed very grievously outside Bull’s door about this
“breach of faith,” and has blown bitter lamentations
through the keyhole, the only answer was “ Rats ! or
something to that effect.
* » * *
The process by which the Vic. State Land Bank
raises money for the purpose of making advances is
degenerating into a howling farce. When it offers £24,000
worth of 3 per cent. State-guaranteed bonds the public
generally subscribes £3OO at par, and the Savings Bank
has to make up the balance. Yet the Vic. Government’s
3 per cent, securities are in strong demand locally at
£lO3 7s. 6d. The whole difficulty, apparently, lies in the
fact that the State Land Bank securities have no fixed
currency, and are liable to be repaid as any time. If they
were fixed for 25 years they would probably sell at £lO2
anj'how, and a lot of money is being ridiculously fooled
away under the present arrangement.
* • » *
The Victorian coal output steadily increases.
Between ’92 and ’97 it grew' from 30,000 to 240,000 tons,
and the imports of N.S.W. coal into Victoria diminished
in the same period from 739,000 to 527,000 tons. The new
coal finds which are opening up among the Otw'ay ranges
between Geelong and Warrnambool are expected to give
the industry another big lift.
Just when anew gas is too grievous a subject
for mention, and the partially-combusted Education
Minister Garrard has hardly recovered the hair that was
blown off him in the last sad experiment, new's of another
invention (which reads painfully like the one which blew
up Garrard) comes from Victoria. The Age, however,
sw'ears in a serious spirit that the little tow T n of Frankston
has been lighted with the new alleged illuminant since
last November. This seems convincing, though if an
inventor has been brilliantly lighting up a town w’ithin 30
miles of Melbourne by a new gas, which costs only Is. per
1000 ft., and Ift. of which is equal to 18ft. of coal-gas, and
has been at this w’ork for four months, he seems to have
attracted remarkably little notice. One would have ex-
pected that the roar of the new discovery would have
been heard all over Australia ere this
The Age’s description reads as follows:
“ First of all, Mr. Stephenson placed in the carburetter
(which is simply an ordinary iron box with taps for con-
veying air on one side and discharging the gas on the
other) a pint of kerosene, then he added about a couple
of ounces of powdered resin, next a certain proportion of
shale oil, about an ounce of salt, half an ounce of ether,’a
few drops of bi-sulphate of carbon, half a gallon of gaso-
line, a little camphorated chalk, and, finally, a small dose
of oil of cloves. Before these articles were placed in the
carburetter, that instrument was thoroughly examined by
the company present. It was found to be empty, there
were no compartments inside, and it was not attached to
any fixture except those connected with the apparatus.
The ingredients were purchased at a chemist’s shop by a
gentleman present, and the proportions used by Mr.
Stephenson would probably represent a value of 2s.
Having placed the various compounds in the carburetter,
it was well shaken, the air was turned into it, the tap
from which the gas escapes was turned on, and when a
match was applied to the burner a flame similar to that of
coal gas, but of greater brightness, was at once given
forth. This is the light that has been in existence at
Frankston for the past four or five months, and it has
given great satisfaction. The materials used were suffi-
cient to maintain one light five or six hours a day for a
period of six weeks. In order to obtain a light of
still greater brilliancy, Mr. Stephenson has made a further
discovery. Using a generator specially made for the pur-
pose, he produced another form of gaseous fluid, the
illuminating capacity of which is equal to some 45 candle-
power. The ingredients used in the manufacture of this
gas are a mixture of iron and low carbons, enclosed in
linen cartridges 8 or 9 inches long and 1 inch in diameter,
unslaked lime, napthaline balls, and camphor. The lime
coming in contact with the water sets up heat, causing the
carbons to discharge a gas. That proved to give a light
of extraordinary brilliancy, and, despite its power, the
consumption of gas is exceedingly small. The best results
are obtained from a combination of what, for convenience,
we may call the Frankston gas and the new aeriform. The
light was a clear, steady, beautiful flame, dazzling to look
at. Mr. Stephenson stated that his gas in yesterday’s
experiment was burning at the rate of only 1 foot an hour,
and would, in that time, give a light equal to 18 feet of
coal gas.”
But what the public wants is, to be allowed to
hump that carburetter into the middle of a 640-acre pad-
dock, and then put in the 2s. worth of ingredients, and see
the beautiful gas come out and burn for six weeks. The
community is dreadfully low-spirited about new gases just
now, and requires a lot of evidence.
* * * *
The banking community of an Australian pro-
vince are running over one another for copies of a pamph-
let “circulated privately ” re the complicated speculations
of a firm which is alleged to have numerous and tangled
overdrafts of a particularly extensive kind.
« * • •
The Northern Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) held a comic-opera meeting recently. The
manager, one Smith, reported that the directors had
ceased to meet because there weren’t enough of them left
to form a legal quorum, and the society had been practi
cally running itself for some time. Also, he explained
further on, the board had resigned, and there were now nc
directors at all. The accounts were not audited, because
there was no money to pay the auditors. The Bank o'
Victoria was suing for £ll,lOO overdraft, and a lady
depositor was also suing for £6OO and interest due her
The bank held all the securities, and had ordered the
creditors to make their payments to it instead ol
to the society. Assets, put in at their original papei
value, £24,000; liabilities, £27,000. Seeing that there
was no cash, and the bank had all the securities and was
collecting the money, the short way out of the difficulty
was obviously to drink the furniture and then lock up the
office and drop the key in the Yarra, but the meeting
decided to struggle on a little longer, if possible.
» * * *
On what a thin foundation the financial reputa-
tion of any financial magnate may depend is shown by the
fact that a claim of a few pounds against one very “ big ”
man has closed the credit which, a few months ago,
would readily have been given (to anything in reason) by
any bank in his province.
» * * *
There appears to be good foundation for the
plaint about the intrusion of German and other mail
steamers into the Australian coasting trade. Now that
the German boats call at Fremantle, they compete all
round the coast from that port to Sydney ; and, as they
are assisted by a large German State-subsidy, and only
pay about half the wages paid on the local vessels, they
can quote fares and freights which the latter would find
utterly ruinous. And things were none too good in the
local shipping business even before this intrusion. This
is another neglected industry which badly needs protec-
tion.
* * * *
Every now and then something is heard in a
casual sort of way about the utter rottenness and insol-
vency of Australian friendly societies. A recent Govern-
ment return showed that the S.A. friendly societies had
undertaken £1,846,741 of liabilities, and had only
£1,092,443 of present and visible future assets to meet
them with, or a magnificent shortage of £754,000 odd.
There are 14 friendly societies in S.A., and only one is
solvent. The Victorian societies have £1,217,240 of liabili-
ties and £873,545 in view to meet them with, or a beautiful
deficit of £323,695. The trouble seems to be that the
average society promises too much in return for too little,
and is quite content as long as there is enough cash on
hand to pay the claim when Brother Smith dies.
• * * *
The Q.N. Bank commission, before it is dis-
solved, might be able to give the names of Drury’s or the
directors’ friends who withdrew their deposits, say, within
a week or a month of the smash.
* » * «
Mr. Box, before the Yic. Law Commission :
“ In the bill of costs handed in the total costs were set
down at £299 18s. Bd. Off this amount there was taxed
£165 3s. Bd. In the instructions for brief the gentleman
in question charged £l5O. He was allowed £35 by the
taxing officer. He gave himself the brief, and marked it
for £22 175., with a refresher of £11.” Which seems good
for the amalgam system.
* * * *
The generous Tas. Govt, publishes the following
notice “ Applications will also be received from sufferers
by bush fires for a license to occupy Crown lands not
adjoining present holdings, at the rate of 10s. per 100
acres, for three years, on condition that such selector lays
the land down in artificial grass during the first year of
occupation.” Which means that the unfortunate selector
who would be fool enough to snap at such an offer would
have to lay out about £3OO the first year. A cheaper way
would be to buy the land straight out. The notice goes
on to say that “ no licensee will be entitled to any com-
pensation from the Crown for any improvements which
may have been effected on the Crown land during the cur-
rency of his license.” Go on the land, young man !
Very startling disclosures are promised in re
land transactions up North. The person chiefly interested
is a Southern magnate, whose generous family settlements
are sure to be upset when the scandal becomes public.
• * * *
At a recent meeting of creditors of the late
George Hill (of Criterion Theatre, Sydney, and Marvel
fame), the statement of affairs showed liabilities exceeding
£300,000, and an apparent deficiency of £170,000. The
largeness of the liabilities is accounted for by the fact that
“Old George” had a weakness for giving guarantees
“ for people he liked ” —which, apparently means that he
reckoned nearly half the adult population of Sydney as
his bosom friends.
» • * »
Already Brisbane Electric Tram Co. pays 12
per cent. A trip under the old horse system cost the co.
lid. ; under the new, 5d., in a mere fraction of the time.
» * » *
The Tarrawingee tram-line is to be pulled up by
the roots ; the flux-quarries are already abandoned, the
remaining B.H. Prop, furnaces on the mine having been
run down. The average Tarrawingee shareholder didn’t
get his money back ; but as he —or at least the biggest of
him—was helped into the Emu Bay spec, there is a chance
for him even yet if he keeps very wide awake.
* * * *
The diminutive Yuba appoints that good
man, Richard Piper, long ago mine-manager of the
Broken Hill Proprietary, its manager. What tricks
luck (or something else) does play ! Look at Piper
and Zeb. Lane. Ten years ago Piper’s prospects
were far the better. Lane was managing the North 8.H.,
struggling then as now to pay its first div., while Piper
was in charge of the big show and—his luck again—was
the first man to find the bugbear zinc in the workings.
Piper went to the South, Lane to Block 14. The latter
got into divs. ; the other couldn’t. Up went Lane, down
went Piper. They left for the West at about the same
time, equally undecided. Piper went to the Murchison,
Lane to Ooolgardie. Piper tried for reefs, and found poor
ones ; so he drifted. Lane tried a poor one and stumbled
by accident upon an exceedingly rich one. And so on.
Lane swims in champagne, if he wants to, and has
“ dooks ” for company ; Piper goes back to the recesses
of the awful Barrier range, and communes with two
workmen and the rabbits that have their warrens round
the poor little shafts over which alone he is “ boss.”
* * * *
The Barrier’s timber-bill will show for this year
a big falling away in proportion to quantity of stuff ex-
tracted. From North to South more attention is being
paid to filling up the depleted stopes with mullock than
has been ever done before. Several shafts and passes are
being made specially for shooting down surface waste ;
and generally, for the first time, the field has shaken from
itself the ’Murkan open-timbering notions which W. R.
Wilson trumpeted and general-manager Patton intro-
duced 10 years ago. It took a lot to knock them out, for
the square-sets looked so neat and reliable ; but. the
Junction collapse completed the work which the British,
and Proprietary, and Central creeps, and the big-nnne
timber-fires had carried on for years.
* * * •
An amalgamation of B.H. Junction, Junction
North, and North is being canvassed.
* * » •
The British is suffering in the same way as the
South from the hardening of ore with depth, and the con-
sequent increase of concentrating difficulties. And, as for
Block 14, it dodges the trouble temporarily, and piles up
greater trouble for the future, by confining its stopes to
the shallower levels.
* * * •
Some nine months ago one Capt.. Cock, ex-
manager of many mines in Australia, including the
Golden Fleece, Bendigo, in its halcyon days, having
worked copper in Cornwall, and seen the big work of the
Cobar tributors, started to un water the old Blayney cop-
per-mine, N.S.W. Others—the usual crowd of represen-
tatives of Rothschild, Col. North, &c. —had had it under
offer, but made ho attempt to pump out. The old man
put his three boys on the job, and, finding a steam pump
impracticable, they turned the pump into a winding-
engine. That—probably the funniest winding-engine
N.S.W. has ever seen—has been working night and day
for eight months, raising at the rate of a 60gal. bucket a
minute; When they reached the 120 ft. level of Marks’
shaft, the Capt., having mortgaged all his worldly
possessions, and gained only an inch a day on the water,
decided to look for ore in the old workings about that
level. There it was in abundance. He repaired the old
reverberatories, and started smelting, and his first consign-
ment of copper went away last week. He is working an
ore-body over 20ft. wide, taking it to the smelter as it
comes, and is sending his copper to market. Tens of
thousands of tons of ore of apparently higher grade than the
average of the big Cobar mine have been left in sight.
Also, the veteran having tried several times to raise money
in Sydney on a share-basis, and being now pestered with
letters offering capital allegedly on behalf of Rothschild,
Hooleyand others, is in a fit condition to receive such men
with a shot-gun. He means to put up a blast-furnace, for
which the ore is well fitted, and otherwise imitate the
Cobar tributors, from whom he got his object-lesson. If
reports are correct, the richer ore-bodies of the old Blayney
mine are still under water.
* ♦ * *
General manager Stewart, of the Broken Hill
mine, is on his road to examine the Chillagoe copper-
mines, and to ascertain what are the prospects of other
mines in this big district for the maintenance of the
railway it is proposed to build from Mareeba.
* * * *
Overflow, N.S.W. Writer is well informed
that the solution from the cyanide vats is now running
well. The precipitation is good and there need be no fear
of the ultimate result.
m * * *
Victory Forest Reefs (N.S.W.): The mining
man of Sydney D.T. says in effect it is a good alluvial
mine messed up by the management, which erected a
stamp-mill to crush mud. The co. defends itself by say-
ing it has correspondence to prove that the superintendent
advised the erection of steam-puddlers. Then who
advised the erection of the stamp-mill ?
* * • *
One asinine provision of N.S.W. law is that
which gives a license to a timber-getter to enter Crown
lands leased for pastoral purposes and cut thereon, but
denies him the right to unyoke his team while he is thus
engaged. So the squatter who doesn’t mind making
enemies most effectively preserves the timber on his run
by the simple process of impounding the teamster’s stock,
which in most cases simply must be unyoked.
* * • *
Roughly, mining stocks of Queensland for ’97
may be put down at £10,000,000, and Westralian stocks
for same period at £2o,ooo,ooo—with dividends for year of
£480,000. Value of Tasmanian mining stocks for same
year £10,000,000, with dividends £231,000. Putting the
two together, we get Tasmania and VVestralia with market
value of stock £30,000,000, and total dividends £711,000 ;
while Queensland, with stocks valued at £10,000,000,
returns £1,000,000 in dividends.
* * * *
Eidsvold (Q.) mines, moribund since the Stock-
man “ fall-in,” are recovering. The Minerva has some
soz. stone and a good reef. Shares have jumped from
Is. 6d. to 65., and divs. are in sight. A promising litter
of Minerva pups are opening their quartz eyes. The best
feature of the place is that they do not want to sell it to
Bull & Co.
* * * *
A Q. mine-tipping paper consoles its believers
(who kick because the bottom has fallen out of the real
good thing) by saying that many good things in mining
have come off after 15 years. Good.
* * •
The clique agitating for amendment of mining
laws in Queensland have secured as converts Under-Sec.
Sellheim and Wardens Parkinson and Mowbray. Instead of
one man to one acre the proportion is to be one tofive under
the Goldfie'ds Act, and instead of one man to five acres it
is to be one man to 20 under the Mineral .Lands Act. Je
to be—of course—if Parliament is willing.
• » * ♦
Q. gold-returns for quarter ending March show
a satisfactory increase in the yield throughout the pro-
vince. The increase for the month compared with the
corresponding period of last year was 58670 z. Increase
for first quarter of ’9B, as compared with ’97, was 26,3820 z.
Total yield for March, 74,4720 z. ; and for the quarter,
194,0900 z. Stone crushed for March was 80,719 tons—
yield, 70,1220 z. Besides this, 43500 z. of alluvial gold were
obtained.
• • * *
Mount Leonora (W.A.), the township which
has sprung up around the Sons of Gwalia mine, is (writes
a Bulletin correspondent) practically a one-mine place,
for the present, anyhow. A number of leases have been
pegged out, though nothing like what is reported in the
papers, and no attempt has yet been made to work them.
Bewick, Moreing and co. enjoy about, a monopoly of
pride of position in relation to the Sons of Gwalia. YVhen
you hear of this place booming, don’t be led away with
the notion that it is the townspeople’s doing. They
haven’t got enough energy to look outside to see a shower
when it comes. The peopie seem to sorrowfully anticipate
the coming of the boomster, because his millions might
galvanise them into activity. However, winter willalmost
certainly see a move here, as the possibilities of the
district are very inviting indeed. There are no police
stationed in the town yet, consequently everything is
orderly.
• * * *
The Critic deals with W.A. boomster Calvert.
Consolidated Gold Mines of W.A. reconstructed. Cal-
vert resigned, legal opinion taken as to prosecuting pro-
moters. Imperial W.A. Corporation Board reconstructed,
Calvert resigned, legal opinion taken as to prosecuting
vendor. Bayley’s South No. 2, Calvert resigned, mine a
failure, company in liquidation. W.A. Steam Packet and
Transport Co. “ This asset consisted of mere idea of Mr.
Calvert’s.” Details with the names of the directors who
controlled Calvert’s “ cats ” are given. They are jumping
on the boom and boomsters in earnest now that all is over
and the boodle has vanished. Nobody jumps on the
writer except it be an occasional reminder —“ What about
the Great Boulder ? ” Bayley’s No. 2 South supplies a
typical instance of promise and performance. “ From
the 200 tons at grass,” said vendor, when the mine was
being floated, “ I picked up pieces of rough and
shotty gold. Other pieces showed fine gold per-
meated right through. Mr. told me that
the whole heap then stacked would return from 5 to
7oz. per ton. I can conscientiously recommend this pro-
perty as a thorough and practically-developed concern,
and it is just in that state now only to require machinery
to treat the stone to turn it at once into a dividend-paying
mine.” Up to date, not a single W.A. boomster has been
struck by lightning, though Ananias was only a small man
in the business. Let the battery have a word—and “ the
machine can’t lie.” One hundred tons produced 290 z.,
and 62 tons of carefully picked stone, representing the
very best ore that could be found in the mine, yielded
230 z. Even this class of rock the directors “ regret to say
has dwindled away, and the reef has pinched out.” But
it will take more than this to kill Calvert. Cats have
nine lives—cat-mongers 99.
» * * *
Talking of liquidations, will anything be re-
covered from the wrecks on the General Gordon (W.A.)
“ lode ? ” The G.G. Extended started to realise its assets
a while ago, yet the div. cometh not; they say.
*' * * »
A couple of directors turned up at the Mt.
Malcolm (Westralia), the other day, to announce that
economy demanded a reduction in the wages. And—the
gall of it! —they came on this mission behind a spanking
four-in-hand. Promptly the men answered “ No.”
* * * *
According to a local statistician, Kalgoorlie
mines have to the end of March—in between three and
four years, that is—yielded 491,4550 z. gold, which is equal
to 15 tons 1 cwt. ; the stone treated has amounted to
196,217 tons. Some individual scores in their order:—
Great Boulder, 179,3150 z.; Lake View Consols, 11.3,2350 z. ;
Ivanhoe, 48,7370 z.; Ass. Australia, 39,4160 z.; Brown Hill,
34,4280 z.; Boulder Perseverance, 28,818 oz.; N. Boulder,
13,6820 z.; Main Reef, 12,1050 z. Curious to compare this
battery talk with market chatter. Brookman’s Boulder,
for instance, with a total of 2910 z.; Brown Hill Prop.,
150 oz.; Maritana, 128 oz.; Hainault, 500 z.; Mt. Charlotte,
39Joz.
Premier Forrest, who usually displays more tact
than the average W.A. M.P., was a victim to his own
stubbornness in the hustling he lately got at Kalgoorlie.
His first mistake was in travelling with Moran, M.P., who
ought to have sense enough to see that his presence with
the Premier would incense the alluvial men —and if not,
he ought to have been told by Forrest to make himself
scarce. Next mistake was in taking to himself groans in-
tended for Moran, who is a shareholder in the Venture
lease, and whose political humbugging has been a little
too palpable of late. Other mistakes followed. Had
Forrest, after receiving the deputation, gone on the bal-
cony in response to repeated calls, the chances are he
would have appeased the crowd, as he has often done
before, in a few minutes. As it was, he kept thousands of
persons standing in a blazing sun and fierce wind for two
hours, during which time many had taken more shypoo
than they wanted, and the hustling followed. Chiefly the
result of the Premier’s own folly.
« * * *
Black Flag Proprietary (W.A.) granted six
months exemption—to raise more working capital. Ye
gods! About £120,000 said to have gone in plant and
developments. The unlimited machinery scattered about
gives the place the look of a large ironworks. The “ de-
velopments ” are said to include a tennis-court, erected
regardless of cost, also a photographic studio fitted up un-
derground. It seems to have everything but gold.
* . *
The Walhalla North (which was going to strike
a rich lode, but didn’t) went into respectable liquidation,
the other week, on a bad report from the manager. Only
a shilling a share had been called up, and some of the
modest “ bob ” will get back to the investors.
Recent crushing Highland Chief, Sheepstation,
averaged about 6dwts. to the ton, and 28dwts. would
about pay expenses. British co.’s in the vicinity usually
keep returns very dark, but there is never any desire to
make a mvstery of a good thing.
"** • *
Members of Vic. Mining Boards complain
bitterly of the way their suggestions are bluffed or
muffed by the Department. The Boards clamor for local
inspectors who would be able to be on the job soon after
the occurrence of an accident. As it is, a mine-manager
has time to fix things up beautifully before an official
examination is made, and, consequently, inspections, as a
rule, are farcical. Minister Foster thinks he knows better.
It is Foster’s lamentable conceit to regard himself as an
authority on mining because he once kept store in a
mining district, and has since poked at a reef here and
there with the ferrule of a walking-stick.
• • * *
From the Age report of a recent local sewer
fatality : “ Duncan M'Gregor adjusted a charge in a
tunnel, and, walking to the shaft, a distance estimated at
170 feet, lighted the fuse.” After all these years of mine-
reporting the Age still thinks that fuse is burnt by the
mile. Think of 170 ft. of fuse and the nice long holiday
the men would have waiting for it to burn down to the
charge ! Think, too, of the rank blasphemy of the boss of
the shift, who regards an extra six inches as a
extravagance !
* * * *
Vic. tributors don’t often have the luck of the
“ ’96 party ” in the Pitfield Plateau (Ballarat district), who
followed up a 38oz. to the dish wash with one of 2610 z.
from two sets of ground. The party consists of 22 work-
ing miners.
* * * *
Bendigo’s first quarter’s statistics show a rising
tide, despite the large number of idle tributors. Some
figures (those in brackets are for the first quarter in ’97) :
Gold, 50,4040 z. [47,3440z.] ; divs., £69,425 [£34,000] ; calls,
£36,443 [£43,836].
» * • •
In an hour or two Great Extended Hustler’s
shares rose from 9s. to 225. on the strength of a dis-
covery of a gold-bearing reef at 2842 ft. —the deepest point
on this line. 25 years ago the G.E. Hustlers did marvels,
and shares went to £2l. The workings then were between
600 ft. and 700 ft.
* • * •
The Ziman syndicate is active on the gold coast
of M.L. During the last two years, since it took over
the Globe and IT ess mines at Reefton, the Con-
solidated Goldfields Co. has spent £55,000, and perman-
ently employed 423 men, and erected an aerial line carry-
ing 4350 tons per working week. The operations start at
1700 ft. above sea-level; shafts have been carried down
945 ft. ; there are seven levels, in Nos. 4,5, and 6 of which
ore bodies have been found and gold is visible. It is the
opening out of these levels which affords the most inter-
esting, as it is the most recent, phase of West Coast
mining. In No. 7 level, just opened, the ore body, 30ft.
wide, has been proved for a length of 800 ft., showing a4J
years’ supply actually in sight.
* * » *
Dear B. —Your correspondent, “D.W.D.,” ad-
vances quite a unique theory re occurrence of the Mt.
Lyell ore-bodies when he sows broadcast this twaddle :
“ Somehow, the bigger the deposit the greater the con-
centrative ability of the one big mine to rob the forma-
tions surrounding it of their metallic contents.” “ Some-
how” is decidedly good and about explains “D.W.D.’s”
knowledge of what he is writing about. Somehow, the
one big mine has not had the concentrat.ive ability to rob
the surrounding country of its metallic contents, nor does
it seem likely that it lias robbed anything or anybody.
An extensive zone of schists lying on a platform of red
sandstones and conglomerates contains the ore-basins,
and where they are there they are. The big Lyell mine
is one of these deposits, and the N. Lyell another, but
“D.W.D.” would infer that although a mile of country,
hills and valleys intervene between these deposits, the.
one has been partly derived from the other. Again, in
referring to the N. Lyell co., “D.W.D.” states he saw
“ the alleged deposit.” He must surely mean he saw it
from one of the hotels in the township, for if he examined
the mine he could not write such balderdash. There is an
ore body in the N. Lyell, and one of undoubted extent and
phenomenal richness, as anyone in the district can verify.
Again “ D.W.D.” —“ the Lyell pup crowd call a lode, and
which, in the majority of cases, is a floater, as broad as it is
long, leached from a big body. ” Now, will “D.W. D. ” tell me
where he arrives at this bit of tall presumption ? Has the
big Lyell mine been leached from the North Lyell mine,
or vice versa, or what ? Or is it from some other big un-
discovered ore body, for, if so, it might pay “ D.W.D.” to
drop writing about it and go and peg the bonanza out.
Now, a few statements of fact in conclusion : First, the
new find of ore on the surface was made in Oct., ’97, and
in Feb., ’97—eight months prior—the deviation of a tun-
nel was made in that direction, and is now within 120 ft.
of the ore body, and has not been bent many degrees out
of its course, as “D.W.D.” states. Also, a tunnel at a
much lower level has been continuously in progress since
Dec., ’96, in a direct line for the new find and perfectly
straight; therefore “D.W.D.’s” remarks about the N.
Lyell workings are about as truthful as his theories on the
occurrence of the metalliferous deposits are ridiculous.
—H.
* * * »
One of the few old - established Melb. firms
which weathered the boom successfully and launched out
on a still larger scale rejoices in the peculiarly inappro-
priate name of Crook, Busst and co.
* * * *
Proposed to use Siberian camels for transport
to Klondyke. These animals are said to need no shelter,
to be impervious to extreme cold, to eat almost anything,
and to carry a load of 4001 b. or 5001 b.


ORIENT " ,
' —s CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FO R SAMPLES.
Wc pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. )
A .
SNAP-
SHOT
. The
Victor
Canon
211-
iti
Duploa
Canon
i
plate,
25 /■
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 23.
Society
[?]leston
COOMAC
The committee of the now moneyless Thirl-
fnere(N. S. W.) Horne for consumptives, established
and long-maintained by the benevolent and unos-
tentatious Mr. J. H. Goodlet, humbly begs the
proud and magnificent management of the Record
Reign fund of the proposed—haw—N.S.W. Queen
Victoria home for consumptives to join forces.
Real Charity begs a crust from Fashionable Ad-
vertisement.
* * * m
Chief Justice Way was married at Halin-
dorf on Easter Monday. Mrs. Blue had kept
school there since her husband’s death, and the
folk in the little German town knew all about the
coming catastrophe for weeks before the news
reached the city.
* * * *
Chief Justice Way will be Acting-Governor
for six months during Buxton’s absence on leave
in England at the close of this year, so that his
newly-made wife will soon realise her social
ambitions.
* * * *
When is Major-General French going to
gazette-out of N.S.W. forces the very swagger
amateur warriors who are understood not to have
passed—some of them have as yet not even tried
to pass—their qualifying examinations ?
* * * »
A certain most prosperous Sydney retail
softgoods house has so far never prosecuted any
dishonest employes though it has had many
opportunities of doing so. The head of the firm,
THE ROCK ON WHICH THEY SPLIT.
MISS STARVEM : “ I trust, gentlemen, that you like my fowl. It is a genuine Plymouth Rock.”
BOARDERS CHORUS : Plymouth Pock/ We thought it was a rock of some sort."
“a bit of a character,” and not a bad sort, ad-
ministers punishment after a style of his own.
When anyone in the place is “ caught,” he is sent
to the boss, who brings a ledger out of his private
safe, and lets the culprit take his choice —police, or
writing “lama d d thief and liar,” and sign-
ing his name. They invariably write —even the
pious prig who objects to the adjective “ because
it’s swearing.” That boss has, in the course of a
fe.w years, accumulated a queer collection of auto-
biographs.
♦ * * *
A rule at more than one large Melb.
drapery shop is : “In the event of any two in-
dividuals in our employ becoming engaged, one
will be required to leave.” Why not sentence
them to matrimony ?
* * * *
Two fully-equipped Governors, Hampden
and Ranfurly, attended St. James’s Church, Syd-
ney, and prayed side by side to the edification of
an admiring crowd. Australian Governors, look-
ing at them from a religious standpoint, have been
a mixed lot, but of late years they all pay pretty
regular court to some ecclesiastical shrine. Dar-
ling was the first N.S.W. Governor to make pub-
lic announcement of his intention to attend church
without fail, the Pecksniffian profligate adding
that he hoped his exalted example would be fol-
lowed by his “hitherto too remiss subjects.”
Darling was probably the meanest scamp that
Edinboro’ Uneevairsity and a’m a Fellow of the
Accoontants’ Eenstitute. A can speak English,
French, Gairman, and Russian, an’ a’m weel
vairsed in the deid languages. A hev here testee-
monials from fairms of repute wi’ whom A ha’
labored for years; and under the saircumstances
A theenk a’m enteetled to aisk for at least fifteen
shullins a week.” Then the five Australian appli-
cants sadly gathered up their frayed hats and
wandered wistfully Yarrawards to see if Senior-
constable Davidson could give them a chance on a
coroner’s jury.
* * * *
J. Murphy : “Passing a South Brisbane
Chinese fruit-shop on St. Patrick’s day was
astonished to hear a rapid rendering of ‘ Kil-
larney ’on (ye gods) a Chinese fiddle. Curiously
entering, I found the artist to be a half-caste girl,
aged about 12. As I waited to see how she would
render ‘ Sister Mary Jane’s top note ’ at the end,
there entered the slattern mother. ‘ Arrah, don’t
be wasting time wid it. Play “Wearing of the
Green ” for the gentleman—mebbe he’ll buy you
some lollies. ’ I hastily hid my bit of green and
cleared out. St. Pat. was always more or less
legendary. Perhaps he was a Chinee.”
* * « *
Writes “P.A.” to The Bulletin :
“ Annie Ah P,” writing in praise of Chinese husbands
reminds one of France :—“ Annette, do you really love
that vieux cochon “Love him? Bather; he allows
e^ er F ule< * Australia, but he was strong on
church-going, and, from his pew, used to stare
around the building to recognise and be recognised,
and, in the latter case, ceremoniously saluted.
Before his day, Governors seldom went to church
in person ; they told their “ subjects ” to go, which
these got out of doing so as often as they could. It
was to change this habit that Darling set himself
up as a shining example. Although, hovvever, he
was thus sound on the ecclesiastical goose, he had
to quit N.S.W. with his tail between his legs.
* * * *
Something quite novel in the way of wed-
ding-reports comes from the West. When Alison
Smith, the railway engineer, was coupled to
‘ Cissie, daughter of the late Mr. John Robertson,
of Tasmania, and niece of Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald,
the eminent surgeon,” at Albury, four-fifths of a
column in the newest morning paper was given to
the event; but the whole of this, less seven lines,
was taken up with a description, not of dresses
and presents, but of Alison D. Smith’s pedigree
and achievements !
* * * *
Once more a jury has shown the Judge
that he is not the whole court. In an assault-
with-intent case at the recent sittings of Walgett,
N.S.W., Quarter Sessions, the eternal Judge
Docker summed-up strongly against the prisoner
--in fact, he practically told the jury to find a ver-
dict of guilty; but the jury, after a short retire-
ment, found “ not guilty.” His Honor remarked
that it was a most extraordinary verdict, but it
wa.s the jury’s. “Now,” writes a Bulletin
correspondent, “ has a Judge power to in-
sult a jury simply because it doesn’t endorse
his view of a case? And if a juryman resents
said insult can the Judge legally send him up for
contempt? Most bush juries think a Judge can
hang them if they say boo.” [The Judge has no
business to make any remark whatever upon the
finding of a jury, and is legally powerless to re-
sent any well-chosen back-talk which the jury
may choose to give him. The Bulletin has
Jong looked forward to the time when a jury-
foreman, after some Dockerian or Windeyeresque
remarks from the bench about a verdict, will flatly
tell the Judge to mind his own business. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
When half-a-dozen applicants were inter-
viewing a recent Melb. advertiser for a clerk a
middle-aged Scotchman was first asked to voice
his qualifications. “ I hev a degree of B. A. at the
me £3O a month.” Her letter almost makes one forgive
the Turk, who sells his womenkind as he would sell his
horse—because they have no souls. But Annie is not
alone in her diseased taste. Queens have done for a new
sensation what Annie does for three meals a day and a
lazy life. Nothing in the form of love has been too strange
or unnatural for women to try since the days of Semira-
mis and her horses. All the same, the woman who will
endure a Ohow’s caresses for board and lodging must have
a deadly fear of hard work. John has no silly scruples
about marrying a woman with a past. He is an admir-
able husband-—for some kinds of women. Annie’s assump-
tion that The Bulletin is an entity, and her advice to him
to try and get a half-caste girl for himself, reminds me of a
well-to-do Chinese storekeeper who married a “ crooked ”
pretty girl of 16. The local “ shepherd a widower with
daughters—thinking it a pity that a wealthy man should
marry such a loose character when there were plenty
of virtuous white girls in need of husbands, remonstrated
with him on his choice, but John missed the moral aspect
of the case, and thinking only of the beauty of the bride
and missionary morals, asked testily : “ Whafor me no
catchee dis wife ? You want him youse’f, eh ? ”
* * * »
The parsons and others who have recently
been mouthing over the woman-missionary ques-
tion are all beside the point. Woman is probably
as good a manufacturer of surfaee-Christianity as
man, but she is subject to, and has repeatedly” un-
dergone, at the hands of savages and semi-savages,
disgusting outrage of which man is not susceptible.
But possibly this is a view of the case which
doesn’t much concern the members of the Third
Sex.
* * * *
Strange that John Chinaman should esteem
European women so highly in Australia when he
thinks so little of his own feminine belongings at
home. Ask a Chinaman (in China) how many
children he has, and he will give you the number
of his 6c ys— daughters don’t count. On the boats
in the Canton river, a traveller will notice that the
boys playing on deck are tied to a block of wood—
girls not so. This is done in case any of the male
progeny fall overboard. As to the female infants,
they are not considered worth the trouble of fish-
ing out again.
* * * *
N. : “ The Salvation Army Congress,
Melb., wound up with three days of Mr. Herbert
Booth talking at his 750 officers in strict privacy.
The rift with the Church was further widened.
The clergy quite discountenanced the Salvation
Army Congress Eestival. While Coombs used to
hold out his little finger to them, Herbert Booth
conspicuously flouts and despises them. The
esoteric Buddhism of the Army would be amusing
for the public to know.”
« » * *
H. : “A Melb. Salvation A.rmy female
officer has* just been airing her grievances in the
press. She says Herbert Booth discharged her
because of her ill-health, and that there had been
a persistent endeavor to drive her out by sending
her to hard stations in N.S.W. There may be two
sides to her case, but, nevertheless, it raises the
general question—what is to become of Salvation
officers, especially women, when they get old,
inactive, and unattractive? The Army has been
like a friendly society which presumes that every-
one is to be young for ever. Very well in the
time of health and vigor of a new thing, but there
is absolutely no supernumerary provision ; all is
hand-to-mouth. Head-quarters is said to be rich,
but the money won’t go that way.”
* * * *
Melb. : “ The fine Congregational Church,
Eastern Hill, built to chime in with St. Pat. ’s and
St. Peter’s, has just been sold to the Spiritualists.
Is Protestantism going to clear right out of this
city ? Hardly a church, from the Cathedral down-
wards, pays, while the Catholics exultingly rear
two new big fanes, the Carlton and West Melb.”
* * * *
The great police - art of identification !
Lately, some kind of offence was reported to the
police, the alleged offender being “ a
youth. Thereupon the police went forth
and scruffed a youth into custody, and
sent for the prosecutor to identify him.
But they recognised that it wasn’t quite
a fair thing to show only the one sus-
pect, so, by way of giving the accused a
chance, they put an aged lunatic on one
side of him and an aged vagrant on the
other, and asked the plaintiff which
of the three he suspected. He im-
mediately spotted the 18-year-old
boy in the centre; in the cus-
tomary police-language, “he
picked the prisoner out
of a crowd of men at
wanst, y’r anner.”
As the prosecutor
was solid on the fact
that it was a youth
he was after, the
fact that he didn’t
fasten upon either
the aged vagrant or
the lunatic is per-
haps not so very surprising after all, provided a
fellow ties a wet towel round his head, and re-
freshes his intellect with strong coffee, and thinks
over it hard.
* * * *
Related that when a very exalted lady was
in London, last year, the Marquis of Something
asked her what she thought of their English
beauties. “Haven’t seen any,” was the reply.
“ Well, for instance, ”—he indicated a tall, willowy
creature, who had just sailed in—“ what do you
think of Lady Ermyntrude Topsawyer ? ” The
Australian, scornfully, after a momentary survey,
“ Tyke the clothes off ’er—and wot is she ? ”
* * * *
The filthiest town in Tas., next to Hobart,
is Beaconsfield. There is no system of drainage
there, and the backyards are fever-traps for the
unwary. The hospital is cram-jammed with
typhoid patients ; and solid stinks walk the streets
and jostle you off the footpaths. Once a month a
slight whiff of sweeter surroundings comes along
and nearly kills everyone in the place. This is
when the scented Tasmania directors drive down
m their gilded coach for the little cake of gold.
* * * *
Mrs. BishopG-oe, president of the Women’s
Hospital, Melb., thinks it “ most unfortunate (for
the hard-worked nurses) that the hot weather and
the overcrowding of the hospital should have
occurred together.” Considering that hot weather
in Melbourne always means an outbreak of typhoid
and a boom in diphtheria, Mrs. Goe’s remark
amounted to snorting at Providence. The laws of
JNiature will necessitate an overcrowding’ of Mrs
G.’s hospital every summer until Eitzgibbon’s
sewerage scheme gets into full working order, and
the bmellbourne stink has been modified
* * *
Trail of the serpent at Women’s Franchise
meeting, Brisbane. Two members whispering:
Is Mrs. A here ?” “ No, she’s ! ” [Raised
li P s , clin °h the sentence.)
And Mrs C. ? ’ “Oh, she can’t come much
longer. Walter Bentley, haranguing the meet-
mg Man and woman are physically different,
f they were alike, ladies and gentlemen, we
would not be here to-night.”
M. HENRI GILBERT, a French pedestrian who
has walked 23,220 miles in 37 months.
Photo., Bond & Co., Adelaide,
A striking example of an enduring soul in
a not very substantial casing is the French jour-
nalist, Gilbert, who is now heading for Brisbane
on his “ walk round the world ” for a <£lo,ooo
wager, to which amount he expects to add another
<£lo,ooo by a book about his journey. Gilbert, a
slight, sandy man of sft. 4in., covered 48 miles on
his last day’s walk into Adelaide, and had on one
occasion during his tramp from Albany been 56
hours without water. In the three years since
his start he has worn out nine pairs of boots in
covering 23,220 miles, and he has still over two
years in which to complete the stipulated distance
of 41,500 miles. His record walk so far has been
41 miles in 11 hours.
* • * *
Another <p«zst-Imperial officer fresh from
’Ome has cleared out after “ ducking ” the entire
money-lending community on queer securities,
and after having become engaged to three different
ladies whose friends “dote on the military,”
especially those fresh from ’Ome.
POSSIBLY.
STOUT MOTHER : “I wouldn't wear those things for
a thousand pounds."
DAUGHTER (anxious to improve her grammar) :
“ Is not couldn’t the right word to use in
that sentence, mother? ”
In W.A. dengue gives way to the new
bone-racker—beri-beri. Came with the niggers,
or Chows, or something.


All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have E^uai -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
Little Miss Muffit.
( With Additions).
Little Miss Muffit
Sat on a puffit,
Eating her curds and whey,
There came a big spider
And sat down beside her,
And frightened Miss Muffit away.
Naughty Miss Muffit
Made such a fuss that
She filled her mamma with dismay ;
Her nerves were distracted,
NERVOUS HEADACHE contracted,
Which racked her both night and day.
At length someone told her,
And a good druggist sold her
A small box of pretty Bile Beans;
Her nerves now are right,
She’s wild with delight,
For the pains now 8.8.’s have cured. ,
Moral.
Never be without a box of BILE BEANS for
Biliousness, as they cure headaches, indigestion,
constipation, liver trouble, and all digestive oom-
plaints. *
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 12, 1898.
Mv Dear Mtee—
A sunset extraordinary flashed out over this city
last week. No color was allowed in that was not.
wearing the brightest tints of its own order, and a
mighty army of fiery clouds marched over the:
skies in sensational raiment, with all lights lit
and all flags flying. Homeward going harbor-
boats were rocked to one side with the rush of
passengers to the western windows. And if you
think a sunset belongs more fittingly to the
chronicles of passing shadows, let me tell you that
this one was more than a sunset. It was a deep-
laid scheme of the gods to work up a renaissance
of art and literature in this stolid city. Watch
the poets’ corners for a while.
In shows terrestrial, the Agricultural was another
large illumination. Opening day knocked Brum-
bies and Smart People together with a scriptural
disregard of person. What I like best about this
particular kind of show is that the people who
know everything everywhere else, don’t know so
very much here. I like to see the Glass of Fashion
gazing awkwardly and stupidly where the shy-eyed
man from Alligator Swamp, whose mouth won’t
shut for God or man, has the light of supreme
understanding in his eye.
City and country together sent out a big crowd,
and all the bargain-sales of the century were
represented in the gowning. It is a strange and
subtle thing that the best-dressed squatteress in
the country cannot quite get the squatteress out
of her clothes. Other people’s raiment seemed to
remember that Randwick was at hand, and the
very special was not forthcoming. Mrs. Lassetter
was in a pretty pale-fawn costume, the silk bodice
tucked all over, sleeves tucked too. (I suppose
you know that to go jusqu’au comblc in fashion to-
day you must mount a ladder of tucks—nothing
else will admit to the summit). Mrs. Rennie’s dress
was a pleasing green, with the hand of the master-
builder in its mechanism. Green has made the
biggest bid for perennial popularity among colors.
London fashion-leaders long ago decided that it
should be their most favored hue, and set it aside
on a special shelf, where fashion’s changes never
affect it. Mrs. M!at. Mayoress was wearing
voluminous black, with something bright in her
bonnet which I can’t quite remember, but which
you mustn’t think was a bee. On the whole, the
black-and-white women were the smartest, a con-
clusion one generally comes to wherever one is.
Harry Hyndes, in grey alpaca, commonly conse-
crated to the slim, and the beautiful Hon. Alex-
ander, Ranfurly’s aide, were the chief items of
interest among the men.
The ladies’ jumping contt* , kept many people
in the. grand-stand all the afternoon, but the
horses went too slowly for my fancy. And the
riders wore haggard expressions, as though the
prize they might or might not win was the begin-
ning and end of life to them. Mrs. Stacy from
Walcha had an ugly-looking fall, and it was
an excitement to the crowd to see Lady
Ranfurly racing across the course with the
Mayoress gasping at her heels (for Lady Ran-
furly runs faster than any aldermanic lady
can ever hope to run). The Maoriland poten-
tate has made herself a golden name among
broken legs and scalded feet, and the true light of
a first-aid was in her eye when Mrs. Stacy was
seen kneeling in the middle of the field. The
accident came to nothing but a shaking, and Lady
Ranfurly led the thrown one away by the
arm. By the way, judges of fair equestriennes
will change places with any other judges who
offer. Their lot has no beer and skittles whatever,
and stone-breaking isn’t in it with giving a prize
to one lady when five others stand by and slang
you with their eyes.
Then there were the dogs, and if the rest of the
show was a little languid, life in the dogs’-house
was as lively as a French comedy. The kennel-
folk had arranged a grand choral ode, and I could
see in their eye it was about Federation, and the
rise in boots, and the run on dog-skin. The tenor
was clad lightly in spots, and when he was not
catching imaginary fleas, could give, all other
tenors points. The dramatic soprano, who was
one foot long, wore white fluff and a prize ribbon,
and went a mile above the upper C She was still
ascending when I left.
The Rev. Carr Smith closed up all holes in his
Passion Play the same night, by giving away its
funds to the widows and orphans of the Dudley
colliery miners.
But Walter Bentley, expounding “ The Cruci-
fixion” with fearful melodramatic vigor, was
really the best thing Easter offered. He lightened
his discourse with poetry, and I cannot die in
peace until I know if those poems were written by
Talmage. The only other nocent gas-spout who
could have loosened verse like that is away at
Rookwood—but only temporarily, alas ! You
must understand that I now speak of him purely
and solely in his poetic incapacity.
“For one night only ” crowded Her Majesty’s
everywhere. So heavy was the air with a Sabba-
tarian odor of peppermints, and sweet-williams,
and new suits, that the. few opera-cloaks in the
dress-circle had a blasphemous air I have never
noticed about opera-cloaks before. The house
was in a strictly religious mood, and refrained
from cheering the picture of the Crucifixion, but
I am bound to record a few hand-claps when
Judas Iscariot was thrown upon the canvas. The
Crucifixion was just as realistic as limelight will
allow, and handkerchiefs came into great play
suddenly. I did not look at it myself, but heard
Bentley in the wings describing, “ Christ, all run-
ning down with blood.”
Bentley talked better about himself than about
Christ. A genuine ring was in his voice when he
told I i >w those who had said certain things of him
(Bi d'' y) were liars, and those who believed the
liars were fools. It struck me that his enthusiasm
about Christ was of the stage, stagey, and yet I
heard a lady of Israel declare she was “almost
f>ersuaded.” Perhaps another Passion Play would
win her over altogether, but I would rather she
remained in Israel. That price is too high.
Alyce Leitch, singing in evening-dress before a
depiction of the Burial, made the hit of the even-
ing with Too late; ye cannot enter now.” Her
low notes were rich and true, and, though she was
Hat m the upper ones, she put a heavy dash of
oolor into the song that brought the house down.
Her rendering of “ He Wipes the Tear ” was flat
and so-so, but who would not have been flat with
that great picture of Ludwig’s Calvary in the back-
ground? Francie Adler sang an Ave Maria of
Leon Carons composing that one would like to
hear again.
Saturday at Randwick was a masculine day en-
“reiy> ,ut Monday was a blaze of sartorial beauty
that half-a-dozen showers could not put out. Rain
threatened m the morning, but nobody minded,
and wet-weather clothes were not disturbed to any
great extent. It is long since such a host of nice
iroeks have gone out to Randwick together. The
most particidar dress on the lawn was Mrs. Willie
Mitchells heliotrope silk, with tucks running
round and round her from the hem of her skirts
to her shoulders. Turquoise blue at her waist,
and a small, round yoke of turquoise, was very
harmonious when you had educated yourself to
the harmony. A hat trimmed heavily with white
lilac, with a white osprey, waving*
wide flags over crown and brim, topped this much-
noted costume. Pretty Mrs. Alfred Milson mixed
two shades of green rather subtly in her deep-
green velvet moujik and light-green floral skirt,
and wore a purple hat as to the manner born.
Warm purples, with more blue than red in them,
were popular. Mrs. Burdekin and Mrs. Harry
Levien were both fair enough to wear them be-
comingly.
When the rain came on, I studied the subject of
how to hold up a skirt in the way it should go.
And I learnt that the one fatal thing that Society
cannot forgive this year, because it did it itself
last, is to grasp your skirt at the side and pull
it round out of the mud. You must pick it up in
your fingers just half-way down the middle seam
tvt u e k ac k> then smartly elevate your hand.
.Nothing more. Oh, yes—cracked fingers and
wrist-ache extraordinary, and lots of mud on your
skirt, but you must do it, or you won’t be let in.
The vice-regal box held Lady Rupert Clarke’s
green velvet togue, and smart-braided black-and-
white frock, brightened with an original red belt
and red parasol. The Misses Brand wore sister
costumes of soothing blue, and very youthful
white felt-hats. Maud Jeffries was in braided
navy serge, loose hair, and a floppy tuscan hat
that shaded her beauty, as it were. 1 asked, but
could not find out, who it was that wore the
brightest blue-coat and skirt trimmed with the
brightest green that ever was seen on sea or
land. Another lady, whom nobody knew, was a
warm-faced fourteen-stoner, in marmalade silk
flounced from head to foot with bile-bean chiffon.
The parasol carried out the scheme of flounces
m pink satin, but her toque took a way of its own
among red and yellow velvet and purple
geraniums.
The cosy Cri. is itself again with the Cartwright
co. on the boards. The old Brough and Bouci-
cault sparkle has returned to drive away the
memory of equine performances and other desecra-
tions of this pleasing comedy-haunt. The brief
glimpse of Beatrice Lamb in the curtain-raiser
revealed a large, fair lady with a calm, kind style
of beauty that was an exact match for her
black satin gown, white fichu and bunch of violets.
Later on this calm, kind expression is borne out by
the fact that all the dresses of the piece fall to
Miss Morley’s back, and the leading lady
gets nothing but the one black satin afore-
said. Miss Morley changes her dresses everv
act, a feat that always tells. The wedding-dress
was a white satin structure with paniers looped
over a much-embroidered petticoat, and a huge
looped train that behaved admirably and never
once got in its wearer’s way, or perhaps I ought to
say that its owner never once got in its way, for
Miss Morley manages her long series of trains with
a diplomacy of a Maohiavelli. A white wig whose
cunning curls flopped round the front of her neck
didn’t interfere with the adage that only dark-
eyed women should wear white hair. The rose-
pink silk in Act 11. was a billowy thing of frills,
and paniers, and festoons of roses, and brocaded
train. These costumes were all modelled on the
same lines—paniers, petticoat, train, elbow-sleeves.
Changes of color let in the variety. The men’s
clothes make themselves heard more than once,
but ask for a leisured mention of their own.
Noni Rickards, who only appears in the opening
piece, makes you think of Harry Rickards toned
down and cut-away, and put into his daughter’s
clothes. Pa was leaning over the back of the d.c.
one night, hanging on her looks as if she were the
apple of his eye, as rumor says she is.
The first night of the “Silver King” saw a
highly-decorated circle at Her Majesty’s. Wilson
Barrett looked to have taken Lent seriously, and
was much slimmer than one anticipated in the
light suit and overcoat of the drunk - scene.
Maud Jeffries scored heaviest in widow’s-weeds,
when her largeness seemed to fall away from her
mysteriously. The dove-grey frilly frock of the
last act transformed her into the Gibson girl at
whose abundant feet the world is still worshipping
loudly. Miss M'Carthy, as the light-colored
Olive, quite put away the family likeness between
herself and the star.
Though ghost yarns are a bit off my beat, there
is a flavor of genuineness about the following
which might make it “go.” A Melb. girl, who
married and went to live in one of the suburbs of
a big M.L. town, awoke one night during her
second week of residence there, and saw through
the open door of the dressing-room the figure of a
tall man, whom she naturally supposed to be a
burglar, and whose face, in profile, she could
clearly see by the moonlight. She roused her
husband, and he, to prevent the intruder escaping,
entered the dressing-room by the door leading into
the passage, but found nobody in the room.
Nevertheless, so sure was the lady about what she
had seen, that next day the policeman on the beat
had a full description of the midnight visitor
given him. A few days later, when the lady was
paying an afternoon call, her attention was caught
by a large wall-portrait of a man in a military
uniform. “ Excuse me,” she said, excitedly, to
her hostess, “ but that picture has exactly the face
of the man I saw in my dressing-room the other
night.” The hostess looked startled. “Why,”
said she, “ that’s a portrait of Capt. S , who
blew his brains out some 18 months ago in the
house you are now living in.”
In the recent much-discussed Maoriland
skin-grafting case, Ethel Mere Tako Baker,
r °oi™i herdoctor for £5OO damages, is daughter
of Shirley Baker, of Tongan fame. He was
backstairs leader of the great missionary wars
which waged so fiercely there some years ago. A
Wesleyan clergyman himself once, he started
a new church in Tonga, and fought against
his brethren down there tooth and nail, for the
supremacy of old King George ; and for years the
name of Shirley Baker has been a nightmare to
Sydney Methodists. Now his daughter sues for
skin taken without her permission, and, poor girl,
loses the suit as well as the skin. Most unjustly,
people think.
The other week the wife of an incarcerated one-
time fashionable exquisite importuned the authori-
ties for a special interview with her husband. She
desired to ask him a question, the answer to which
would decide whether they were ever to live
together again as husband and wife. So pressing
was she that her unusual request was granted,
and m due course the unhappy prisoner was
dragged from his dungeon cell to reply to the
m, °i?i n^ous interrogation. When face to face
with her spouse the wife asked, “Is it true that
nnu U ? nc u t°°k Flossie Nogood to the theatre?”
<« rf nnsnand gave her one look, and, with a savage
Go to - ,” allowed himself to be hurried back
to his hominy. Alas, for the foolishness of
woman !
,Kennedy concerts had an audience of
their own at the Centenary Hall. That is to say
everyone was Scotch or a Methodist, which is at
times pretty much the same thing, and in theinter-
val jokes and Methodist puns went round inafamily
friendliness. The song about the Ki coming hanie
always goes to people’s hearts, whether they have
a cow of their own, or deal from a milkman, and
Kobert Kennedy sen ti t straigh t there once more. All
the hoos and coos of plaidland were let loose, and
fluttered pleasingly about the building. And
Kennedy was truly Scotch, and put a Scotchman’s
patriotism into his fine voice ; and it was hard to
come out when the play was over and find yourself
m xork-st., Sydney, Australia.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
‘‘Wild rumors are afloat re the dot of Mel-
bourne s latest fashionable bride. Although papa
is rich in racehorses and mines it is not at all
likely that the pretty bride’s marriage-portion
came within coo-ee of the £.30,000 or £40,000
assigned her by sassiety paragraphists. Her show
of presents, however, beat all recent records in
number and costliness, and the atmosphere there-
about was heavy with eyes of envy—not to men-
tion hatred and malice. Much of the jealousy, if
analysed, would be found to arise from the fact
that the bridegroom (one of the most popular
men about town) has in his time been responsible
for many heart-flutters. His hair-breadth escapes
from matrimony reflect particular credit on the
petite sportswoman with the elegant hands and
feet who finally bagged the game. Talking of
the lavish and well-managed wedding breakfast,
oven generosity has its drawbacks when some
amongst the guests happen to ‘ lose count ’ (like
Sir George Orreyed, of ‘ Second Mrs. Tanqueray’)
in drinking the bride’s health.
When Bari tone Rebottaro warbled at a recent
Salon ‘ afternoon,’ his airs and graces set all the
girls a-giggling. The vivacious vocalist appar-
ently rather relished the innocent raillery, judging
by the quizzical glances he cast, en chantant, at
the more aggressive titterers. With Napoleon
Boffard away’ on his travels, Mr. Rebottaro is the
dressiest’ singer we have. Such tight little
curls, and every shape of hat you could mention
from a topper downwards, all worn rakishly
askew ! When the absent Boffard is billed for a
concert, his fellow-performers, so they say, take
quite an interest in his preliminary toilette-titifi-
cations. I couldn’t tell you half the things that
come out of that little black bag to plume M’sieu’s
feathers and prettify his plump charms generally.
“ The death .of the bride’s ailing father was the
sequel to that weddingpostponed in the first place
by her only brother’s fatal accident. The tragedy
recalls a delayed St. Kilda marriage of times
agone. The bridegroom, a well-known professional
man, while waiting for bis best-man, worked off
his restlessness by scaling the roof of his mother’s
three-storeyed house to solve the secret of a leak-
ing slate. Down he tumbled, broke his fall on a
greenhouse, and came to earth clear-headed but
helpless and paralysed. As soon as the bride
knew she came in her carriage, took him to
church, married him, conveyed him home and
nursed him back to perfect health.
“On Easter Sunday at the Bijou, the Vic.
Operatic amateurs, entering on their week of
‘Maritana ’ in aid of the Children’s Hospital,
slunk on to the stage for the opening chorus as
listlessly as so many truants lagging unwillingly
to school. Non-professionals lack lamentably in
briskness and for that reason make lumpish stage-
peasants. A short skirt only looks jaunty on a
wearer bristling with life and go, and beyond re-
proach in the items of ankle and shoe-leather. In
subsequent fdte toilettes, the quondam dowdy
rustics shone out as decidedly pretty girls. Trains
wigs, mantles, etc., cover a multitude of deport-
mental sins, but unless a lass twinkles with
vivacity from eyebrow to heel, it’s no good un-
veiling yards of inert anatomy.
Sweet-voiced Miss Chapman (handicapped by
an ineffective mustard-and-black gitana frock, its
waist bunched up with a brick-lined scarf, while
a saddle-shaped cap flattened down her sleek dark
hair) made an anxious, angular Maritana, years
older than her own everyday self. Why on earth
wasn't all that black hair tumbling over
her shoulders, covered by a sequined cap set
saucily askew? And where was the bright-
colored bolero, the floating gauzy scarf, the
armlets and anklets, anything and every-
thing to drift, billow, jingle —in a word
to generally disguise and tone down amateurish
stiffness and angularity ? In the prison-scene,
Maritana as a bride was still over trim and
prim, in white satin and passementerie, but at the
eleventh hour she gave her looks fair play and ap-
peared to advantage saying her prayers in a rich
sheeny orange robe. The part of Lazarillo found
a dainty exponent in Nina Osborne of the ex-
ceptionable anatomy.
“Such a fuss in the Salvation Harmy just be-
cause (so I hear) * Ensign ’ Somebody or other
didn’t run and weep on his superior’s bosom, and
confess the awful crime the very instant he got
engaged to a sister soldier. Now ’tis said the
weak warrior excuses himself by saying Miss
Hallelujah 'led him on.' She, poor maligned
latter-day Eve, denies the sweet impeachment,
but so far has not been forgiven by ‘ the Staff.
Hence the trouble ! Guilty or not, the accused
mutinied when ordered off to fight the devil m
N.S.W. Then she took to bed, and her ma
stepped into the arena and wanted to know if
‘they call themselves Christians.’ People are
rushing into print over the question, and there
the matter rests at present.
‘ ‘ For the operations of a high -class matrimonial
syndicate, there might be worse spheres than
Melb. Varsity. Three of the profs, are widowers,
each of them the life-tenant of a delightful resi-
dence in the picturesque reserve. The master of
one of the affiliated colleges shared their loneliness
for long enough, until he re-entered what Hanjy
called (apropos of bridegroom MacLaren) ‘ the
happy state.’ Then there’s the law professor, a
fresh young thing with ultra-English accent and
complexion like a baby’s. Unfortunately, Mr.
Harrison - Moore is not over - addicted to
‘colonial girls.’ Not long ago, he accused his
neighbours, the Princess Ida Clubbites, of ‘noise,’
—shrill voices, heavy foot-steps and what-not,
thereby earning for himself a special verse in one
of the commemoration songs.
“ The latest, and one of the best, marble advts.
in Melb. cemetery is to Mrs. Silas Harding. It
is in a beautiful position near the gate. But what
if old Silas could rise again, and behold such
awful extravagance !
“Premier Forrest, when in Melbourne, always
got his back up when the dowdy daughters of
other Westralian delegates told him they meant
to return West by the Lloyd line, because of its
convenient calling at Fremantle. However, if a
course of sauer-kraut on the Barbarossa was
ordered by his doctor to-morrow, more than likely
‘ John Bull ’ would * happen to be there.’
“ Talking of the West, wine-grapes, you know,
have grown there from time immemorial. In con-
sequence of this, maybe, local society, I hear, got
into the way of overdoing the sherry in its trifles
and pudding-sauces. To this day, no one raises
an eyebrow when dames and dowagers, seemingly
in rude health, summon lady friends to pour out
tea and hunt the slavey while they themselves
take to bed for a few days at a stretch.
“ Miss Mac——, a young Melb. lady wtio was a
very active missioner, and most zealous in pursuit
of the unregenerate Chow, has retired from the
good work in disgust. In her class there was a
particular Wun Lung who promised remarkably
well, and was being drawn carefully into the
straight and narrow way, when suddenly bis
teacher was disconcerted by the advent, the other
Wednesday night, of a tousled young female with
a black eye, and the unmistakable smoked odour
of everything Chinese. This riotous creature
loudly abused the mission lady and raged in the
restraining arms of a startled elder, clamoring for
the blood of Miss Mac ,whom she accused of
attempting to lure away her beloved John. The
fearful things she said led to the removal of Miss
Mac in shrill hysterics, and that young lady
no longer teaches the heathen ; her pa says she is
to attend Chow-class no more.
“ Musicians, either high-class oi popular, seem
to be dead to the slightest sense of humor. At a
swell wedding in Melb. the other day, the million-
aire parent of the bride had a brass band dis-
coursing popular airs on the lawn during the
reception and breakfast, but directly the happy
couple stepped out in travelling attire to drive off
for their honeymoon, the unthinking bandmaster
tapped his stand and started the suggestive ditty,
‘ I ain’t agoin’ to tell ’! Luckily the whole com-
pany was unanimously Scotch, and hardly any-
body noticed it.
“At a recent concert three generations of
Mayors, their womankind, a sprinkling of Par-
liamentary petticoats and the whole current civic
clique, hob-nobbed in the chairs of honor, and put
on airs enough for half-a-dozen Governors, suites
and all.
“ Indeed, a gifted girl-pianiste and her mother,
haled by a well-meaning official into the shoddy
circle, were cold-shouldered so shamelessly that
had onlookers chanced to have a cracker left over
from last Guy Faux season wild horses couldn’t
have kept them from hurling it into the ranks of
snobocracy.
“ Unlike these municipal inarms, who roll their
eyes, wag their tongues, and jangle their jewellery
unrestfully when cheek-by-jowl with their own
cronies, Gov. Brassey’s wife is habitually ‘quiet,’
but her reception of the youthful artiste would
have been ‘ gush ’ itself compared with the wel-
come the poor girl got from the City dames.
“London Sketch, writing on the fraud for which
Lord William Neville has been sent to penal servi-
tude, remarked that ‘ the Nevilles were almost as
celebrated for their personal beauty as for their an-
cient pedigree, and the sensation created some years
a R° by the twin-daughters of the marquis will not
easily be forgotten.’ Ideas as to what is personal
beauty differ. The daughter of the Neville family
who married young Tom Brassey, and was out
here a year ago, was, like brother Dick, thin,
angular, bony and. aruemic. The mind of the
heir of the Neville family, the Earl of Lewes, is
permanently deranged. An unfortunate family
altogether.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


"||AVE You
For > goT tea ’
A
YgOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and , 3s. , Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 631 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carh
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and, Millett),
CATANZARO LIQUORICE.
Wholesale Only
from HY. MARKWALD,
11 Pitt-st., 178 William-st., 14 Currie-st
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
Also afc Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
A former Sydney quarantine detenu makes
the astounding assertion that, so far from any
pains being taken at that establishment to sterilise
the vaccination-instruments, he has seen an in-
strument used on one person while actually wet
with the blood of another !! ! Inexpressibly
monstrous, if true, and the most grotesque mix-
ture of science and savagery ever heard of even in
the land of the convict system. Before accepting
this story, however, The Bulletin would like to
hear it sworn to on a cartload of Bibles. The tele-
phone which has been recently grudgingly conceded
to the quarantine establishment has to be used, by
detained passengers, in accordance with the pre-
vailing prison-tradition, within ken of the superin-
tendent ! At this rate, Sydney Health Board is
apparently anxious to divide the honors for in-
capacity and wrong-headedness with the dodder-
ing old Marine Board.
« * * *
Regarding recent Bulletin reference to
the dislike of Hebrews to pioneering, a correspon-
dent at Mount Leonora, a new Westralian mining
camp, writes that “ the first woman to hang out a
‘cool-drinks’ shingle there was a Jewess. I
admired her courage when she told me that she
came from East Magnet, by way of Lawlers and
Diorite King. Immortal Jove! what a journey
for a woman ! Many a quart of unapostolic wrath
did I shed long ago on the same waste of 200 of
the longest miles that ever God imposed on human
avarice, and alas ! fruitlessly. It can be coached
now for-about <£9. ”
“It is quite enough for him to he a Jew, with-
out being made to worship a dead Jew!” Gem
from letter of a mother in Israel to a N.S. W.
public-school teacher, complaining that little
Ikey had been compelled to attend the “ religious
instruction ” of the Gentile.
* » * ♦
“ Alphi ” to The Bulletin :
We have to stand some lively horrors in W.A., but the
present state of things at Fremantle cemetery is too
much even for the three S’s. That horrible repository is so
crammed with corruption that the grave-digger has to
probe around with a long iron rod in search of a compara-
tively unoccupied spot—and, even then, as many as
seven graves have been dug before space was found into
which to squeeze the new arrival ! The old bones, also,
which have thus continually to make room for the new,
are planted away again in a casual kind of way “ beneath
the cemetery walls, or in any convenient place.” Thus
are the older slumberers hauled unceremoniously out of
bed, after a temporary rest, to make room for other
wearied sleepers, and dumped away again, higgledy-
piggledy, with nothing for a record of identity but the
memory of a man who has been at this gruesome game
for 16 years. No records are kept 1
SURPLUS PRODUCT.
London market glutted.—Try Australia,"
Perim, where the China was wrecked, is
one ot the places—more numerous than is gene-
rally known—which England acquired, not by
“ Deeds,” but by Diddle. The French expedition
to take possession of the island put in at Aden,
where one of the officers, in after-dinner incaution
at. the Governor’s table, let slip a hint. It was
acted on so promptly that, when the expedition
got to Perim next day, the meteor-flag was already
in/possession.
-7 ' * * * *
Federation anagrams, by a liiverina
syndicate:—
A fonder tie ;
- . Often aired
Tied? No fear!
FSted on Air
Near foetid !!
I need a fort.
Fie! No trade
D—— fine orate
Neat of Reid
* * * *
At Warrnambool (Vic.), the other day, a
woman who had attempted to drown herself by
jumping from the pier into the sea was rescued
with difficulty. She was brought before the P.M.
privately and related how, a year ago, she had
taken her three children to join her husband in
Westralia. There two of them died of typhoid,
and on her return to Warrnambool the third died,
also of typhoid. The P.M. silently let her go
with her husband.
* * » »
Nothing could be more futile than N.S. W.
Postmaster-General’s long-ahead caution to the
public against Christmas-boxing letter-carriers.
The most inclined to give are the least inclined to
talk about it, and if the postman can’t manage to
keep his half of the secret, he’s a much bigger fool
than The Bulletin takes him for. Mr. Joey
Cook might have saved his breath.
* * * *
The Bulletin directs the attention of Yic.
Govt, to Lake Tyers mission station, where, it is
assured, startling results would follow unexpected
inspection.
* » * *
A simple mountaineering anecdote from
the top of Mt. Egmont, Taranaki (M.L.). A
party of climbers ascended the topmost rock of
the sleeping giant, planted thereupon a 9ft. pole,
and hauled aloft the inevitable Union Jack. A
fortnight later another party, prepared to shin up
the pole and so claim a 6ft. higher record than the
first, ascended and found that the flag had frozen
whilst blowing to the breezes; there it was em-
bedded in 4in. of icicle, the colors standing out as
in a looking-glass. Not only this, but that icicle
extended right down to the ground. All this in
the summer-time ! Doubters must not snigger,
for the party photo’d the phenomenon.
* * * *
The inclemency of meteorologist Wragge.
From his Weather Guide :
To secure an offending “ blackfellow,” and thereby
teach him a lesson, tie the thumbs and little fingers
together, the hands being back to back behind him.
Women attached to a camp should be given their full
share of duty. Mere needlework, fancy-work, and such
like are, in excess, degrading and conducive to bad health.
The natural woman loves active work and exercise, and is
constitutionally fitted for carrying- moderate loads.
The “ black-gin ”is an admirable illustration. If
ever Wragge advertises for a lady travelling com-
panion he had better do so in this paper.
* * * *
Religious advt. from Brisbane Telegraph :
STREET WESLEYAN CHURCH.
REV. J. BOWES.
Evening, 7.30; “Growth.” Anthem, “In Humble
Faith (Garrett). Solo, “ Come Unto Me ” (Handel).
GOLD COLLECTION.
“ ComeuntoMe ” —“ In Humble Faith ” —“ Gold
Collection ! ” Characteristic !
The portrait of a recent badly-wanted
Australian levanter appeared in the Police
Gazette only by a rare stroke of luck on the
part of a detective. The man of clues, visit-
ing the late lodgings of the vanished
one, found that the only photo, ex-
tant was in the possession of
the landlady, who vowed
that “nothing on earth
would make her
part with
it,” but al-
lowed the
detective to
remove it
from the
frame to as-
certain the
name of the
photographer.
But the “mount ”
was blank, and the
D. had to resort to
strategy. Keeping
up a spirited con-
versation with the
lady, he managed to
pick up another
photo, unobserved.
Then, suddenly taking
out his watch, he said
he must be going,
shoved on his hat with
the wanted man’s pho-
to. in the crown, thrust
the second photo, back
into the frame, and.
laying it face-downwards on the table, cleared
out instanter.
* * * *
Truly they are a conscienceless crowd in
Westralia. Recently two luscious brown dots
from Japan came from Norseman to Esperance
Bay. They were on their way home to the
Chrysanthemum Land with the pile which they
had made by lending their charms to the local
miner, and they asked the bank-manager to change
their heap of notes into gold. The notes proved
to be all expired miners’ rights, and two sad
brown girls have postponed their return home
indefinitely.
* * * *
Kati-Kati : “Much has been said about
the diminished liability of young men to get
married, and there have been many wild guesses
at the cause of this miserable state of affairs. The
true reason has been hitherto overlooked. It con-
sists of the increase of old maids, and in this way:
The chief cause of marriage has been the great
fear of mice, from which women suffer when
they have no one to protect, them. As the
number of old maids has increased so has the num-
ber of cats. As cats have increased mice have
diminished: As mice have diminished, women
have become more independent of men. Being
more independent of men, they have married less,
and there has not been the same liability to get
married among men as formerly. Which was to
be proved.”
At a recent big Melb. religious
function, a heathen daily pressman
of the ordinary sort sat at the repor-
ters’ table, next to the representative
of Church Chat and Pious Bits
The latter was fervent and ostenta-
tious in his piety, rising to sing
hymns, and kneeling to pray, while
his lost brother put in the time
“writing-up.” At last the godly one
began to ranji: he had not, he re-
marked, seen any report of Rev. Mon-
keybeard’s splendid sermon the pre-
vious night. “No,” curtly responded
the other. “Well, I wouldn’t like
the Ageggs to miss it,” observed the
crow scribe, “so I’ll give it to you
for to-morrow.” The daily pressman
groaned, but sat nonchalantly doing
nothing while the Church Chat man
opened : “ You see, it was like this,
there was a young woman who lost
her virtue ” —here he paused to let it
soak in ; whereupon the bored scribe
raised his eyes for |the first time to in-
quire blandly, “ Did she advertise for
it ?.” Then the pious one dropped a
long, cadaverous jaw, slowly gathered
up his notebook, and departed to take
a seat among the anointed.
* * * *
A great question of stale buns
and State-fixed holidays and Sabbath
observance has risen in South Aus-
tralia. By Act of Parliament most
holidays in S.A. are observed on
Mondays, wherefore the parsons say
that, much as they would like to have
their bun-worries on Tuesdays, they
are practically forced to have them on
Mondays, as these contrivances rarely
pay except on holidays. But, if held
on Mondays, Sabbath labor is invol-
ved, else the buns are deadly stale.
The difficulty has already exercised
the mind of a couple of “conferences ”
and the bakers’ union, and is now pre-
sented for the prayerful consideration
of outsiders in the hope that a solu-
tion may be forthcoming.
• * * *
‘ ‘ The hospital, ” writes Lancet
to The Bulletin, “is a place where
the poor are experimented upon for
the benefit of the rich. Even the tab-
bies of the Women’s Hospital (Melb.)
only want young sawbones to spoil
common earthenware before being en-
trusted with their porcelain.” But
why do they object to giving the fe-
male sawbones a chance to qualify her-
self to handle their porcelain ?
During a divorce-case in Sydney, while the
delinquencies of the wife, the respondent, were
being mercilessly exposed, one of the jurors, an
elderly, bald-headed man, mopped his eyes with
his beefy knuckles and suddenly burst into violent
sobbing. The Judge looked up sharply from his
notes, the witness giving evidence paused, and the
lady whose character was being pounded up
giggled till her shoulders shook. “ What ails
you?” snapped his Honor. “A man of your years
should have more self-control. These shameful
details are unfortunately too common. What ails
you?” “Toothache,” replied the juror, taking
the sausage fingers from his eyes, “ but I’m better
now, your Honor.” Then the case proceeded.
* * * *
Another man was killed in the Punt Hill
(Melb.) sewer-tunnel, the other day. The miners
had put a charge in the face, and retired to the
shaft. One of the men, M‘Gregor, remained in
the tunnel, 170 ft. from the face, waiting for the
blast to go off, and, when the charge exploded, a
lump of rock was blown straight along the whole
distance of the tunnel like a cannon-ball. This
rock struck M‘Gregor in the stomach, and he died
in a few minutes. The odds against a lump of
reef being thrown out in that way were about five
million to one, but poor M ‘Gregor happened to be
the five-millionth.
Ed. Bulletin. —Talking with one of the
smartest men of the force about John Norton’s
strictures in “ Police v. People,” he said : “ Bah !
After all, Norton knows little or nothing of the
doings of the police. Not long ago a policeman
arrested two people for assaulting him, locked
them up, brought them before a magistrate, had
them convicted, and sent to Darlinghurst prison.
Yet these two people were clearly innocent, and
were not in the vicinity at the time of the assault.
A little fuss was, however, kicked up by the
prisoners’ friends, and a little light let in on the
facts of the case. Result: A message was sent to
Darlinghurst; the two prisoners were hustled off
down to the police-office, and, while still in a flab-
bergasted condition as to whether they were to be
hanged or transported to Siberia, they signed cer-
tain documents, received £2O, and were fired out
free.” “ Robert ” gives me names, dates, and all
particulars. Was my informant telling the truth?
Kindly fetch along that Royal Commission.—
A.E.P.
*-* * *
S. le W. : The commercial comes out
strong in the Australian. Did not one of the
FOR WINTER WEAR.
“ I do like to see a fine figure."
“ Ah , you ought to he here at mid-winter for that. They're
too hot for the warm weather."
Soudan officers ask a Guardsman what he would
take for some captured spears and swords ? I can
imagine the horror of the haw-haw fellow. I find
that Pursey Chirnside’s battery-gunnery-instructor
had also to milk and kill for the mansion of the
blest. I should like to have seen Sergeant-Major
James, of the R.M. Academy, with a milk-pail or
a butcher’s-knife in his hand.
* * • *
Bendigo (Vic.) bench has just fined a
certain Cornelius Dalton £5 for being found
underneath a Presbyterian church looking up
through a crack in the floor at the stockings of the
lady worshippers. The charge was “insulting
behavior,” and the bench said very jagged things
to Cornelius about his conduct. Most people,
while fully agreeing with the bench, would prob-
ably like to add that Presbyterian churches should
be kept in better repair, and that ladies’ clothing
requires reorganisation. In Ballarat just now,
Mayor Shoppee proposes to spend .£3OO in altering
the local post-office steps, the present steps
being so steep that a lady can’t go up them
respectably in windy weather if there happens to
be a man standing on the pavement below. And
if the weather is very windy it is difficult for a
lady to be thoroughly respectable even on the
pavement; and going up a ladder into a hay-loft
is practically being an abandoned character.
There are a few women, like Lottie Moore, of Rick-
ards’ pantomime, who can turn a somersault with
such absolute respectability that there is no earthly
reason why they shouldn’t do it every Sunday in
church, but that is a matter of extraordinary
dexterity. And, even then, the reason why big
audiences roared themselves hoarse over that
somersault was the knowledge that, if the operator
had her attention distracted for a second by
putting her hands on a tack, and there was the
smallest fraction of a pause when her shoes were
going up, anything might happen. Woman’s
dress, as it is now, can only be made respectable
by hanging 12 bricks round the lower hem of the
skirt, and, if the floor of the Presbyterian church
is in disrepair, it wouldn’t be respectable even
then. Probably Cornelius Dalton will retire from
the business now; but then, just consider the
immense number of other people under the floor
who have hitherto escaped discovery.
* * * *
The matter with N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment’s bravery medals, issued to the men who
slaved after the Stockton disaster, and talked of
in connection with those who first explored the
Dudley mine after the explosion th ere, is that, so far,
no inclination is shown to award one to the man
whose bravery, let it be ever so pronounced
saves the life of a single mate. We have to wait
until a big actual disaster makes a sensation ; in
which case the handing out of the medals is more
or less a part of the hysterics of the occasion. It’s
just the same with the killed mine V’s widow and
family—-nothing is done outside a small circle of
usually poor friends unless an accident makes
half-a-dozen or more widows at the same time.
Wherefore the need of. a permanent fund, urged
here many times hitherto.
* * * *
“ Roll up to the bar, boys ! I've got a
fiver to cut out to-night! ” was the sort of thing
which, in a recently-tried N.S.W. case, sufficiently
accounted to the jury for the fact that a bush-
worker, who had won over £4OO in a Melbourne
Cup sweep, hadn’t a penny of it to receive from
the landlord when the inevitable jamboree was
over. This typical “knocker-down,” when he
once started filling ’em up all round, wouldn’t
let any man turn his back on the booze without
leaving his hat as security for speedy return to
the cheque-slaughter. He didn’t have any hats
left on his hands, either.
CROSSING THE LOG.
From bank to bank of Gowrie Creek
There stretched a black-butt tree,
And for the letters once a week
There crossed a fair ladie.
It hapt that one was fishing there
With rod and line unseen,
Who saw this gentle one prepare
To walk the shores between.
From dainty feet two dainty shoes,
And creamy hose were stripp’d,
With flashing of delightful hues
Upon the log she tripp’d.
Half-way she slipped and straddled it,
Slid round, and hung below,
And as her hat and gingham quit,
She screamed and let it go ;
A sullen miss ’twas faced about,
And left the task to me
To fish some little items out,
And deck the black-butt tree.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Liverpool apd Lopdop
filobe IpSCirapee Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred, and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.W. Vic. 28,1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
• • __
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Personal Items.
They now call him Joseph Hectored
Carruthers.
Of the Q. N. Bank defendants Drury is
supposed to be dead. Palmer is dead ; Morehead
and Hart are invalids ; and Webster is in Eng-
land —and the writs have not been issued yet.
Arthur Orton, the Tichborne claimant, was
buried in Paddington cemetery, London. The
Bulletin presumes this interment to be only tem-
porary, pending search for the tomb of Ananias.
In view of the persistent rumors of whilom
Q.N. Bank-manager Drury’s appearance in the
flesh “on the Continent,” will Attorney-General
Byrnes order the exhumation of the coffin of the
Man that’s Moderately Dead ?
Arthur Palmer, the latest of the front-rank
dead, adds another to the list of Australian ex-
Premiers who have slipped out by one door while
the debt-bailiff or criminal or civil summons-server
has been trying the handle of the other.
Ben Tillett remarks casually : “ The aver-
age English member of Parliament is as big a cad
as the ordinary Australian mayor.” Broadly
speaking, of course, no gentleman was ever a
mayor and no mayor was ever a gentleman.
At a Mackay(Q.) concert once, the leading
songstress sent word at the last minute that she
was too ill to appear. The names of two sub-
stitutes were considered by the committee. That
of the rejected one, to-day, is Madame Melba.
There is only about six weeks’ difference be-
tween the birth-dates of those political King Divi-
sion duellists, G. H. Reid and Tom Slattery, and
both entered N.S.W. civil service in the same
year, 35 years ago. Now each wants to choke the
other out of public life.
Two Totties within the meaning of the
Act were lately presented at Melb. City Court
under the names of “Lillie Langtry ” and “ Nellie
Stewart ” ! Langtry was pretty, fair, and fat;
Stewart was—well, all women are said to be
angels at one time or other.
Daniells, Q. Labor member, speaking re-
cently in Cambooya, asserted that meteorologist
Wragge saw and spoke to the late Q. N. 8.-Mana-
ger Drury in Paris—eightmonths after his alleged
demise. That part of the speech was suppressed
by the local papers. Has Ranji Wragge nothing
to say on the subject?
When John Norton makes his threatened
attack in Parliament upon Judge Docker, he
ought to manage to do it in committee, so that
Speaker Abbott may assist. Ten years ago the
now great man made upon Mr. Docker a vitriolic
attack, which is still remembered by old hands in
. the House—and by Docker.
There are some long-dated members in
S.A. Assembly. Catt and Kingston have been
in the House for If years without a break ; John
Downer for 20 years, and Landseer for 23 years.
The last three have never changed their elec-
torates, and old Landseer has survived eight con-
secutive elections at Mount Barker.
Clever Donald Macdonald, of Melbourne
Argus, lately sent ’Ome the MS. of a book which
had cost him two years of hard work. It was
Bent at the invitation of a first-class firm of pub-
lishers, but they subsequently denied receipt of
it, nor could any trace of it be found. Hard luck,
which should make other authors more careful.
At Birdsville, Diamantina
River, in ’93, German Charlie, a
cook, while under examination as
witness in a horse-stealing case, re-
marked that he “tought dat de ’orse
vas kronk.” The sergeant: “ Pwhat
doo you mane by ‘ kronk '? ” Char-
lie : “Veil, eef an Irishman don’t
know vat kronk means, a Dutchman
can’t tell him.”
Thomas Griffiths Wain-
wright, wife and sister-poisoner,
hero of Bulwer'|: “Night and
Morning ” and vi/lain of Charles
Dickens’s graphic ‘Hunted Down,”
friend of Charles Lamb and the
elder Hazlitt, was, when trans-
ported to V.D.L., employed as
Sistrnan for some time at Hobart.
e also painted portraits—old Chief
Justice Stephen, of Sydney, owned
a Wainwright picture. The wife
of a leading Hobart doctor was to
have sat to him. She was short,
thick-set and ugly, and Wainwright
(vyho worshipped beauty and poi-
soned his sister-in-law “ because her
ankles were so thick ”) started
back when he saw her ready posed.
“ Madam,” he cried, “it is impos-
sible! Where are your legs? I
cannot paint a woman without
legs.” For this he was gaoled
and got 50 lashes, and soon after he
was employed in the hospital as
wardsman. A prisoner who had
offended him was dying, and Wain-
wright bent over him and said :
“Do you know that in an hour’s
time your soul will be in hell, and
this arm”—baring his own—“will
be up to the elbow in your carcase! ”
An infernal rascal, and an inveterate
opium-smoker. Yet he made an
“edifying” end.
The other day The Bulletin thanked
Heaven that Kernel Lassettah had resigned his
military command, and was going back to the
grocery to attend strictly to business. Alas ! this
paper’s paeans were premature. It proves that the
Kernel resigned because he had been slighted by
the Major-General in the interests of a soldier
named Smith, and that Sydney is to be bored by
the publication of endless columns of official corres-
pondence on the question. Lord help us !
Australian cable-fakers seem quite at sea
over the frequent French practice of awaiting the
convenience of convicted persons before incar-
cerating them. Re Zola, S.M. Herald jumped
to the conclusion that “ M. Zola has consequently
been released,” when the novelist had probably
failed to set foot in prison. And when Rochefort
recently went up for five days, the Herald man
was obviously puzzled to find a mob accompany-
ing him to the prison-gates fully a week after he
had been sentenced.
Dr. Reid, an old Sydney Grammar School
boy, and afterwards graduate of Edinburgh Uni-
versity, but now physicking the Glades ville
lunatics, is 6ft. Bin. in his socks. He is milder
tempered than the average man of 4ft. 6in.
James Edward Geake, the pious solicitor
from Daylesford, has been liberated from Mel-
bourne Gaol, and is now once more “ on his own ”
having served only a small fraction of the sen-
tences inflicted upon him and dodged nearly all
the punishment he so richly deserved. Geake was
let loose last Monday week, and Justice is still
holding her nose.
James M‘Sharry, the big arbitration vic-
tim or hero, would, if he could only get the
wrinkle-making case over, stand for a seat in Q.
Parliament. He knows and is known all over the
North, his reputation among railway workers
being particularly sound. He was, for years, a
partner with John Macrossan, the local patriot
and Australian Federalist.
Go abroad for news of home. Burke’s
Peerage winds up a notice of Hugh Muir Nelson
by stating that he was appointed Lieutenant-Gov.
of Columbia in ’87 —which position he resigned in
’92. Also, Burke’s Peerage might note that
Nelson was also Grand Vizier to the King of the
Solomon Islands, in which position he nearly died
of colic through eating too freely of boiled mis-
sionary.
The one hot-blooded member of the Dob-
son clan was the late Chief Justice’s brother,
Arthur. He was once manager of a station on
the Rakaia River, M.L., but had to resign
through the offices of an anonymous letter-writer.
The present scribe met him on his way to the Zulu
war, where he was going ; he remarked, “ for
death or glory. ” He got the former in the first
scrimmage at Rorke’s Drift.
Premier Kingston admits that he urged
Playford to accept a knighthood at Jubilee time,
but “ Tomato Tom ” cares for none of these
things. Betting, however, is that dilettante
democrat Cockburn will take the bauble at the
first opportunity. He is M.D. (gold-medallist) of
London University, and so knows all about life in
the centre of the world —as does the wife to whom
he was married while in England. •
Ex-Police Magistrate Beddome, who died
in Adelaide April 6, aged 81, was for 33£ years on
Adelaide bench ; this after spending 15 years as
police-court clerk. He was as straight a man as
ever sat on any bench, and even those whom he
punished had always a good word to say of him.
“ Jim ” Gordon, brother of Conventionist John
Gordon, is Beddome’s son-in-law. He retired in
’9O after making much money out of Broken Hills.
Travelling Australian to The Bulletin :
Saw the Queen drive out in Hyde Park last week —a
short, plump, motherly, well-preserved old lady : one can
see a hundred such every day in Melbourne. No fuss, no
cheering, no escort. She had not been in London for a
year, and I wondered whether my grovelsome fellow-
countrymen would hang round and gaze so casually as
did the people in the Park. The Princess of Wales tries
to remain up to traditional form, but the “ get-up ” is
obvious — and pathetic—paint, powder, padding, and wig.
And the good soul a grandmother !
Premier Kingston is unanimously voted
by Australian public men the champion nuisance
as a travelling companion. At night, when all is
quiet and some tired-out Parliamentary party is
enveloped in sleep, the S. A. Premier suddenly
bursts into “ melody.” His favorite dirge is
“Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep,” and politi-
cians aver that his rendering of that song—added
to his trumpet-like snore —will yet wreok his
Ministry.
REMARKABLE CONDUCT OF A TRAM .
MAGISTRATE : “ Were you sober at the time of the accident? ”
WITNESS: “Most certainly , your Worship. The tram came
up on the wrong side of the road.”
The proposal to celebrate ’9B in Sydney
by erecting a monument to certain patriots who
were sent out to this part of the world may be all
right. But it is curious (remarks a Bulletin cor-
respondent) that in the discussions upon this
matter the name of Anthony Brady has not been
mentioned. And yet, of all the ’9B men who were
expatriated, Tony Brady, Cock of the North, was
surely the truest and most unselfish patriot. He
was tried and cast for death by Lord Norbury, the
hanging Judge, and let off with transportation.
Pining to see his young wife, he escaped from
Botany Bay in a French whaler. Arrived in Ire-
land, he found his wife married to an old enemy.
She betrayed him to the authorities. He was
tried again before old Norbury, and sentenced to
death. Once more he escaped the halter, and was
sent out to his former quarters. Lived to a great
age. When St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, was
burnt down in ’65 he was dragged from his lodg-
ings in one of the crypts beneath the church. A
grand old man, who, with his dying breath, cursed
the Sassenach and all Orange dogs.
“AND YOU TOLD ME SO YOURSELF
“ And what was strange about Moses being found
in the bulrushes? ”
ETHEL : “ They're generally found under cabbages."
Printed as illustrating the fury of a scorned
author: —
Dear Bulletin. —Appropriately enough the two most
venomously-worded, illiterate, and useless “reviews” of
my Dead Men’s Tales come from Sydney and
, the champion thief papers of the world. Their
supplements are stuffed with unacknowledged re-
prints of San Francisco Argonaut matter. Blowflies,
with the spite of scorpions, but impotence of gnats. Just
wait a bit till you read the Argonaut’s review of D.M.T.
—and of its Sydney bug-parasites.—Yours, &e., Chas.
Junor.
In the halcyon days of the long-defunct
Melb. Standard, manager Jimmy Thomson (now
running Murchison Times over West) delighted
to trot theatricals of the gushy Brown-Potter type
over his evening printery, showing machines,
stereo, plant, &c., with a suave “ This-is-how-the-
modern-newspaper-is-produced ” expression on his
cherry-ripe visage. One day he was ciceroning
several ladies of a London Gaiety co. round and
ran them into the barn-like reporters’ room. Look-
ing up at the wall he saw thereon pictures of
many lurid-limbed females “ totally unfit for pub-
lication.” This so embarrassed him that he only
just saved himself by rushing out of the room and
up a flight of stairs shouting, excitedly, “ This
way for the job-printing department, ladies ! ”
Perrier brothers (Frenchmen), once squat-
ters in New England, N.S.W., quarrelled, and
agreed to divide their run. But there was no
boundary fence, and the sheep didn’t keep the con-
tract. So there was more row. And it came to
this, that the brothers used to keep watch along
the boundary line, rifle in hand. If a sheep
strayed across, the man whose land was trespassed
upon would pot it. Then he would raise his hat
to the other, make a bow and exclaim, “qui a
terme ne doit rien, Monsieur.” “ Tres bien,”
send the other, “a chaque saint sa chandelle,”
and then he would knock over a stray mutton.
But one day, one of the brothers did not turn up.
The other sent to enquire if anything was the
matter. Alas! the brother who was absent had
run out of cartridges. “ Tut! ” said Perrier, the
younger, “ why did he not say so ? ” and he sent
over a supply. Yet these asses loved each other.
When one died, the other nearly followed, from
sheer grief.
“ Scribe,” to The Bulletin :
Last night, I heard Ben Tillett for the first time. He is
not unlike Bellew to look at, but closely resembles the late
Edwin Booth, American tragedian. In a brown tweed
suit, with white neckcloth, he made me think of a young
bishop in tourist garb, or even a highly intellectual'rising
member of the House of Lords, such a one as might do
Piccadilly and Green Park arm-in-arm with Wosebew y—
but he doesn’t talk so. Nevertheless, his language is quite
that of the University-cultured type, and doubtless his
enemies point to the fastidious Robespierre, with the
strange hauteur of lordly persons who have identified
themselves with the people. However, he has distinction
without hauteur, or a trace of affectation. The real
ehivalrous Benjamin Tillett shines through. When he
•peaks, it is as Paul says, not so much that he appre-
nends, but is apprehended, seized upon, transformed into
another man, making me think of the energy, the furia
of Mark Hambourg, or Barry Sullivan in the tempest of
Hamlet, for the theatrical idea is ever present, although
in an involuntary way, so that he is convincing by force
of conviction. I declare no oratory ever moved me so
much, especially when his full soul went out upon the
wrongs of woman. No wonder the audience leapt up,
electrified. Then his rich comedy ! Indeed, there is
nothing better in the land of Lauri and Coleman than his
description of how the cheap German clerks came and
stole the English manufacturers’ secrets, and founded the
manufacturing greatness of their nation. Then how
forcefully did he urge that German progress was due to
to socialistic care for the toiler.
Charles A. Pridham, F.R.G.S., who died
the other day at Prahran (Melb.), of which he
was an old resident, was born in England in 1817
and was a fellow under-grad, at Oxford with Gov.
Bowen. He was a man of pronounced ability and
a good linguist, and during the ’4B troubles in Ger-
many he was one of the first of the war-correspon-
dents representative of Lond. Times; as such he in-
troduced the patriot Kossuth’s name and the Hun-
garian cause to English people. His Times letters,
published in volumes, giving information about
those then unknown countries, were much read.
He wrote also two large works on Ceylon and
Mauritius, and came to Victoria in ’52, practised
at the bar, represented the Argus on the gold-
fields, and became P.M. at Bet Bet. He kept to
the Western circuit during the last years of his
bar practice, and for long regularly contributed
a most interesting Melbourne letter to Hamilton
Spectator. By an early investment in Melb.
suburban land he made money, and left his family
in good circumstances. His friends remember
him as a kindly cheerful man with a great trick
of Greek quotations
A N.S.W. Minister who loudly protests
against subletting on Govt, contracts, lately per-
mitted subletting in a contract on liis own private
property. In this he contrasted badly with Bruce
Smith who, though he makes no profession of ultra-
Sooialistic virtue, expressly stipulated that there
should be no subletting in the building of his
house at Bowral.
The late David Buchanan was retained
once, in the 70’s, in a horse-stealing case at Forbes,
N.S.W. The coach broke down on the way
from Orange, and, as David was pushed
for time, he made for the nearest hotel
to borrow a saddle - horse. Mrs.
Public-house was also a passenger,
and told David that, if there
was a horse in the place, he
should have it. Now, the
stolen horse, of which the
police had charge, had been
re-stolen from them, and left
at the pub., the landlord of
which was a friend of the ac-
cused. But, as Bung had
himself started for Forbes,
Buchanan was lent the stolen
gee-gee to ride to the defence
of the thief. On the way,
Davy fell in with the police,
who actually praised his nag,
without dreaming that it was
the very animal which they
were afterwards unable to
produce. Davy accordingly
supplemented his ride with a
“ walk-over ” in the case, and
the astonishment of the land-
lord may be imagined when he
recognised Davy’s mount, and
knew what a narrow escape he
had from being “ lumbered ” as an accomplice.
A Melb. paper states that the late Arthur
Orton’s object in impersonating Roger Tichborne
was “not the baronetcy, but the inheritance of
the large family estates and <£24,000 a year.” Not
so. The fat man’s ambition in the first place was
merely to get from old Lady Tichborne a draft for
.£5OO wherewith to buy a Sydney pub. He didn’t
then dream of going to England to push his claim.
The expansion, so to speak, of the imposture was
forced upon him by circumstances. Strange people
persisted in recognising him as the “real Sir
Roger; ” he found the fraud growing bigger as it
rolled along, and when he began to perceive that
the law’s delay would enable it to roll for a long
time he made up his mind to enjoy himself until
the inevitable crash should come.
Dear Bulletin. —The name of tne ‘ ‘ tailor”
who made such an apt reply to snob Governor
Canterbury (as quoted by you from Melbourne
Age article) was Jones —Charles Edward Jones,
of Paschal Lamb and Mint-sauce fame, then
member for Ballarat East, and Commissioner for
Railways. He was then right away in the van of
the race—a fine speaker, a clever man, a keen
politician. Since then he has been a pressman
in the States. Returned, he was once again elected
HOSPITALITY .
“ Well, Billy, how did you sleep—any fleas? ”
“Fleas! Why, I’m black with ’em.”
for his old constituency, and sat for one session.
But times are changed. He has grown old, and
the new generation knows him not. Perhaps it
is for this reason, and in the irony of resentment,
that he now teaches the art of memory.—G.B.


“ THREE GOOD THIKTGrS ”
. . Madr in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’ Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’ Pure Malt Vinegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS." C
Holbrook’s Sauce HAS BEEN AWARDED MORE PngG MSClcllS
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES
Holbrook’s Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
IS THE FJNEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF . . .
PILSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R
Aboriginalities
There’s nothing like doctoring yourself.
The other day a Queensland lengthsman fell off
his tricycle and hurt his leg. His mates gathered
round and decided it was a case of sprain. Six
bottles of painkiller were lavished on the unfortu-
nate man ; same number of bottles of Jacob’s oil;
several poultices were applied—also a pint bottle
of lotion. After a week or more of this kind of
treatment, they put him on crutches and carted
him off to the doctor, who found both bones frac-
tured. Doctors be hanged! I always treat
myself!
* * * *
S.S. : “One still sees some curiously-
dressed figures in the burnt districts of Gippsland.
A returned holiday-maker tells of a family he dis-
covered living in a lean-to built against a rail
fence. The mother wore an old pink silk evening-
dress, cut extremely low, over her every-day
bodice; the father had on a worn-out Salvation
Army rig, and one small boy was in a patched
Eton suit, whilst another, a lad of 11, was clad in
skirts. But the baby was the curiosity, and the
stranger discovered that it had its head in a very
ancient lawyer’s wig. “Why, what’s this?” he
asked. “Shure,” replied the mother, proudly,
“it’s a-wee bit av a bonnet some kind body was
afther sendin’ up for the babby ! ”
* * * *
Years ago, Defore the days of paddocks,
the “ Flash Jack ” was in evidence on every cattle-
station, in white moles, cabbage-tree hat, silk
neckerchief, and long spurs, and slouching on the
back of a raking brumby. He was quite a little
god in his way. One of his customs was to dis-
card the end of every plug of tobacco used. The
man who cut up the last bit was despised. Some
would throw away as much as half a plug. Many
of those poor fools to-day are worn-outs battling
on the roads, and make for the old huts where they
played euchre years ago, and search for the quids
that were then disdainfully cast on the floor.
* • * *
The ‘ ‘ whirligig of time! ” A few years ago,
writes “R.H.,” shearers roused, struck, fought,
and burnt against squatters’ rules compelling
them to shear wet sheep. To-day the squatter
often has to stop them from shearing soaking jum-
bucks. One often sees the water run out of wool-
presses ! Also, but a short while ago men were
proud to be unionists and “ flashed ” their tickets
(some would stick them in the rim of their hats);
to-day, they’ll plant ’em in their boots so’s the
other fellow shan’t see ’em and tell the boss, and
perhaps get them the sack for being alive.
* » * *
An emu-story : A South Australian man
could not understand how it was he was never
able to keep a fence round his garden. When he
got up in the morning the palings were always
scattered, no matter how well he had secured
them. One night he sat up and watched that
JACK OBJECTED.
B ILL: Why not collar this old horse and put our swags on ’irn? ”
JACK: “Not me j I’d rather hump mine than pull it !”
fence, and just at dawn a dozen emus trotted over
from the plain, drew all the nails out of the
fence, and swallowed them. The same emus had
been picnicking off his fence for a month, the set-
tler being a slow-minded man.
* * * *
H. O. Griffith: “No Bulletin corres-
pondent has as yet told of the jackass being the
victim of the snake. When in Rosewood scrubs,
three years ago, I killed a big carpet snake, which
I found upon opening to have swallowed two
jackasses. Only on two occasions have I seen
jackasses struggling with snakes, and in each case
the snake was not more than 2ft. long. . I have
seen a brown hawk (Hieracidea Orientalis, Schlege)
swoop down on a sft. brown snake, kill it, and
Carry it to its nest, where it was torn to pieces
and fed to the young ones. The crested hawk
(Baza Suberistata Ola) also kills snakes. One of
this kind I have seen kill a whip-snake by seizing
it just behind the head and rising, with the snake
wr igg]i n g i n vain to escape. These hawks are far
more destructive to snakes than are jackasses.
Another Australian bird I know to kill young
snakes. Upon opening a Podargus Strigoides
Lath (popularly known as the tawny-shouldered
mopoke) I found two young snakes about sJin.
long.”
* * * *
R. : “ It is true that for the first 200yds.
or so a rabbit has the heels of a hare. But, much
as bunny detests a bolt of more than this distance,
he will always make for his own particular bur-
row, no matter how far away. When a lad, I used
to block up the holes in a stretch of stone wall, and
then quest the neighboring bracken with my dog.
The rabbit would course gaily to his accustomed
hole in the wall, and, finding it blocked, would sit
simply dumbfounded for a second or two, by which
time the dog was generally settling his account.”
* * * *
Alone : “ Sorry to notice ‘ Flong’s ’ reflec-
tion on the veracity of our jackass-snake experts.
‘ Elong ’ is too casual an observer and reader;
doesn’t notice that none of the—experts, I mean
—say Jack swallows his victim right off like
a worm. Jack swallows his worm dead-slow ; and
the head of it no sooner reaches the end of his
sesophagus, than it is digested off by a fluid
stronger than aqua-regia. I cordially invite
‘ Flong ’ and everybody else to notice what Jack
does immediately, everytime he alights (be it only
after flying from one branch to another) as cor-
roborative evidence of the rapidity of his diges-
tion.”
* * * *
Dear B.— Apropos the yarn of a recent
correspondent about the discovery of a crayfish in
a load of suspiciously damp hay ; an old squatter
friend used to tell a companion to it. In the early
“ forties ” he settled at Lake Victoria on the
Murray, inside N.S.W. border, and between two
and three hundred miles from Adelaide, the
nearest big settlement. All his supplies came
from Adelaide, along the river bank, hauled by
teamsters, by weary stages occupying weeks on
the journey. On one occasion he ordered a keg
of rum from Adelaide, and, in overdue time, a
bullocky swore his team to a standstill and un-
loaded at the station. The man of wool invited
the man of oaths to join him in sampling the fire-
water, and the latter, though strangely loth, could
not decline, and got ready with the pannikin.
The squatter pulled out the bung, when out
hopped a live frog which staggered severely in its
jump and hic’d badly every time it croaked. The
squatter’s yarn always stopped there. — Kookoo-
burra.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—“ Werrimee’s ” Dingo
aboriginal in a recent issue is all moonshine. It
must have been snakes and not maggots that his
dingo wrestled with in obtaining a piece of putrid
bullock-hide. Writer has watched the gaunt and
hungry one, after being driven by snow and the
want of live stock from the Cooma side, disdain-
fully pass flesh, newly killed, and whereon there
was no “human aroma.” The dingo doesn’t
“ round-up ” a flock—he goes straight at ’em :
besides, he never performs in the evening. He
invariably waits till night and very often till early
morning. Ripping sheep to give him an appetite
is not the dingo’s game. He rips for the blood
and chances the appetite, which seems to be
always keen. As to the calf-killing strategy :
well, perhaps it was “Werrimee” himself tliat
half-dozen dingoes had their eyes on.—J.G.
The Governess
(from England) to
wild 10-year-old Aus-
tralian bush - boy:
“ When you get a
little hole in your
sock, J ohnny, you
should come to me
and get it mended at
once, or your socks
will get spoiled past
mending (appealing
to boy’s squatter pa),
won’t they, Mr,
M‘Misery?” Mr.
M'Misery : “ Eh ?
socks—oh !—dunno !
Never wore ’em ! ”
* *
O.P. : ‘‘Did you
ever associate with a
gang of slaughter-
men on their own
dunghill? (Inter-
viewing’s no use:you
must associate.) I’m
open to back the
slaughterman
against all - comers
for strong constitu-
tion and robust, all-
round bestiality. He
wades in filth all
day, talks filth half
the night, eats great
quantities of food in
an unapproachable
state of goriness and
awful uncleanliness,
drinks beer like a
sink, and is as poly-
gamous as a cuckoo.
I might mention fur-
ther that the soft-
goodsbagman’s anec-
dotes are positively
shall-we - gather-at-
the-riverish by com-
parison with the
slaughterman’s. I,
therefore, move that
Tommy Tanna, Gui-
seppi, Antoni, Sling
Loo, and the rest of
them be forthwith
expelled this continent as unnecessary adjuncts
for re-vitalising purposes, and that, instead, the
great, languid, slow-pulsed, played-out, pill-
swallowing Australian bloke shall, each and every
one of him, be made to kill his own meat.
* * * *
Bill and Tim, “old hands,” had been
mates for forty years. They had come out in the
same ship, and stuck together ever since. At last
they were separated on the big sheep-run. Bill
was a shepherd at the head-station, while Jim was
ditto at the out-station. They corresponded regu-
larly by dilapidated English papers that had been
through many hands. Both were getting old, and
when Jim, who was a year or two the younger,
saw Bill tottering away, his shoulders bent and
his sheep-dog at his heels, he would shake his iron-
grey head: “Poor old Bill! he’s gettin’ old; I
must look after him. ” And Bill, watching Jim
start “out back” with his water-bag in one hand
and his “extry ” clothes tied up in a red “ han-
kercha ” in the other, would lean heavily on his
stick and murmur : “ Jim’s lookin’ powerful old,
and he’s gettin’ quite shaky. I’ll have to do some-
thin’ for him.” He did not dream that, as
Jim trudged along in the heat, amid dust
and flies, he was thinking of asking the boss to let
him work at the head-station, so that he might
help Bill; but his thoughts took another turn as
he suddenly remembered he had left his new,
bright billy in Bill’s hut, and taken the old one
from force of habit. It was too far to go back.
When, a few months later, Bill was found dead in
his bunk, everybody shrank from telling the news
to Jim. It fell to the lot of a young Englishman
•to take out rations. He'was a sentimental young
fellow, and felt keenly for the old David robbed of
his Jonathan. He entered the old man’s camp at
nightfall. Jim was at supper. “How’s Bill?”
were his first words. The young man stammered
out the truth, and the pannikin of tea fell with a
great splash from the palsied hand. “ Dead !
dead ! ” Jim muttered, his dim eyes following the
steam rising from the spilt tea. “My God ! I
wonder what he done with my bright billy ! ”
* * v •
Childers (Q.) can boast of a newspaper
office (Isis Standard), grocery, feed-store, har-
ness shop, furniture emporium, and hotel—all
under one roof, and run “by the same editorial
staff.” The editor “points with pride to the
mammoth aggregation of business, all edited by
one central head.” The imagination of this paper
reels in contemplating the possibilities of a news-
paper-man editing a whisky-mill. Who can be
surprised at the Standard accusing Premier
Nelson of having given “10 evasive answers in
reply to 11 questions ” ; and of having solved “the
odd one by calling the other man a liar.” Also,
the Standard treats a Maryborough inkslinger to
some patent adulation :
Dyspeptic antediluvian scribbler . . . mis-directed eow-
kicks . . . crocodilian condolence . . . tenth-rate scrap-
iron spoiler . . . fearsome caligraphic convulsions . . .
literary Torquemada.
* * * *
London Tit Bits prints that the nest of a
certain Australian bird weighs, on an average, a
trifle of five tons. The removal of one such nest,
it is added, involves employment of a team of
horses and manycarts.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — He jackass-cwm-snake,
one positive assertion is worth 50 negatives. Near
Brisbane once I came upon a small boy watching
a jackass sitting on a stump. “ Don’t disturb
him,” said the small boy. “ There’s a black snake
in a hole in the stump, and Jack’s layin’ for him.”
Nearly half-an-hour passed ere the snake began
cautiously to emerge, but, before a foot of his body
was outside the hole, the kookooburra was on him,
soared straight up in the air a hundred feet or
more with the reptile, let it drop, followed it
quickly to the ground, picked it up again, and
repeated the process till the snake was very dead
indeed. Then Jack flew to a tree close by and pro-
ceeded to pull the snake to pieces and make a well-
earned breakfast. Jackasses are as bad as hawks
when they acquire a taste for chickens. I don’t
let them live near my poultry-yard. My friend,
“ Steele Rudd,” could tell M‘Cooey some yarns
NOT APPRECIATED IN AUSTRALIA ,
“ Would a shark eat an artist?"
“ Not an Australian shark!"
about jackasses and snakes that live on “our
selection” at “Shingle Hut.”— Tramp.
* * * *
The belief that cannibalism is a thing of
the past with Australian blacks is apparently
not quite justified. At Townsville, the other day,
three blacks were arrested and charged with the
murder of a black boy at Cardwell. A piece had
been cut clean out of the carcase, and circum-
stantial evidence suggests strongly that somebody
lunched on the fragment.
» * * *
Let us missionise the heathen ! Among
some classes, and in some parts of the bush, the Deity
is simply known as “ Old George ! ” During last
big drought one old lizard was heard to say to
another : “Dunno wot Old George can be thinkin’
of to leave us like this. He can’t ’ave no ’eart.”
His mate explained : “ It’s not Old George’s fault.
It’s them jackeroos of His. They’re playin' cards
somewhere, ’stead o’ doin’ their dooty.” Which
shows how firmly planted is the boss-and-man idea
in the mind of Billjim.— Wer.
* * * *
In ’9l a man was flood-bound on an islet
on Buffalo Downs (Q.). For 42 days he had noth-
ing to eat except two small fish which he managed
to catch with a bent pin. These he ate raw, then,
losing his improvised hook on a snag, dragged out
a miserable existence on grass. Sid Kidman, of
Kidman Bros., going down with cattle, happened
to camp near the spot when the flood was subsid-
ing. Some of his horses strayed to the island, and
the blackboy who crossed after them in the morn-
ing, noticing a concourse of crows, went over to
investigate, and was terrified at the sight of an
emaciated man, who could not stand or speak.
The poor wretch was driven to the station and
recovered after all. His experience stands alone
in the annals of the bush.
» * * *
Yet another correspondent :
Someone told you the other day that he’d seen a rain-
bow at night, perfectly shaped', but sails color. In 14
years in the Darling country I’ve seen four—three very
distinct, and one just traceable. In one, four years back,
the colors were all there, but faint. In the others the
colors could not be distinguished. They were all in the
west— i.e., the phenomenon was produced by a rising
moon, though there is no reason why a setting moon
should not produce similar effects. Possibly, if I had
been about as much between midnight and sunrise as I
have been in the early part of the night I should have
seen some lunar bows in the east. Certainly in this
Darling country, where, generally speaking, we get some
of the most remarkable sky effects to be had anywhere,
our most brilliant rainbow's are in that direction.
* * * *
F.C.K. : Back in the seventies a carrier
was drawing wheat from near Manilla (N.S.W.),
and had for company a small boy. One morning,
when the teamster had gone for the horses and
the youngster was cooking breakfast, a big New-
foundland dog walked up to the camp-fire holding
a dead and naked baby in his mouth by the thigh.
The lad was terribly frightened, but presently,
when the beast dropped the infant gently and re-
treated into a creek near by, the boy picked up
the little creature and put it in the teamster’s
“bunk.” When the latter came with the horses
he was astounded. There wasn’t a camp or a
house within 20 miles. To have -reported the
matter to the authorities would have meant an
inquest and a loss of time, which the teamster
couldn’t afford, so he cautioned the lad to say
nothing of the matter, and buried the body near
the waggon. Cautious inquiries by the carrier
never threw any light on the mystery, which
must now remain one of the weird secrets of the
lone Australian plain.
* » * *
Letter recently received by a Queensland
State school-teacher—
March 13 1898
Mr Smith i am Sorrow to Complain that Nerely Every
time My Boy Comes from School he teall Me the Boys at
School has grate heabet of Stricking him on Chist Wher
Dr G operatiet on him he hase Corn horn Seek four or
five times Complain and he has been Vary Seek and Canot
Eate Varry Littel as Dr G Says if he Was Struck on
the'Place Where his Chist Was Cut open he Would fall
down Dead i Beleav So please Mr Smith Ceep Boys from
Strekin him in Bally or Chist—John Jones.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
Q‘U AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
■Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MQU.NTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
OUR THEORY PROVED.
We have always held that most of the common
ailments are caused primarily by
Kidney and Liver Disorders.
The Kidneys and Liver are the sewers of the
system, and unless they are kept in perfect
working order no amount of public sanitation can
prevent epidemics. The prudent man will fortify
the system. The value of Warner’s Safe Cure is
now generally known and acknowledged.
Ppoofs of Permanency.
It is a source of great gratification to us that
Warner’s Safe Remedies have been permanently
beneficial to so many sufferers. This permanency
of Power over Disease. Gives them the most
exalted rank, and in this particular they have no
equal.
Special Inquiry.
Among our oldest patients results in unequivo-
cal testimony that cures wrought, six, five, four,
three, and one years ago were PERMANENT.
And most of these patients were pronounced IN-
CURABLE when they began Warner’s Safe
Cure.
Read a Few of Thousands.
Hon. George Thorn, M.P., Parliament House,
Brisbane, Nov. 26, 1897, writes : —“ It gives me
great pleasure in renewing my testimonial respect-
ing the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. Since I
gave you the last testimonial I have recommended
the medicine to many friends, and they one and
all say they have derived great benefit from it,
especially those suffering from Kidney and Liver
troubles.”
Mr. J. Fortune, Oxley, P. 0., Vic., was pro-
nounced incurable of Bright’s Disease in 1893.
Warner’s Safe Cure cured him, and in Sept., 1896,
he reports : —“ I am now quite well.”
Ex-Mayor Langford, Fish Market, Melbourne,
suffered from a severe attack of Liver Disease in
1889, and after doctors failed he used Warner’s
Safe Cure. In 1896, he says :—“ Warner’s Safe
Cure cured me, and I heartily recommend it for
Liver Disease. ”
Mrs. Annie O’Shea, Shepparton, Vic., Oct. 23,
1897, writes : —“ About five years ago I was suf-
fering from Kidney and Liver complaint. I had
the advice of three doctors, with no relief. I was
advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and
in a very short time I was completely cured. I
have been in splendid health ever since.”
Warner’s Safe Cure is Pleasant to Take, and It Cures.
This remedy is not an experiment. If you have
never used it, your friends have. There is not a
man or woman in Australasia so isolated but what
they have a friend who has been benefited by it.
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Mabe to Measure.
Post free 30J- per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
Suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Wake : Don’t care if you weighed 80 stone
J.D.N. : Desperately prosy Werrimee : The holy man
simply went for the best gorge ; no theology about that.
Benedict: Pipe-yarn venerable; other archaic
M.M.G. : Inferior Ranji verse Sphinx : So far as The
Bulletin knows, you have simply to take the implied
guarantee of some person or persons unknown that the
Art Union is all right. And any person who is fool
enough to take a chance in a lottery which gives hack
about fourpence in the shilling doesn’t deserve even that.
Splodger : One may do Sender: Weak joke ..
Veritas : Weaker joke .... Xylus : Old tale much re-
hashed J. Jingle: “Apology” good L. (Q.) :
Ghost-yarn best, but both too crude A.O.P. : Will
consider Peter F. : Will not consider Barkis : May
do, shorn of preamble O.T.D. : Part good, part bad,
and part undecipherable Photo : Tyroish, but promis-
ing. You have the dramatic instinct Warrigal :
Funny in spots, but too unequal Lotus : You are only
an echo, though you might apparently do fair work on
your “own.” M.W. (M.L.) : Too flimsy for length.
Will look up other Chas. J. : Sorry unsuitable
Bushwhacker : Consider that any bushwhacker can leave
his savings in the Bank of N.S.W. with perfect confi-
dence The Broker : Scream in pallid ink quite un-
readable E. Mortimer C. : You say “you are aston-
ished at the untrue, insulting and inhospitable remarks
in The Bulletin against Prince Ranjitsinhji, who is not
only a prince but a gentleman and a good cricketer.”
Well, Ranji seems to be only a pretender to a throne
about the size of a kerosene-tin, and a moderate cricketer
(cricket isn’t a very lofty art, anyhow); also, nothing
in particular has happened that we know of (barring
Ranji’s lovely clothes) to show whether he is a gentleman
or not. And if the treatment of Ranji “ almost
draws tears from your heart ” how do you feel about
the treatment of well, say Ben. Tillett ?
J.L.G. : “Has a solicitor who has been struck off the roll
in N.S.W. any possible chance of being reinstated? ” It
all depends. The court hears each application for rein-
statement on its own merits .... Mendo : And why on earth
should the doctor take the porter’s opinion as to whether
the case was a dangerous one or not? A. B. M‘C. : Not
the right ring .... Wilcannia : Good incident, ineffectively
treated A.H.T. : Mere childishness J.C.W. : Good
material hopelessly spoilt- H. Otterson : First-class
horror, but too long-winded for Bulletin Selina C.R. :
Just a touch of merit. J.F.D. : “ Missed ”is the better,
but neither strong enough J.E. : Doesn’t quite “get
there.” We notifv rejection W. Dorothy Bills ”
not “accepted.” You have humor, though, and
should do better.. .Baldwin: Moderate merit J.H. :
“ Darling ” clever and humorous ; pity too long and dis-
cursive Tambaroora: Verse reminds us of a well-banged
kerosene tin ...Myra F. : Pretty well done, but too
directly suggestive of Swinburne Eustace : What
was its name? G.F. (M.L.) : Pleased to consider
J.C.E. : Mr. Morrow’s story did appear in The Bulletin,
but was not written for this paper. It was scissored and
acknowledged as American. If still dubious, you can call
at office and verify this statement from the file
M.M.G. : Unusable Cronos :
That’s not in the least like a
slave’s song Bushwhacker :
If it’s old, why repeat ? if new,
not good enough H.C.S. :
An old idea electro-plated—
and the plate’s too thin
R.H.A. : It takes a good man
to write a good sonnet
Magnolia : Coroner Morrison’s
acceptance of the accidental
death finding in the Douglas
shooting-case was extraordi-
nary, seeing that from the ev-i
dence the only right verdict
was an open one. Nothing
whatever was adduced to indi-
cate accident or anything else.
Bulletin Reader (Wan-
ganui) : Purely local Spots :
Your parson talked about
“ the weary ploughman re-
turning home and his wife at
the door with her blooming
child in her arms.” And the
congregation tittered because
they thought he possibly
meant her blanky child .....
Sheerer : So you “ and thee
uther chapps hopps as it ill
pul thrue.” The Bulletin
hopppppps so likewise .... War-
rigal : Doubtful about “ Old
Horse.” Still considering
John Leahy : Letter at Bulle-
tin office from Div. Board,
Cloncurry, Q Fullerton :
Neither suitable for illustration.
D: “In the vocabulary of
histrionic art there is such a
word as fail —but it is always
the other fellow who does it.”
G.B.W.: Some day Tub
Bulletin reckons it will start
a column headed “ The Unac-
countable Female ; ” the ut-
terly staggersome doings of
some females deserve a column
to themselves B. S. A. :
Three sides of long-winded puff
for a mine that is to be floated.
No time to disentangle alleged
facts from mass of verbiage
E. Treg (M.L.): Will print.
Trotter : But then barris-
ter G. P. Smith wasn’t a red-
faced man. He wasa bilious-
looking man with a saturnine
scowl Warrigal : Some good L.B.W. : “Out!”
J.T.K. (W. A.): Sold ’em a William goatas an Anne-goat—and
that’s all! Micro : Microbe, you mean Mownie W. :
Again, merit —but not enough Cargo : Bulletin won’t
ship you Mary F. : Pretty, but too obviously derived
from Tennyson’s “ Brook.”. .J.F.D.: Both near the mark.
“Grace” should do, tautened-up a bit and implication
made more obvious A.B. : Good F.S. : No one
would ever believe it original. Have seen scores of such
sketches by May himself C.M.A. : N.S. Wales’
non - taxation of tea and her heavy taxation of
whisky can only be effectively defended on the
ground that it is essentially virtuous to drink tea, and
essentially vicious to drink alcohol. How, other-
wise, can you justify the utter escape from taxation of
the landless Blue-ribbonite with an income below £2OO ?
X.T.W. (Cairns): Can’t print it; but it must have
done you good to get it off your mind E. and O.E. :
Handling dull; don’t remember other M. Junius:
The Australian public cares for living cricketers rather
than dead scribes Barkis : “ Harry ” no chop F.O. :
Probably Banool: Dull G.H.C. (Vic.): May re-write
“ Wattie.” Dan C. : Typewriter throws lurid light on
bad verses T.M. : Point as obvious as a lost pin on a
large plain Sprat: “Justice Ghoul” was already ear-
marked Clifton (Q.) : Local interest only
Percy J.: Solemn fact Cobbler : Thanks J.M.: De-
clined Louis M.: Not up—by three floors and a cellar.
Evarue : Please invent a new blast; we aren’t equal
to vour awful need..... Belma : No chop 6xB: Can’t
use “ Judge.” A.V.N.: No force Reporter (Melb.):
Pars, want brighter, terser handling. Other hardly
touchable on data. Col: Either too much or too little.
Give dates and details Fay: Why, you’re duller than
a mortal! Lex : You don’t prove your case, and mere
statement is insufficient. .. Marala : The ignorance and
credulousness of the British public must be simply won-
derful ; how else could such a transparently empty
“ bounder” gain belief for the shocking lies he told about
his Australian explorations? However, he’s cracking up,
and, as a back-number, is not worth talking about
Pink ’Un : Yes, that contributor stole the paragraph all
right F. Rorke : Verse held for illustration Warri-
gal : Acceptable C.D.B. : The golden-haired lady, the
evidence showed, wasn’t the gentleman’s wife ; she was
only his gin Sendo :As Sydney Smith said : “ Our
clerical profession is apt to degenerate into elaborate
inutility.”. Phil R. : Not good enough. .
“ Viator” to The Bulletin :
To say that the amazing Salvation Arnq' procession, in
Melb., the other night, made me think of Barnum’s show
entering Cincinnati, is no disparagement. Barnum’s
advts. ran somewhat like this —“The great moral show.
Patronised by the clergy. We have Behemoth. On earth
there is not his like. See ‘ Book of Job.’ Our caravans
are beautifully and respectively painted with scenes from
the life, parables, and miracles of the founder of Chris-
tianity. General admission, 50c.” Barnum was head of
the procession, in his natty buggy, with his young wife,
in hat and feather, and the inevitable baby, as real as the
Manxman’s. Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Booth, without a
baby—great oversight-last night rode in the finest
landau, with the finest pair of chestnut horses, and
most imposing coachman, that the tip-top livery-
stable could furnish, and if a hired trap could
possibly equal Lord Brassey’s this would. Now, merely
as a piece of effect, I think it would have been more
appropriate for the Commandant and Commandantess to
hire the two humblest donkeys which Melb. can afford,
and ride upon them, emblematic of their great model
Of course Mr. Booth’s miserable screw of £3 10s. a week
would not, like Bishop Goe’s £4O, furnish a landau. The
self-denying soldiers, who do really pinch themselves to
provide 1 22,000 at one pop, triumphantly paid for the
landau, and gloried in it. Commandant Booth wore a
red cap. No other Australian Salvationist is allowed
to do so. Is not this the red hat of the Car
dinal? Consider what it signifies—the sacred blood
Our two most successful religious organisations,
the Catholic and Salvationist, go essentially on the same
lines. Just as Constantine’s acceptance and patronage
of the Church involved Luther’s appearance many
centuries after, thus does the secularisation of the Army
involve coming rebellion. However, meanwhile Herbert
Booth is the aspirant General, Herbert the First, suc-
cessor of their Emperor William the First. But to my
muttons, Booth’s sheep. I watched the phantasmagoria
and paraphernalia pass between Parliament House and
the Princess Theatre, standing for the world and the
flesh. Whereupon a clergyman at my elbow puts
in that the Harmy stands for the devil. Tut, tut,
man, they subscribe for other things than the baby-
linen of the teeming parson ess. Look at this tower-
ing triumphal car, which represents the Workmen’s
Metropole, with a real officer punching a real mendicant
with real bread, which he munches all along the road.
“ Why,” says the parson, “ that’s the biggest humbug of
the whole lotJ The Metropole gets all it can, but gives
absolutely nothing. It is on the principle of Cardinal
Farnese, who gave all his money to the poor, but made
them build him a gorgeous palace, and laud his good-
ness.” Thus, too, is the parson sarcastic on the shikery
tableau of the labor farm, which rumbles by. “ And this
is absolutely pagan!” he exclaims over illuminated
lorries filled with boys and girls, in white gymnasium
dress, the girls in their long hair, without hats.
These are the Bands of Love, showing how
they go through their exercises. “Not Heathenism,” 1
reply, “ but the healthy Hedonism of Grant Allen.” The
wardrobes of the second-hand dealers in theatrical clothes
were ransacked for Make-ups on the various Tableaux -
CHEWING THE QUID.
SEZ I TO 'IM : “ I won’t vote agin me conscience, and I can't afford to
vote agin me bread-and-butter; so ’e ’ands me a quid and
I votes for ’im."
cars. I know these good old props, when I see them.
For instance, the Tableau of All Nations included the
utilities of many plays. The Irishman was the per-
fect stage-man, pre-Grattan Biggs, in belltopper, frieze
coat, red waistcoat, and green knee-breeches. What the
Men in Armor signified, except that there was Bignold’s
Henry V. stock on hand, I don’t know. A number
of pious soldiers were dressed and made up as Indians,
the cortbge of a gaily-rigged-up sedan chair with nothing
in it. Another suggestion of cunning props. Had Crum-
mies’ pump been in stock, it would have been worked in,
fetching up the water of life instead of the miners work-
ing at a windlass. I don’t know whether the accessories
of a Maori drama recently produced in Melb., being on
hand, led to the dressing up of a lot of soldiers as ferocious
Maoris. Two big girls walked in full Highland garb with
an inexplicable, humorous personage, partly Highlander,
partly Maori, and partly Ally Sloper. Had his face
been blacked, I would have been sure Will Whitburn
had escaped from the Opera House. Oh, the comic
gospel ! “ Here’s the bally,” said the Princess
Theatre hands, as the Lady life-boat crew came
looming up, a dozen of them, seated in the boat, with
oars in the airs. The beauty of this party was that you
might imagine they were in tights, and they were selected
with tact for their good looks, the offices of the toilet not
being neglected. The biggest blue-bottle in the ’intment
was a monster advertising illuminated tower about the
holy tea, while the bicycles of the Army trade were adver-
tised by samples trundled in bedeckment of all the colors
of red, yellow, and blue, supposed to embody sacred
mysteries. Brass-bands and banners were furnished
galore. Seriously, the thing was overdone in a ghastly
manner, the grand principle being to rope in every pos-
sible theatrical adjunct. Corybantic religion stank.
Melb. sneered. Barnum used to cover up his elephants
and camels in the procession with gorgeous scarlet gilt-
edged cloaks reaching to the ground. Then the wild
beasts were shut up in their cages, except one toothless
old lion, which pretended to mangle an acrobat in its
open den. The Army understands all this too.
A VERY BAD SIGN.—ON THE ROAD TO AN OLD
GOLDFIELD.
OLD BATTLER : “No one’s gettin' any gold there; the field’s worked
out.”
NEW HAND : “ How d’ye know; have you been werkin' there?”
OLD BATTLER: “No; but I’ve been hang in' round the pub.
Saturday nights with the other chaps and no one
shouted.”
The sweater’s gospel: ‘ ‘ Thou shalt earn
my living by the sweat of thy brow.”
How far the “ drunk ” who’s led to roam
excels the “ drunk ” who stays at home !
Old Jack : “ Passing through a place
called Opipi (M.L.) a few months before the last
war broke out, I sold an engraved signet ring to a
Maori. I valued it, as it had belonged to my
father, but it had to go. Well, some four years
afterwards, I saw that ring in a pawnshop on
South Head Road (Oxford-street), Sydney. Went
in and bought it. Ascertained it had been pledged
by a soldier of the 18th —when in Sydney. Went
to the barracks, hunted up the red-coat and found
he had taken the ring from the finger of a Maori
whom he had bayoneted at the Gate Pah affair.
And more by token, as Pat says, that ring is in a
pawn-shop now.”
Bishop Goe, at a Melb. church meeting, on
the allurements of the Bar: “ Recently a man,
charged with being drunk and disorderly, pleaded,
by way of pointing out cause and effect, ‘ You
see, your Worships, it’s my wife; she nags, and I
drink.’ Probably that is the history of multitudes
of drunkards. She does not know how to make
fiis home a comfortable one; how to put on that
smiling, winning face ; how to produce that sweet
silvery voice, when he comes back from work, and
off he goes to the smiling landlady, who does
know how to make her place seem very attractive
to him.” Dear brethren, let ns moralise upon
this domestic matter :
Cabbage-tree : “ The
yarn goes that a man once
awaited hanging, in Beech-
worth gaol, Vic. Cobb
wouldn’t take up the
hangman. Quandary. The
prisoners were appealed
to, with £5 dangling be-
fore their noses, but all
had the fortitude to|refuse
except Sammy, the par-
ticular chum of Johnny,
the hangee. They had an
affecting final good-bye in
the cell, before going on
to the stage, and fell weep-
ing on each other’s necks.
Next afternoon, Sammy
went stealing softly out of
town. He wore Johnny’s
crabsliells’, and carried
Johnny’s other things in
a red wipe.”
H.M. : There are
certain well-known Syd-
ney spots where the de-
caying commercial dere-
licts of the boom days fore-
gather to swap lies over
past opportunities, and
wail for the dismal present
and gloomier future. They
are a frayed-looking lot,
clinging tenaciously to the
seedy belltopper and faded
frock - coat — relics of
brighter days. They haunt
the footpath watching to
waylay, “ with some sure
thing in the way of finan-
cial venture,’’any flourish-
ing acquaintance who
chances along. The pal
of former times generally
escapes by handing over
the price of a meal. Pass-
ing one of these dreary
gangs recently, the writer
accidentally dropped a
whole live sovereign. The
yellow metal clinked joy-
ously on the pavement,
and lay glistening right at
the feet of a hungry
group, whose glare at the
gladsome sound was a
study. Yet no one jumped for it. A certain
seedy and sun-yellowed dignity remained among
these fallen overdrafters and forbade them to rush
in their broken boots for the spoil.
“ Two-ales ’’—mixed English and Austra-
lian—is not so understood in some parts of Vic-
toria. Not long ago, when a traveller asked for
this compound in a Gippsland bush pub., the
landlord, after scratching his head in perplexity,
filled out two vast long-sleevers, and placed them
before the astonished customer, with the observa-
tion that he “ couldn’t see what in the divil anny
man wanted wid a second dlirink before he’d
dhrunlc the first wan ! ”
A Hawke’s Bay (M.L.) beak recently
found his own name on the charge-sheet, the case
being one of allowing a cow to wander in the
streets. He was equal to the occasion. He said
that he deeply regretted to see a person of the
accused’s high character and standing, and one
who belonged to so eminently respectable a family,
in such a painful position. Then he went on to
say that owing to the universal esteem in which
the accused was held, he would not inflict any
penalty beyond a reprimand, and before the
accusing constable had time to gather up his lower
jaw, which had dropped right on the floor, his
worship had discharged himself without costs.
The husband of a nagging spouse
Must drown his sorrows in the bowl ;
An incidental gay carouse
Provides distraction for his soul.
The winning face, the sil’vry voice
That make a married man rejoice,
He wonders where they are
Until, whilst flying round at night
In search of sweetness, also light,
He finds ’em at the Bar,
He says,
The comfortable Bar.
In rowing down the stream of life
He struck against a snag—
In other words, he got a wife
Who’s always “ on the nag,”
So, being naturally kind
And, therefore, very disinclined,
With Mary Ann to spar,
He merely breathes a gentle “D n 1”
And walks away, or takes a tram,
To Tottie at the Bar,
He says,
To Tottie at the Bar.
She nourishes his sham belief
That Mary Ann’s to blame,
She feigns to share his bogus grief
(All barmaids do the same),
And in t)je smart commercial minx
The married humbug almost thinks
He sees a guiding star.
Alackaday ! good Bishop Goe,
How little does your lordship know
Of practice at the Bar,
By Joe 1
The unjudicial Bar.
For temptress Tottie, all the while
Her “ mash ” is “ on the flute,”
Is thinking “ Men are mostly vile,
And this one seems a brute ;
To hear the creature whine and brag
Would make a blessed angel nag ”
(She lights his last cigar
And gives his hand a parting slap);
God help the wife of any chap
Who boozes at the Bar,”
She says—
Whilst cleaning up the Bar.


(Heard on Good Friday.J
Parson (addressing Sunday-school) : “ And can
• , , an 7 bttle boy or giri tell me what we
think most of on Good Friday 1 ”
A still SMALL Voice : “ Hot cross buns sir "
V
!" Mr. Parnell experimented very successfully with hand and seine
lines. The result of these experiments, he said, has convinced
him that round the whole island good marketable fish exist in such
large quantities as to warrant the establishment at the island of some
means of developing the fishing resources.
is neither E fi!h ER fl o E r i ° r ; th 6 birth ° f the Ornithorhyncus Paradoxus Party. It
is neither fish, flesh, fowl, nor good led herring.
Geo Reid (presenting himself with portfolio) : “ I believe there’s
an old proverb about having a • fool for a lawyer ’; I
hope my opponents won’t get hold of it.”
“ A lavatory carriage was considerably
damaged at Redfern last night, through the con-
tents of the gas reservoir becoming ignited."
London, Monday Night. From
Tientsin it is reported that a Censor
jof the highest rank has presented a
memorial to the Emperor, accusing
Li Hung Chang, the Imperial Vice-
roy,of having received 1,500,000 taels
(about £250,000) in consideration of
his forwarding the designs to Russia.
Poor old Li ! He is sure to be Stripped of all his yellow
things again—even down to the very porous plaster on his back
—and will have to stop in bed the rest of his life.
Later. —A report that “Jake” Garrard
was seen jumping from the rear platform is with-
out foundation. The gas used on this occasion
was not “ Atmospheric.”
“ London, Saturday.—
The Right Rev. Cecil Wil-
son, Bishop of Melanesia,
who was one of the pas-
sengers 'by the steamer
China, said that he saw the
China going straight for
the shoal. The head of the
: steamer ran 20 yards on to
1 a rocky coast, the' rock
n " piercing her bottom, and
preventing her from'slipping into deep water.”
T n your mind’s eye can you not see the good man whip out
hts praycr-botk and look out a prayer “ for those in peril on
the sea, instead of running off to tell the skipper? If vou
can t, sco above sketch. J
“London, Wednesday Night.—A permanent
separation is being arranged between the Grand
Duke Ernest Louis of Hesse and the Grand
Duchess, both of whom are grandchildren of the
Queen. Her Majesty has undertaken to sup;
port her granddaughter.”
Poor old soul! Another mouth to feed
Will' entail the strictest economy. Albert
Edward will have to wear patched one?. J
Premier Reid says that, as he has had three successive years without a winter
lie stands in need of a complete change. Let him go to Klondyke ((N.S.W. wants'
“ a change ” too), and take a good supply of “ Policy ” with him.
A JOB LOT.


During fye 5n ca mjs mentT
s/iclbfia.-~0 ikoulcl he ever
somu,ck ollifecl ig
kindly'sus/ioncl fAis
invasion . mydefen ees '
CU-i all rijo
ft fiicyncfu*L nour.
r %4„
1 Wtk ikt &ntf/ei-s Cioh.
/'-j l l
V's t .
JVe/.
z.
Bail dm ff
Socie/~S~
|f .. -
| 6>acher. _ -fjnj4 do
D lino-ur Vov-t bo-t-enl* *»
£h dstfan 5 'm/' rlecLr .
Little (jit-l. ' K (jh t Ve olwa
has \ot~cross bun* ovt~
q o od TtidayS-" 0
'ftvotr neceuarf Jirit
I cony/'eyartioi*. *
T
j
'OMiK
ue
Some hints o£ value to all denominations
of the Christian church were contained in
an address as to the passing of the plate
given Yesterday by the Rev. S. G. M'Laren,
at the Presbytery of Melbourne ISiorth.
“Experience,” said the rev. gentleman,
“shows that exhortation is useless, because
so'many people are afflicted'with shortness
of memory that they forget all about it
before the plate at the door is reached,
whild others who do not forget have defects
of vision which cahse them to lose, sight of
the plate-altogether. The better way is
to Jpass thb plate directly along each pew;
well within 'range of the shortest vision,
accommodating oneself to every failing of
human nature and lingering- lovingly in
front of the absent-minded until the pur-
pose has been accomplished.”
To Mrf Walsh: I massaged the
girl thirteen times in all. I did
not know that shf* used to sleep
in my massage room at night. I was
not in partnership with Nicholl
His Honor: In your business is it
usual to massage nude women ? Yes.
sin.
MASSEUR
WftA/ren
A-rv
Assistant
QPPhT. «
Within M
,4&s %
tj st j ** .
=o?Sos><*>°£ <2^
J^ e S °Ht/ i Of *? *« h io b e J) *e
*'H4v *£<**&> %>St 4*
w 4 4 '^
{ f i
. k'£ ; c 7 y
£ JUT,
r /*«
~pev<i.-
ya.mMy' '*]
and c-A-tde. and /taqA. \
sty a hcsTLcu-t I ' l s
Tib E-.Xp’bJr.
lom/mso ’iatUl t eteix/ *~
-fj lx 5 /~rx>- //<*. r* a//l^
MELBOURNIAN A.


“ A-PEKTTiV.”
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.” — Lancet.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
Public Notices.
To the Members of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN-My second
term of office as a Director of your Society
will terminate at the ensuing Annual Meeting,
and I now respectfully beg to intimate that I shall
be a Candidate for one of the seats then vacant.
I shall be glad of a renewal of the confidence
which I have so long had the honor to hold, and
assuring you that no effort on my part shall be
wanting to justify a continuance of the same.—
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH ABBOTT.
March 31st, 1898.
To the Members of the AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-I beg to in-
form you that I am a CANDIDATE for
RE-ELECTION to the Board of your Society at
the coming Annual Meeting, and, if you think
that my past services as a Director justify me in
asking for your support, I shall feel honored by
your giving me your vote. j HILL
SATURDAY, 30th APRIL, 1898.
AUCTION SALE at LISMORE, RICHMOND RIVER.
Two Dairy and Cane Farms, one mile from Billenudgee
Railway Station. 640 acres Rich Scrub Land, partly
improved ; 200 acres Splendid Scrub Land, divided by
a main road only from the foregoing property. Good
soil, well situated; must be sold ; unreserved sale;
easy terms.
W. MACKAY has been favored with instructions
from Thos. A. Powell, Esq., to sell by public auction
at his Lismore Auction Rooms, on Saturday, 30th April,
1898, at 12 o’clock, the undermentioned valuable pro-
perties, all that piece or parcel of land in the parish of
Billenudge, county of Rous, being C.P. 81.21, taken up
by T. G. Hugh, portion No. 6, and containing 640 acres
(more or less), together with all improvements thereon..
All that piece also or parcel of land in the same parish
and county, and being C.P. 81.19, taken up by W. D.
Small, containing 200 acres. These properties adjoin the
holdings of Messrs. Gerald O’Connor, P. Nelson and
Russell Dowling, and are watered by Marshall’s and
Wilson’s Creeks. The soil is of good quality, and the
property is for absolute sale. The auctioneers will be
glad to show intending purchasers over the property, or
communicate any required information. Remember date
of sale is SATURDAY, 30th APRIL, at Noon.
E.
Missing Friends.
TAMES COMBES, late Longl. y, Tasmania,
” last heard Beechworth. Sisters wish hear
at once. Father dead.
ARTHUR HEWLETT, last heard of at Charle-
ville, Queensland. Your mother in Eng-
land very anxious. Do write at once.
“ The Elms,” Bridlington, Yorkshire.
Q AMUEL JEPP, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father’s will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to be sent to
HILL AND SCOTT,
194 Hereford Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
(Registered).
Typboii)
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fisher & Co’s
TYPHOIN.
is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Pive
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.'
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured Only by
Fisher & Company, Ma cSmSs!“ s
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Publications.
An Australian Poetess.
A TWILIGHT TEACHING:
And Other Poems.
By LA LA FISHER.
Crown Bvo. Cloth, 6s. nett.
**• This is the first book of poems published by a
Queensland woman, and although to some extent the
poems have a local coloring, there are many which treat
of other lands and other things. Mrs. Fisher's contribu-
tions, under the nom-de-guevre of “ Lala,” to the Sydney
Mail, Wide Bay News, and other Australian papers,
were received with great favor.
London : T. FISHER UNWIN, Paternoster
Square, E.C., England.
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictirigher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Confes-
sions
of a
The Life,
A d v e n!
tu res, and
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
-THE-
Most Useful Ointment in tlie World!
33a,r KT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproduetionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing-known toman equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller q uanti ty for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried-. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’— —
Buchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chrome
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The aotion of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering- from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy aotion of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —It is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’f WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur*
pusscd.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydnevr.
Haresfoot : “ In Melb. I find the stage-struck rampant,
and, amid this horde of youth, the girls are far the more
sensible in caving after a brief ‘Julietism.’ The young
fellows strutting about, under a supposed brand of the
Scot Inglis, are innumerable. Their current mistake is
overlooking the need of executive ability. The furniture
of the mind is comparatively a small thing beside the
endowments of stature, voice, form, and beauty required
in the good actor, a combination answering to the single
endowment of voice needed by the singer. The mental
inferiority of the physically-splendid Brooke has often
been pointed out. Compare him with an ardent Shake-
spearian like Hoskins, hampered by an extremely narrow
range of stage power. In Australia the stage-stricken
have not even the resources of England and America,
where managers use these fools, on the cheap, for a little
season, and cast them aside as sucked oranges.”
Melb. : “To-day I met a worthy little painter and
grainer who, 40 years ago, was ‘ Master Pole, the Austra-
lian Roscius,’ and acted Macbeth, at our Theatre Royal,
to the Lady Macbeth of Mrs. Vickery ; but Neild extin-
guished him. A lucky thing for Pole, saving him from
becoming a stick in old' age, or long before."
An In vercargill (M.L.) man was persuaded to go and see
the biograph pictures, but his disappointment was great,
as he expected to see something new. Said he : “ Mon,
ah ken weel hoo thaat’s din ; I sawt in Glesca thairty ’ear
back ; they bodies is what they ca’ marinetts ; just wee
dollies, an’ there’s yin o th’ actors ahint the blind pu’in’
the strengs."
A great “ eomique,” who infested these shores years
ago, fell out of work in due time, and disappeared. Some
alleged he was up-country wood-chopping, others said he
was shearing. He turned up six months later flush of
money, and said he had been to “ Amurrika ” “ knockin’
’em, gittin’ £5O a week at the Bella Union, me boys.” As
he “shouted” copiously every time, all the time, no-
body ventured to doubt, the tale. One day he had
rounded up a crowd : “ What’ll ye have, boys? it’s my
treat, dura'the expense.” The boys replied variously,
whisky, beer, &c. “ What are you having, Charley?”
“ Less-see, what’ll I hev, barkeep? I fergit the names o’
the drinks in this gosh-darn country.”
Per contra : “There have been many sneers about the
incompatibility of the thespic avocation with man and
wife. On the other hand, may not the going forth every
night to the show be more conducive to happiness than
the Darby and Joan of the fireside, where you get sick of
each other? Theatricals live so much in the glare that
the rifts in the matrimonial wicket come out as plainly as
those at the test-match. Yet where there is suitability
there is happiness. Especially in the variety business —
what a succession of loving couples I—for here the prob-
lem appears to be solved of giving employment to both,
instead of the familiar managerial ‘either, but not both.’
But, one fancies, it is perilous when the song-and-
dance people, who now so exude with affection behind
the scenes, get a bit older. The mischief is that the
woman ages so much more rapidly than the man. Busi-
ness—and the **ivvle—seem to urge him to ring the
changes.”
Ship’s Stewau.: “I abhor actors as passengers. Pro-
tected by much travel from sea-sickness, descending on
ships like locusts, gormandizing and quaffing as if for a
wager, ‘ jumping’ the seats of less wide-awake passengers,
striving tooth and nail for ‘ pick ’ berths, and enlivening
the voyage by falling out, chiding, fighting and playing
‘ not speaks’ with their own professional colleagues.”
There is a well-known Vic. singer whose name no
genuine native-born Australian can pronounce properly
at first try. Ida Osborne is the name. Idarosborne is
the way in which it is popularly pronounced. And not
without, reason either. No two vowels unconnected by a
consonant should I** allowed to come together in this fair
and sunny land.
The ushers at a cwtain Sydney theatre are exceedingly
well up in the art of removing rowdy persons, and, no
matter how innocent you may be, if o e of them requests
you to leave it is best to depart immediately. “Blue
me! they pass a bloke out quick and lively ’ere,” re-
marked a gentleman who had been “passed '*ut” for
merely denying that he had made a noise.
Editor Bulletin.— Wilson Barrett, “actor, author,
dramatist,” may have struck your reverential inter-
viewer as “a charming man of business,” but he cer-
tainly doesn’t strike your playgoing readers as a compe-
tent judge of his own theatrical work. One of his state-
ments is a staggerer. You report him to have said —“ I
dramatised Caine’s ‘ Manxman ’ according to my lights.
I make Philip seduce Kate ; not Kate seduce Philip, as
is the case in the novel. From my dramatic standpoint,
it would never do for the woman to seduce a man.”
Thus “author, actor, dramatist” Barrett —but how does
his play put the case ? In the first act we have Kate,
alone with her Philip, turning the conversation to the
subject of love. He asks, “ Why, what do you know of
love ? ” and she replies, “ More than you think,” or words
to that effect. Then she proceeds to speak con-
temptuously of Pete, because he is her “slave.” “A
woman loves her master," says innocent Miss
Kate —or words to that effect. And then, ere
Philip has offered an endearment, she rises from
her seat and flings her arms around the man’s
neck, with a soulful “O, Philip ! ” Which, from
the audience's dramatic standpoint, appears highly
seductive. In the second act we have Kate and Philip
discussing their al fresco amours, and she says, “ It was
all my fault—or nearly all”—or words to that effect.
The audience takes it for granted that Kate was the
leading partner in the first love transaction. They have
seen the girl volunteer the inaugural hug, and heard her
admit a 90 per cent., responsibility for the closer embrac-
ing which ensued. Mr. Barrett’s “lights” must surely
be deceptive. He merely thought he was making the
man seduce the woman. He did the thing that he never
intended to do, and has not yet discovered his mistake.
Or perhaps he is too much a man of business to remember
the details of “ The Manxman ” play, and, in that ease,
he should read up his subject before the next interviewer
comes along. As an author he suggests Percy Popjoy, of
whom Mr. Wagg said to Pendennis, “ The great fun is to
examine Popjoy about his own work, of which he doesn’t
know a word.”— Phlippant.
Melb. audiences were strangely dull to the epigrams
which bristle in the “Tree of Knowledge” dialogue.
Few points evoked a laugh. You see the smartness
wasn’t uttered by a recognised funny man; had Dot
Boucicault or Elton repeated the witticisms, were it only
“ Pass the mustard!” the house would have roared its
ribs out.
Adelaide School of Mines carries on its work in the
Exhibition Building, in the main hall of which Albani did
her singing. Instructions had been given beforehand
that the students were to make as little noise as possible;
but, as some of the members of the board of control had
loftily asked whether operations were to be interfered
with for the sake of a person who came round singing for
money, the students probably winked when th*e instruc-
tions were issued. Anyway, after the first concert, Albani
besought the chairman of the School’s council to stop the
row; and thenceforward the classes were suspended on
singing evenings. But a buzz of disapproval has followed
this step, for, somehow (partly, no doubt, through il-
liberal treatment of the choir which helped in the
oratorios), the Albani crowd didn’t achieve any great
popularity in the holy city.
Sophie Harris, the tall Adelaide girl who has made a
big name in burlesque in the States, attained the dignity
of having her shapely legs displayed in a recent Sketch.
And Sophie’s legs are useful as well as ornamental, for
she it was who, surprising a burglar in an Adelaide pub.
in dead of night, bounded from her couch and chased the
man of jemmies several blocks, eventually securing him
and giving him over to a blushful constable.
Paradis : “ Cartwright, off the stage, makes one think
of a larger edition of Thornton, and on it he is rather too
much like staccato Creswick. Though a little too loud
and aggressive, he is ever the sound, artistio actor, for
the taste of the hour.”
Friseur: “ Miss Beatrice Lamb looks infinitely better
off the stage than on. She is strangely amateurish in the
‘ make-up ’ of her comely face.
H.M. : “The humor of the lady pro. It was a yawn-
ful Sabbath after tea, and I sat on the balcony at my
hash-house, facing the room of a leading lady. She
was tall, divinely fair, and carried clusters' of glittering
jewellery on her soft white fingers. She looked as tired
as I felt, but at length an inspiration seemed to seize her.
Disappearing' for a moment, she returned with a thread
and a sixpence at the end of it. In the street
below the godly public had now begun to wend to the
neighboring church. Dangling the thread over the
balcony, the stage syren dropped the coin with a tinkle
upon the pavement just behind a holy passing-pedes-
trian. It was a study to mark the right-about turn and
anxious attention that the good folk displayed. A futile
search, and they departed feeling their pockets, appar-
ently afraid of having dropped the collection money.
The manoeuvre was successfully negotiated for some time,
until a contingent of the inevitable small boy, catching
wind of the proceedings, congregated below and boraked
the mirthful lady. She plaintively pleaded to be allowed
to continue the pastime in peace, but the city imps were
inexorable, and she temporarily retired. Stepping out
again, however, she slowly lowered the sixpence, arid, as
the eager crowd gathered underneath to rush for it, the
footlight fascinator deluged them with a jugful of cold
water, and finally retired. Altogether it was a moving
occasion ”
An old actor reminisces that, playing in Adelaide with
a big star years ago, it was noticeable that the latter, who
was doing Romeo, was drunk. At the passage “He jests
at scars who never felt a wound,” the great man lurched
against the balcony and nearly brought it and the fair
Juliet to the ground. Matters grew worse as the play
progressed, and it was excruciating to see Romeo, who
had taken the fatal drug and should have been dead, still
retaining on his face a beery leer. Impressive were the
appropriate words of Juliet. “What, here a cup closed
in my true lover’s hand? Poison I see hath been his un-
timely dnd.” Just there Romeo loudly hiccuped, and
Juliet almost collapsed. Romeo had that day assisted too
heartily at the christening of a new brewery.
Melb. : “ Dan Barry’s ‘ Kelly Gang ’ play is not quite so
good as journalist E. C. Martin’s, called ‘ Ostracised,’ and
acted at the old wooden Princess's while.the thing was
hot. Dan B. is richly up to date. He makes Ned Kelly
exclaim : ‘ What! a cannon and regiment of militia
brought up against four men ! Why, they had better get
the Federal Convention. Lord Salisbury ought to send
the whole Imperial army.’ But this goes perilously near
guying the part. Schiller makes Joan of Arc die from a
wound in battle. Similarly does Barry’s Ned expire,
after a tinned-salmon fashion, outside the Glenrowan
incinerated pub. The sentiments are neatly ladled out
to suit all tastes. For instance, after the murder of Ken-
nedy, Scanlan, and Lonergan, Byrne asks, ‘What remains
for us?” Ned: “The gallows. I will show the world
how an Australian native can die.” (Whereat a godly
explosion.) But when it comes to the last he has'a
George Barnwell tag, about the lilies and langours of vice,
and raptures and roses of virtue. Sherritt is murdered
by shots from all four of the gang, while two comic
troopers are in agonies under a bed. The fact was
that Sherritt opened the door to Byrne, who
shot him. Another constable was under the
bed. I attended the Parliamentary inquiry, pre-
sided over by ‘ Chief Baron ’ O’Hea. Supt. Hare
detailed the extraordinarj’ physical hardihood of
Sherritt. He saw Sherritt, though only in shirt-sleeves,
calmly go to sleep under a tree in pouring rain. Mrs.
Byrne, mother of the outlaw, had the keenness of a lynx.
She discovered that the police were in a particular dis-
trict only by seeing the sun shine upon a sardine-tin on a
hill half-a-mile off. Somebody ought to cooper up a
play out of the yellow-covered novel, ‘ Ned Kelly, the
Ironclad Bushranger, and Lola Montes,’ who is repre-
sented as his guardian angel.”
A Sydney church-organist was lately visited by a
woman who said she had a phenomenal voice, and was
consumed with ambition to sing an Ave Maria in church.
The sample she gave the musician on the spot was such
as to make him bow her out with all speed; but, next
Sunday evening, when he had played the congregation
out and was shutting up his organ, he was confronted by
the fair screecher with the offer of a sov. to let her fire
off a solo then and there in the empty church.
“ I have to kiss your husband in the next act. Do you
object ? ” “ Not if you don’t.”
A. E. Greenaway was, by last advices, doing the juvenile
lead in “ Shadows of a Great City ” through the English
provinces.
Melb. : “We have had ‘Lights o’ London,’ ‘Lost in
London,’ ‘ Alone in London,’ and what not—but never so
good a title as ‘ When London Sleeps.’ ”
T. H. Nott, the Melb. confectioner, who died the other
day, leaves a musical family. The eldest son has long
time played the organ at toney Christ Church, St. Kilda ;
the second son is a basso in Scots Church choir, and the
third was organist at St. Jude’s, Carlton, when a mere
boy. Since then he has played at Strong’s church and
several times in public. Quite young still, W.E. is already
a representative Australian master of the big instrument.
' The Chosen in Australia were not eager to claim Addie
Conyers as a sister, although her family name is Hyman.
There is nothing of the Jewess in Addie’s nose, voice, or
—feet.
“ What do people say of my wife ? ” “Pretty.” “Ah—
I must really have a look at her.”— Marriage of Conveni-
ence.
T.D. : “Children's concerts (id. admission) are upset-
ting the mental balance of my suburb. Any decent-sized
shed is availed of, and all the reciting and skirt-dancing
talent of the local schools, together with numerous
small-girl pianists, give services gratis. Proud parents
and admiring companions roll up in force, and the
youngster whose father owns the improvised concert-hall
gluts himself next day with fruit, ice-cream, and summer
drinks.”
Stage-struck Lord Rosslyn, who has taken to h’acting
under the name of James Erskine, gets slops from at least
one of the London weeklies. As follows—“ He evinced
no dramatio ability, for he entirely failed to portray the
type of man likely to charm the heroine, and seemed un-
acquainted with the rudiments of his art. By no means
fortunate in his voice, which is harsh, he is unconvincing,
and, though given an essentially aristocratic part, he has
a less well-bred air than the majority of the company.”
Shifter ; “ Grattan Riggs and Greville formed a mutual
admiration society. Greville’s word was always : ‘ Riggs
says ,’ and Grattan’s was: ‘ Greville thinks .’ ”
Librarian: “ Turning over my favorite vols. of
London Athenasum, I have just lighted on a most sym-
pathetic par, written in Sept., 1870, re the death of
that popular young French comedian and singer, M.
Marius, in battle, outside Metz. He is regretted as a
London favorite, with a fine career before him. Somehow
Marius managed to go on with it. In the opera of
* Madame Favart,’ he fascinated Florence St. John, a
humdrum lawyer’s wife. How they used to make love
in the piece, when Marius came up through the trap!
They played in Divorce, off the stage, not only once, but
twice. That substantial ghost, Marius, came up in court
so beaming, with the freshly-blown rose in his button-
hole. But Metz came at last. Gone for ever this time.”
An English woman-paper refers to a certain singer as
being proficient, amongst others, in the Swiss language !
Reminds one of the old story of the man who shouted
loudly in Austrian for assistance.
No manager is a hero to his ballet.
“ I have too good a conceit of myself to think any man
who admires me a fool.”— Actress.
“ If our jewels could only speak 1 ” — Mdlle. Mars.
A certain minor theatrical manager of the malaprop
species was scornful, the other day, at the expense of an
actor who didn’t know a magnolia flower by name when
he saw it on a dinner-table. “Everybody in the pur-
feshun,” remarked the manager, “ ought to remember
the name. Have you never heard of—er—Shakespeare’s
‘ Magnolia and Galatea ’ ? ”
V. : “ The reason why tungstate, or other chemical, is
not used to make ballet dresses flame-proof, is that it
takes off the snowy gloss, gives a dead color. It is not
managers who oppose it, but the public, and the insuper-
able objection is that of the dancers themselves.”
_ Marchesi, the world-renowned song-mistress, has pub-
lished her life-story. Her career is an interesting example
of an unconscious choice of the better part. Born in Ger-
many 72 years ago, she early developed a voice, but gave
up a stage-career to please her parents. Had she shone
as a vocal star, she would now be a has-been—the
memory of a “ voice, and nothing more whereas, after
half-a-century of teaching singing, she is still easily first
in her power of imparting “ do, ra, mi.” Her method is
avowedly formed on Garcia’s, who had original ideas on
training the female voice. In her list of famous pupils
are included Calv 6, lima de Murska, Antoinette Sterling,
and Melba. The Marchesi method is the hall-mark of
success. She tells an interesting yarn of a mild wrangle
she had with Wagner, who held that the vocalist must
yield to the composer, while the lady’s theory is that the
music was made for the singer and riot the singer for the
music. “ Wagner remained true to his principle, and so,
alas! many voices have been ruined through his music. ’
Ada (Jrossley, Frances Saville, Lilian Devlin, and Nellie
Rowe are, after Melba, Madame’s front-rank Australian
pupils.


TRY
iP
T
/\gents Ho
L\^
GO
0 'Rate Tob ac c oC°
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
I
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
PIANOS in
Tfje ai)d Largest MOSic WareboGS?
IM AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S, o “ rB *“K*
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
m
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Lale Huiirs, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK. - I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— ( From the late Rev. J. W. Neil , Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ' FRUIT
SALT ’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now lam RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford."
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine etch Bottle , and see CAPSULE is marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.'
Without it, you have been itnposed on by a WOR TU L ESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
“ The Prettiest Easter jjhoiu in Sydney.”
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
G-old Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
STREET
KING
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (Midsize) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s.
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTHERHAM S. 70s, 80s, 100 s.
Gent’s Solid Gold Hunters.
JS s .£? Ms, £lO, £l2 los, £l5.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Hunters.
£Blos, £s, £4, £5, £7lo*, £lO.
Ladies’ Silver Hunters.
25*. ,30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of
Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals,-455, 50s, 60s
9c., 13'6 pair;
15c., 27/6 pair.
20 other Pat-
terns from 10/6
pair.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, JE2 ss,
£3, £i.
9ct., 23/6pair; 15c.,37,6pair
Silver, 5j- pair.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6tl; 9c., 13s 6d.
New Gold' Scroll Brooch, 9s.
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. „ ~ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER „ 7s Od'lOs, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. ~ „ 110 s, 130 s, 1609.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Piee.
18c, Marquise.
Set With lit Diamonds
and J J&sftypjr Sapphire,
Emerald <sw Tonjtjo'i se
centre, £4s 4s.
Plain
Gold.
7s 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d.
Bird
Brooches.
Post Pree.
15c.
Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21s.
Diamond, 85s.
NOTE OUR Only Australian Address^
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PIPING THE PPAISES
PATTISONS’ LIMITED
LEITH and LONDON.
R
1
m
«. '•x
Branch Office :
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PATTISOINS’
Morning Dew Whisky
The resignation of Macdonald-Cameron —
the valorous Highlander who proposed to popu-
larise the kilt in Australia —from the Deputy-
Mastership of Sydney Mint, and the elevation
of Mr. E. H. Yon Arnheim to the post, look
like the first fruits of the visit to these shores
of Messrs. Rigg and Thompson, as representa-
tives of the London Mint authorities. Some six
months ago these officers arrived, commissioned
to visit the Mints in existence in the various pro-
vinces and to examine claims for further estab-
lishments. Several changes have been recom-
mended in Mint-management in Melbourne, espe-
cially as regards the safeguarding of bullion. Mr.
Arnheim makes the third Deputy-Master of
Sydney Mint, Mr. Ward, the first D.M., having
held the position for a couple of workin life-
times.


Tl?eS6ffi?ldCase.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-at., Sydney.
Secrets of Sftcccss.
Poor Stoddart’s “got the needle
’Cos a win he didn't see;
How different it might ha’ been
Had they trained on PI LLP TEA..
We hope that soon he may regain
His usual good hnmour;
But the Secret of Our Roys’ Success
Is FODAH and QPANUMA.
Drink “BILLY” TEA
Eat GRANUMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY/CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
pT Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BUQH STREET, BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tillett says the propertied woman would
easily obtain a vote in England if the other
women consented.
S.A. Minister Holder’s ambition is to
secure the post of Treasurer to the Australian
Federal Government.
S.A. Labor-members decline to follow
Kingston’s Federation lead, and ADVERTiSER-editor
Bonython also stands out.
Queensland Attorney - General Byrnes,
who is reaching out a comprehensive claw for the
Premiership, has already had seven years and
nine months of office without a break.
The Freetrade party of N.S. Wales has
not one resident henchman to open a knighted
political mouth. The Protectionists have Abbott,
W. P. Manning, Dibbs and Lackey. Alas !
Q. Labor (or, rather, Farmers’) member
Daniels prophesies that neither Dickson (Premier-
designate) nor A ttorney-General Byrnes will get a
following; and that Labor and the Opposition
will combine and sweep the polls.
A CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS.
Q. Labor-member Jackson : “ Dawson
admires Byrnes, Glassey admires Tozer, Hoolan
admires Philp, and I admire Dickson.” What
Tozer, and Byrnes, and Philp, and Dickson
think of their sycophants everyone seems to know
but themselves.
Twenty-nine more Japs, (four women)
landed at Thursday Island, March 30. The Tozer-
Nelson lie about diplomatic stoppage of Jap. im-
migration is wearing very thin. Nothing but hot-
and-strong legislation will do the job—and Q.
white legislators are black inside.
Charles Morris Russell Dumas, a native of
Sydney and proprietor of the local paper, is the
Liberal and Kingstonian candidate for Agent-
General Cockburn’s seat at Mt. Barker (S.A.).
Dumas was Cockburn’s chief supporter when he
was first elected for Mt. Barker in ’B4.
It is no secret that a vote of want of confi-
dence in the N.S.W. Ministry, on the ground
that it continued to include Minister Carruthers,
was to be proposed at the opening of Parliament.
And under the circumstances (as any stick does
to beat a dog with) it might have been carried.
What the absence of compulsory education
has done for Tasmanian Democracy. Of twenty
Hobart wharf-laborers who met to form a union
the other day, only nine could read and write!
Three others could read, but had never learned to
write. Not a man of the score was over thirty-
five years of age.
Richard Butler, the new Education
Minister of the Kingston (S.A.) Govt., is a clever
but unreliable politician, and since entering the
Assembly in ’9O he has been on all sides of the
House. He is unpopular, and his promotion will
weaken the team, but he received a pledge of the
first vacancy when he became whip on the selec-
tion of O’Loughlin to fill dead Lands-Minister
Gillen’s place.
Commissioner Mathieson, in an elaborate
report, reckons that the Victorian railways may
lose £15,000 a year revenue through Federation—
he isn’t certain that they will lose even that.
Consequently the Age has given up talking about
“ the Railway Ruin” as a reason why Victoria
should stand out, and its howl, at time of writing,
is about the alleged unworkableness of the dead-
locks proviso.
The Age gave a full column to Ben Tillett’s
recent anti-Federation lecture. Any ambitious
person willing to rave at large in condemnation of
the Constitution Bill is sure of Syme’s blessing
and long reports; meanwhile, the Age leading-
columns are silent on the subject of Federation.
David has concluded that the infant Bill is not
likely to die of exposure, so he is trying the effect
of judicious neglect.
The Bulletin hears from an apparently
reliable source that in a recent political contro-
versy from the Conservative Leg. Council point of
view, waged in the columns of Melb. Argus
and supposed to show the trend and force
of public opinion in a certain direction, twenty of
the letters, out of a total of less than thirty, were
written by one man, and that man a clever paid
organiser of the Tory Party.
That fallen Cold-tea crank, G-. D. Clark,
writes to the papers to state that the Federal
Constitution will “ place the entire government of
Australia in the hands of lawyers, landowners,
and commercial men.” But poor Clark’s drink-
statistics have so wrecked his reputation that
nowadays, when he cackles wildly to show that
he has laid another great inaccuracy, the public
only shoos him off the premises.
Mahan, junior : “ Australia has to create a
navy, on the example of the United States. We
don’t want a big army. Twenty thousand does
for the U.S., and ten thousand or so will be an
ample Federal establishment, with militia. But
we must be a maritime nation. Let us undertake
the education of sailors. Peace-loving as we may
be, a smart Australian national squadron, of about
Sen ships, is needed to safeguard our coasts.”
The Federalist (?) Salomons, Q.C., con-
demns all schemes that do not recognise the Senate
as paramount. Right of taxation a sine qua non.
Sydney Daily Telegraph won’t hear of a policy
that permits the Upper House to reject a money
bill. Labor-party won’t have a Second Chamber
at all. Problem : When and how are we to have
a scheme that will reconcile the views of even two
of these sections of “ ardent Federationists? ”
Are the N.S.W. “prudent Federation-
ists” who stumped the country a few months
back all dead ? When the present readers
of Sydney D.T. remember the merciless
criticisms on L. F. Heydon, Geoffrey Eagar,
Nugent Robertson, &e., in which their journal
delighted some few months back, how they must
marvel at its sudden conversion to the “ prudent ”
view of things ! Barton, 98,000 ; Robertson, 2000!
Brisbane’s two influential dailies—Courier
and Telegraph—are in a painful state of anxiety
over the impending political crisis. Neither has
the courage to strike out for anybody or anything.
The yellow-pup Telegraph won’t swallow R.C.
Byrnes, yet cannot take Dickson neat; and the
Courier is simply waiting to see which way the
kangaroo jumps. Those mighty moulders of pub-
lic opinion will doubtless pour out oracular homi-
lies when everything is settled.
Stated on good authority that Van Dobson
is about to proceed against the Braddon Govern-
ment for having, by the negligence of its servants
(a prison-gang warder on Mt. Wellington is alleged
to have set the blaze agoing), caused the recent
destructive bush fire whereby Dobson’s mountain
chalet was demolished. If the suit is successful,
the “ responsibility of the State” will be converted
into a bogie, big enough to block any socialistic
legislation in the Isle of Dreams, for at least a
generation.
S.A. Federation campaign looked like
being a dull affair indeed, until it was announced
that Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C., intended to stump
the country against the Constitution Bill. Ward
is a peripatetic politician, with long hair and a
thick voice, and, when wound up, keeps going
like a musical-box. Ebenezer, who has provided
some of the stormiest scenes in S.A. Legislature,
can be relied upon to supply the humor of the cam-
paign, although he lias no more sense of fun than
a stone image.
Quite a large number of highly respectable
papers have risen to state that, owing to the
little scuffle which took place in Kalgoorlie, Capi-
tal will never again feel safe in Westralia, and is
going to depart from the country immediately.
But if the capital that is sunk in the half-dozen
good mines goes it must leave the mines behind it.
And the other capital is only represented by wild-
cat in a fearful state of decomposition, and any
attempt to disturb the decayed animal would be
worse than sewer-gas.
A point that illustrates the fatuousness of
Jake Garrard’s connection with the costly atmo-
spheric-gas hoax is that in his capacity as Minister
for Education he is in official touch with two re-
cognised scientific authorities on illumination—
viz., Prof. Warren, of Sydney University, and
Mr. Bruce, lecturer on sanitary engineering at
Sydney Technical College. A word to either of
these experts would in all probability have led to
Jacob’s disillusionment before the smart Yankees
had got away with the swag.
Dr. Cockburn, who resigns from the King-
ston Govt, to become S.A. Agent-General, will
find it hard to follow Playford, and Kingston
could hardly have found a man less fitted for the
billet. Cockburn has never been a business man ;
he is a long-haired dreamer with a lofty scorn for
details, and made the great mistake of his life
when he originally surrendered a splendid country
medical practice for the uncertainties and disap-
pointments of politics. S.A. General-Agency is
no longer a diplomatic billet; the occupant has to
hustle around and dispose of consignments of wine
and apples, and “bustle’’the latest shipment of
f rapes before they become mildewed. This suited
’layford, who was born on and still owns a
potato-patch.
The most unpopular Minister in Banana-
land Cabinet is , undoubtedly that caustic
cynic, D. H. Dalrymple. Careless-minded
and utterly ignorant of the affairs of
his department, he dawdles out his
happy thousand-per-annum exist-
ence. The Bananaland Tory
Ministry hates the very
name of popular educa-
tion, and so it ap-
points Dalrymple
MinisterofPub-
lic Instruc-
tion. See ?
THE CAULFIELD CUP.
BELATED HOBBY: “ It is I, dear. Jusht bee'll to
mosht int’reshting free lecshure.”
ANXIOUS WIFE: “I know. ‘I and Alcohol.’
Come inside and have another.”
The Bills of the last session of N.S.W.
Parliament illustrate the relative gravitation of
the two Houses to public and private weal. Out
of 116 Bills introduced in the Assembly 102 were
public, while out of 32 Bills introduced in the
Council 13 were for private objects.
The Adelaide Labor M.P.—an ex-con-
stable, by the way—who was fined at the police-
court, in the head polling-place of his district, for
taking too much liquor, early this month, would
hold a very prominent position but for his failing.
He is clever, well-read, solidly fluent of speech,
and full of human kindness; and is always listened
to with attention in the Assembly.
A MELBOURNE CHARACTER.
Sydney D.T. is fighting the Convention
Bill with all its hands, feet, and teeth. On the
principle that no newspaper ever publishes a letter
that it doesn’t want, it prints an epistle from
“Progress” pointing out that it is proposed to
call the Federation the Australian Commonwealth
and that —
About 250 years ago a bloodthirsty ruffian, by name
Oliver Cromwell, after having planned and brought
about the murder of Charles 1., created in England that
which is known in history as the Commonwealth. The
amount of misery and bloodshed he was then guilty of
is well known to everybody in Australia who has had any
schooling at all. At the present time Australia and Tas-
mania are endeavouring to establish a grand Federation,
or, in other words, to build up a united nation out of five
colonies. Who first used the odious word “Common-
wealth” in connection with this splendid undertaking ?
Well, it was old man Parkes who chose “Com-
monwealth ” as a title.
No wonder “the great majority” of N.S.
Wales M’sP. hate Federation. For them it mean*
joining the still greater major-
ity. For them it practically
spells Obscurity, Extinction,
Now, they reign in Hell; then,
if permitted to live at all, they
would have to serve on the
door-mat or in the fowl-house.
The institution of Federation
would mean the sudden pouring
of kerosene over a whole brood
of political bugs. Fifteen out
of every twenty members of
Assembly are pitiable objects
which have crawled and re-
crawled into Parliament on
their bellies through lodge-
rooms, and town councils, and
sectarian organisations, and
other paltry and depraving
avenues —and by begging for
billets and roads-and-bridges.
Under Federation they would
be relegated to their true posi-
tions as lodge tylers and aider-
men of the deepest dye. Men
of brains big enough to have
achieved a national reputation
will then attend to the affairs
of Australia, while the brood
of King Cabbage - tree and
General Geebung will find suit-
able occupation in seeing, as
it were, that dead cats are not
allowed to remain over-long in
the street gutters.
N. : “ Why did not the federal
Convention adopt a National Flag? Say
the Southern Cross of the Eureka Stockade.”
But maybe it’s time enough to get the Flag
when we get the Nation.
N.S.W. Labor-member Hughes alleges
that the Federation party is “ praying for a war ”
to scare the Australian people into accepting the
Constitution without question. And the Pro-
vincial party, on the other hand, is praying for
cholera, and hydrophobia, and plague, and the
burning-down of Sydney and Melbourne, and the
death of the Federal leaders through hydatids
and leprosy, in order to scare people off
Federation. The Bulletin only mentions these
trifles to show that it could be quite as irrelevant
a liar as anybody else if it really wanted to.
The Kalgoorlie men who aimed the over-
ripe egg at Premier Forrest, have had their
reward. Not only has the illegal 10ft. minimum
been withdrawn, but the four imprisoned miners
have been released. They weren’t formally par-
doned, or their sentences commuted ; the Kal-
goorlie magistrate who put them in gaol simply
signed an order that they were to be fired out of
gaol again, and, in the off-hand W.A. fashion,
they were fired out accordingly. Westralian jus-
tice seems to require only two printed forms : one
reading “ put this man in,” and the other “ heave
this man out.” These seem to constitute its entire
stationery.
“ All day the smut-laden rain had fallen, ”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ and with night the snow came steadily down,
but in Fleet-street, long after midnight, the crowds
stood ankle-deep in the slush, cheering each gain
of a Council seat to the Progressive party. ’Twas
a great Unionist campaign, and they had meant
to capture London and split it up into so many
weak and straggling, easily-intimidated vestries.
Salisbury and Chamberlain had decided politics
were to be the party-ticket, and about 40 barristers
and nine peers went forth to battle for ground-rents
and general boodle. John Burns, the ‘ Black
Blister,’ was to be ousted hard and heavily, and
Earl Denbigh was selected as the * knock-outer.’
But John beat him by 1500 votes, and doubled his
own majority of the previous election. Thirteen
seats gain to the Progressives, with four aider-
men, and 10 more to be elected by the Council
should mean a comfortable working-majority of
27 —and now for a rate on the .£16,000,600 of
London ground-rents that at present pay nix ! ”
That disastrous mining tipster, the Sydney
Sunday Times, reports:—
The lowest estimate of Customs duties whieli will be
payable by residents of N.S.W. under the proposed Com-
monwealth will be 30s. per head. Thus the head of a
family consisting of himself, wife, and, say, five children
would have to pay a total, in addition to the present taxa-
tion, of ±lO 10s annually towards the cost of the Federal
Government, and very probably considerably more.
The melancholy tipster here puts up a beautiful
record for sheer, hog-like ignorance, or misrepre-
sentation, or something. In the first place,
present N.S.W. Customs taxation is about £1 per
head, therefore 30s per head would only mean £3
10s per annum, in addition to the present taxation ,
on the family of seven. And the £lO 10s per head,
as the Sunday rag ought to be fully aware, doesn’t
go towards the cost of the Federal Government, for
£7 17s 6d of it goes to the State Treasury. The
chief weapon of the N.S.W. parochial crowd
seems to consist in pointing out the imaginary
horrors in the Constitution, and asking the people
to consider the dreadful consequences of the thing
that isn’t there.


A REFLECTION
fl
THERE ARE MM SORTS
of BOOTS and SHOES; but thos e
that PIT, that WEAR, that are
MADE right and SOLD right, are
what a discerning public want. We
have ’em. The block at side repre-
sents a double view (all for one price)
of our inimitable “J.H.” Brand of
Footwc every pair of which carries
A Guarantee for Wear.
John Hunter $ S° n > [M.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
George and Market Streets, Sydney;
and 75 BRANCHES
in the City, Suburbs and Towns
in New South Wales.
X
P,
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
■ CASH -
R€<SIST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
I?hey are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130 000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
See our Exhibit in Main Pavilion at the Show.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Dunlop Tyres only Genuine when they bear this
Trade Marie.
PUBLIC
BOTICE.
Owing to numerous enquiries being made at our Depots as to
whether our 12 months’ guarantee covers American or Canadian
made Dunlops,
x s
We beg to again inform the
public that our guarantee applies only
to Australian and English made
which
can be
easily
distinguished,
as they
bear this
First in 1888.
Registered
Trade Mark.
Foremost ever since,
The Qunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Only guaranteed when they bear this Trade Mark.
Cartwright’s return brings back memories of pansy-
eyed Olga Nethersole. That dark-eyed beauty had two
assets—tear-dim eyes and deeply-heaving breast. Leaning
forward, the sidelights would scintillate in her liquid-
brown orbs, and an imperceptible forward movement of
the olive shoulders, with gaspy inhalation, would alter-
nately throw the chest into light or shadow. Then, in
the hush, some woman’s tremulous sniff would start
everybody rubbing for “ a bit of dust that got in their
eye.” It was all in her shoulders, though, for she was
scarcely 19 at the time. Her suppression suggested more
than ever her expression could —and that is the truest
Art. Hers was the “silent system,” and, from her latest
successes, it seems that the silence has proved golden.
“Scenic-artist Walter Spong,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “ has had two pictures accepted
by the Royal Institute of Water Colors—the R.A. of clean
paint. Both are Egyptian scenes, studies for which W.S.
made when coming from ‘ out thar.’ Pinero’s crinoline
still contains Hilda at the ‘ Court,’ and is likely to for a
long time, as ‘ Trelawny of the Wells’ has become
fashionable, and the tiny auditorium is nightly packed.”
London critics call Mark Hambourg to account for the
lack of tenderness and depth of feeling in his piano touch.
Australians found him mightily improved in this respect
between the times of his two visits here, and Mark is still
very young. His weakness just now is sport—he adores
Clem Hill and Bill Martin. As soon as his soul begins to
soar girlward Mark’s instrumental work will range from
the dreamy softness of reciprocated affection to the pas-
sionate punch of unholy desire. Give him time. Mark is
precocious only in musical talent.
S.S.: “ The Bulletin correspondent who expressed su t
prise when the people at the Princess’s laughed at Lauri’s
affected discomfort whilst sitting in a kilt, has evidently
not been patronising burlesques and variety shows
recently, or he would know that it is the season for that
kind of joke. The joke referring to underlinen has gone
out, and the child-bed joke is resting ; it is the joke on
the ‘aft’ that now knocks pit, stalls,and circle. Witness'
Coleman, who was shot in the ‘you-know-where’; the
kilt comedy, and little Ada Reeve warbling of sliding
down the stairs, and a nail scratching her ‘ where it didn’t
ought.’ ‘ Where’s the humor in these indecencies ?’asks
‘ Mac.’ It is because they are supposed to he indecencies
that they are considered funny. They would not be the
least bit comic to a naked Papuan, who had not come
under missionary influence. Society agrees to ignore the
existence of certain portions of the human form divine,
the comedian outrages the convention, and society,
acknowledging for the moment that it is a humbug, splits
its sides laughing. Society is for ever guffawing at its
own hypocrisies.”
“The Melb. cricket pictures of Stoddart’s team,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “have caught on
at the ‘ Alhambra,’ and the audience cheers lustily to see
Ranji and Hayward diffusing ‘ fourers ’ at the rate of
two a second. The snaps between balls appear to have
been left out; so the batsmen are never at rest and
Trumble suffers cruel treatment. Outside the hall,
though, cricket is stone dead, owing to the English ides
of March being so well tanned at Sydney.”
Melb. ; “The Bijou play, ‘The Tree of Knowledge,’
reminds me of a Sydney friend of mine The most estim-
able fellow ever I knew, but he fell into one indiscretion
through a mischief which befalls nearly all of us fora brief
period in life, that of possessing too much money. He
was in his shop, with his newly-made wife, when the
Woman came in. She had no legal or moral claim, and,
being one of the generous, merciful sort, she went away.
I believe he never saw her again. The innocent bride
asked ‘ Who’s that ? ’ ”
Dear Bulletin. — Re recent P.P. statement that the
Salvation Army was likely to buy Ballarat Academy of
Music, let me say that the Academy was bought the other
week for £6500 by a draper, a butcher, and a brewer, a
combination which has already been dubbed “Rags,
Bones, and Bottles.” — Vindkx.
Dear Bulletin. —By way of footnote to a query anent
Albani, you ask me whether it isn’t the “sin of tight-
lacing that finds all lady-vocalists out ? ” Perhaps ; but
one of the first things a singing teacher impresses upon a
promising pupil is the necessity for abjuring close-fitting
corsets; and, to judge by the matronly bloom of most
prominent songstresses over forty, the injunction is
generally obeyed. In the same way, the male singer
should banish all thoughts of Piccadilly collars.
T.D.
“ The Marriage of Convenience ” in London is preceded
by a farce entitled “ The Tarantula,” wherein Miss Beryl
Faber is leading lady.
The Bulletin is informed by a townsman of Durward
Lely that the tenor’s real name is James Durward Lyell.
G.B. ; “Kyrle Bellew left Melbourne in June, 1875, for
England, working his way home. He told me that, he
meant to go on the stage, and that he should make em
sit up. His father, the ‘ ladies’ parson,’ was Thackeray s
Rev. Honeyman, in ‘The Newcomes’—a good-looking,
meek man, with a plaintive, sad, soulful look, that used
to burst up the staylaces of his congregations.”
Haresfoot : “ Modern dramatists do not invent great
situations, but only stage those their predecessors were
afraid to use. How many have itched to bring on the
scene between Mrs. Tanqueray and Capt. Ardaile, her
step-daughter’s affianced ! When Pinero read to manager
Alexander, the showman protested : ‘ The public will
never stand that.’ ‘ Oh, yes, they will,’ replied Pinero.
He knew the public had grown up to it. So this parti-
cular situation is reproduced, with variations, by Cart-
wright and co. in the ‘ Tree of Knowledge.’ ”
T.D. : “ Recently, visiting male-vocalists have all fol-
lowed the rigid hirsute fashions of the profession. Ac-
cording to tradition, the tenor wears a moustaqhe of
light growth, whilst the basso must have the heaviest of
lip-adornment. Baritones used to let their beards grow,
but now they all clean-shave, and assume cupid-lips and
soul-piercing eyes. Latter-day baritones, seem to have
entirely supplanted the tenors in feminine regard.
After all, when you come to think of it, women are
beginning' to know a thing or two.
Sarah Berry, of the Albani quartette, would really be
one of the very best contraltos yet heard in Australia, but
for her stolidity and deficiency of expression—every note
of hers is pure music. But that is the common fault
among women with voices of the sympathetic contralto
quality. There are one or two contraltos in Sydney with
fame easily within their grasp if they could but let their
souls find freedom. But, then, contraltos are nearly all
very fat, and it is doubtful whether the very fat lady has
any Soul to speak of.
Hinemoa Hill, the newly-appointed conductor of Syd-
ney Liedertafel, threatens to introduce all sorts of inno-
vations. He complains of the unfortunate way in which
instruments of the bassoon and oboe type are neglected
by amateurs. The latter, however, wish to know of what
service these uncouth instruments would be on ordinary
occasions.
The Pleyel Chamber Concerts will shortly be revived
in Sydney. Stael will lead the attack, and Sydney Moss
will be sole pianist. The other performers will include
Vollmar, Hill, and Carter, so favorably known to the
musical world of the city. In acknowledgment of the
success of the last series, Pleyel Wolff and co., of Pans,
have sent out a splendid instrument to the promoters as a
reward for the advt. given to the firm.
Reported that a bevy of Jewesses, who are prominent
worshippers at Sydney Synagogue, are working up a sub-
stantial testimonial for presentation to the conductor of
the choir there. Herr Vollmar, the Dutch celloist who
trains the choir, is immensely popular with the woman-
kind of the Synagogue —though he does not presume
upon the glances thrown at him by frivolous girldom.
Snazelle writes that he is about to publish in London a
sixpennv book of his recitations which will include
Edmund Fisher’s “The Billiard Marker’s Yarn ” (“ by kind
permission of The Bulletin”). He has made the aforesaid
Yarn very popular all over the world, he says, and his
programmes have reminded the Universe at large that he
borrowed it from this journal. Snazzy otherwise speaks
of himself as a perambulating advt.. for the Sunny South.
One of the items in his monologue entertainment is
“ Ten minutes in peaceful Australia, ’ with limelight
views. For the Natio al Sunday League he has brought
Australian peacefulness under the notice of “ an aveiage
of 2000 people every Sunday since September 1; ” also, he
will shortly publish an illustrated volume of “ Tales of a
Traveller,” now appearing in Lloyd’s Newspaper at the
rate of three cols, per week. Snazelle, who talks of see-
ing us again, is evidently doing well.
A theatrical manager, now in Melbourne, states that he
always prefers to play in very moral townships when he
can find them; and invariably inquires into the ethical
status of a place at which he has never previously opened
before making his fixtures. The very worst he ever struck
was in a Goulburn district township, and a leading citizen,
condoling with him in a bar next morning, said : “You was
a fool to open ’ere, anyhow. I could a-told you it was no
go.” “ Why, how’s that ? ” asked the thespian, “ there’s
no competition, and there are a good many people in the
district.” “No competition!” squealed the leading
citizen. “ I tell you no theatrical show what comes here
can compete with Sloan’s paddock.” Sloan’s paddock was
the local lovers' camping-ground.
One of Sydney’s leading musicians puts his hair in curl
papers every night, and sometimes in the morning appears
in his “ crackers ” before his pupils.
Cockaigne : “I would like to ask what became of Mrs.
Charles Young, afterwards Mrs. Hermann Yezin. Is she
dead ? I don’t think so. But it must be nearly 20 years
since I saw a notice of her acting anything.”
Stated that a notorious stage amateur, now said to be
on her way to Australia, asked a Parisian theatrical
manager what terms he would give her to appear mid
nodings on but a few bracelets. The manager requested
her to call for examination. She did, and after a critical
inspection was offered a few francs to appear at end of
matinees to help empty the theatre rapidly in order to
facilitate the preparation for the evening performance.
“ Shakespeare is absent from his works like the Deity
from the Universe.”
Pasquin : “ Dan. Barry’s name is Atkins. He began
life as a junior reporter on a now-defunct Melb. evening
paper, after which be had a share in a little Melb. Sunday
rag called Gossip, which astounded the city with news of
the caving-in of Ballarat, and burial of 400 people. Dan
also wrote skits in newspapers of Hobart and Adelaide re
Russian bombardments of Adelaide. He began acting
with very small parts at Melb. Royal.”
Sidelight: “ The modesty of the ‘ wings ’ is something
for convents to copy. Stage etiquette requires that you
see nothing, hear nothing, and, above all, say nothing.
The ballerinas hear no rudeness, for there is none to hear.
Everything spells bread and butter. Once only did I
hear a remark from a super recruit, but he was promptly
squelched by his co-supers. One young and Don Juan-
esque stage-manager be-dears the girls and directs them
with curse or caress, but, as I said, he is young, and as
butcher, or baker, or bottle-merchant would probably be
that other thing. This only of the ‘ perfesh ’ at the
theatre. Outside—well, that is outside, but the ‘ wings ’
make them angels.”
Theorbo : “ About Nicolini. It was a matchmake of
Empress Eugenie, to couple Patti with the Marquis de
Caux, a decent little fellow, as the Tuileries and Biarritz
went in those days, and wealthy. Patti was to be kept
respectable, but he was oldish, and never congenial.
Presently Nicolini turned up, such a tenor as they used
to send to Australia in Lyster’s time, but Patti would
sing with no other. The Paris badauds said that, in
Gounod’s ‘ Romeo and Juliet,’ he kissed Patti 21 times
in the balcony scene, whereas the regulation number was
only five, showing an excess of 16. And such luscious
ones ! All Paris went to enjoy them, by deputy. Caux
squirmed and ‘ sacred,’ but without avail. Patti coolly
went and lived with Nicolini, though he was wedded and
familied, and they lived together 10 years ere they were
married. The R.C. church would never recognise the
marriage, which had to be done by some amiable, well-
paid Kinsman. Bui Patti had found her affinity, and was
devoted to Nicolini till death. Nicolini’s daughters lived
with them. When Nicolini was slowly fading away Patti
would always rush home, by special train if need be, to
Craig-y-Nos, after giving a London concert. In-
deed, it was only by his persuasion that she
would leave the room to which his illness confined
him. Caux had disappeared into cash-salved obscurity,
after a scandalous scene between him and Patti, in
St. Petersburg. Nicolini partly won his way to Patti's
love, or perhaps somewhat retained it, through her
stomach. He was a remarkably skilful cook, knowing all
her fads. Nor would he suffer her to talk on the days
when she was to sing. The feature of the evening was
the little supper, which he cooked with his own hands.
The suitable balance of fat was always the crucial thing.
Patti had eleven doctors for Nicolini during his last ill-
ness, including the most distinguished obtainable in
Europe.”
Albani finds the responsiveness of Australian audiences
positively inspiring, she says. Baritone Pauli, whose
encores are quite as loud as Madame’s in a general waj,
would probably make the same remark. And still there
remains the fact that two-thirds of the crowd at an
Albani concert are more or less disappointed, ana nean,
all of the “ inspiring ” uproar proceeds from the compara-
tively few people who have come prepared to enthuse
over everything.
Paradis : “ When I rode bareback, before the Prince of
Wales.”—Gag of the veteran equestrienne in “ v\ bile
London Sleeps.” A point in this play is that the curtain
comes down upon an audaciously absurd climax betoie
one person in the audience starts to move. It almost
seems like a joke at melodrama, in the guying spirit of
Lemaitre’s Robert Maeaire. The circus business of the
first act ts fresh and lively, done in an acceptable spirit of
burlesque, especially by O’Neill, Gourlay, North, Miss
Dearwyn, and Miss Leighford. Chalmers is versatile, a
most unctuous funny rogue in this show. Miss Eugenie
Duggan has common stage faults of pronunciation, in
giving one letter for another, both of vowels and conso-
nants. She is a nice little girl, but why does she say her
lover’s “ vooyce is mewsick to her soul ” V
Melb. : “ ‘ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ’on the board again. It
is inexplicable why the 80 nights’ run of this piece, at the
old wooden Melb. Princess’s, was the second longest Aus-
tralian run on record, the longest being ‘ Tambour Major,
100 nights, Melb. Opera House, with Pattie Laveme,
Nellie Stewart, Harwood, Mervin and Wallace. J- B.
Howe, familiar in Australia, relates, in his ‘ Autobiogra-
phy,’ how he acted in ‘ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ’ for a booming
12 months’ run in New York, but it ruined the manager.
This was a comedy-theatre, the habit*u6s were all broken
up, dispersed, and nothing could be got to follow on.
How about a “grand complimentary ” benefit to George
Titheradge, who will soon be leaving this couni ry in
search of an engagement ? The Bulletin has a notion
that either Melbourne or Sydney, or both cities, would
take kindly to a Titheradge testimonial performance at
advanced prices. Which manager speaks ?
“Begone Dull Care” Maccabe is contemplating a
journey abroad. The airy veteran’s health is not keeping-
pace with his spirits. Maccabe must by now be verging
on 80.
About high time that Albani gave up worrying “ God
Save the Queen ”on every possible occasion. At Adelaide
she got through that inane and wearisome dittv much to
the disappointment of the listeners who serenaded her
and expected something tangible in return. Had she
only stuffed the warblers with lager beer, or kissed the
ugliest duckling of the lot, some enthusiasm would have
resulted; but to think that for repayment she should
have pounded such a hideous chestnut as the Unnatural
Anathema argues a ghastly indifference to the feelings
of her auditors. Can the Albani really be laboring under
the hallucination that Australians do want to hear
Gorsavequeen ?
Last week, for probably the first time since New-
castle existed, a new play made its first Australian
appearance at that coaly city. The play in question was
the “ White Squadron,” a drama by the American, J. H.
Harkins, and dealing in a large and gory fashion with one
of the many Cuban insurrections. Every play has to be
tried on the dog somewhere, and MacMahon Brothers
tried this one on the coal-begrimed dog at Newcastle with
good results. Everything is more or less black at New-
castle, and the “ White Squadron,” with its gay banners
and the bright red blood it sheds promiscuously, probably
went well by force of contrast.
The coming theatrical sensation will be the trial of an
action shortly in one of the Australian provinces, in
which plaintiff (a manager) sues defendant (a much-
married squatter) to recover damages for the alleged
abduction of a burlesque beauty, who, he claims, was
under a professional engagement to him, the manager.
Haresfoot: Australian playgoers are mostly honest, uh
romantic bourgeois with no pasts. These past-y dramas
appeal to the idle, moneyed, melancholy, half-guinea
London stalls, in full dress and chokerdom, a glazed
whitey sepulchre of shirt-front covering the dead men’s
bones. Such wise fools see their own spectral selves in a
dramatic Rontgen, and drink dramatic absinthe.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
lIICTIU.It ItEIHICEO BATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERKAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next. SI. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
So uthern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Hank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
•James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ (SOIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EJTWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Cable Address —RIEMSEIL. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moueing & Neap, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clartee &; Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London cmd throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous-Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M,, General Manager.
USB
Spoopcr’s
ROYAL NAVY DRESSING
FOR
: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
1 OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
miuuuuiiiuuiuuuuiM
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER’ (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
ifoTiW}
i
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets : 30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 60, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, 6s. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 .. £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ITIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,712,058 14 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 37,941 510
Reserve' Liability of Share-
holders 760,000 0 0
2,805,781 i
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; Acting
Accountant: W. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Walks
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. W. Cunningham.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esc., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Mea’res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Instectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The„City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES'.
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Baymarket, Gosford (With agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TTL. : + f_ is noted for its Prompt
I IJ I & VO llj P« IJy and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Lire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, I Authorised-Capital .£500,000 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance. | Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. PlelboGro*.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
TUT SHEFFIELD and
iVACUee S SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5/-, 6/-, 7,6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 6/-, 6/6, B'6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, 4, g, f, 10/-, 12 6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3/6, 5/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors, Habit & Breeches Makers.
NEW SEASON’S GOODS
JUST OPENED.
IMBOUTEUS OF
Vickerman’s Serges.
LADIES At Reform Prices!
“pSST TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing:
David Braham and Co.,
73 & 76 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George & York Streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, April 16, 2 p.m.
-Buninyong, Tues., April 19, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., April 19, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tues., April 19, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, April 16, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, April 19, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 16, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
I.OWEST CURRENT FARES TO ATE PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm, Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auokland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street: Branoh Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
"IAESPATOH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
-L' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U- S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE AND COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, °% C ELBOURNE St '
Melbourne ore Testing Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
TO FAT PEOPL€.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to get, permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
POWDERS. A Reduction of 6lb. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, voung or old, by their use.
PRICE - , ss. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Road,
146 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, April 23.
S.S. Marloo(from Sydney)Tuesday,
April 26.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GKRALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel b.)
Saturday, April 23.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, April 26,
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
April 23.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
April 26.
Best <£• Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Gr. S. YUILL AND CO., I.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at. the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, 135 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, 155. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD'
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.'
jjfuddart, parker $ Go’s E' ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
> LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIEJL MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H) ( |luiraith, fl)‘Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney-
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.'
I CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l6 to £47 ss.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO..
Grenfoll-streeC, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Leave
Sydney,
Noon.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
April 20 April 26 April 30
May IS May 24 May 28
June 15 June 21 June 25
July 13'July 19 July 23
Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets.over the Cos Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGE LL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pijtt-street, Sydney


CIGARETTES.
“Royal Sweets’
..A . .
ROYAL SMOKE.
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
? the most deucioes sauce iis tub; wored.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
M 1 Yo\?D T ANNUA LLY. BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TILLOCK & CO., KENT and I.IVEHPOOE STREET'S, SIDNEY.
WHITE HE/ITHER
WHISKY,
THE PLACES
WN€R€ THIEVCS BRCAK THROUGH
A.nxrD STEAL
WITH IMPUNITY ARE BECOMING FEWER EVERY DAY, because
M‘DERMOTT’S BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The M‘DERMOTT BURGLAR & FIRE ALARM CO.,
CA STLEREAGrH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a (rood Wife; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S Bakifyg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SO CL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi) N-SoGl &Co.,rrsp.s.,
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Church-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.'S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n. v £l4 7S 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins=st.,
Melbourne. artl .
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
NOTICE TO TRA.VBLLBRS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all,
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are —
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates ;
takes pictures 2| x 1£ ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215.; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA,-with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and ~Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4}in. x 3',in. (ijp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 705." Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PLATES.— “VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d.; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
AT
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
66 KING STREET,
See Our Advertisement on Society Page.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
SYmTEY.
ADAMS’S MARBLE BAR,SYDNEY.
i
'mmM
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to be seen in -Australia.
The
Finest Paintings!
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
■"he Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant Marble
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manaoer.
The Smelting* Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
Mir.:'” v : . 7
K*
m
'
4 PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . ,
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ Products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST EURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakkmore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on. agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
■ n|_| WI uniAin I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
JUIIN IiUWtLL, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
-1
*
ITOOK OF NATURE
* * —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Gd ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs. Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, ete., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
Tiie Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
ROOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
j
W ' Jmt ~ :. ■
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Poi table Railway
Lo c om o fives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd
HFAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.


As Usual
“RED BIRDS’’
On Top.
The meat of the egg is beneath the shell, and the
farther you go into “ RED BIRD ” construction
the more strong and beautiful you will find them.
There’s a look of Beauty and Strength about
RED 81RD5....
Manufactured, Sold, and Guaranteed by the
GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
CYCLING SCHOOL-
Waverley Road, Woollahra.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH —
61 King Street, SYDNEY.
Factories—Brantford,
Canada.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
In the judging at Sydney Show soundness does
not carry due weight with the judges. . A horse to take a
prize in a show-ring should be sound in wind and limb.
A lady’s hack prize-taker was lame ; a stallion which re-
ceived a prize had bad hocks, a big knee, and bad splints ;
a trotting mare prize-taker had a hip knocked down,
which should have proved fatal to her show as a brood
mare ; and a pony with a shoe-boil as big as an orange
was placed before a large field of sound animals.
* * * *
The high jump at Sydney Agricultural Show
was too long-drawn, occupying the whole of Monday
afternoon ; and in future events of the sort it would be
well to start higher, as by the time the horses work up
to the crucial point they are pretty well played out. At
6ft. loin, there were three in it: Bland Holt’s Young
Highlander, J. J. Garvan’s ’Frisco, and W. Riddle’s
Streaklight. Six feet threw Highlander out; Streaklight
failed at 6ft. 2in.; which ’Frisco cleared in gallant style,
thus winning.
• * • *
As usual, the trotting competitions at Sydney
Agricultural Show proved the most exciting of the ring
events. Unfortunately, the handsome imported Tuxedo
showed temper and declined to make a start, which threw
the smart little pacer out of it. Great things were ex-
pected of Economy, a pacer from M.L. with a good
record, but whatever chance he had was discounted by
bad driving and a too-free use of the whip. Pickaninny
showed foot and a taking style, but when it came to a
trial of speed Knight's pair, Syren and Harold 8., fairly
outpaced the field in both harness and saddle trials, the
pair dividing honors. Syren finished first and Harold
second in harness, the places being reversed under saddle.
The suggestion here made that the events be open to
pacers and trotters was adopted. The only fault with the
trotting was that there was not enough of it, and writer
feels safe in saying that he is only voicing the public
sentiment in asking Mr. Webster to give more trotting
events in future exhibitions. However, it must be con-
fessed that owners of trotting sires are not as forward as
they might be with assistance in the way of prizes.
The favorites asserted themselves at the A.J.C.
meeting. That tough old warrior, Battalion, starting at
6 to 4 just managed to put down Mirella in the Autumn
Stakes, Charge a long-off third. Oxenham’s Syerla, at
6to 1 had an easy three-length win in the Doncaster,
Merlo’olas (12 to i) second, with Tramp at his girth.
Gozo’s moMMi is going up by leaps and bounds. In the St*
Leger Amberite (at 100 to 7 on) beat The Tola hollow.
The Chief (a Gozo gelding) beat a big field in the Flying
Handicap, for which he started at 12 to 1; Vedette, the
Maorilander, who ran second, was disqualified at the
scales W. R. Wilson’s Bobadil (10 to 9 on) annexed the
Champagne Stakes; Merloolas, the runner-up in the
Doncaster, started at 7 to 3 for Sydney Cup, and beat
Amberite (4. to 1) by three lengths, War God (25 to 1)
third. , * » *
Battalion, somehow, has not yet caught on with
backers. In the light of his Australian Cup performance
it was 10 to 1 on the old horse winning the Autumn
Stakes at Randwick last Saturday, but the “ books ” were
glad to take 6to 4 when the flag fell. Mirella, at sto 2
against, was comparatively a much hotter favorite,
although she hadn’t been good enough to beat Eleusive
(a non-staver) for the V.R.C. Oaks.
V * * * #
Syerla, who was overworked for the first half of
his two-year-old career, ran only once during the next 12
months or more.
Bv the triumphant Gozo, from Cerise and Blue,
a good many old punters must have backed Syerla’s
breeding. Nobody who remembers the winning rushes of
his game little dam can help fancying Syerla when Oxen-
ham is sweet on the chance.
• • * *
Donald Wallace took a little trick again on
Saturday (at Caulfield) with his useful mare, Moonlyong,
a daughter of Mentor. She started at 7 to 1, for there
are no followers of the good old magpie jacket nowadays,
but the sporting section of the public didn’t quite forget
to give Moonlyong a cheer.
By visiting any metropolitan training track in
Auslraliajustpriortoan important meeting, anyone versed
in racing matters can soon assure himself why so many
horses turn rogues, or “ welshes ” as ’tis termed at ’Ome.
The heart-breaking gallops against the watch, in which
the wretched nags are ridden out to the bitter end under
cruel punishment at the hands of ignorant and inex-
perienced stable lads, are enough to wreck the docility and
“manners” of the best behaved and stoutest animal
extant. The unnecessary severe preparation that so
many horses now undergo too often renders them “ duck-
hearted,” and their subsequent in-and-out running brings
odium to their owners when not really deserved.
* » * *
.£4OO was lost in bets on one hand in a poker-
machine in a Pitt-street pub. (Sydney), the other day.
* * * *
Last year Melbourne post-office collected £4OOO
for registration of letters addressed to “ Tattersall,” say-
ing nothing of commission on money-orders and postal
notes, postage on unregistered letters, and business done
at country offices. “ Tattersall ”is worth about £16,500
a year to the Tasmanian postal department.
* * * *
The Tas. father of the winner of one of Tatt.’s
big prizes hanged himself in a coach the other day. No-
thing much in that, except that there appears to be a
horsey flavor about it.
* * * * *
For years past, racing has been practically dead
at Broken Hill; but an autumn-meeting, with the Silver
City Cup as a centre-piece, and a Tattersall’s sweep as an
added attraction, has just given promise of a revival.
The winner turned up in an outsider —Fair Saxon, an
animal which, a few months before, had been picked up
in Adelaide for £l2. His owner had £3 on him !
* * * *
The Mikado of Japan, who has an agent in
Australia just now on the look-out for likely racehorses,
is a great patron of the turf, but allows no betting.
* * * *
Still another starting-machine—Tait’s—tried at
the Broken Hill Silver City Cup-meeting, and worked
without a flaw. The barrier is jerked out, away from the
horses, instead of rising perpendicularly.
* * * *
A Pitt-street, Sydney, sight on Saturday night
is the crowd yarning outside Tattersall’s early in the
evening. As the clock strikes seven they disappear like
so many rabbits in their burrows, and the street is
deserted. Seven o’clock is the hour the “shops” pay-
out. What a show if the police really meant business !
* » * *
When the Maori first took to racing, he dis-
dained the idea of his moke being allotted less weight
than others ; now he scrutinises a handicap as a sin-shifter
does the collection-plate, and yells oaths if given an
ounce too much. But some country-farmers, who only
race once a year, still think it a stain on their prad’s
character to be placed at the foot of the list. At Ainuri
(M.L.), the other day, one put up 2st. 121 b., another 3st.
121 b. overweight, to have a cut at the good ’uns on even
terms.
* * * *
The nefarious electric whip device has given
way to the electric pad in Murkan race riding. The pad
(imitation lead) holds an electric, battery and is so
arranged as to stimulate the speed of a slow ’un. Three
jocks at New Orleans were fined SOdols. each for being
possessed of the new speed-device.^
As compared with the wretched fees given to
Australian cross-country jocks, George Williamson, by
no means England's best rider, was engaged to ride
Timon in Liverpool Grand National, his remuneration
being fixed at £5OO, win or lose. Timon didn’t win the
Liverpool G.N., but the jock’s fee shows what money
must have been wageied on his mount.
* * * *
Takings at the matches of Stoddart’s team :
S.A., first match, £1200; Victoria (first), £2222 6s. 6d. ;
N.S.W. (first), £2730 12s. 4d. ; Newcastle, £200; Glen
Units, £l2O ; Brisbane (first), £750 ; Toowoomba, £l5O ;
Arniidale, £l5O ; first test, £2300 ; Bendigo, £250 ; second
test, £3340; Ballarat, £150; Stawell, £120; third test,
£2160 ; Hamilton, £l5O ; fourth test, £2282 ; N.S.W (re-
turn), £1450; University, £150; Brisbane, £135; fifth
test, £3250; Vic. (return), £662; S.A. (return), £414;
total, £24,836 ss. 4d. The cost of the tour was £12,000.
Some of the grounds took percentages, and about £9OOO
was left for division by the promoter*.
Each of the pro s of Stoddart’s team received
£3OO clear of all expenses, and they divided amongst
them £l5O as “talent money.” They were also given a
bonus of £25 apiece by Melb. C.O. The Sydney trustees
declined to join in this part of the business, as the pro’s
had done more than well on the trip. Also, Stoddart
gave them £25 each out of his Reaper-sweep win.
Richardson, in addition to his whack, got £lOO, for ser-
vices rendered during the previous tour. Another £5O
was allowed the team for “ tips” on the boat. No mem-
bers of an English Eleven were ever treated more hand-
somely. than were the pro’s of the late team. Per-
haps this was responsible for the sorry failure
of one or two of them. At ’Ome, they have
to rest content with beer and bread and cheese. But
they were not in Australia a fortnight before one or two
of their number began to criticise the various brands of
fizz with the air of men who had been suckled on it. On
one occasion, in Sydney, a pro. ordered two bottles to be
put on ice to celebrate his birthday, but in the evening
he countermanded the order by saying “We don’t want
none of that ’eer wine I hordered, as Ranji has come to
my reskew.” The dusky talker had sent round word to
Roberts’s that wine should be provided all round at his ex-
pense. An open-handed potentate is Ranji.
• * » *
In a test-match, some of the players were hang-
ing their tongues out for soda-and-champagne ! Bill
Howell (log.) “ They want to dig post-holes in the bush
to feel a thirst. Then water would be good enough for
’em.”
* «. * * *
Copy of a letter dated Dec., ’97, and received
by an Australian country resident:—“ Dear Sir, —I under-
stand the arrangements in connection with the English
cricketers are in your hands, and as you may be planning
out something for them to do on Monday and Tuesday
next I write to tell you that I have written to Mr. Sheri-
dan asking the whole of the team out here (a station) on
Monday principally to see the machine-shearing, and in
my letter I said details could be arranged after their
arrival (in the district). I have not yet had any reply
from Mr. Sheridan, but expect one this afternoon when I
send in for the evening mails. Of course I included him
in the invitation. I propose to bring the gentlemen out
here on Saturday or Sunday afternoon, whichever they
prefer and puttingthem up ; then to charter a four-horse
’bus on Monday morning to bring the players out, they to
bring their own provender. After doing the woolshed to
picnic on the creek under some of the willow trees when I
would supply them with liquor and cherries. They could
return to town in the evening.”
* * * *
Ranji’s final Review of Reviews article was
dictated by him while lying on the broad of his narrow
back on the Ormuz. He was dreadfully seasick between
Adelaide and Albany, and would readily have embraced
the worst barracker in Australia in return for a cure.
Ranji and Stoddart are strongly in favor of
Storer in connection with the Bannerman affair. In Ade-
laide Ranji said, “I only regret that when Bannerman
gave me out in the last test I did not W'alk round to him
and say, * You are a cheat.’ ” Had he done so, of course,
Bannerman would have driven him for about four there
and then. What a loss Ranji’s-discretion was to the
evening papers 1
* • * *
H. : “ Two rank absurdities to imagine :
Brassey’g return, and Ranji fetching out an eleven:”
For the past ten years umpire Jim Phillips’
travelling has averaged 33,000 miles yearly. He has car*
ried that rotunda hat of his 130,000 miles. Yet we don’t
hear whether he has approved of the Commonwealth Bill
or not.
» * * •
Writing in the Manchester Courier, McLaren
(quoted by S.M. Her aid) thus sums up the causes of the
Englishmen’s defeat at the hands of the Australians. He
wrote during the progress of the third test-match : —“ I
will try to explain how the Australians bowl out here.
Trumble bowls just outside the off stump a very good
length, and varies his pace. At the same time he can
send down a ball that goes away with his arm. That
means that the ball will go away a couple of inches, and
instead of it being played back to the bowler, up it goes
in the slips off the edge of his bat. M'Kibbin breaks
both ways, and puts in fast ones continually. Noble
disguises his slow ball very well, and he often
makes it swerve in the air. He is always trying
dodges. Jones relies on his great pace to get men out,
and he is wonderfully accurate for a fast bowler. Now
take our bowlers. Hearne, Hayward, Hirst and Richard-
son scarcely ever vary their pace. The first three never
do, but Richardson does put in a slow one occasionally,
and Briggs is always trying dodges. Ido not wish in any
way to run our bowlers down, but, when a batsman has
played two overs on a good wicket against them, he has
then nothing to fear, and appears to play all with the
greatest of ease, excepting Richardson and Briggs. Were
our bowlers at home, it would be a different matter, for
there they get assistance from the wicket, which they
never get here except when sticky, and, so far, we have
not had a wet wicket. The good bowler out here is the
man whose ball has a peculiar flight in the air, and who
is mixing up fast and slow, and always trying to break
the ball. This is an understood thing with every Aus-
tralian bowler.
“ In my humble opinion English bowlers of to-
day are below the standard. Let us take the last three
seasons in England, and what is the result! Century
after century is made because we have had batting
wickets, and during the last Australian tour in England,
when over a hundred centuries were scored, only three
were scored against Australian bowling. That takes a lot
of getting over. We throw so many fours at the bats-
men out here with our fast and medium pace bowlers.
The slow bowlers are the successful ones, and the Austra-
lians evidently believe in them, for Noble, M'Kibbin,
Trott and Trumble are all slower than Hayward. M‘Leod
is medium pace, and to me is the easiest of the lot, in
spite of his having got a wicket or two at Sydney in our
large score of 551. The Australians make us get our
fours; that is, we have to force for fours fre-
quently, by pulling and lifting over the fieldsmen’s
heads, whereas the runs came much easier off
our bowlers, and it is certainly not owing to
their batsmen being better than ours. I mentioned
before we started that we lacked variety in our bowling,
but my words were evidently not heard during the noise
in the railway-station, and I read next day that I thought
we were a strong side, especially in bowling. Take a
great bowler out of a team, and the side at once becomes
a moderate one. lam thinking of Peel, for with him in
this team we would be a fine side. He knew exactly how
to bowl out here, and the Australians, too, feared him.
Briggs, you will be glad to hear, is bowling as well as ever
he bowled in his life, and with by no means the best of
luck ; but that is only one bowler in form. Richardson
bowls like a demon, but has not been so destructive as
before. Hirst, too, has bowled in such a manner that one
can see had it been Yorkshire pitches instead of these
Australian billiard-tables, he would have got plenty of
wickets. Our batting has not been quite up to the mark
either, when one looks at the names on paper, and I for
one do not think we are at the present moment playing
" in our best form.”
* «P W •
The glorious uncertainty. L. Miller, who made
top-score (205) of Melb. University’s record-total (1094)
against Essendon, followed it up against Coburg with a
splendidly plebeian “duck.”
* * * *
The gods of the field are soon forgotten. A
shilling subscription started in Adelaide for Jones missed
the psychological moment, and realised less than a
sovereign. (P.S. —Jones was a bowler who had some suc-
cesses against a team of cricketers brought out by one
Ranjistodit.)
* * * *
R.: “There is a very young bowler in Bendigo
district who is just about a yard slower than Jones. He
has an unquestionable delivery and should be soon heard
of in big cricket. He has a cricket name —Harry, no re-
lation to 1 Jack ’ —and one of the Englishmen ‘sounded’
him about going ’Ome. He told the Britisher that he
intends to keep on ploughing, for ‘ he’s on the land,
young man.’ ”
• • * •
A leading cricketer prophesies that Noble,
unless he changes his style, will be no-balled for throwing
in England.
* • * •
There has been a lot of puerile paragraphing of
the “ record ” score (1094) made by Melb. University
against a suburban club-team; also photos, of the 11
heroes concerned in this “record” achievement were
published last week. But what more is a bloated batting
score than conclusive evidence that the bowling was
weak? Previously there had been a “record” put up
against a University eleven.
Owing to the high rate of scoring, the cricketing
world has of late years been talking of narrowing the bat
or widening the wickets. However, it does not appear as
if the back-blocks of Maoriland are in need of any such
assistance just yet. In a match, Canvastown v. Cullens-
ville, recently, the former eleven went down for 9, eight
players making blobs. Their opponents did better,
scoring 13 and nine blobs.
* » * *
In the third heat of the international mile at
Melb. Druids' Gala the quad captained by Browne came
into touch with a relieving quad, and a long-looked-for
“ cropper ” was the result. Bike-meeting multitudes had
often wondered what would happen to any eight-legged
crew who might get capsized whilst racing against time,
and here they had an object-lesson. The four men didn’t
come down with a sickening crash upon their respective
skulls. They shot sideways off the machine, and were
scraped, rather than smashed. Browne, who seemed to
come off worst of the lot, had to be borne off the track ;
the others gathered up their fragments of missing flesh
and retired dreamily.
* * w *
Hard-working Porta is the latest cyclist to pass
painfully under the doctor’s hands through over-training.
Also Kux, the Adelaide to Melbourne record-holder, fell
an easy victim to typhoid, from which he barely re-
covered ; and overlanding Coleman is still tottery. Not-
withstanding which the long-distance, rough-riding-
against-time idiocy continues, Virgin making a “ record”
from Broken Hill to Adelaide.
* * * *
Tom Relph, the well-known Swift wheelman,
bears a striking facial resemblance to Virgin, the over-
lander who cycled from Perth to Brisbane. There the re-
semblance ceases, for Tom, in bulk and speed, would
make three of the overlander.
* • * *
The Chow in his time plays many parts, but the
Chow as athlete is a new departure. The champion
sprinter in Normanton, however, is a Mongol, who has
successfully run down the flower of local cyclists. John
avers that he can “ lun mo’ betta as kangaloo,” and issues
a challenge to the whole of the Gulf country to come on
and beat him, if it can. The Celestial is pretty much in
evidence at race meetings and athletic gatherings in the
North, but only as a speculator and gambler; never
(with this exception) as a performer.
* * * »
Wrestling and boxing, which have had strong
supporters on the Westralian fields in R. B. Pell, Morgan
D’Arcy, and others, are there going the way they go
everywhere. Pearce’s Hall, the scene’ of most of the
“goes,” was rushed the other night after a three-fall
bout between Pearce and the Afghan Cumbo, which the
former won ; and the sport, which had been degenerating
for some time, is now declared to be no longer respectable.
* » * *
Coolgardie has its —ah—golf club, doncherknow.
* * * *
Australian-bred animals have made their mark
on American coursing as well as the turf. Some 15 years
ago a dog named King John—breeding unknown—was
imported from Australia to the States, and, after making
a name for himself, left numerous progeny to perpetuate
it. About three years ago, Mr. Lopez, well-known in Syd-
ney racing circles, took across a dog named Waratah, by
Livingstone out of Taxation, and a bitch, Wattle Bloom,
by Welcome Dan out of Judy, and the produce of the
pair are carrying all before them in California.
•*» . . •
Two S.A. rod-fishers recently had nearly 1J
hour’s struggle, in the river Glenelg, with a huge mulla-
way, which got away in the end, after towing the boat
over two miles, through the hook fairly sawing its way
through the jaw. The only glimpse obtained of the fish
showed it to be about 4ft. long, and probably 601 b. in
weight.
• * * *
A feature of the recent Wanganui (M.L.) re-
gatta was the Maori canoe races, 30 to 35 men in each
boat. Two ladies’ (white) crews finished desperately after
a j-mile go. The strokes were mother and daughter, the
latter’s four winning by a spurt, or a skirt, or something
of that sort.
• » * *
Foxes are plentiful in the S.B. of S. Australia ;
Tantanoola Council, in March, paid for 31 scalps, or just
one aday. - How the hair of the conventional British land-
owner would stand on end at such a fact!
• • • *
T.D.: “Never knew until the other day why
nearly every Chinese ‘merchant’s’ shop has a clock
which agrees virtually to the tick with its next-door
neighbor. Faro banks are drawn exactly to the hour,
and the Chow is extremely' punctilious in the matter of
half-a-minute. And these clocks indicate that some hun-
dreds of shops in Goulburn-street and elsewhere are
devoted exclusively to faro and fan-tan (the latter behind
pine-board partitions, of course); and yet the police
make a tremendous fuss if they raid one of the dens after
perhaps four or five months’ surveillance.”
• * * *
Gerald Quealey, the massive Irishman who is
assistant-registrar of mines at Bendigo, was a few years
back a reporter on the local Independent. Quealey on
one occasion incurred the wrath of the sub-editor, who
left a scathing note for him in the office-rack. Quealey’s
reply was deemed highly unsatisfactory, so the following
day, on receiving a second missive, the big bhoy opened
it, glanced at the nasty remarks it contained, and, turning
down a corner, wrote —“This correspondence must now
cease.” Quealey left the Independent owing to his
pugilistic ambitions. A middle-weight amateur com-
petition being projected at the local athletic club, he
entered, despite the “office” objection. The eventful
night came, and Quealey, after fighting three hard
nuggets, was left in the final with a local blacksmith.
The go was particularly “ willing,” and, as none of the
officials could distinguish the men at the end of the six
rounds, it was given a draw. N ixt day Quealey turned
up at the office all sticking-plaster and bruises, and the
sack followed. However, he soon landed in a much
better billet, and has since blessed the day that he was
pummelled to a pulp.
» * *
Sydney was to have seen a lacrosse boom in
July, S.A. and Vic. teams having decided last year to
make the trip this season. The Adelaideans have now
decided, however, to back Out of their engagement.
Lacrosseurs, unlike footballers, have to pay their own
way.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —That Russian scientist’s theory
that no amount of exercise will increase the muscular
development of a weak body is nonsense. Is every man
who does laborious work, such as wood-chopping or pick-
swinging, strong by nature ? Not a bit of it; yet compare
the physique of any hundred navvies of 22 or 23 with that
of a hundred clerks of the same age. As boys of 15 the
clerks had probably the advantage—you will see it every
time by comparison of public-school boys with the
children of poorer class, the result of better feeding, cloth-
ing and housing—but the exercise at a time when the
muscles are most modifiable tells every time. Take my
own case. As a child I was a delicate, pallid, consump-
tive-looking weed, but with swimming, football, rowing,
and so on, I have turned myself, though only sft. Bin. high,
into a 12st. 71b. man, and not much of it fat, though I
eat three big meals a day when four and five are not
obtainable. When I was twelve, three doctors prophesied
that I would not reach 14, 16, and 20 years respectively,
yet at 24 I get a first-class life at two different insurance
offices. Of such is the kingdom of exercise.— Bondings .
A certain very much-married enquiry man
was anxious to “get the strength” of his next
door neighbors. His little girl got it for him W
asking the neighbor’s little girl who the r-
Smith ” was that lodged with Mrs. Brown. She
reported to her enquiring father that Mister
Bi’own was travelling, and would be a long time
away, and that Mister Smith had, in the mean-
time, kindly consented to look after the house lor
Mrs. Brown, so that the burglars might not rob the
place whilst Mister Brown was away ! Wasn t it
kind ? ,
“ You’d be astonished, sir,” said the
undertaker, “what trouble we has with noses—
particular if they’re what you call good noses, i
remember once we was a-coffinin’ an old lady who
’ad a fine Roman nose, just like the Dook o Wel-
lington, sir, and w’en we come to screw her down
we found the coffin wasn’t deep enough. ‘ Never
mind, Jim,’ says Bob, ‘ we can’t ’elp it now ; pw
your knee on the lid.’ Well, we got ’er fixed all
right, and w T ere just leaving, w’en a woman comes
in screamin’ an’ sayin’ she must have one last look
at the dear departed. ‘Too late, mum, shes
screwed down,’ says Bob. ‘But I must, says
she. ‘You can’t,’ says he. She persisted
much and made such a row that in the end we ad
to give in. Bob was shakin’ as we undid the
screws, for it was as we expected —the fine Roman
nose was as flat as a pancake. ‘Dear me,’ says
the woman, ‘ I should never ’ave known her ; ow
altered !’ ‘Yes,’ says Bob, ‘Death’s a mighty
leveller, mum.’ and we ’ad ’er fixed up again in a
jiffy. The same thing ’appened another time, but
it was a pauper case. To prevent similar hacci-
dents we was in the ’abit of carryin’ sufficient
tools to set things right; so this time we gouged
a bit out of the under-side of the lid to make
room. TJnfortinately we left it too thin, and just
as we was puttin’ in the last screw, up pops the
Dook o’ Wellinton through the top. 4 Good
’eavens ! ’ says I, ‘ wot’s to be done now ? ’ ‘Oh,
never mind,’ says Bob, ‘ I’ll soon fix that.’ _ So he
up and takes a chisel and pares it off nice and
flush, and then rubs a bit of soot over the place.
‘ There,’ says he, ‘ it’ll never be noticed.’ And no
more it wasn’t ! ” said the undertaker cheerfully.
In the latter part of 1854 a consignment of
50,000 so vs. was sent from London to the Union
Bank of Australia in Melbourne ; the boxes, for
greater safety, being addressed to John Brown,
and not to the Bank. It so happened that the
advice despatched several weeks in advance of the
sovereigns was sent by one of the slow old tubs of
the time ; whereas the coin was forwarded by one
of the White Star clippers, with the consequence
that the gold arrived before John Brown or any-
body else in Melbourne knew anything about it.
When the clipper had discharged nearly all her
cargo, ten strong but ordinary-looking, boxes re-
mained still unclaimed, and the captain had no
small difficulty in prevailing upon one of the
lightermen to take them, as nobody knew any-
thing of “ John Brown,” and there was not only
the risk of losing the freight but of being
put to trouble otherwise over the matter. .Also,
it so happened that a short time previously
a quantity of slates had been imported m exactly
similar boxes. At Melbourne, as was expected,
there was no one to receive and pay freight for
the boxes, which were accordingly dumped con-
temptuously on the wharf in their supposed
character of “ slates ! ” and while they
were afterwards being shifted to make room for
other goods two of them fell off the wharf into the
Yarra without anybody bothering about them.
One morning, several weeks after the vessel that
brought out the gold had left port, several
bank people, accompanie4 by a number of con-
stables all evidently in a state of great excite-
ment, arrived at the wharf and anxiously inquired
about ten small boxes, eight of which were soon
discovered and removed, the other two being
fished out of the river at next low water. What
a gnashing of teeth there was amongst the wharf-
habitues when it transpired that each of the do-
spised boxes held .£5OOO in gold !-
TO A HOLIDAY GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What was it that God forgot
When you were created ?
You, the Lady of Shalott
With Pelagia mated ?
Pair you are, with wondrous eyes,
And you murmur lyric-wise ;
But there was—l know not what—
Something that the Lord forgot.
Was it that He had in view
Beings ultra-human,
So that He forgot that you
Ought to be a woman ?
But I know that more than laughter
Those bright lips have trembled after ;
Pretty, petulant, and hot—
None of these hath God forgot.
Some have called you over-bold
(Little has it hurt you),
Other girls, whose hands were cold
With the grip of virtue.
But your kisses are the flowers
Only of forgetful hours ;
Careless innocence was not
By the careless fates forgot.
You are such as Eve was framed
In the garden olden
When she wandered unashamed
Past the apples golden.
God forgot to give the devil
Power to make you look for evil;
Sight to see an ugly spot—
This it was that God forgot.
Vic.
THE PAGAN


IJTOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CKESCE.MT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee l'alace,’’ situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
Won’t Slump.
Our factory two months behind their orders. 400, men working
10 hours a day. No slump there. Good quality don’t go begging.
.... It’s cheapest in the end ....
Honest Cycles at Honest Prices «
That’s where we stand in “The Slump.”
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA. ““ST”
Australasian Branch : 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Stre t, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Main street in country town. Fishmonger
selling- fish to On Rat. Fishmonger : ‘ ‘ There you
are—3s. 9d. the lot.” Chow : “ All-li, I take ’em.
You dlinkee glog?” F. (expecting a nip):
“Yes; you bet.’’ Chow: “I thought so. Me
smell ’em on you. Good-day.” F. drives off,
muttering .
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
In a Cairns (N.Q.) eviction on St. Patrick’s
Day the evictors pulled down the house about the
unfortunate tenant’s ears, and burned the debris.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
ryE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&ST Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
Genuine Greener G u rif£es
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers, and bear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
—proofs positive of Quality and Workmanship. Prices
from 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requirements. Address your enquiries to —
W. W. GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to
C. W. BUCKLAND, Vic. Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elstem-
wick, Melbourne.
d~\ UIBELF’S Fluid Disinfectant exterminates
Bugs, Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish & Fevers
“DOWKXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
tyolf American High Jrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of mosb graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
(t
MACK LIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
--2.
mmm
m
Hr,
at
V,
She was a Poster-Maiden,
With a wonderful Poster hat,
I was a — well, no matter,
We need not go into that.
I questioned the Poster-Maiden,
As Poster-people do,
“ Why do the Poster Races
No longer interest you?”
“ Becausesaid the Poster-
Maiden,
u The dollars are just a gift —
Simply a gift for Walne —
You know he rides a 1 Swift!
y
RIDE A.
For SPEEP
For STYLE
For STRENGTH
For SAFETY
These Machines are guaranteed to give Cyclists the most graceful and most
comfortable position possible, and they may be relied upon for long journeys on all
kinds of Australian roads. They are fitted with Dunlop Tyres, specially made by
the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company to meet Australian requirements.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Bundle-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers.
Warmambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
Prof. Marsh, of Yale College, U.S., has
declared that the average weight of the Japanese
brain is greater than that of any other race. And
brain-weight, loosely speaking, has three-fourths
of the say in the matter of brain-power. The
other fourth is said by hrsdn-quality —number and
character of convolutions and their concents.
With regard to Cardinal Moran’s theory re
De Quiros’ landing-place, it may be worthy of men-
tion that, many years ago, the remains of an old
Spanish ship could be seen on the shores of Pt.
Curtis. Colin Archer (of Fram building celebrity)
dug about it in search of treasure, but in vain.
Remains of an old stone forge, of two timber-lined
wells, and of some strange stone carvings in the
rocks were also to be seen at a date comparatively
recent. Also, about 50 years ago, some curious
old brass cannon with Spanish inscriptions of the
sixteenth century were found on the shores of the
same harbor, and afterwards removed. So, after
all, there may be something in Card. Moran’s
theory.
Thirty years ago, at Rockhampton, a man
bought into a public-house, and, as he immediately
became his own best customer, his more prudent
wife set about providing against the inevitable
smash. She made a prisoner of every pound-note
she could lay hands on, and, withdrawing the
bones from her stays, inserted her appropriations
into the space thus provided. This went on for a
year, and, as she wore the stays day-and-night all
the time, and was a fat and spacious woman, when
the bust-up came along she badly needed a change.
But when, in the privacy of a new home, she
ripped open her store-house, not half-a-dozen notes
were worth their face-value. The rest were pulp.
For the proper understanding of this yarn
it is necessary to know that at American hotels
celery is served at table with the green head on,
and that in America the generic name for all
sorts of insects, big and little, is “bug.” Well,
Rooney, who couldn’t read, arrived in New York
from very far out West for the first time, and sat
down at the hotel dinner-table. “ Oi’ll tek some
of that,” said he, pointing in an indefinite kind of
way with his big thumb to the first three or four
lines of the menu. The waiter sized up the situa-
tion, and brought Patrick some thin soup.
“Now,” sez Pat, pointing a bit further down the
bill, “ Oi’ll have some of this.” “ This ” happened
to be celery, and when the Rooney had devoured
a full head thereof, he proceeded to indicate a line
further up the bill-of-lading. His choice proved
to be a lobster ; he had never seen one before, and
didn’t like the look of it. “ Tek it away at wanst,”
said the Rooney, “ Oi dhrank yer hot wather, Oi
ait yer bokay, but Oi’m damned if Oi’ll ait yer
bhug.”
A Bananaland scientist wants to change
the name “barramundi”—by which the giant
perch of Centralia is known—to palmer, a term
used in Mackay district. The true barramundi is
found only in the Dawson and may be recognised
by a brown spot on each of its large scales. The
more common “barramundi,” or giant perch, is
found in the sea, in the Fitzroy and its tribu-
taries, also in fresh-water lagoons whither it is
sometimes’ borne by the floods and left by the ebb
at spawning time. Strange to say, neither Bris-
bane, Mary, nor Burnett is ever traversed by the
barramundi.
John Meagher, merchant, of Bathurst,
who has been banqueted on leaving for a trip
to his native-sod, once opposed F. B. Suttor for
Bathurst, and frightened Frank much. Suttor
spoke first, and complimented John on his “ well-
known eloquence.” When Meagher spoke, he
disclaimed any acquaintance with oratory, “ but,”
said he, “ I’ll tell you a story. A priest met a boy
once, and enquired if the youngster said his
prayers. ‘Well, plase, yer riverence, I don’t
know much about them, but I have a brother who
is a divil at them.’ It’s my brother Martin, Mr.
Suttor means, not me.”
Turner and Sutherland’s so-called “De-
velopment of Australian Literature ” met its
deserts unexpectedly in London. Pall Mall
Gazette, of March 3, justly praised the biogra-
phies of Gordon, Clarke, and Kendall, and
Turner’s introductory essay is as justly damned.
Daily News, of Feb. 28, remarks that “page
after page of laudation is given to the writings of
authors who have no Australian celebrity what-
ever,” while “irritating and pompous patronage
is extended to well-known writers.” And other
papers follow in similar strains —with a truth con-
trasting surprisingly with the usual publishers’
puffs.
In “ Human Fads, Foibles, Fallacies, and
Fallibilities,” Dr. Knaggs, of Sydney, returns to
the discussion of the less obvious causes of
erroneous observation and mistaken judgment.
He reviews and reinforces, to begin with, his con-
tention that, putting aside deliberate imposture,
there is nothing in so-called spiritualism that can-
not be accounted for by such an infectious self-
deception as lay at the bottom, for instance, of
the belief in witchcraft and the various hysterical
religious “ revivals ” which have punctuated the
history of the world. Much stress is laid upon
the power for error of preconception, “ expectant
attention,” and the like ; while, with regard to the
responsibility of unsuspected sensory modifica-
tions for disaster on a large scale, Dr. Knaggs
makes the eminently reasonable suggestion that
all persons employed in connection with passenger-
transit should be submitted to a periodical testing
of their faculties, both physical and mental.


?
c-
In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. «T. O. Ayer Sc Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral —is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
gECOND-HAND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing' of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies.- call and
see our CH HAP
M A CHIN US, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY Si CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC
;FER BRAVAIS
! fer bravais
rFER BRATAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, i
and enabli g the consti- 1
tution 'o resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases o'-
anaemia, Influenza and
general debiiit .
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil
dren. 1
LANCET ‘ A beauti/ul and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. «. It has all
the good e/lects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
P€afi)€sS “S! 0
.Vilson’B Common A
iense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
ind Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
\ural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/3 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. S. Wigz ? ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attention given to Country Ordors.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3 To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84 Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 Hiding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Biding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 39/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Bugs,
13/ j. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia! giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWABD WITH our CUSTOMEBS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£3 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 701- per Set.
R3T Send for Price List. ‘(EH
JLUQU. y
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co
rm O meI B°URNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
, e Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r
-T^gghaw
Bent-Shalt Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
llUlll’S IDaniellous fill KSTHtI
#1
2.
#
VS
e/?
ft
3
S rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
<>
al
Bead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir, —I wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see you, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
S§&
ALL
Can be avoided by following the
advice of the late Sir Morell
Mackenzie, who advised that all
Cigarettes should be smoked through
MOUTHPIECES. Be wise in time,
and ask for.
OGDEN’S
GUINEA-COLD BRAND
EVERY PACKET OF WHICH DOES COHTAIH
BY ROYAL WA.R.RA.MTT of ALFFOIEJTMEKrX to “ THE QUEEN.
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE.”
Schweppe
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SOD A WATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
1 British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
That same familiar girl — this time only 10
years old—turned up in Melb. last week, and spun
a tale to a sympathetic copper about a man and a
woman having poisoned her with some “ white
stuff ”in a glass of brandy at a city pub. The
youngster was treated at the hospital, and, after
being pronounced out of danger, inquiries were
started. It "was found that she peddled soap for a
living, and was addicted to chewing the stock-in-
trade as an aid to bogus fits whereby she ex-
tracted sympathy and cash from passers-by. Try-
ing this game in a city pub., the fit was accepted
as genuine, but, instead of money, a humane
barmaid had given her a gratis glass of brandy
and peppermint (the white stuff) to pull her round.
When the liquor was suddenly poured into her
she naturally swallowed the soap, and the brandy,
of course, produced the same effect on her that it
would on any other healthy person. The suffering
creature, whom the policeman found against a
wall, was simply a little tight and dreadfully
bilious owing to the soap.
“ Miles,” to The Bulletin :
As to what Russia may do auainst English commerce,
turn up Capt. Semtnes’s book, on his voyages in the
Alabama, almost a sister vessel to Gov. Brassey’s Sun-
beam. Both were engineered, by the Lairds. Semmes
captured a ship of some kind, on the average, for nearly
every day of his cruises ; some days he took two or three.
Whenever practicable, Semmes burnt the captive, but
was careful to do no personal injury. Nineteen years or
so back, just after the greatest war-scare, the Czar sent
three of his fast cruisers—the Vestnik, Plastoun, and
Afrika —round to Sydney and Melbourne. While in Hob-
son's Bay, the Afrika took a lot of citizens on a pleasure-
trip. Sem mes’s book, “Adventures Afloat,” was carelessly
left on the cuddy table. A Russian officer told one of the
guests that it was supplied to every ship in their navy.
Semmes’s choicest adventure was with Commodore Van-
derbilt’s fine steamer, the Guiding Star, which carried gold
from ’Frisco to New York. Semmes tried to pounce on
her with the gold, but could only manage the job when
she was making for Frisco to fetch it. He got up the
Alabama in exact imitation of the U.S. cruiser Tornado,
and sported the Stars and Stripes. Thus he actually
spoke the Vanderbilt boat—shouted through his trumpet,
“ This is the Confederate war steamer Alabama ! ” and
added to his quartermaster, “Haul down that polluted
rag!” whereupon the Palmetto flag went up.
The Star had a great number of passengers,
who were waltzing on deck at the time.
The Star tried to get away. Semmes trained his swivel
on her, and brought down the fore-top with a round shot,
whereupon she hauled to. Semmes said to his mate, “ I
would dearly like to burn her, but can’t dispose of the
people.” He called his handsomest lieutenant. Chap-
man, put him in a magnificent purple uniform, with gilt
epaulettes, buttons, and facings, and said, “Go aboard,
and give ’em a g-ood frightening.” Chapman, reaching
the Star, bullied the captain and owner’s-agent to rights.
The passengers were in consternation, ladies fainting
around. At last Chapman took off the mask of terror, and
said the Star might go. Semmes writes : “ A timid fawn
crept up v itli a little pair of scissors and snipped off one of
his gilt buttons as a memento. Then the women all began
to operate on him. Buttons, epaulettes, plumes all went.
When he returned I said: “By thunder! Chapman,
you re plucked clean as a fowl.” This is how Semmes, in
writing, opera-bouffes a serious occurrence. It recalls a
little-known thing which once occurred in Hobson’s Bay,
Melb., related to me by Mr. T. Cook, now in Melb.,
who was a sailor-boy on lI.M. brig Fantome at the time.
Capt. Forbes, of the Black Ball liner Sehoinberg, after-
wards wrecked, was a martinet. As she was actually
leaving the bay four of her sailors managed to hang shirts
on the ratlines-a familiar signal that they volunteered
for the navy. The Fantome sent a boat. Forbes tried to
get his ship away,, but the Fantome fired around shot
across her bows—the only hostile one ever fired in Hob-
son's Bay. The men were transhipped, and the Schoin-
berg had to wait. In connec.tion with the Alabama, just
a mention of the Melbourne docking of the Shenandoah
and the banquet to her officers at the Melbourne Club.
England paid. Captain Waddell, of the Shenandoah,
afterwards commanded a Pacific mail-boat between Syd-
ney and San Francisco.


Herr Eassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
fllfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in • taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
wm
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
3 \\|r.
\ i
t
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of ths Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
health &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoor"
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout' the
long; years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together
$
\
HERR RASSN|USS€N’S M?dical Pag?.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER EELT BETTER in their lives.
tmM'
>k.-x «
rf-i = >
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
w
5V>
HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa'ine
Fat-Red acing Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
tliose already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
o
w'
w
SBJ
¥
*
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmnssen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
COHN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. Gd.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire—Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifD,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
ss
- V
' ll
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to 'business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A 810 DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. f and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
wasjtnown to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmuasen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
XBT When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies oan only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how lout; standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant our*
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l’owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES AT
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
VW ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c,C any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer h, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thusforprivaey sake—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT PAIL.


WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “D.C.L.”'
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind, it preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“D.C.L.”*
Practical Malthusianism. Barrier Miner
advt. :
BIRTH.
GUBBINS.—-March 26, at Wolfram-street, Broken
Hill, the wife of James Gubbins, of a son. No more.
OGDEN’S GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES
answer a long-felt want; their parity and quality
made them favorites from the start.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Drs. Freeman and Wallace, of Sydney,
issue a new edition of their manual, “ Rescued at
Last, a Book for the People.”*
3NTBWCA.STLB.
THE
Great northern Hotel
. . IS NOW . .
■np nunff'T'n under entirely
■KXi-UIrJIiJN New Management,
After complete renovation inside and out.
New Furniture from Attic to Basement.
It. L. THOMAS
(late of Narandera).
Proprietor
Air
o
y\ V* o
tr
OLD
RNs
SUNBU.
flW'c,
«/3
HA
&.C
fy
£ty£
H
V
p *o
Pf? * ET
ORS
H gold UJatch for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
A L*D**S W*T*H F**E.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving- the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
AXTILLIAM JACKSON, formerly of Askham Bryan, near
* ’ York, Eng., who arrived in Adelaide, S.A., in 1878
and worked on Port Adelaide railway, is asked, for his
own benefit, to communicate at earliest opportunity with
Symon Bakbweul Stow and Piper, Solicitor?, Selbome
Chambers, Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING 1
The Brilliant, Spectacular and Amusing Extravaganza,
Tbe Babes it) tbs Wood.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann's, and Princess’s Cafe
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH!
EVERY EVENING!
Mr. Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
Wlien Loixclon Sleeps.
Interpreted by
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And His Specially Augmented Dramatic Company.
S3r~ POPULAR PRICES! Plan at Allan’s
g*T GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
FOR A SHORT SEASON.
Commencing Easter Saturday, April 9.
Cyclonic Success! Terrific Excitement!
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY NIGHTLY.
T. n. KENNEDY,
* HYPNOTIST •• •
KING LAUGH-MAKER OP THE WORLD.
Under the Management of J. Kennedy.
LAUGHTER! LAUGHTER!
FUN! FUN!
T. A. KENNEDY’S
Hypnotic Entertainments would compel Laughter
in a thousand-year-old Mummy.
People’s Prices—2s-, Is- and Sixpence.
Doors open at 7.15 ; Begin, 8.15.
yya/fi^^utm^OrccwL
Nutritive, Refreshing 1 , Economical in use. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing
Amusements.
HARMSTON’S
GRIND (NCOS * ZODtOGU
Location : BELMORE BARK.
Next Grand Matinee :
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 16th APRIL-
Children admitted at Half-price.
This All-Conquering' Show
has achieved an Electric Success, proving' a perfect revel-
ation in tented amusements.
“THE WORLD’S GREATEST,” The Best Appointed,
and Finest Equipped ever seen in Sydney.
OUR ADVERTISEMENTS TO THE LETTER
FULFILLED.
The Grandest Company ever Organised. The only
Complete troupe of Lady Acrobats in the world.
Superb Stud of Arab Stallions. The Baby Elephant
and its Mother. Our Peerless Equestrian and 2Erial
Artises the wonder of all beholders.
EVERY EVENING at 8. DOORS OPEN at 7.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, (6 chairs), £1 4s ; Single Seat
in Boxes, 4s; Dress Circle Chairs, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Pit, ONE
SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Children
Half-price to Matinee ONLY.
Mrs. HARMSTON-LOVE, Sole Proprietress.
ROBERT LOVE, Manager.
Col. C. B. HICKS, Representative.
JOE BROWN, General Agent.
HALL, MANLY.
THURSDAY, "APRIL 14, 1898.
Under the Patronage of
HIS EMINENCE CARDINAL MORAN.
The Enormously Successful Exhibition,
THE PASSION FLAT
OBER - AMM€R(SAU,
specially prepared by
MR. WALTER BENTLEY.
Illustrated by beautiful Stereopticon Views taken
on the spot and exhibited by Mr. Bentley
to crowded and delighted audiences
wherever he has been.
Lanternists ...Messrs. OSBORN & JERDAN
Accompanied by
zingahelli’s miserere,
which will be rendered by
The Sydney Cathedral Choir,
with
Mrs. Tierney (Soprano), Miss Stafford (Alto),
Mr. Shannon (Tenor), Mr. Clancy (Basso).
Conductor ... Mr. J. A. Delaney.
XpOYAL STANDARD THEATRE SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereairh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
77 th \ HENRY’S \ 77th
WEEK f DRAMATIC COMPANY J WEEK
The Greatest London Success,
THE SECRETS OF THE POLICE.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverlev; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN—ADMISSION.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
AGAIN A TRIUMPHANT INAUGURATION!
BLAND HOLT’S
EASTER MELODRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
The Cotton King,
Written by Mr. SUTTON VANE,
Has scored a Distinct and Emphatic Success.
Prices —3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Power’s Hotel Cigar Store.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the sole direction of Messrs J. & C. MacMahon.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING !
iV Yorkshire Lass.
A play that rivets your attention, fills you with tender
and noble thoughts, and sends you home happier and
better for having followed this beautiful and touching
story of the Crimea, illustratingthose never-to-be-forgotten
episodes of British valor and British heroism.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s,
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION!
| Mr. CHAS CARTWRIGHT |
And his Complete London Company in the Great London
Haymarket Success,
A MARRIAGE OF CONVENI ENCE. j
Next Production—THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN UNPARALLELED STAR PROGRAMME.
The Kellino Family.
AUSTIN RUDD. The HAYTORS.
The TILLERS. LEON and KIRK.
An original Grand New First Part, Federia.
THE GRAND BELL BALLET,
AND A BRILLIANT ARRAY OF TALENT.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
JOHN H XT X- I TXT E S JAMES
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
THORNTON SISTERS. ALICE SIMMONS.
The 3 Hegelmanua.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
SATURDAY, 9th APRIL;
DAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
In the Great Popular Play,
Uncle Tom’s Cahin.
TREMENDOUS ENTHUSIASM.
The Immense Theatre Again Overcrowded.
A TUMULTUOUS SUCCESS!
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. -L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), at 7.45.
“The Silver King.”
Mr. Wilson Barrett as Wilfred Denver.
Miss Maud Jeffries as Nellie Denver.
Plan, Nicholson's. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
/V UIBELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
yf Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere
Frank Philpott, the Silverstream (M.L.)
murderer, who planted his dead mate in the bush
d la Butler, was peacefully hanged at Wellington,
and left this beautiful confession behind him :
Thank God because I die this morning at peace with all
men. I have acknowledged and confessed my sin in the
face of Almighty God. ... I pray God to have mercy
upon me. I realise my position and thank God that He
has pardoned me. ... I bid you all farewell. May God
for ever bless you.
If there is anything in the typical, parson-made
confession of faith, the one really sure way to
Heaven is to start early in the morning from the
end of a greased rope. One epitaph would fit
almost every such case: “Scragged in the sure
and certain hope of a blessed resurrection.”
Eye-witness : “ How’s this for grit? Jack
Graham, a massive M.L. West-coast miner, turned
up one morning at the local hospital to be operated
on for a growth upon his burly chest—due, doubt-
less, to the many ox-felling blows received in that
region. * Chloroform be d d!’ he said ; lit
his pipe, stripped, stretched himself on the
table, and told the doctors to * carve
away! ’ They gashed him accordingly for
about a foot in length, but Jack smoked
calmly through it all, and, when he had
been duly stitched up, he asked somebody to
fill his pipe for him, and departed.” Which re-
calls that in Western Victoria, years ago, one
Hourigan, smashed up by a threshing machine,
refused chloroform and smoked while both arms
were amputated, one above and the other below
the elbow.
Col. Kenneth Mackay’s Australian Horse
rolled up 400 strong to camp—which will take a
lot of beating for a first muster. They are a fine
lot of blanky bushmen, and, looked at beside the
city warriors, are an effective argument in favor
of the contention that, in war-time, the bush
troops will be the backbone of our army. Their
horses, too, are far ahead of anything else in camp.
If the libel-action Paddy M’Caughan v.
Melb. Argus should come to trial, a good deal
will depend on the judge’s summing-up of the
words “amoving mass of brawn” as applied to
plaintiff’s overwhelming appearance in fancy cos-
tume. Brawn means muscle. The muscles of the
Village Blacksmith’s brawny arm “were strong
as iron bands.” Also brawn is a dictionary term
for the flesh of swine—prepared in a certain way—
but the Argus didn’t indicate that Mr. Mac’s
brawn was comminuted and encased in sausage-
skin. Anyhow, the bard who is dealing with an
Irishman’s physique can’t be too careful in his
choice of rhymes.
William John Lyne : “If the result of the
(Federal) Referendum is a substantial number of
votes and a majority in favor of the Bill, I think
it is the duty of Parliament to recognise that it is
the will of the people.” The other way of putting
it is that, according to all the canons of Parlia-
mentary Government, if there is a majority of
even one, that simply brushes William John out
of the way like a fly that is blown off the national
ear. It means, unless Constitutional Govern-
ment is all a howling joke, that the express train
is coming and that William John is standing on
the line, sadly, slowly thinking whether he should
recognise it or not. The fact that Lyne really
thinks Parliament should recognise the voice of
the majority of its masters—the people—is very
interesting. It is the voice of the grasshopper
that the elephant has trodden on remarking that
he really thinks it his d”ty to turn flat, as provided
by the constitoosh’n.
111 a list of reasons (mostly untrue) why
N.S.W. should vote against the Federal Constitu-
tion, Sydney Telegraph includes this one : “ Be-
cause the Convention Bill perpetuates existing
bounties on exports in Victoria and prevents retali-
ation in other states.” Which is another of the
many crams with which the parochial party
endeavors to educate the community. What the
Draft Constitution says (clause 91) is that the
power of granting bounties on exports remains
with all the states until 30th June this year, and
any agreement to grant bounties made before then
holds good. After that date the states have no
power to grant bounties, and when those previ-
ously granted expire they can’t be renewed.
Therefore N.S.W. has the same power as any
other province to grant bounties on everything,
the unprincipled yell of the morning shoddy organ
to the contrary notwithstanding.
In justice to the Vic. Labor-members and
other people who may have felt hurt by
its correspondent “ Lunchtime’s ” picture of
the Federal Convention restaurant, at Mel-
bourne Parliament House, The Bulletin rises
to remark that “Lunchtime” was a luridly
inartistic perjurer, whose representation of al-
leged facts went into this journal for what it
was worth. The truth of the matter is somewhat
as follows : The Turner Government, having very
little outdoor entertainment to offer to Federal
delegates from other provinces, decided to be hos-
pitable on a liberal scale at Parliament House,,
thereby inviting the Convention to stick to the
premises instead of getting beyond earshot of
Duty’s call. All members of "the local Parlia-
ment and the other four Parliaments interested in
the Federation Bill were placed on the free-feed
list, together with a certain number of pressmen
and all officers of the House engaged in working
the show. Things were done in handsome style
on sound commercial principles, and the cost
of the whole eight weeks’ entertaining will
amount, it is said, to very little more
than the cost of the three weeks’ Conventioneer-
ing in Sydney. The Vic. legislators didn’t roll
up for chicken and champagne every time the bell
rang, and when they came they didn’t bring
“ groups of satellites ” with them, satellites not
being included in the invitation, anyhow. More-
over, the Labor-members, whom “Lunchtime”
depicted as the “ worst offenders,” were among
the least frequent feeders, and not one of them
ever brought, or attempted to bring, a deadbeat
to “ tyke it out of the Government’s champigne.”'
If ’Ancoek, on behalf of the Labor-party, would!
like to curse “ Lunchtime ” in good, round terms,
he has The Bulletin’s permission to relieve his;
feelings accordingly.
Premier Keid, being gazetted Attorney-
General, not Acting-Attorney-General, it is con-
sidered certain that he will hold the office till the
death of the present Parliament. So far, N.S.
Wales has only had one Premier who performed
the full duties of Attorney-General as part of his
Premiership. Martin, on the three occasions of
his Premiership, took over the duties of Attorney-
General. Dailey was virtually Premier part of
the time he was Attorney-General—rather in-
stead of being Premier and Acting-Attorney-
General, he was Attorney-General and Acting-
Premier.
It seemed at one time as though Sturt’s
desert-pea was going to be torn out of existence
in its home in Western N.S. Wales ; but the last
three blazing summers, followed by the rains in
February, have produced such a crop as has not
been seen for years past.
E.S.S. : “Be Dr. Rolph’s hiccough-
remedy. Have never yet met a case that I
couldn’t cure at once. I walk up to the patient,
slap him suddenly, but lightly, behind the
shoulder, and, pointing, say, ‘ What the deuce is
that?” His attention is at once diverted, and
that does the trick. Another way : drink a table-
spoonful of water out of a pannikin. Hold the
far side of the rim between the teeth so that the
mouth of the pannikin is half under the chin.
Then lower the head until you can drink the
water.”
The anti-Federation speech of Hughes,
M.P. (N.S.W.), got nearly three columns of
space and a leading article in Sydney Tels-
graph. The clever Balmain umbrella-man Of four
years ago would have been dismissed contemptu-
ously in three lines, and even now, if he favored
Federation, a paragraph might have been given—
yet they call this ’fair reporting. Also, barrister
Canaway, hitherto unheard-of outside the courts,
gets 14 col. —more than the space allotted to a
Convention delegate who happens to support the
The Federal poll is to be taken in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Tasmania on Friday, June 3. In
S.A. it is fixed for Saturday, June 4, and a public
holiday has been proclaimed to give every citizen
a show to get to the polls. Westralia follows some
time in the dim distance. In that, red, tired land
the Federal Act reads that Parliament is to meet
when it is quite rested, and decide whether any-
thing so common as the people shall be allowed to
have a say in the matter at all. Parliament is due
about the beginning of July, and it has to float
the usual loan before much can be done.
Trenwith’s best point— ad captandum, any-
how—in his defence of the Federal Bill, before the
Melb. Trades, was that, although in a certain rela-
tion four votes in Victoria only equalled one in
Westralia, Tom Jones, miner, of the Kalgoorlie
alluvial, voted with four-power force as well as
John Forrest, Premier. And from that, the
obvious policy for the Laborites and Liberals of
the more populous provinces is to rouse, if they
can, their fellows in the less populous provinces
to recognise this new four-power force of theirs.
Queensland Govt., per medium of its
bacteriologists and subsidised medical men, keeps
tinkering away with the tick question and plum-
ing itself hugely on a number of petty discoveries
never turned to practical account. Most of the
expensive dips have fallen into complete disuse ;
most of the costly anti-tick specifics have been
emptied down gutters and creeks and water-holes.
Meanwhile the cattle have become immune in the
North and West to a great extent, and the old
cattle industry is flourishing just as of yore.
Aid. Carter, talking at Melb. City Council,
supported Bulletin’s view re licensing plumbers
for Melb. sewerage works. “If we have to wait
till these few licensed men make the connections,”
he said, “ very few of us will live to see the sewer-
age work done.” Meantime, the Met. Board of
Works is giving second-class certificates to plumbers
who pass in practice exams, only, and these should
be quite good enough to tackle the bulk of the job.
While Spain threatens to sweep the sea
with privateers it is worth remembering that little
Australia, nearly 100 years ago, did a stroke of
privateering which put a considerable sum of
money in its empty pocket. Two whale-boats one
morning escorted into Port Jackson a Spanish
ship, which the skippers, brandishing rusty
muskets and long knives, declared they had duly
captured on the high seas. The Spanish crew
swore very intelligently that the capture was
illegal, but the whalers overswore them, and the
Vice-Admiralty Court of the day found in favor
of the captors. The result was that the ship was
put up to auction, the captors were rewarded, and
the balance of the cash went into the coffers of
the young nation.
A Yankee paper tells how the captain of
the U.S. warship Maine was in his cabin, writing
to his wife, when Sheol struck the ship. The
lights went out, the shattered ironclad heaved
and plunged, and the captain rushed out and
bumped against a marine who immediately
saluted (in the dark), and, “in a hard, metallic
voice,” said : “ Sir, I have the honor to inform
you that the ship is blown up and is sinking.”
Which beautiful episode will go down to posterity
along with Casabianca and the Roman sentry at
Pompeii, and all the other eloquent tales about
people who stopped to do their back-hair at the
cannon’s mouth.
“ In the Know ” :
Some Sydney cheap restaurant-keepers are in the habit
of throwing in a few coppers amongst boiling peas to
heighten the greenness. Also, a handful of washing-
soda always goes into the tea to extract the utmost from
the leaves. It gives the tea a bitter twang, and cus-
tomers from an honest house, being used to weaker stuff,
think they are getting a superior article. The soda may
not hurt, but the tea is vile to anyone with the good taste
which frequenters of 6d. restaurants are not supposed to
possess. Also, at a coffee-stall, the other night, I saw two
festive idiots having saveloys and potatoes, and when the
proprietor had his back turned and the lid was off the
coffee-tin, into the tin went their saveloy and potato
remnants. In a word, the man who asks for coffee some-
times gets Irish stew !
“When I was a young man,” said a well-
known Sydney merchant, the other day, “ I was
a clerk, but the firm failed and I worked as a
blacksmith’s striker for want of something better
to do. My shopmates played a good joke on me.
I had seen (only at a distance) the pretty daughter
of Mr. , the wool-broker, and openly re-
marked how charming she looked. Presently I
received a regular love-letter, asking me to call at
the house —parents would be out, &c. I went (so,
I afterwards heard, did my mates to- see me
* fired ’) and was admitted. The father received
me. Taken on the hop, I told him pretty well the
truth. He laughed and spoke kindly to me,
asked my name, and said he was glad to see the
son of the man who gave him his first rise in the
world —he would see if he could not do something
for me. And he did. It was the best joke ever
played on a man. It got me, in the long run,
both the daughter and the business.”


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free front
Starch and Cand Sugars
When added to diluted Cost’s milk it produces
A complete arid perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well as for the Sickly babe.
MELLSN’S FOOD
Suuplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELUH’S FOOD
MSy be obtained cf - all Dealers throughout the
World.
MELLIu 3 FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
jiASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
Jee r-H AT
u Get
Sole Agents—S. HOFFITUITG A 00., Brisbane.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inch.es. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croqhignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Ganze Silk and Cot ton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We7always have on hand a large
Variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and . Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumety, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
(1
K *
* Vo oft Life or that Siqalet tobacco 1
8 MOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEIL A CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
L Price Wakung ; Is. 3d. posted.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
Safest, best; restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real Etigiish Hair Restorer! Large
bottles is. 6d. everywhere. *
C-o J.
“I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarms !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
l*rScc, 10s. 4i«l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & AitUen,6Bo-632 Gaorge-st, Sydney
SAW MILLING ■ -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind IMCills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE. rr _
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
iTiIR
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Showlorg standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
V o n months without removal.
F.xplan itoi y Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
CrtPTIIME TEERINIx Cards (Mdme-
run I UnC Lenoi-mand's ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s. ■ nwr LEJTBBS,
LOVE 12 ot the best
■ron ever read, read 2 wavs sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT OAIIDS, Bs.
SECRET “ LOYERS fr kB * e
‘Continental Supply Agency,
i Sox 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
yV\£DICAt A\EN
r JNOIOEjTIoN
kT^OMTjrd
PAKRoT
Pu^PUmtt'
tyoUNDC
<bO6MS C°L°s £e'
Beware of V
Imitati o ms
MELBOURNE.
Catalogue?
(TV POST FREE •ySD*
V/atcHes-Clocks- JEv/atERY-BiRTriDAY*
WeDDII\Ic Z CHRISTEfIIfIc HRESEfIW'
H NEWMArj- 1755177-ELIZARETri ST*
OPPOSITE C:RQ.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
Writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has're tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing. posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have heen
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In usb 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
"REE
KNITTING
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
I theworld for quality, colours, softness nml durability.
V
'•V-
-Trade J/«rte Bcgiitfr*' l -
ISstab isbedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Alsn '* I'eehive ”
Hosiei y&Under-
w ar m nu 'ac-
ture 1 from the
‘Beehive Woois.
J.J. Baldwin
KAUF.'X,
EMGT »'in.
<?rtfor
CH lfH
i im
BiMfclU
Trade M
Mark
71 fHOPRIETOHS ' '
;«Distiuers Company 12i
»*■ EDINBURGH.
te*'" pii a WuJ^i
*>&^yr a,nt *Y' J ‘ J"/ 7
,W ' / "’i ///'!/ -PT/JV7 juJliv
l ufi 4,-{*j %£ txJ l rriM/»*y‘ tn '^
il
Drink
Uoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the Stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking*
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
eithdr with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion* and is thuS
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant,
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a riv&l.
Insist oii
‘ d.c.l;
POWER WITH UT GAS OH STEAM
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,’
and Best Engine fox'
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from z\ to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
3 Xplos’ons Imposs b e
Always Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines rmining at Out pfem -
ises, where full particulars can he had oil application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
"ftlejr only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, aiid never cure. What we use Is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
ail NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the Wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), living illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address: —
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the knoiv-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drun'-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
— £l.
which, m most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS ! las many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NctVoOS Wcakfye&S • • •
AND
Ccrcbro-SpiQal Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please went ion this paper when writing.
THE LAST OF STX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1: roted. 1 /3.
Melb. : “ Dean Vance is a bit of a thorn
ill Bishop Goe’s side. The Dean has had St.
James’S done-up, but the Bishop wants to sell
this droll old gingerbread building fitted with
stage-boxesj where the Governors and qtiality
used to sit itv the days when St. James s was
Melb. chief tabernacle. Strange to add, Oardmal-
in-embrvo Oarr is credited with a deep-laid design
to sell St. Francis’s, wherefore it likewise has just
been done-up.”
Having failed to wipe out the Victorian
Dental College and Hospital; plnckily. founded
by E. L. Oldfield “on his own,” a number of his
Melb. brethren are starting A rival Australian
College Of Dentistry. Oldfield at the Outset
claimed that his college iyould supply a want, and
now the other dentists, after griashing their teettj
ip denial of the truth, have practically declared
that one schOol of dentistry isn’t sufficient to
meet the demand.
T.D. : “ Had a comprehensive look at the*
horde Of Salvationists who swept down upon
Sydney the other week. This fanatical excite-
ment must be a powerful factor in racial
degeneration (or t’other way about)—the M-
year-old seemed much more anaemic than the
average Anglican curate. Notable, too, that
among the whole sea Of faces only those, of
two buck niggers were bluff ehough td convince
one, of their honesty. By the way, how is it that
Sydney Town Hall is thrown open to Salvation
and Twelfth of July corroborees, and closed to
political and sometimes even to charitable demon-
strations ? ” j
Constance Clyde : “From Otago Presby- j
terian Jubilee sermon referring to the good old ,
days : —‘ Among the worshippers coming from
Green Island to the church at Dunedin might be
seen men picking up stones, flax-reeds, tussocks,
or any portable bit of timber. And a stranger s
wonder at such conduct would give way to admira-
tion when a swampy bit of road was reached and
the bearers laid down their handfuls to form a
crossing-place for the women.’ Which is all very
nice, but at the recent Jubilee procession half-an-
hour after the narration of this touching incident
the male ‘old identity’ might be seen lolling in
his carriage, while the women, who hadn t made
such a good thing of it, scuttled along on foot.”
So far as the country districts of N.S. W.
are concerned, the administration of the rieiv
Health Act is chiefly a farce (writes a Bulletin
Correspondent). White Cliffs Opal-field, for in-
stance, being miles away from anywhere, and
having only 500 or so people, has no doctor;
and, though the township has been the scene of
One of the most Severe epidemics known in the
province for years, the Board of Health in Sydney
incidentally heard of only 12 cases, and, ori
the strength of that, reported that the epidemic
was riot serious. In other country towns, scores
Of cases are hot reported. Comparatively little
harm would be done if the Board, on the strength
Of the imperfect, returns, did hot advisfe the Govt,
as though it had full infOrhiation, thus preventing
the making of enquiries and the granting of assist-
ance in cases where there is urgent necessity for
both.
Of Vladivostock, Mrs. Emily Patton, a
Melb. lady, who lately spent some time there,
says:—
The first impression received is that of Dirt and
Dirt, in one form or another, you never get away from.
Everything is as unclean as it is possible to be, and my
first glimpse of the markets was enough to make me
religiously abstain from meat and fish during the whole
of my stay. The sidewalks are merely loose planks
laid upon the otherwise impassable mud ; the house-
sewage is removed daily through the streets in kero-
sene-tins, slung round the necks of Chinamen, and this
city of 100,000 inhabitants remains still unlighted, un-
drained, and dependent for its w r ater-supply upon what
is conveyed from wells, in kerosene-tins, about the
identity of which w’ith those used for the other purpose
the visitor w'as never able to free herself of a horrible
suspicion.
Muckopolis 1


Tired and Listless Men and Women
Need Rich Red Blood to withstand the Winter’s Cold .
Dr. wnj.iAais>
.. PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
Build up a Wasted System and Strengthen Disordered Nerves.
Tired, Pale, Sleepless, and
Miserable.
WHAT A LADY SAYS ABOUT ANAEMIA’S
RAVAGES.
“ After niy last journey,” she says, “I began
to feel very low and depressed in spirits. I could
scarcely eat anything, and I became very thin,
whilst my face was as yellow as if I had had a
severe attack of jaundice. An old friend, who
met me in the street looked me straight in the
face and passed me by without recognition, and
she was positively shocked when I ran after her
and told her who I really was. I got from bad
to worse ; the least exertion worried me, and my
ordinary housework became too much for me.
My gums grew quite white, and my lips looked
a blueish grey color. My sleep was restless and
disturbed, and I was so tired in the mornings
that I could hardly get out of bed, and when I
did I used to lay on the sofa, feeling I hardly
cared what happened to me. I saw a doctor,
who said I needed a strong tonic, and I had
several bottles of physic from him, besides other
bottles of tonics which I obtained from chemists;
but I grew no better. I was in this miserable
and hopeless condition when I heard from some-
one who had been cured by them about Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, and lat once got some. After
taking a few, I was agreeably surprised to find a
real and distinct change for the better. I got rid
of that miserable depression of spirits, which in
itself was enough to keep me ill, and, in a few
days, I was able to sleep the ,night through with-
out interruption. The Pills, too, gave me a good
appetite, and I began slowly to get cheerful and
fat again. My color came back, and, after taking
six boxes, I was completely cured, and found my-
self as strong as ever. I shall always remember
my cure with gratitude, and shall, you may be
sure, recommend this wonderful medicine to any
of my friends who may have the bad fortune to
suffer as I did.”
Mrs. Johns is now most bright and vivacious,
whilst the pretty pink glow of perfect health is
noticeable upon her cheeks—a marvellous change
for the better when compared with her former ap-
pearance.
A * Well-known Broker on
’Change.
HOW BUSINESS WORRIES PROSTRATED
AND UNNERVED HIM.
Mr. A. Sayers, of 57 Adam-street, South Yarra,
is, perhaps, one of the best-known mining men of
Victoria. It would be a difficult thing, in fact, to
find any mining centre where this gentleman has
not, with more or less success, assisted in the de-
velopment of Victoria’s golden treasures. At Bal-
larat, Sandhurst, Maldon, etc., his name and
person are familiar. While awaiting fresh oppor-
tunities, and, at the same time, recuperating—
there is nothing so wearing to the system as a life
on ’Change- -he has been so successful in the latter
respect that a press representative, visiting
him on business, could not help remarking it.
“ I feel better now than I have for many years
East. The last two months my whole system has
een re-tuned —Wound up to concert-pitch, as it
were,” was the reply. “ You suffered severely ? ”
“Yes, but not so much physically as from an
entire absence of tone in the system. I could
transact my business fairly well, but the continual
excitement of over three decades of mining life—
prospecting, promoting, speculating, and Ex-
rm
H LJ
3
change lif e—
had told on me
of late years.
The systt m had
run down; that
was about it ”
“Why not
have visited a
medical man,
and secured a
tonic?” “I
did ; several
doctors agreed
that it was a
tonic J re-
quired. But
they failed to supply that much-needed mental
and' also physical bracer. They supplied plenty
of them, both in quantity and variety, but with
no appreciable benefit, the least business effort
bringing about a recurrence of the a'Jl-overish
feeling. “What do you attribute the charge
to ? ” “ Well, a barrister friend of mine, a great
sufferer from paralysis, mentioned to me the im-
mense benefit he had experienced from a course of
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and
sonpe two months since I invested in a couple’of
boxes." “flow did they pan out?” “Much
better than some of my mining specs., like pure
gold. A few boxes strung me up properly, my
appetite improved—and work (before a heavy
task) became a pleasure.” “ No. A few boxes of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did for me what pounds
sterling worth of doctors’ stuff failed to accom-
plish.” “You are perfectly satisfied of the
merits of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for purifying
the blood and as a nerve tonic?” “Certainly.
Por re-toning a system run down by overwork or
mental anxiety they cannot be beaten, and I lose
no opportunity of so informing my friends.”
♦
An Eminent Australian Actor.
POSITIVELY CURED OF NERVOUS
PROSTRATION.
There is no man with whom the theatrical and
theatre-going people of Australasia are better
acquainted than Mr. Dan Barry, the popular
actor-manager of the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne. Recently a press representative paid
a visit to him at his office, and he courteously
granted a request for a few minutes’ conversation.
“My life has been a varied one,” said Mr.
Barry, “ and there are but few cities and towns
in Australia I have not visited. A theatrical
manager has much to do mentally, and as a result
I commenced to feel the strain some two years
ago. Frequently I felt, mentally and physically,
quite exhausted. I was also affected with neu-
ralgia in my head, which often seriously inter-
fered with my duties. At night my sleep was
restless and of no recuperative benefit, and my
illness commenced to tell on me so seriously that
I consulted a medical man. He told me that my
V
in the papers
describing a
cure by Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People
in a case very
similar to mine.
Though lalways
had indigestion
with me, it came
on much more
violently at
times than was
usual. The at-
tacks were at
first compara-
tively light, but
as years went on
they became
more and more
severe. They commenced with a feeling of sick-
ness and a disinclination to eat, and when I did
manage to eat some light food it would lie on my
chest in a heavy, immovable lump. The sensation
was most oppressive and distressing, and some-
times I was in such pain that I could hardly sleep,
and often I would wake up in the middle of the
night with a start and not get any more sleep
till the morning, and when I did get out of bed
I would feel depressed in spirits and quite over-
come by a feeling of lassitude and weariness. I
had violent headaches, and a most awkward
giddiness when I got up suddenly from a sitting
posture; I also suffered from a continual bad
breath and an unpleasant taste in the mouth. I
also had bad bilious turns. I was not as you see
me now, but was much thinner, with a
pale, unhealthy complexion. During all these
long years, in addition to the attention of
doctors, I tried a large number of other
remedies, but none of them did me an atom of
D* WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
LE
£>» WILLIAMS'
INK
'ILLS
FOR
LE
WORLD’S GREATEST
AN KM IA CURE
AND
BLOOD BUILDER.
0* WILLIAMS'
INK
'ILLS
FOR
tgpflßtti
WD? WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
l-E.
system had run down, and that I wanted a tonic.
He gave me some pretty extensive medical ad-
vice, which developed into a large-sized bill. I
would not have had any objection to the bill had
I received any benefit; but I had not; so I tried
a second medical man, with no better result than
the consoling information that my evident state
of debility and want of tone required me to take
an extensive rest. This rest was, of course, an
impossibility. Noticing my indisposition, a fellow-
professional suggested I should try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. I followed his advice, and purchased
a supply. After using these pills for six weeks T
found myself free from all signs of debility and its
attendant ills, and fully recovered in spirits and
health; in short, ‘ Richard was himself again.’ ”
“And you recommend them ?”
“Yes, I do. If I see any member of any com-
pany showing the least signs of brain fag or being
run down, I recommend a course of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and have never known them to fail.”
♦
Years of Tireless Indigestion.
HOW A WOMAN AT LAST FOUND PER-
FECT RELIEF.
Whether Mrs. Boyes, now residing at lf>2
Dowling-street, Sydney, merited the 15 years’
torture she has just completed, we will leave an
unbiased public to say. Certain it is that but for
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People her
sufferings would have been even more prolonged.
“For 15 years I suffered from indigestion,”
said Mrs. Boyes to a reporter from the Leichhardt
Standard, and continued she, “a long, weary time
to be ill, and I might have been suffering still if I
had not the good fortune to drop on a paragraph
good. At length I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. The effect was astonishing : after taking
them for only a short time the attack I was then
suffering from was completely got rid of. I had
a sound, healthy appetite, which I hadn’t had
for years, and my sleep was no longer disturbed.
I took altogether about 12 boxes, and the Pills
completely cured me of both my indigestion and
biliousness, and I have never had the least return
of these complaints, or, in fact, of any illness
since.”
Mrs. Boyes is at present quite a picture of
health and strength.
How a Lady became Blushing
and Beautiful.
ANAEMIA ONCE MORE COMPLETELY
VANQUISHED.
Since the days of Eve the acquisition of perfect
health and beauty ot form has been the desidera-
tum of every worn in. Ninon del’Enalos, the
celebrated French beauty, attributed her health
and beauty of form to the care which she bestowed
upon her toilette. In these latter days Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have come to be
regarded as an indispensable adjunct to a lady’s
dressing table, and to those suffering from the
many ailments peculiar to her sex. In support of
the statement we append the case of Miss May
Dickenson, who was miraculously cured of a very
obstinate case of anaemia.
Miss May Dickenson was born at Soldier’s Hill,
Ballarat, Victoria, some 18 years ago, and lived
there up to three years since, when her family re-
moved to Tasmania, her father having purchased
a selection on the “Seven.” Shortly after her
arrival on the tight little island, Miss Dickenso 11
commenced to experience very uncertain health*
which, as time went on, showed no improvement,
and caused her parents considerable anxiety.
Medical advice was sought and various tonics
advised and taken, but without any noticeable
result. In the early part of the year, change of
air was advised and Miss Dickenson came back to
Victoria, with a hope that her native air would
succeed when “ doctor’s medicine ” had failed.
Having some relations in Essex-street, Ballarat
East, Miss Dickenson took up her residence with
them. Still she continued unwell, and again
medical advice had to be obtained. Unable to
take solid nourishment, she lost flesh to such an
extent as to make it a labor to undertake any
exertion. Nothing is more weakening than
anaemia, or poorness of
blood. Energy departs
and leaves listlessness to
fill its place, the blood
goes from one’s lips and
tongue, and a terrible
pallor, ghastly to behold,
is the result.
“Could you not seek
any nourishment?”
asked the representative,
■who met Miss Dicken-
son at her aunt’s, Newry-
street, North Fitzroy.
“ Well, a little, but
most of it refused to
stay. I had pains in
my back, and had to
sleep on my side.”
“ Did you see any
medical men in Mel-
bourne ? ”
“ Yes, one, who said I
was overgrowing my
strength, and gave me a
tonic ; but in spite of all
advice and medicine, nothing would stay on my
stomach. One day, I was in a chemist’s, in
Brunswick-street, getting a prescription made up,
and the dispenser asked me if I had suffered much.
On my replying in the affirmative, he said, ‘ Why
don’t you try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills ? ’ Some-
how, that took a hold on me, and I purchased a
box, and commenced to take them instead of my
physic.”
“ Did you receive benefit ? ”
“ Yes ; shortly after I commenced to take them
I experienced a vast improvement, and, within a
few days, I ate my first substantial meal for 18
months. In a week I gained 61b. in weight, and
I kept on improving until three weeks since, when
I felt justified in discontinuing them, having taken
seven boxes.”
“ And you consider yourself fully cured?”
“ Undoubtedly ; and I can imagine the surprise
my friends wili receive when I return to my
parents next month.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
SERIOUS WARNING TO MOTHERS.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents and guardians rests a great re-
sponsibility at the time their daughters are bud-
ding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache, backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases —Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pills upon the approach of the period of puberty,
and thus avoid all chances of disease or early de-
cay.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly
scientific preparation, the result of years of care-
ful study on the part of an eminent Edinburgh
University physician, and they were successfully
used by him in his everyday practice for years
before being offered for general sale. They are
a perfect blood builder and a nerve restorer,
curing such diseases as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, general debility, ner-
vous prostration, the after effects of la grippe,
influenza, and severe colds, diseases depending
on humours in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, etc. Pink Pills give a healthy
glow to pale and sallow complexions, and are a
specific for all troubles peculiar to the female sys-
tem, such as anaemia, poor and watery blood,
female irregularities, etc. In the case of men they
effect a radical cure in all cases arising from men-
tal worry, over-work, or excesses of any nature.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
sold only in boxes bearing the firm’s trade-mark
and wrapper (printed in red ink). Experiencing
any difficulty in obtaining the genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’, send direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Company, Sydney, who will forward (post paid,
on receipt of stamps or post order), one box for
2s. !)d., or half-a-dozen for 15s. 3d.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of hi-
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, i;
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to bo'li
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head,
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of.
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/C,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Fresh.
Cooling.
Sp arkling.
VELTEN LAGER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
V.
*
Best Value
In the Trade!
We have to beat the other fellow.
We do not worry about the pre-
sent Losses.
The Profits will come afterwards.
Our Motto: “ Keep the Mill Going.’
If you want to BUY in the CHEAPEST MARKET, we are ready with LARGE STOCKS in
Pure, Healthy, Sanitary Bedding,
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses,
PATENT COMBINATION BEDSTEADS.
1000 Bales of Best Java Kapok, in 80lb. Bales at 6d. per lb.
AMERICAN & AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
FURNITURE, &C., &C.
To give you just the kind of value which will enable you to offer your own Customers Bargains, and
also to largely increase your turnover.
Write for Designs. Our Prices will induce you to give us a share of your trade.
Telephone No. 66,
Established 1860.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Warehouse : 608 to 610 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Factories: Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8 and 10 Union Lane (adjoining Warehouse).
■>**F
Wili-oMST
MARK
Corset
Wiu-oWi\«sr Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
p ERFECT in shape.
LEN GT HENS THE WA IST.
BEAUTIFIES THE FIGURE.
W'wtovjmiST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
A & K FOR
W*ta»6wA*ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F . w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
2 IS, GEORGE STREET , SYONEV.
the MOST refreshing, COOLING* & MJiALTHFOIi BEVERAGE.
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S _
CUSTARD POWDER.
!OR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddiugs.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious ,to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates" confidence in the article, andcanrecom-
mend.it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent lii.the preparation of a good Cits ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
..2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
wnEiliiialli.lEU
SHND VoLk ORDKR TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
®*-j
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
i -m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small proiit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 10s,, f, o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
The Bullocky’s Love-Episode.
(As told by himself while driving the team.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sez to her —“Gee, Boxer, gee”—behind the
shed last night,
“ Old girl,” I says—“ Come up, there, Star ! I’ll
make you pull all right!
“ I’ve saved a quid or two,” I says, “ and if you’ll
only say ”
“ Gee, Boxer ! Star ! Come hither, Spot! Gee,
Boxer ! Come ’ee way ! ” —-
“We might get ” —“ BRANDY ! Bless my soul,
• such bullocks drive me mad !
I’ll take the livin’ hide off you in strips, I will,
my lad ! ”
“So, whatd’yer think, old girl,” I says, “just
tell me fair and straight,
I’m tongue-tied like and ” —“Holy Frost! they’ve
caught the bloomin’ gate !
You cross-eyed, jumped-up, wobblin’ swine!
What’s set you all astray !
It’s no good, boss; they can’t go back —though
there’ll be Hell to pay !
They can’t back fifteen ton of load— the post must
come away !
Stand back in case the rails should fly—stand back
there up the bank.
I’ll rouse ’em with the bleedin’ butt along the
bleedin’ flank.
Gee, there ! you blank, dash, asterisks ! —you sons
of blankers ! Blank !
There goes the boss’s bran-new gate !—and then
she says, says she,
“I can’t think, George ” —“ Gee, Boxer, gee !” —
“ what you can see in me ;
But if you’re talkin’ splice,” she says—“Woa,
Brandy ! ” —“ I’ll agree.”
A. F. YORK.
A Bible in use in one of the Melb. courts
bears this inscription : —“ The Master in Equity.
Melb., Sept., 1853.” This book has been in use
throughout the whole of those 45 years, and is now
a noxious ruin, with a nest of disease germs on
every text.
Committee of local residents arranging for
“Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ” meeting at Lost
Dog Swamp, 17 miles by foot from Melbourne.
Chairman: We have settled matters all right so far,
but how p.re we going to get a good speaker from Mel-
bourne to coine out and give an address?
_ Committeeman (confidently ): That’s all- right. If we
invite him, Mr. Reay, the editor of the Herald, will come
and give us a lecture on his “ Jubilee Impressions.”
Chairman : But there’s half a mile of flood-water around
us!
Committeeman : He’ll swim.
Chairman : And then there’s another half-mile or more
of liquid }nud !
Committeeman : He’ll wade.
Chairman : But why should he take all that trouble ?
Committeeman : He has to. Doctor’s orders. If he
don’t talk Jubilee at least once a month to a public audi-
ence he’ll
Chairman {anxiously): What ?
Committeeman : Burst!
Where Ah Loh Worked.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blaekham turned over and swore at the
“ b °y.” . , .
He’d had a late night of it, playing poker and
drinking pyt; besides, it was raining, and he hated
water.
“ Five o’clock, past, and Mandore Saleh wants
to know if he shall turn out the Chinamen, or will
you give them a half-day off ? The rain is heavy,
and they don’t want to turn out.”
Blackham’s inclination was to let them have the
half-day and to take it himself, too; but the last
part of the message angered him, and, springing
out of bed, he commenced to dress. “ Tell Saleh
-if the d d Chinamen are not in the fields in ten
minutes I’ll fix’em with a rotan.”
Ten minutes later, armed only with a ray’s tail,
Blaekham ascended the ladder leading up to the
bangsal occupied by his gang.
The muttering ceased when his figure appeared
in the narrow doorway, but the dark, forbidding
looks of the half-naked Chinamen boded ill. Some
few made a pretence of getting up, but the
majority sat on in sullen silence, a few merely
uncoiling their tails as a mark of respect to the
white blackguard who lorded it over them. Black-
ham said nothing. He laid about with his cruel
weapon and his diabolical temper broke loose. In
English, in Dutch, in Chinese, in Malay, he
cursed them and their ancestors till the bangsal
was empty, and 40 miserable coolies stood shiver-
ing and cowering under the eaves.
“ I don’t care if no one else on the river works
again this year; my gang is not going to make a
Hari Basaar for a few drops of rain. Lu pergi
kreja dau lekas juga, babi, chelaka and here
Blaekham swore himself breathless again.
Slowly the men gathered up their implements,
and started down the road towards their division.
Behind them trudged Blaekham.
The rearmost Chinaman stumbled, and, in his
effort to regain himself, splashed some yellow mud
into the angry Blackham’s face.
“ Ampun, Tuan ! ” cried Ah Loh, as he sank on
his knees in a puddle.
“ I’ll ampun you, babi! Take that —and that—
and that! ’’—each “ that ” emphasised with a cut
from the ray’s tail; but Ah Loh was guilty and did
not resent punishment.
Slowly the procession went on. Ah Loh looked
down at his mud-covered feet. A fat black leech
was on one. Left there, an ulcer might result ;
then sickness, relegation to the “ kongsicans ”
gang on day wages, and so good-bye to his chance
of a good crop. He would risk it. One cut more
or less would not matter.
Blaekham had been a famous place-kick at
Winchester. Ah Loh rose some distance in the
air and landed on a stump. Pulling himself
together, he wiped the blood from his face and
stood still. ....
“ Man minta lagi ? ” asked Blaekham, with his
cruel face all smiles.
Ah Loh stood looking at him for a moment.
Suddenly a gleam shot across his hitherto impas-
sive face. “Tah, tah, tah!” he shouted, and,
whirling his parang-benkok over his head, he
rushed at Blaekham. It was all over in a moment;
Blaekham lay face downwards in the path,
and Ah Loh and the gang went back to their
bangsal.
» * * *
The Devil looks after his own. Four
months later Blaekham was well enough to appear
against Ah Loh and others, charged with at-
tempted murder.
There was no attempt at a defence. One and
all pleaded guilty, and in ten minutes sentences
totalling a century had been imposed, and the court
was about to adjourn for a drink when Blaekham
spoke up:—
“ Your Worship, I understand you have power
to order sentence to be carried out wherever your
Worship sees fit. Should these men be detained
in prison here, the estate will suffep over <£looo
loss, and I therefore make application for an order
that these men be handed over to me, so that they
may work out their sentences on the estate. As
they are bad characters, I ask that they be leg-
ironed, which will have a good and salutary effect
on the other Chinamen at Tanjong Merah.”
Order made accordingly.
* * * *
Months went by. Things had prospered'
exceedingly with Tanjong Merah. Nine-picul
crop. Good price, 3.20 guilders ; good health and
fine prospects.
Business took me up river, and the launch
landed me at Tanjong Merah. I went home with
Blaekham, and after dinner the manager, the
doctor, and another assistant came round, and we
made a night of it. Blaekham was in great spirits;
he had won a hundred dollars at poker.
I asked about Ah Loh, and Blaekham said he
would enlighten me on the morrow.
I turned out early and saw the men commence
work.
“He doesn’t appear to be the hard-hearted
ruffian they say he is,” I thought, as I watched
Blaekham moving about amongst the hands, and
giving his orders quietly.
“You don’t have Ah Loh or any of that Kongsi
working for you ? I suppose you’re a bit funky
yet ? ” I said when he rejoined me.
“It’s not exactly that. I had ’em for a while ;
in fact, Ah Loh was working for me last week.
I have only just turned him over to a stronger
man. I never could get enough out of any of the
lot; perhaps the new boss will.”
“ Where are they working ? ”
“Oh, if you like I’ll show you something of
them ; there’s just time before breakfast.”
We wandered on. Off the road and into the
jungle, and presently we stumbled across a lot of
mounds. Some quite fresh, others a few months
older.
“ What are these ? ”
“Graves—Ah Loh’s, and the rest of the Kongsi.”
“ What! Are they all dead ? ”
“ Yes, the lot are now working for Shaitan.”
“ What was it; bad water ? ”
“ Partly ; they didn’t get much. Bad food, too
—what there was of it! ”
“ Good God ! man ; what do you mean ? ”
“ Well, let us say the beggars died of too much
salt fish!” —and Blaekham playfully tapped his
shoe with the ray’s-tail that had originally started
the mischief.
TANG ANYUT.
The bicycle is destined to play its part in
the sex problem in more ways than one. Just
lately a complaint was made to an Australian
police commissioner that one of his men had,
twelve months ago, loved a country lass, and
laughed and ridden away. “He came to our
township on a bicycle. I only saw him once, and
not since till the other day, when I recognised
him doing duty in .” Now she wants him to
maintain baby !
A Woman’s Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flanagan"; «ne chainman, had been entertaining
with anecdote and reminiscence a small and select
party at the fire before his tent. A momentary
lull in the conversation gavo a solitary morepork
in the valley temporary monopoly *f the ear of
Night, and the camp was very quiet, when sud-
denly, with startling emphasis, a man’s voice broke
the stillness with loud announcement of intention
to “ smash the face ” of somebody.
“ And he will too,” said Flanagan sententiously.
“ He’ll break it, for a dead cert. It’s near measur-
ing-up day ! ”
Next moment broke out a shrill uproar of
mingled curses and appeals, and a woman, pant-
ing and sobbing, rushed past the little group and
out of the camp.
This episode didn’t appear at all to disturb the
group around the fire, till presently one spoke.
He was a comparatively new arrival in camp.
“ Say, Flanagan, why should old Brennan beat
the woman because it’s measuring-up day ? ”
Flanagan sucked at his pipe without replying,
till the questioner began to feel hurt. “Well,
young ’un,” he said then, “ this is why : ’Cause
he’s got sense, and’s been places, and seen things,
and knows what he’s about! It’s this way: If
you’ve got as much sense as a bandicoot, you must
know there’s barely wages in that bit of a cuttin
of his, at the price he’s ‘ sub’d ’ it at, and that,
with his way o’ livin’, he can’t earn as much in a
day, himself, as the worst of his six men.”
The other nodded affirmatively. “So I should
think ! ”
“So /know. Also, that now his woman will
spend the night in the bush, and, in the morning,
she’ll be ashamed, and afraid to go home. Ac-
cordin’ly, when Brennan gets down in the cuttin’,.
first thing, he’ll find her there, stripped to the
buff, earning her pardon. And she’ll slog like
blazes till measurin’-up day, and Brennan ’ll have
a good pay and a big drunk. See ? ”
“ I see ; but the woman—what does she get out
of the thing ? ”
“She? Oh, she gets a chance to let her face
heal! ”
L. R. MACLEOD.
H. : “ Melb. is frightfully stuck up for a
preacher. The best going is Father O Farrell,
who gave the sermon at the recent opening of tin-
new Elsternwiek Church, and was the star amid
all the lights at the opening of St. Patrick's.
But the R.C. Church never believes in letting, a
popular preacher get too much headway.”


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Ladies and Gentlemen in the Country.— lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
(which promises to be the great, event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and leave a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble when ordering
garments of any description from us. — Hordern Brothers
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands -white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
♦
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
m
A
m
%
m
■a
1
Wa
m
w
m
§
m
V/
mm
•//;
V/,
SS7.
y/
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
*
P
'////'/;///
7/ //
m
w
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
Chinaman Lee’s Receipt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Attorney Magee, of Millagadee,
He had for a client one Timothy Lee,
A Chinaman he;
But christened, you see—
A Sunday-school scholar of Millagadee,
Where charming young ladies
Preach Heaven and Hades
To simpering Chinkies of humble degree !
Attorney Magee collected a fee
For services rendered to Chinaman Lee.
Said Timothy Lee :
“ My missee Magee
What for you no give it leceiptee for me ?
No Chinaman cheatee,
My want it leceiptee,
Much better you give it,” said Chinaman Lee.
Attorney Magee objected that he
Would be hanged if he’d give a receipt for a fee
To a blanketty B
Of a heathen Chinee !
[HiSdangnage, you’ll notice, was painfully free,
* And better befitting
A Parliament sitting,
Or bibulous bullockies out for a spree !]
But Chinaman Lee propounded a plea :
“ Suppose you no give it leceiptee,” said he,
“ Me die, and, you see,
The Lord askee me;
‘You allee same Clistian in Millagadee?
You got it clean sheetee ?
Nobody you elieatee ?
You got it leceiptee flom Missee Magee ? ’ ”
Said Chinaman Lee to Attorney Magee :
“Me say you no give it leceiptee for fee !
The Lord He tell me
‘ Go lookee for he ;
No halo can get till leceiptee me see ! ’
No likee Him tellee
Look all over hellee
With devils and lawyers for Missee Magee ! ”
Orange.
W. T. GOODGE.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—
Lord Salisbury’s determination to disintegrate the Lon-
don County Council, and split the municipal control of
the metropolis into a dozen feeble vestries, is worthy of
his consistency, and will please every large ground-
owner. It seems but the other day that the Conservative
leader attempted—on the opening of Charing Cross Road
from Oxford-street to Trafalgar Square through his
ground—to pass a Bill that would have netted him close
on a million and robbed the ratepayers of their right,
through the municipal administrators, to the building-
frontages along the new road. But the Commons
laughed at Salisbury, and he had to yield the frontages in
accordance with the law like everyone else. To-day, in
the Council area, the ground is valued at £16,000,000, on
which not a penny of rates is levied, and most of the earth
round Leicester Square, and along the Embankment, Hotel
Cecil-wards, belongs to this ponderous political bassoonist.
He fears a rate on ground-rents, hence his hatred of the
L.C.C., which threatens to be more “progressive” than
ever after the coming elections.
On Our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nearly every Sunday saw Andrews at our
place for dinner, and if ever we did happen to
have cabbage or anything extra, Dad, who was
full of hospitality, always put a good half on An-
drews’ plate. Then Joe and I scraped the dish,
despising Andrews. It bothered us to find out
what he catne to our place at all for, and Joe
asked Norah if she knew ; but she didn’t.
Andrews was ploughing for Murphy. Murphy
was giving him a pound a week—at least, he didn’t
exactly give him a pound a week ; he gave him that
much twice a year, and owe.d him the rest. An-
drews got tired, and asked Murphy for his wages—
.£7B. Murphy said he couldn’t well pay him just
then, but offered to raise his wages to 255. a week.
Andrews declined. Then they slang-whanged
each other until Murphy silenced Andrews by
knocking him down with a rake. After that he
kicked Andrews off his ground, and went straight
to town and got him bound over to keep the peace.
He was a tough contract, was Murphy.
Andrews came to our place to get Dad’s advice
about summoning Murphy for wages, and regard-
ing prospects generally. Dad reckoned he had
better let Murphy alone, but told him he could
stay with us for a day or two until he got time to
look about. He stayed, and Joe took down the
dictionary and scratched out “cabbage.” An-
drews made himself at home for a week—a month
—three months ! Dad began to reflect. Some-
times he and mother held short conferences, from
which the rest of us were carefully excluded ; but
nothing came of them.
Six months saw Andrews more at home at our
place than ever! He was a very kind man, and
most obliging. If a traveller called for a drink of
water, Andrews would give him a cup of milk and
ask him to wait and have dinner. If Maloney, or
old Anderson, or anybody except Murphy, wished
to borrow a horse, or a dray, or anything about the
place, Andrews would let them have it with
pleasure and tell them not to be in a hurry about
returning it.
We couldn’t make him out at all, and we kept
on wondering more and more why he didn't go
away—till we got up one morning and found that
he had gone at last—and taken Norah with him !
The two best horses for riding were gone too.
Dad fell to the occasion in an unparalleled burst
of blasphemy. But that was the last, for two
years, we heard of Andrews.
* • * *
Perhaps it was Andrews’ perfidy that
made Dad more than usually disgusted with the
selection. Anyway, after making £7 10s. out of
100 bags of corn, he decided to leave the cultiva-
tion-paddock to the weeds, and he and Dave
started out after kangaroos—scalp-hunting. They
camped in an old hut on the back ridges about
eight miles away ; and every Saturday night Dad
came home for bread—they killed their own meat
out there. Joe was left in charge of the selection.
* * * *
Singularly enough, Dad complained that
kangaroos were getting scarce where he was
camped ; while our paddocks were full of them.
Joe started a mob nearly every day, as he walked
round overseeing things; and he pondered.
Suddenly he had an original inspiration—urgin'
ality was Joe’s, strong point. He turned the barn
into a workshop, and buried himself there for two
days. For two whole,days he was iiwer ‘‘.at
home,” except when he stepped out to threw ‘ '
hammer at the dog for yelping for a drink. The
grexly brute ! it wasn’t a week since he’d had,a
billyful—Joe told him. On the morning of the
third day the barn-door swung open, and forth
came a kangaroo, with the sharpened carving-
knife in its paws. It hopped across the yard and
sat up, bold and erect, near the dog-kennel. Bluey
nearly broke his neck trying to get at it. The
kangaroo said: “ Lay down, you useless hound ! ”
and started across the cultivation, heading for the
grass-paddock in long, erratic jumps. Half-way
across the cultivation it spotted a mob of other
kangaroos, and took a firmer grip of the carver.
Bluey howled and plunged until mother came
out to see what was the matter. She was in time
to see a solitary kangaroo hop in a drunken man-
ner towards the fence, so she let the dog go and
cried, “Sool him, Bluey! Sool him!” Bluey
sooled him, and mother followed with the axe to
get the scalp. As the dog came racing up, the
kangaroo turned and hissed, “G’ home, y’ mong-
rel! ” Bluey took no notice, and only when he
had nailed the kangaroo dexterously by the thigh
and got him down did it dawn upon the marsupial
that Bluey wasn’t in the secret. Joe tore off his
head-gear, called the dog affectionately by name
and yelled for help ; but Bluey had not had any-
thing substantial to eat for over a week, and he
worried away vigorously.
Then the kangaroo slashed out with the carving-
knife, and hacked a junk (Iff Bluey’s nose. Bluey
shook his head, relaxed his thigh-grip, and grabbed
the kangaroo by the ribs. How that kangaroo did
squeal! Mother arrived. She dropped the axe,
threw up both hands, and shrieked. “Pull him
off! he’s eating me! ” gasped the kangaroo.
Mother shrieked louder, and wrung her hands ;
but it had no effect on Bluey. He was a good
dog, was Bluey !
At last, mother got him by the tail and dragged
him off, but he took a mouthful of kangaroo with
him as he went. Then the kangaroo raised
itself slowly on to its hands and knees. It was
very white and sick-looking, and mother threw
her arms round it and cried, “Oh, Joe! My
child ! my child ! ”
It was several days before Joe felt better.
When he did, Bluey and he went down the gully
together, and, after a while, Joe came back—like
Butler—alone !
STEELE RUDD.
A J.P. named Norton, out Gundagai
(N.S.W.) way, possesses what he alleges to be the
largest topaz ever found. His son happened on it
in the Murrumbidgee ranges. The stone passed
through the hands of Rev. W. B. Clarke, geolo-
gist, who, according to the old man, extolled it as
the largest found anywhere. It has been lent
several times to English and. Continental exhi-
bitions.
A Big Scrub Interlude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
School had just been d - missed for the day. I
was sitting in my Chamber of Horrors, staring
moodily at a big pile of exercise and dictation
books, and wondering if it would ever be possible
to invent my long-dreamt-of “ Combination
Patent Reliance Defiance Exercise Corrector and
Accurate Compiler of Official Returns,” when J
perceived a strong smell of strong rum mingled
with the characteristic odor of a; fat, hot person
who did not wash regularly. Presently Old
Granny Meyles shambled into the little class- ,j
room, looking flushed and flabby. I detested the
sight and the smell of the old crone : but I said —
“ Good afternoon, Madame,” for I always tried
to be as courteous to women as the road super.,
our guide in social, if not in moral, matters.
“ Good day, Mr. Watkin. I jes’ come to see if
y’ll read th’ burial suvvjs over poor Billy Marsh.”
“When did old Bill die? This is the first I
have heard of his death.”
“He died yistidee. I never—hie —heared of it
meself till about a ’our ago. I could ’ardly ’ave
beleft it, for he looked so well when I see
’im last, poor bowjer. W’en I heared th’ sad noos,
I went hell-for-leather to e’s ’umpy. It was a
good job I went. He was laid out somethink
blanky cruel.”
I rose and opened the window wide, for a breath
of fresh air. The old hag continued—
“ Whw tied e’s jor rup ?” I sez.
“ Wlff, I did,” sez Mother Lomax.
“ Why didn’t you straighten them legs ? ” I sez.
“ Coz I diden know ’ow,” sez she. (Snort.)
“ And would ya bury a decent corp with e’s legs
all tucked up ? ” I sez.
“ What kin ya do to urn ? ” sez she.
, “ Why, set on ’em, ya fool,” sez I.
“Oh ! oh ! my Gawd, Granny Meyles, ya don’t
ketch me a settin’ on um,” says she.
“ Git me some ’ot water, an’ a board, an’ th’flat
irons, an’th’old hanvil,” I sez, “an’even then I
coulden git ’em quite straight; but if old Bill does
go ta ’ell ’e’ll go with a better pair a legs under ’im
nor if that higgerant old fool ’ad ’ad ’er way.”
Granny shuffled out. At the door she stopped.
“ Ya’ll oblige, Mr. Watkin, won’t ya ? Poor Bill
always spoke well a you, though ya diden drink at
all. Th’ funeral’s at 6 o’clock.”
“ I’ll read the prayers for the dead, Madame,” I
said.
* * * •
And all through that bush burial I could not,
try as I would, help wondering if Granny Meyles’s
knees would require straightening when she
pegged out.
DODD MOBB.


S3NIHOVM UaXOd
.
CIGARS FREE
i
bis
DROPS? IN THE SLOT
ilulPiMHWm
minimmnmmu
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from ITs and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
‘ ‘'ll?*"
c *6t i
I j&9K£|gsSS|
s
E
Xi
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
SOLE AGENTS FOE AUSTRALASIA:
For
Counter
Use.
Risk Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
GOUT
Readers of this paper should
know that to effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is
to eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause of
the malady, and nothing does
this so effectually as Bishop’s
Citrate of Lithia. All doc-
tors prescribe it. Of all Chem-
ists in two sizes. A Booklet on
.Gout sent post free On applica-
tion"to their Australian Dep&t,
18 O’Connell "• street, Sydney.
lifv&itors and.Sol©: Makersr-
ALFRED/Bl3H©P.iLtds
NDON,
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Lm, Hobart.
Visitors to - - =
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Tempsrance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
far' A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious:
DR. J. COILIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiONOHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say ChlokOdyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Tales oe the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
BoQl)il)gtOQ’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
PNEUMONIA, SORENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF BREATH-
ING, and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In Large
and Small Bottles.
BoQQiQgtOfy’S Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPATION.
Do not Grripe.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and thev will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUI FRA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly jemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Fora
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re-loring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “ facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bcerhinn s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full direct ons with each Pox.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAED.
Sold. Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
s
Liver Tonic
For GENERAL DEBILITY, NER-
VOUS IRRITABILITY, & LIVER
DISORDERS.
Such Complaints often arise from Indigestion,
which may be the result of a naturally Weak
Stomach, from drinking ardent spirits, mus-
cular exhaustion, worry, or over mental work
Depression of Spirits. A Bottle of
BONNINGTON’S Liver Tonic will put all such matters Bight.
A Splendid Appetiser. 2s. (id. per Bottle.
*
l
'S
A
fe
ls>
m
- 3
<ez.
ff
SHE ALWAYS DID.
“Don't you think she accepted him from impulse?’
“No ; from habit ! ”
)
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIB NATURE
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every
he
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, j
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd.,\London;
and Export Oilmen generally. |
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. ]
SAIIC
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO J£, SON, & CHAPMAN ; avid DAVID


OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.K.H. the Brince of Wales
ECZEMA
.Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
“OLEAC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
WORLD RENOWNED
“GLYCERINE & HONEY JELLY,”
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat.
It softens and improves the Hands, Face, and Skin generally.
Cooling and Refreshing. Still growing in popular favour after
30 years’ use. Beware of Spurious Imitations. Sold by all
Chemists and Stores in Metallic Tubes, 6d. and 1/-
“HEAD (andßath) SOAP,” Reid.
A Pure, Refined and Perfumed Soap. Cleanses, Streng-
thens and Promotes the GROWTH OF Hair, removing Scurf,
and producing Healthy Action of the Skin. A Kuxury for
Bath and Toilet. An Excellent Shaving Soap. Price 6d.
Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen ,
L 19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. i
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- EIiIDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<£>HS obbot
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
“ THE BEAVER.”
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)iQgtoi) P(in)pii)g Eogipe Con>pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brotliers.
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
w
TRADE MARIU
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-streefc, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, -BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stook.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
IHE
‘Flum*
THB
(\ ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail bo give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their meri ts. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years..
p • f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10a. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
.Trice |gj n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
aISU CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney-
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE 00. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central,, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. Well
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dressing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants.
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, with a 12 x 10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to eaoh Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-sitting,
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
9/01 }■
No Disappointment.
The Swiss Studios.
No Delays.
King Street
(between Pitt & George Sts).
Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres-
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services,
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls,
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
Of
57
Forges,
Screens,
Horizontal
and
Vertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
A#
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting,
Pullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
&
&
m
&
So
Sole
Agents for
“ Three
Bullet ”
Brand
Mining
the - - ALL SENG Eli SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR CHAIN STITCH
ALL SINGER SEWIJSG MACHINES. UIIiAJJA kJILLVJXL
Bath ° * Bakiig p owder .
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gurvmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrei Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double g-rip, box spring: triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and oleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 1 10 10s, reduced 13 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price 21, reduced £7los ea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6< 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 Elizabeth st., Melbourne,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes(all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 66, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10- doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 90-. Send for trade. Illustrated Price
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other bouse in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £loj £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. P 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engines are fitted with The Pickering
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents), the
most Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
