

McSWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC W!
STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
« The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable."
LANCET.
* WW JCSmm JEL TTfci ifiTTm l,nm TTfc *
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE-S
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons “Orb” and “Pyramid” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Caslss Knlsbt Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
V?/'
<RAc\ArocK>
r*»*o
J? $ tl
V
R* A* HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Stdnht.
fg
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engine*
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured bv Rcston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT'S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ’’ Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured bv Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS,manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicatb,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated, Lists on application.
iwT-
mk
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness*
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
Colonial-made Wire Netting".
Anti see tlaat you get it.
PROOF
m
Pa/eYs
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney,
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
uPE Hr?
$
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CICIiETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
BCOBA.RT
. . “
Btfore vffiHnj the Cfy wrirew the Manager for
Ord «f Tariff, (prrejpondence promptly attended to.
THE
<arosVsi)or Not*l,
Grosvenor Square ,
sYDKrirsr.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
ds
fg
JOSHUA BROS.’
BOOMERANG
BRANDT
As Supplied to the British House of Commons, War Office, London County Council
Asylum, and many of the leading Hospitals in Great Britain and Australasia.
ANTWERP EXHIBITION, 1894 • - - GOLD MEDAL.
BORDEAUX EXHIBITION, 1895 - - - BRONZE MEDAL.
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION, 1895 - - GOLD MEDAL.
BRUSSELS EXHIBITION, 1897 - - - 8 GOLD MEDALS.
OtatainaDi© of all 'Vyiixo & Spirit Merolxantß.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Voi 19.—JS o. 937. J
(Saturday, January 29, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
* George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6(1.; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLi> REGIME (new secies, from The
Bulletin), by Price Warung; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn; price, 2s. fid.;
posted, 2s. lod.
Write to us for any Book, or Magazine you want.
\ G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All ivork involved between Author and Pub-
lisher. i ;
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
TO KNOW WHEN
. . . YOU HATE A GOOD THING
is a species of is very often difficult to acquire. Retrospective sighs
are often heaved and lamentations heard when it is too late. Then—the having a
good thing is a joy which is turned to pain by the loss of it.
CAMEO CIGARETTES
are “a good thing” in the way of smoking.
See that you stick to them.
THE RED PAGE.
An American paper reproduces
this interesting sketch byDuMau-
rier, representing him- self, Charles
Keene, and the only Whistler.
The original is of the same size.
Owing partly to the use of some of his clever
portraits in ‘The New Review,’ William Nicholson
is beginning to find himself famous ; and sour
Pennell (it is apparently he whose Lond, ‘Daily
Chronicle’ lead is followed -by Syd. ‘Daily
Telegraph,’ which reprints part of a criticism)
unkindly holds him as pattern to Phil May
—-as ‘if~ appreciation of the one artist implied
depreciation of the other As one of ‘ The
Beggar.staff Brothers ’ (-the other was his brother-
in-law, Pryde) Nicholson’s talents—especially for
posters—have been familiar to the London art-
world for some years. Recently he has published
an illustrated alphabet, of- which two examples
are imperfectly reproduced on this page. The
artist posed for letter A is drawn from Nicholson,
himself'. ' The reproduction-can <Jnly’suggest his
method of working with strong lines and rich
blacks opposed to a neutral tint (in the original
the ‘ artist’s ’ clothes are tinted like light ‘ brown-
paper,’ while his face, sleeves, and the foreground
are still lighter.) The" ‘ huntsman ’ combines
black-against light ‘brown-paper,’ with a coat in
pink-red.
* * * *
More lately Ni-cholson has issued ‘Twelve
Sporting Prints,’ with verses by Rudyard Kip-
ling attached. The prints preserve Nicholson’s
character : of the bad verses this is best—
The Pious Horse to church may trot,
A maid may work a man’s salvation ;
. ■ Four horses and a girl are not,
However, aids to reformation.
* * * *
Easel : ‘ Amusing to see Sydney D.T. reprints
London “Daily Chronicle’s” recently - given
advice to Phil May to “conform to the standard
of beauty and appropriateness, and even humor,-”
which his friend W. Nicholson has just set up in
his splendidly-drawn “Alphabet.” When Nichol-
son and^Pryde —the other Beggarstaff brother—
had theix studio in Bedford Park, “ Good old
Phil ” (as the “ Daily Chronicle ” writer called
him—writ sarkastie, apparently for, you
see, Phil has so thoroughly captivated the
“common herd,” as well as all sorts
of artists, including two who differ to
such a degree as do Herkomer and Whistler)
used to ride down on that gee of his (off which he
says he has fallen so many times) to -see- them.
Natural that two such draughtsmen as M. and N.
should thoroughly appreciate each other, and cer-
tain that the former will continue to show us, as
he did in his ‘ Bulletin ’ days, that “lb is enough
for a work of art to have the quality of its own
order.” “Nicholson, in recent months (says
‘ SketCjh,.’ Dec. 8), took up with -eagerness the arti
of; wo()ff-cuttihg—he has by very quick stages
: prbive4 hiihlelf to‘be a master of this province of
his aft. ’’ And thereupon some of the gentle-
men ..who write about illustration at ’Ome want a
brilliant master of pen-drawing to get wooJcwf-quali-
ties into his work—the “Daily Chronicle” man go-
ing sb far aTsto declare that May shows an entire in-
difference to the making of even a decent page in
“Guttersnipes”—the book on the strength of
which he was elected R.I. O, and P.S. : In
‘Punch Almanac,’ just to hand, May’s work is
marvellous—he never drew better, it’s a com-
plete answer to the yarn that he’s “ going off.” ’ i
* * * ' *
The Australian artist's whose pictures are in-
cluded in the consignment—a measured 60 tons !
sent to England for exhibition mav now be sup-
posed to be palpjtating for the verdict of British
critics. One may prophesy it:' ‘ Promising.; but
amateurish—with brilliant exceptions.’ Anyway,
N.S.W. Art Gallery trustees have given everybody
a show including trustee Julian Ashton, who
oalmly broke the rules of the game by refusing to
submit his pictures to the subordinate committee
of adjudication, Ashton is represented by his
portrait of Parkes : by the * Prospector ’ who
borrowed his mother’s milk-dish; and by some
choice water-color and black-and-white. Among
other pictures goes Torn Roberts’s shearing-shed ;
Mahony’s ‘Straggler’ and ‘Days of Old;’ Sid.
Long’s ‘Tranquil Waters’ and ‘Spirit of the
Bush ; ’ Lister’s ‘ Ever Restless Sea ; ’ Streeton’s
‘ Still Glides ; ’ M'Cubbin’s ‘ Wallaby Track ; ’
Longstaff’s ‘ Lady in Black;’ Piguenit’s ‘Flood
in the Darling ’ and others. FuLlwood, Spence,
Lambert, and many more are represented—often
by several pictures ; in fact, it’s a choice collec-
tion, and includes the cream of local work. If
the ‘ Himalaya ’ splits on a Red Sea rock—
which all the Muses of the studios forbid !
Egypt’s ancient loss won’t be a circumstance to
ours.
* * * *
To most Australians Dudley Hardy is known
entirely by his black-and-white work, and the
glimpse of his quality as painter in Dec. ‘ Art
Journal ’is very interesting. The writer of the
article, Arthur Lawrence, remarks ‘ the
fine colouring, harmony, refinement, and
sense of power ’ in Hardy’s pictures; and
judges that, despite his brilliant illustra-
tive talent, he is painter first and will
soon be painter wholly. Hardy himself is
q'u'iteJ re a familiar dispute. ‘ln persistently
doing black-and-white work,’ he says, ‘ you
may, perhaps, momentarily lose sense of colour,
but, if you really possess the instinct, you
can get back to color-work almost at onoe. . . .
And I think constant practice as a draughtsman
enables me, when painting, to see things in a
broader way, and to aim at breadth of effect with
greater simplicity.’
Writes Louise Mack—
Lewis Carroll has gone to his wonderland, a
fair and merry wonderland, no doubt, but not a
funnier one than he led dear little Alice to three-
and-thirty years ago. Passed behind the lookings
glass, and now seeing face to face, he.inay have
arrived at the certainty that he held a warmer
place in the heart of the grown-up than in the
heart of the child, may grin to find himself
further above the children’s heads than ever. For,
though we call him the nursery classic, and buy
him for our children, and cling to him ourselves,
and - edition after; edition comes and goes,
and all the languages take him into .their
own, isn’t it a truth that the normal
child is a little worried and perplexed by Carroll’s
most delicate quips and cranks, and finds the road
a weary one that is brightened by his cleverest
nonsense? Tenniel’s pictures will always be a
great seduction to youngsters, and invite many
to read who afterwards give up in despair, but
not even Tenniel’s pictures could make 4 Alice in
Wonderland ’ a bopk that qhildren.would love and
long for, unprompted by some older mind.
The child who loves books for books’sake can
read to pass out of the big, bright world of
childhood into a bigger, brighter world of things
happening always, loves Carroll because he tells
his nonsense with such a straight and serious
face. Never fora minute does he give the
children a clue that it is all a hoax, a make-up.
Just as one would relate the ludicrous impossi-
bilities of one’s own most impossible dreams, so
smilelessly and earnestly he brings his Jabberwocks
and Borogoves, his oysters and his walruses, before
the little eyes—but so smilelessly and earnestly
that the sense of the impossible ceases to exist,
and a feeling of flatness comes creeping over the
normal child mind, greedy for surprises, anxious
for absurdities when it understands they.areabsur-
dities, delighting keenly to be pleasurably startled.
In the midst of his finest incongruities, Carroll’s
peculiar restraint or sedateness is always in evi-
dence. The ordinary child-mind feels the sedate-
ness, is puzzled by it, and cries out for the fairy-
tales it knows are fairy-tales, for the Fauntleroys
it fondly believes are roaming the world in velvet
suits and gtlden curls, with the beautiful Dearest
in tow. And the gentle, simple, little Alice, with
.her natural manners and; straight hair, deepens
their perplexity. Did,-she/really go'through the
looking-glass ? For they feel that, she is of them-
selves' earthy,-and how to -reconcile' her with the
leg of mutton that gets up and bows, the pudding
that conversates when you cut it, the oysters
whose shoes were clean and neat,
And this w is odd, because, you know,
They hadn't any feet,
is too hard a problem for the little ones to solve.
Says ‘The Saturday Review'-
The [late] Laureate, after declaring to Mr. Pal-
grave that, had he an unpublished Autobiography
of Horace in MS. in his hand, he would burn it,
beoause a poet’s life is to be found in his work
alone, did himself arrange with his son to have
this prolonged Biography produced, and to
include in it, to the great increase of its bulk and
its price as literary merchandise, the second and
third-rate poems his finer taste suppressed during
his lifetime ! Without any fear of the ‘ghouls,’
there could have been a bonfire with these. The
‘resurrectionists’ were they of the poet’s own
household ; and when they invoke his authority
for the deed they invite us to deny the sincerity of
his constant protest against the publication of
inferiorities, and to impugn for the first time the
critical judgment hitherto held to be in him all
but unerring. Again, with the suggestion of
a pose, the poet writes to Mr. Gladstone :
‘I. heard of an old lady the other day to whom
all the great men of her time had written.
When Froude’s “Carlyle” came out, she rush d
up to her room, and to an old chest there in
which she kept their letters, and flung them into
the fire. “They were written to me,” she said,
“not to the public!” And she set her chimney on
fire, and her children and grandchildren ran in—
“ The chimney’s on fire!” ‘.‘Never mind,” she
said, and went on burning, I should like to raise
an altar to that old lady, and burn incense upon
it.’ Yet Tennyson, at this very time and always,
had the habit of keeping nearly all the letters he
received, including mere invitations to dinner.;
so that when they came to be turned to the pur-
pose of a biography, two devoted triends of the
Tennysons had to wade through over forty
thousand of these human Or inhuman documents !
The smoke of their burning had made a fit incense
indeed to offer to the ‘old lady ’; but to her the
poor honor of lip-service alone was rendered.
Some Tennyson letters indeed were burned ; but
the fact is not remarked with the exultation the
reader might expect : ‘ All the letters from my
father to Arthur Hallam were destroyed by his
father after Arthur’s death—a great loss.’ The
same confusion of pose and of practice confronts
the reader again and again. The biographer has
a partiality for letters addressed to Dukes, and a
preference—perhaps still more subtly mundane —
for those addressed to workmen.
* * * *
In a letter to the Duke of Argyll, Tennyson, at
the time of Macaulay’s death, recalls his first
meeting with the historian. There had been a
cataract of chatter, until, in one of those infre-
quent* flashes of silence,’ Tennyson was presented.
‘ Macaulay turned to me and said, “ Good morn-
ing ; I am happy to have had the pleasure of
making your acquaintance,” and strode away.
Had I been a piquable man, I should have been
piqued.’ That is naif enough ; but you do not
classify your poet so easily. The next man who
meets him assures him of the honor, &e., and
‘Don’t talk d d nonsense’ is the retort.
Again, the Queen tells the Duke that she admires
‘ln Memoriam,’ and has marked her favorite
lines ; and the Duke tells the Poetund the Poet
tells two friends. At this point the Duke-,wHtes,
and implores the Poet to tell nobody. ‘I am
vexed,’ writes the Poet, ‘ because the Queen
might fancy that her private Comments were
public prey,' and then follows talk about ‘multi-
tudinous 1 babble.’ But the babble .WAS
Queen’s', the Duke’s, the Poet’s ; and why should
it stop with the Poet’s friends, and the friends
of the friends? To crown the perversity, it is
all made ‘ public prey,’ if that is to be
in these volumes at any rate, where we are told
that the Queen said to the poet, on his first visit
to her in 1862, ’Next to the Bible, “In
Memoriam ” is my comfort.’ More allusions are
ma le to the craving of the age for personalities—
then the eye lights on a passage which
r cords that Mr. Ruskin has beeh to lunch and
that he wore his accustomed blue tie ! ‘This
1 horrible age of blab,’ is thrown at us once more—
and then we hear that the Poet’s own ‘ anecdotes
and sayings were taken down as soon as spoken,’
and that, for instance; ‘he admired much Miss
Mary Anderson, and held her to be the flower of
girlhood!’ ‘Confound the publicities and gab-
blements of the nineteenth century!’ again he
ories, when an Edinburgh paper has unblushingly
announced a new poem of his as in the press. But
turn the pages, and you are fully informed by his
official biographer that he liked a dinner of
‘ beefsteak and potato, a cub of cheese, a pint of
port, and afterwards a pipe (never a oigar) ’ ; and
that, to take a random illustration, he once
stopped reading to Joachim because t m
in bed in the next room. By all means to 1 tj
but do not interlard the recital with denuncia-
tions of other reciters.
• . * *
This ‘ gabblement ’ about ‘gab'hl »k lit goes on'
until it is tiresome even as a study of human in-;
consistency. There is a Nemesis that awaits it,
too at the end of the Memoir. In the closing,
scene of his father’s life the son records : AtJ
three o!eloek he was pleased with the telegram
About him from the Queen, but he- muttered,,
“Oh! that Press will get hold of me now !
The day after that he died ; ,an 1 the day after
that his own medical attendant published to the;
Press what the biographer still calls ‘ the medical:
bulletin 5 as follows;—‘On the. bed a figure of
breaching marble, flooded and bathed in the light |
of the full moon streaming through the oriel win-
dow ; his hand clasping the Shakespeare which he;
had asked for but recently and which he had, kept
by him to the end ; the moonlight, the majestic
figure, as he lay there “drawing thicker breath,”
irresistibly brought to our minds his own “Passing
of Arthur.”’ Surely the irony of history could
not further go, nor retribution be more complete.
* * * *
Again, it was a way with the bard to resent a
stare. The New Englanders who came, light- :
heartedlv certain of a welcome, to look over the
wall at Farringford, and the British tourist who
made picnic at Alum Bay in the hope of at.least
a distant glimpse of him, became the dearest
object of his dread. Yet one must be forgiven
the suspicion that he missed the tourists if they
were not there. Readers of Sir Henry Taylor’s I
Autobiography will remember ' the diatribe
uttered by Tennyson to Mrs. Cameron against
the persecutions of autograph collectors : a dia-
tribe which ended with the quite contrary lament
that he had received no letters for three days, and
that he feared there was an atrophy in the world
about him and his fame. In that anecdote you
have the man for whom, as Mr. A. Q. Benson
rightly says, you seek in vain in the Memoir.
Tlie mood was so variable that if one day lie met
in the lanes two girls who did net "turn round to
look after him, he would growl, ‘They don’t
know who I am ; ’ and the next, if they did look
round, would cry, ‘Americans!’ His cos-
tume bore out the same delightful contrari-
ness; The wideawake, that Mr. Gladstone
really did shy at when it threatened the House of
Lords, he wore not as one who hates to be regarded
by the curious eye. And.there was one '’occasion
when a little hov proved as frank as another of his
age and sex in Hans Andersen’s story. He had
been out with the bard, who, returning, com-
plained in deep tones of the intrusive’eyes of
woman and ' marr. ‘ Then why do yob wear that
blue cloajc ? ’ was the home question that came
back in a treble tone : and then all was still. The
incefngruity of the pose is given (with all uncon-
sciousness. of course) by the. biographer himself :
1 If a totirist, ’ he says, ‘ were seen o >ming towards
him, for many ivould recoaniSe his broad-brimmed,
wideawake and his short blue cape with velvet collar,
he would flee.’ His capriciousness, in short, was
that of the courting cat.
Some little items:-
Madge: ‘Prof. Morris’s error, in his “ Dictionary of Aus-
tral English ” (pointed out by Ernest Favenc), in stating
that there is no species of dabchick in Australia, is ail
the more curious, as Gould specially to an Aus-
tralian variety in his “ Birds of Great Britain.” Morris
seems to be a bit of a literary dabchick himself, and to
have compiled his dictionary in dabchickery fashion—
“ As when a dabchick waddles through the copse
<sn feet and wings, and flies and wades and hops.” ‘
Pope — Dunciad.
Gould, in his “Birds of Australia,” also describes and
devotes a plate to the Australian dabchick (Podiceps
Polio cephalus), which, he says, the natives of Westralia
call lPi/-00-da,-and of which he states-that its “distribu-
tion over all the southern parts of Australia may be said
to be general.” (Vol. VIL, plate 8%.)' . . . X. : ‘A. L.
Gordon wrote (quoted ‘S. A. Register,’ 19/8/'95)“ Writing
verse spoils one for writing prose. You can’t
do two things together.” A false dictum— vide
Swinburne, Symons, Kipling, R. Quinn. And dozens
more. Writing' verse is excellent training for writing
prose, anyway ; but you can’t reverse It; I speak of
style, not mat£€r.’ ...6xB: ‘Solitude and a strong
imagination work wonders. I know a boundary-rider
named’ Daley who has nearly everyone of Victor Daley’s
‘ Bulletin ’ poems off by heart—-and thinks he wrote’em! ’
. . . :16%eti is tired of his native land, and is going to
live in Germany for good.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYLNEY’S LEADING EPECIALIiST) and
Us
In the Laboratory
DR. WALLACE,
The tried &. trusted
I'HiKMisoi sutteiera
(second to Moke in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
.specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LEGALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a quest ion of doubt, 'that
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
titan their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SY DhlJiiy,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and. brought
sunshine into their homes
5
If you are troubled with
pimples, basbfufuess,
aversion to society.
stupiuness, despoudency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and ab>olufely unlit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know tbe cause. Get well aud be r'en.
...... ULD Ml
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and prematura
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIUATfi
Compi.atnts. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
MAIL.
By this
menus
you
can describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away from tbe
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. .Write for
our valuable trea-.
tises, NEItVOUS'
ANI) PItIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
•xoofj 0)(1 V° d°l s smvxx iiy
tiou. A perusal of them miffht save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
y<»ur lite. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
ana we will at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs, FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
SIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
I
M
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing' how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy KNTIIt E L
FREE, in plain SEALE
Cover. Address:
CM
‘TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Boro PbySiciaO-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung- into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word :
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this dav.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and bram.
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia —female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all,”but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist.
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work.
“ Mens Sana in Oorpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.G.S., Kng.,
121 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper
Medical.
DiTSPEER,
7 York. Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER'S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ATiT/ CONSUT/TATTONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
Straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
ossibilit.y of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
im so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
VW MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIARBH(EA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, sa3 - s:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
fHLOROPYNE
JOHN DURARTS
rf^l
!k
fd
bFferIHQKJ
FULL DIRECTIOWS
„ ENCLOSED?
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or hv post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don't Fret or Worry, but remember that
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.lv.
box 020. 7 York Street, Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or AVrite
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning yonr welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
HOIKS!
New, Up to*Date
Publications.
BOSKS!
The Soiled Dove, the History of a Young- Lady who ran
away from her parents and eventually “went to the dog's” ;
Miss Skittles, the girl with “ six husbands ” ; Sappho, Life
and Love in Paris—each post free Is. 6d. The Ballet
Girl, her natural history, “ gay life behind the scenes” —
post free, Is. Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of Love ; Don
Juan— each post free, Is. 9d.
R. W. SKINNER, Bookseller and Publisher, 106
OASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
T
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at liis
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest)
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone oil pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
hook will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and eonsult tlie- Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Br. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send Gd. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PEBMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very puress
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS j
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered, j
and that their cases and names will remain a i
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS Inis documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
• i »s |iT
137 ELIZABETH STitEET.
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G-.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday.
Wednesday and Satwrdav’
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength &-Vigor,
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
’’ permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don't
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
*
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes: —“I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago ] went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being vyell aerain. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Ilindley-street, Adelaide, writes :—
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
g
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain .your treatment, I decided to do the same. I am
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journ ey_without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. I am well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
df
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness 1 was so ill that I
had to give up work, ahd I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to sro to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBTLITT.
Mr. J. W. AITC11ISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—•‘Gentlemen,—1 cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and mast marvellous' treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care 1 can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
ail hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
yon that I spent over ±200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should,
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
m
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could he done
until f was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
1 nave suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like 1 was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but silso me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7Giuwao.


TATTERSALL’S
• ®
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
50,000 Subscriberß a.t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
—— shares in the above.
Address,
* s s
HOBART C. February 9.
50,000 Subßoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ ,
Name.
Address
shares in the above.
t
COOTAMCJNDRA C. Feb. 9.
10,000 Sulbacribera at 5»
Name .. _1
Address _
* i t
NEWMARKET H.
50,000 Subßoribi
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
Address
Feb. 26,
re at
5.
_ shares in the above.
Australian C. March 1.
50,000 Subscriber* at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address.
£, t t
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
N ame
• /
Address
£
*
SILVER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name _
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Jjnthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• < i
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYiARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
nr
if;,: 1
i|'!. 'll
I ifi!''
linir.!ii;l;iiiiiftM. n mm,miVi.i'iiniii
j$ "SANITAS
"SANITAS" "SANITAS
OUR TWO REcisUREOTRAOI MARKS .
"SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN
DISINFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANTcoMBiNtD.
APtOPlf S HEALTH 15 ANAT,pN'SW* aH
• ;Th£ SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
LB BtTHSAL dHELN, LONOON.t.
v _L
uuw
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphur (Fumigating)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OP
DISINFECTANTS.
■ The Hat of ‘ Sanitas' preparations is now so great
•'a3 to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
" armamentarium The composition of most of thes»
"is baaed on •Sanitas, a. deservedly popular, pleasant,
"and moreover active <V impound.”
Lancet, August 24th, 1895, p. SUL
“How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND ,
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON. _
« r '*mw 'W
‘ Tales of the
Convict System.”
SULKIES, as shown ,‘3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
//. IIILH Ell, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc.
Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in th«
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptional!}- good, if you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE .
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST MESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINS
PROMOTES GROWTH,
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DY£
i..
mmmm
Celebrated
I Authoress, \
MRS E. LYNN I
UNION, |i
says
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now aince June
laat, and I have
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been '
exceasive after a
severe illueaa, but
Ihavean entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair la longer
As 1 tm not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this ia a
convincing test
of your prepara- j
;t.on.” j
1/-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC. -
IkOKO MARICOPAS COY., !-TD„ Tg, EEVjSjajRRKSi
LONDON, ENGLAND;
- - SPECIA.X, NOTICE - -
WE beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
turers—not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
dash rail and lamps, £7lss. Our Special 3 SPRING STICK
SEAT SULKY, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps, £8
t 17s. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps,
£2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather,
including break and lamps, £2O. LADIES' PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
m
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with snecial beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessnrss, purity, and beautifymg qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions.'At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: "I find Dr Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit la sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain; supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s. Concentrated
Egg Powders! Bird’s Baking and Birds
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co,, and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WRITTEN AFTERWARDS.
So the days of my tramping are over,
And the days of my riding are done —
I’m about as content as a rover
Will ever be under the sun :
I write, after reading your letter—
My pipe with old memories rife,
And I feel in a mood that had better
Not meet the true eyes of the wife.
You must never admit a suggestion
That old things are good to recall;
You must never consider the question:
Was I happier then ? After all ? ”
You must banish the old hope and sorrow
That make the sad pleasures of life,
You must live for To-day and To-morrow
If you want to be just to the wife.
I have changed since the first day I kissed her.
Which is due—Heaven bless her ! —to her ;
I’m respected and trusted—l’m “Mister,"
Addressed by the children as “ Sir.”
And I feel the respect without feigning—
But you’d laugh the great laugh of your life
If you only saw me entertaining
An old-lady friend of the wife.
By-the-way, when you’re writing, remember
That you never went drinking with me,
And forget our last night of December,
Lest our sev’ral accounts disagree.
And, for my sake, old man, you had better
Avoid the old language of strife,
For the technical terms of your letter
May be misunderstood by the wife.
Never hint of the girls appertaining
To the past (when you’re writing again),
For they take such a lot of explaining,
And you know how I hate to explain.
There are some things, we know to our sorrow.
That cut to the heart like a knife,
And your past is To-day and To-morrow
If you want to be true to the wife.
I believe that the creed we were chums in
Was grand, but too abstract and bold,
And the knowledge of life only comes in
When you’re married and fathered and old.
And it’s well. You may travel as few men,
You may stick to a mistress for life ;
But the world, as it is, born of woman
Must be seen through the eyes of the wife.
No doubt you are dreaming as I did
And going the careless old pace,
While my future grows dull and decided,
And the world narrows down to the Place.
Let it be. If my “ treason’s ” resented,
You may do worse, old man, in your life ;
Let me dream, too, that I am contented —
For the sake of a true little wife.
HENRY LAWSON.
Mangamauna, Maoriland.
“OFF.”
So Emma’s broke it off !
Of course ! I might ’a’ known !
Things seemed a-cqmin’ round a bit
If they was left alone.
Th re was the bit o’ land
A-gettin’ on Al,
She said she’d have me when it went
An acre to the ton !
It’s just a little ’ard
To graft away for years :
Your days all give to bullocking,
Your nights to nameless fears !
An’ all to come to this !
Oh, Emma ! where’s your ’eart !
Can it feel half the bitterness
That’s tearin’ mine apart ?
There stands the little cot
I built for me and you !
I feel a kind of chokin’ when
I look at it—l do.
The patch o’ garden plants
I sowed to please your eye
May all get swamped with summer-weed
You’ll never see them die !
I used to sit an’ dream
Of evenin’s, after tea,
Of, someday, fixin’ up a swing
Beside the pepper-tree.
It won’t be wanted now,
Nor nothin’ of the kind.
I don’t care what becomes o’things
Now Emma’s changed her mind.
NIL.
“DUNNO!”
‘Member Jim ? Long, lanky slab,
Seemed he had no tongue to gab.
Shed all clucking, he’d lie low;
Ask him, he’d say, “Oh ! dunno ! ”
Mighty hard to interest Jim,
Most things wuz the same to him ;
Sport or politics had no show ;
Jim’d just say “ Oh, I —dunno l "
Jim got struck on Quigly’s girl,
She on him —she was a pearl!
But he couldn’t talk, an’ he wouldn’t go.
An’ what to do Jim didn’t know.
So, seein’ ’s how Jim made no play,
“ D’yer love me? ” she asks him one day
Jim he thinks, looks at her slow,
An’—s’elp me ! —says he, “ I dunno ! ”
Broke it off ? You bet a quid !
Took it easy too, Jim did.
Not a chap much on for show,
But he felt it —yes ! —I know !
Night the fire burnt Quigly’s place
Jim—yer should ’ave seen 'is face !
Rushed in—bli’ me, he would go !
What for ? Quigly’s girl, you know.
Got her safe —but he , my word !
Parson came’s soon’s he heard.
“ You a Christian ? ” he says fow,
Jim just gasps out, “ I—dun—no ! "
Died then, Jim did. Parson, well,
He guessed Jim would go to Hell.
’Cos he wasn’t “ saved,” I s’pose—
Mebbe there’s a God who knows.
BRANARD ESPINASSE.


ROstralim MGttial proyijT^T'e oc)€tv
■ ■ The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " " ™ \ ■* ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors ;—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman 5
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. VV. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
T. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I. A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
A nual income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Tiiree-qUarter millions Sterling.
The CASH "BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £423,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £333,0 JO.
XXea.d OfS3.ce : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
-
m
HOTEL
AUSI BALIA
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag-h-street, Sydney.
■j WHY JTOT TRY
A ROOF OF
P*B BUBEROID
C,O° V
Piß Preservative Paints
are WATER, ACID, DAMP-PROOF.
Australasian Agents: E. RICH and CO. LTD.,
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVEREUFREE BY
rgp
)F UNRIW
tcherley and
<m
uison,
257 George Street, Sydney.
*3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
«s
SSiBWJ» .•
SK-Z8
il
g«
Uli
m
i
THIS WORLD'S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
TTmtadL Typewriter &: Supplies Co.,
m
■
SSSBSS;
m
m
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & 00.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Go.
LA IT NC ESTON— Hedlkv Button.
No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particularn of tree Trial.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
9S King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate iri Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
r T'IIE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
1 with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of livitlr/ea'ovk.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit. any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
©3 33Ziatxg-st., SvdLney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING-STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - HOTEL.
.
~TL
r
MEL BOURNE.
EVER Y MO DEIt Nf CO NVUN I ENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
g
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOR
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Asrents N.&W.),
472 Georg-e-street, SYDNEY.
gECOND-HAND
New furniture
(Best (Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
I SAVE 50 PER CENT.
| V] Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite fot the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
THE . . .
CIT
FIR!
Insurance Company Ltd.
STRONG-. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Office: 95 Pitt-st, Sydney.
Victorian Branch :
EMPIRE BUILDINGS, 416 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
Guaranteed Security to Policy-holders nearly
£3,000.000.
Rates : Settlements
Lowest Current. Prompt and Equitable.
E3T INSUKEKS eeoe & e ee a y o veA bonus
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in '“ash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR ’ -
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
- Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 1.2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73.072-assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling'. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head OfficS?
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager/
Ocean
A ccident
. ’<• * ait d
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ Lo>' r 1 :i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, »
W. M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciirt, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
JP®* [SP' t ©i
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOU It STIIUIOT, SYDNI2Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Tos)s njore Imported Leaf
tl)aQ all tbe other Tobacco
Factories POt Together
were used hy DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality ©f BlxsOll’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Poodl
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PE It CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cl)an?pioi>.
The Choicest Bright Cat and Pluo\
;t V •' O O
CoijqCi^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dario Twist.
Cei>t€i}i)ial. . ■
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite
Rothschilds.
HoUclllZOf —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 19.—N0. 937.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1898.
Price, 6d.
MORE OR LESS “IN THE AIR.”
Mr. Barton still hopes that Queensland will be induced to join the Federal movement.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
.Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bit let in
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCETBEES
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ' ... •••
Half-yearly 0 12 °
Quarterly... ... ... ••• ” b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where requited
which you may pay by Post o[jice Order, 1 ostal A ore,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Directoi.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hei eby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Hindi and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current, event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. CornhUl. .
South Africa. — It- A . Thompson and Co ., 3 Lhuvch
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia.,
West.ralia and ITaoriland,.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside ‘ N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless■ the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscripnon
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tj&TSßi'xffeZz/n.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1898.
A Leap in the Dark.
The latest contribution of the New South
Wales Government to Federal literature is a
work by State Statistician Coghlan on the
finances of Federation. It is a sad and
pessimistic publication. Apparently the
writer was under severe limitations, and was
confined to showing, as far as possible, the
impossibility of every solution of the
financial difficulty which has been proposed
up to date, and then had to leave off. In the
course of his work Mr. Coghlan explains
that the Federal Government must raise a
large customs and excise revenue, and, if it
doesn’t take over the debts and the railways,
must divide a big surplus among the pro-
vinces to keep them solvent. Then the
calculation proceeds on this basis : The pro-
vinces, in 1896, imported so much each from
foreign countries, under their respective
tariffs. If they import the same amounts
under the uniform Federal tariff—which
they certainly won’t—they will yield so much
each in customs and excise revenue to
the Federal Treasury. The proportion
which each province should pay in ac-
cordance with its population towards
the Federal expenses is so much, and
there is a balance to bo divided.
If the balance is divided, giving each pro-
vince enough to keep it solvent, New South
Wales will get £980,000 less than her fair
share, and this amount will be divided among
her neighbours. If each province is handed
back what remains of its own contribution
after paying its proportion of the Federal ex-
penses, Victoria and Tasmania will go broke
for want of revenue, and South Australia
will go partly broke. If the surplus is
divided according to population, Westralia
will burst up utterly, New South Wales will
lose a little, and Victoria, South Australia,
and Tasmania will revel in ill-gotten contri-
butions afc the expense of their neighbours.
Then, having alleged that all these things
are hopeless, this profoundly melancholy
pamphlet stops suddenly.
* * * *
Even the little light it professes to throw
on the subject is mostly delusive. For, in
the first place, it is necessary to begin by
assuming that the provinces will each con-
tribute so much to the Federal customs and
excise revenue, and will therefore have a
lien upon so much of the surplus. And all
the calculations are based on the fact that
the provinces import so much already from
countries outside the Federation under their
respective tariffs, and on the assumption
that they will continue to import the same
amount from the same countries, no matter
what the tariff may be. Therefore, if the
Federal tariff is twice as heavy as the present
New South Wales tariff, the assumption is
that N.S. Wales will raise twice as much
revenue, so far as its foreign imports are con-
cerned, as it does now. And, if the Federal
tariff is only half as heavy as the present
South Australian tariff, the further assump-
tion is that South Australia will pay only
half as much in duties on foreign imports as
it does now. Which is just as logical as the
assumption that, if a man makes £5OO a year
working eight hours a day, he would make
£l5OO a year working 24 hours. On mere
bleak arithmetic he would make £l5OO a
year ; in reality he would only make himself
a corpse inside two weeks. Also, the same
kind of mechanically-accurate arithmetic
clearly proves that if one man is bitten by a
lion eight men will be bitten by eight lions,
and that if two men can dig out a cubic yard
of soil in 30 minutes, 18,000 men could do it
in one-tenth of a second—which they
couldn’t, for they would merely trample
each other to death in the struggle of 18,000
men to get on to a place where there was
only standing-room for four.
» • * *
In reality, things would pan out very
differently. If the South Australian tariff
was reduced one-third, the probability is that
the South Australian imports would pre-
sently so far increase that the cash results
would be about the same as they are now.
If the New South Wales tariff is trebled,
New South Wales, when it shakes down a
little, will probably pay about 50 per cent,
more than it does now, instead of 300
per cent. New South Wales, at the end
of ’9l, changed its low revenue tariff
into a comparatively high one, and on the
mechanical variety of logic the customs reve-
nue should have about doubled. Even at
the beginning, however, it did nothing like
this, and inside four years things had so re-
adjusted themselves that the high tariff
yielded, to all intents and purposes, the same
as the low one. The alleged difference of
“consuming power” of the different pro-
vinces is a matter which rests on no visible
evidence whatever. Inside a very few years
(probably five would be more than sufficient)
a uniform tariff would almost certainly make
the consumption of foreign goods per head
and the customs revenue per head so nearly
equal all over Australia that there would be
no difference to quarrel about. The removal
of border customs duties would so alter the
entire situation that arguments based on the
present imports and exports of each province
are of no possible account. The products of
each province would go, free of duty, all over
the Federation, and, if the local supply of
any dutiable article ran short, it would run
short all over the country, to all intents and
purposes simultaneously. Then the import-
ing process would commence in all the pro-
vinces. Even the fact that Westralia raises
four times as much Customs revenue as the
average of the provinces makes no difference
in this flattening-out process. If Westralia
didn’t manufacture for itself, it would simply
import its slop-clothes and its tinned-dog
from Sydney, and Melbourne, and Adelaide,
duty free, instead of from Europe or America,
with a heavy duty upon them. If the supply
of clothes ran out all over Australia, then all
the provinces would either have to import or
fall back into barbarism, but no one province
would be, to any noticeable extent, worse-
circumstanced than another.
* * * m
If the Federal Government keeps an ac-
count of the revenue derived from each pro-
vince for, say, five years, and during that
period returns to each its exact share of the
surplus, and after that simply assumes that
they all contribute the same amount per
head, and distributes the balance on that
basis, it will probably get as near to mathe-
matical accuracy as possible. The other
question to be settled is whether some of
the provinces, getting only their fair share
of the surplus, will be in a state of wild
affluence while others will be practically
insolvent l Coghlan’s table seems to imply
that New South Wales will have £750,000
more revenue than it has now, Victoria
about £60,000 less, Westralia £600,000 less,
and various other horrors. Still these
horrors only mean that each province will
get its fair share of its own customs and
excise revenue, so that some of them will
tax themselves a little more in this particular
direction for their own use and benefit, and
some will tax themselves a little less and
make up the revenue in other ways. But all
these things are just about as speculative as
the prevalence of religious mania in Jupiter.
If the same set of calculations had been made
ten years ago, when the Victorian boom was
at the pinnacle of its glory and the Westra-
lian one wasn’t even thought of, the situa-
tion would have been so wholly different
that no one would recognise it now. Five
years hence it will probably be so different
again as to be equally unrecognisable. Before
the Federal tariff is even drafted all the cal-
culations of to-day will most likely be waste
paper. The question whether the provinces
can all keep solvent if they federate,
and have equal customs duties, and the
surplus is divided fairly at the same
amount per head all round, is easily
answered. The Bulletin doesn’t know.
Nobody knows, or can possibly know.
All the elaborate estimates, showing how
things will pan out if the foreign im-
ports of each province remain the same, and
the populations preserve the same ratio, and
the expenditure remains the same, and the
income from railways and other sources of
revenue, apart from customs, remains the
same, are only good for gun-wads. Notone
of these things will remain the same for a
month after the new system is inaugurated—
nor even for half a day. Also, they wouldn’t
remain the same for a month if there was no
new r system at all. Whether all the pro-
vinces would remain solvent if they didn’t
federate, or whether they would be more
insolvent one way than the other, is equally
undiscoverable.
* * * *
The Bulletin still believes, as it always
has done, that the Federal Government
should take over the railways and public
debts in addition to the other proposed ser-
vices, and prohibit new provincial debts
altogether, and then there would be a vastly
more efficient system and no surplus to
wrangle about. But if the railways
and debts are left out, the most
hopeful policy is to have a period
of (say) five years of separate account-
keeping between the provinces, so as to
give things time to equalise themselves,
and after that to let the surplus be divided
among the provinces according to popula-
tion. If any province can’t meet its liabili-
ties under this arrangement the Federal Go-
vernment must think out a way of taking
over all the debts and consolidating them.
If some other crisis arrives the Federal
Government must devise a way out of it —
that is exactly what it is there for. The
provincialists’ reply to this line of argument
is that Federation, without a full under-
standing of the consequences, is a leap in
the dark. So it certainly is. So, also, is a
continuation of provincialism. Everything is,
more or less, a leap in the dark, and no one in
all this world ever has a full understanding of
the possible results that may arise from doing
anything or leaving anything undone. Even
dirt isn’t so common in this world as un-
expected consequences. The people who
demand a full understanding of the results
before Federation is effected are asking for
something that has never been on this globe.
If they had any fuller a knowledge of the
results of not federating the request might
be reasonable, but they haven’t. Federa-
tion, it is hereby frankly admitted, is a leap
in the dark. So is the other thing. So is
everything. The Bulletin merely advo-
cates this particular leap because the gloom
looks rather less dense that way than the way
Australia is leaping at present.
The Fiscal Referendum.
Supposing Premier Reid keeps his promise to
take a popular vote on the question of Free-
trade v. Protection at next N.S.W. election,
sundry interesting things may happen. The
collapse of the Party Government machine is
one of them. For instance, it is quite possible
that the general election may send Reid and
the rest of the GoD-fearing Ministry back into
power, and that the popular vote may give a
solid majority for Protection. No one really
knows why the community returns this or any
other Government to power. It may be be-
cause of its fiscal policy, or its direct-taxation
policy, or its Upper House reform policy, or its
promise to make the community jolly-and-fat,
or its GoD-fearing characteristics. If it gets
back into power it may be because the public
has a personal dislike to Lyne, or because it
has a sort of personal liking for its little, bulgy
comedian and thinks that life would be a dreary
thing without him, or for the sake of Federa-
tion, or because it doesn’t believe that Car-
ruthers hugged that girl some ten or twelve
years ago, or because of the Ministry’s land
policy, or anything else. It is perfectly within
the bounds of credibility that the community
might give the present Government a working
majority again and still vote for the other
party’s fiscal policy, or vice versa. And then
what would happen ?
* * * *
Presumably it is not proposed to ask the
country for a direct mandate and then refuse
to obey it. If the Government invites the
community to send it back to office, and the
community does so, the inference is that the
Government will go back to office. And if the
Government asks the community to say if it
wants Protection, and the community says that
it does, presumably the Government won’t
reply that it will see the community dashed
first. If it doesn’t intend to carry out the
nation’s definite instructions the natural infer-
ence is that it wouldn’t ask for them. Yet
supposing George Reid introduced a thorough-
going Protectionist tariff in obedience to the
popular mandate, where would the principles of
the GoD-fearing Government go to ? And sup-
posing he refused to do it, despite the direct
popular mandate which he had himself asked
for, and yet retained office, where would the
blessed Constitution go to? And supposing he
refused to do it, and resigned office, and left
Lyne— as the only alternative under the Party
system —to form a Government, well-knowing
that Lyne hadn’t a majority and couldn’t
carry on, where again would the Constitution
go to ? In fact, where would everything go to ?
One thing which is tolerably certain is that
the Party system and the Referendum won’t
work together—at least not for any great length
of time. Under the Party system the country
can’t make itself understood on matters of
detail; it is only a great mute monster trying
vaguely to explain itself by flapping its ten-
tacles in the air. Supposing it didn’t want
Lyne and yet did want Protection, and the
above-suggested deadlock ensued, how could it
furnish particulars? Possibly it would be will-
ing to give a solid working majority to Barton
or Dick O’Connor if either of them presented
himself, but as neither had presented himself,
and there was no definite way in which that
great, floundering mass, the community, could
explain itself, the situation would be difficult.
If one House of Parliament was elected by the
whole community voting as a single electorate
with manhood suffrage, any man who got a
towering majority over all .other candidates, as
Barton did at the Federal Convention election,
might fairly be set down as the popular choice
for Premier. As it is, there is no reliable way
of indicating the popular choice. Even if the
electorate of Bogged Cow gives him the biggest
majority on record, and burns its hamlet as a
bonfire in his honor, and every single elector
gets the horrors by way of celebrating the vic-
tory, that only expresses the feelings of one
electorate after all. If every other electorate
got the horrors also for the same reason it
wouldn’t even have any constitutional method
by which it could explain what it had got the
horrors about.
* ♦ • *
It is one of the fictions of Party Government
that the country only wants either Reid or
Lyne, or that if it is tired of Turner then it is
craving for nothing on earth except John
M'lntyre, and that it has no aspirations what-
ever beyond these limits. Another fiction is
that it is entirely satisfied with the crowd in
power—all of them; that it fully believes every-
thing they say, and entirely approves of every-
thing they do, and that it regards them generally
as being perfect. The country isn’t supposed
merely to regard them as being possibly a little
less of a fool than the other crowd, or to think
that perhaps there is so little difference between
the two that it isn’t worth the trouble of having
a change. If it or its representatives show that
they haven’t absolute faith in the Ministry on all
matters, the Ministry is supposed to cast its
portfolio from it with outraged dignity, and
wrap its insulted feelings around it, and retire.
The mere introduction of the Referendum
knocks this tradition endways. The Reid Go-
vernment is supposed to be in office because
the public approves of all its principles and all
its doings. At any definite sign of disapproval
it is expected to gather up its toga and make a
lofty Roman exit. At the same time, a Refer-
endum on the fiscal question implies that the
public, even while it supplies the Reid majority,
may, after all, disapprove of one of Reid’s
leading principles, which is itself an outrage
on the Party fiction. And if it turns out that
the country does so disapprove, there is nothing
in the Party system to meet so awful and un-
precedented a case.
• * * *
Supposing the community gives Premier Reid
a majority at the general election, and, at the
same time, that the Referendum vote gives a
majority for Protection. If such a thing wasn’t
possible, then there would be no earthly use in
having a Referendum at all, and Premier Reid,
by promising to have the Referendum, tacitly
admits the possibility. In that case it will be
evident that the nation, at three successive
elections, has been a large, dumb object making
signs which have been wholly misunderstood.
There will then be three possibilities in view
perhaps more. One is that it didn’t want
Reid because of his Foreign-trade proclivities,
as was generally supposed, but for some other
reason, which it has been trying to explain by
waving its limbs in the air to no purpose. An-
other is that it didn’t really care for Reid so
much as for some of his colleagues, whom it has
been unsuccessfully struggling to indicate. An-
other is that it didn’t want Reid at all, for
reasons which it couldn’t explain, but wanted
Dibbs and Lyne still less, also for reasons which
it couldn’t explain, and so put up with Reid
till it could contrive to make itself understood
to some other man whom, for some reason which
it couldn’t explain, it preferred to either of
them. Anyhow, the result of the combined
vote would be that the country had only
partial confidence in the Premier, without im-
plying that it had any confidence at all in the
Leader of the Opposition; and the Party
idea implies that the country must have
absolute confidence in one of them. An
as it would be an outrage on the Pait}
system for Reid to remain in office when the
country hadn’t faith in his fiscal creed; and 1
would be another outrage for Lyne to ho
office without a majority ; and as the country,
if it was prepared to give a majority to some
other Protectionist politician who could carry
out its mandate without losing his principles or
his dignity, couldn’t indicate clearly w
politician it was—the Party machine wou
begin to bump considerably. In fact, wie
the Referendum becomes a regular feature o
the Constitution the clumsy machine of ar
Government is bound to find itself bumpi g
over some very rough ground. _
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hanging It Up.
New South Wales’ shifty Premier has struck
still another idea for wrecking •
His latest proposal is that the popuar
which is to decide whether N.S.W. wil ,
not join the Commonwealth shall be pos p
till after the general election. No reas
any kind is given for the postponemen y
the statement that George Reid thinks 1 <
able to hang the matter up. The present
vention is to definitely draw up t e
Constitution, and it is generally agree t
will have fixed up a good or bad or in( , ,
one by the end of February, or, at a .
some time in March. Then there is a s
nothing to prevent its work be,ng f J U epl ance
the popular vote straight away, for r


or rejection, when the Convention debates will
have so far drawn attention to the matter that
there is a chance of getting the community to
roll up and give the necessary 80,000 votes.
Also, there is nothing to prevent the vote being
taken at the general election in June, when the
people are rolling up to the poll in any
case, and there is a still greater chance of get-
ting the necessary 80,000 votes. The visible
ends to be obtained by a postponement for four
or five months are that the subject will then
have grown cold ; the Convention will be ancient
history ; the little excitement it created will
have been forgotten; the weariness of long
delay will have made the very name of Federa-
tion more or less objectionable to a great, tired
mass of the community ; and the battle of local
politics will have distracted attention, in a
great measure, from this big national question.
It is a well-known fact that when two elec-
tions take place within a short time of each
other, the voting at the second one is almost
always very small, no matter if the issue is the
same, and that fact alone counts for something
in diminishing the chances. Again, the inter-
val will come in very handy by giving the anti-
Federal crowd in Parliament another show.
The delays which have already taken place
gave them and the turncoat Premier a
chance to raise the minimum affirmative vote
required for the acceptance of the Federal
Constitution from 50,000 to 80,000. The
proposed extra delay will leave them a
whole Parliamentary session in which to make
further alterations in the Federal Enabl-
ing Act. And if the Constitution drafted
by the third Convention is not sufficiently
narrow and provincial in sentiment, The Bul-
letin is prepared to wager a small sum that
there will be an attempt to further alter that
Act—either by again raising the minimum vote,
perhaps to 100,000 or 120,000, or by enacting
that Parliament may alter the draft Constitu-
tion, and so wrecking the agreement arrived
at, or by repealing the Federal Enabling Act
altogether, so that the matter shall not be sub-
mitted to the people at all. These are the
possibilities by which the delay may ruin the
Federal movement, and there isn’t one possi-
bility, so far as The Bulletin can see, by
which it will help the national cause along.
Even George Reid doesn’t profess to show any
good cause for this proposed further breach of
the Federal pact. And the pity is that the
matter can’t be mended, unless something unex-
pected happens, by the violent ejection of Reid
next June. Under the accursed party system
the only present visible alternative is Lyne.
And the difference between Lyne and Reid in
this matter is that one is a long, gaunt enemy
openly, and the other is a short, barrel-shaped
one in secret.
As to Some Celebrities.
Bernard Espinass* to The Bulletin :
Australia should, ere long, gain a reputation either for
setting up a standard of criticism more exacting than
that which seems to prevail in most other parts of the
world, or as a country from which the “celebrity” had
better keep away for his own sake. As a matter of fact,
the latter would appear to be an inevitable sequitur, in
any case. How many celebrities, who have attained to
pre-eminence in various walks of life elsewhere, have,
after journeying out to this sun-dried continent, been
straightway summed-up in the pregnant phrase, “ He
ain’t wot he’s cracked up ter be!” In fact, has this
half-baked island yet taken to its arms one who has
proved to be what he or she was cracked-up to
be ? Johnny Toole, for nearly half-a-century, was
accepted by Englishers as the low-comedian of the
Victorian era, yet Australia found him to be a prosy
individual whose humor consisted in wearing baggy
trousers and getting into corners. Wilhelmj was styled
“ Prince of Violinists ” ; one Melbourne paper referred to
him as a “ fiddler.” The consensus of opinion (not news-
paper opinion, but “bar” and “pavement” opinion),
passed upon Sarah Bernhardt was “a fine actress,
but nothing to rave about.” Antoinette Sterling,
Talmage, Mark Twain, Zimmerman, all disappoint-
ing, not what they were cracked up to be, as per
Australian judgment. And the list may be stretched to
include almost every visitor with a “made” reputation
who has ever come out here. Look at Nat Goodwin,
America’s “ leading actor”! And now there’s Ranji.
One more who has failed to realise expectations founded
on the “cracking-up” process. Once out for a
“ duck ” ; once clean - bowled, and “ out for 6.”
“ We’ve got • champions ’ ’ll do as good as that," says the
man in the street. Either the Australian expects too
much, and must suffer a corresponding reaction, which
finds its own (the true) level after all, or he is right and
the “ celebrity,” in nine cases out of ten, is not up to
advt. standard. The latter’s friends, of course, assert that
the “ colonial” doesn’t know a good thing when he sees
it. But I have a midway theory. The Australian is es-
sentially a nil admirari animal. He has a rooted convic-
tion that anything that is “ boomed ” is trading on a
bubble reputation which it is his bounden duty and
peculiar privilege to prick. And so he goes to see his
“ celebrity ” prepared beforehand to be disillusionised.
And, as such a state of mind is the most fruit-
ful soil to sow seeds of discontent in, it follows
that he generally is disillusionised. The celebrity
is a queer biped,_ too: he requires “petting” in
order to show off his paces ; above all things, a sympa-
thetic audience, and one that jumps with him. Conse-
quently, when he faces the Australians (who are mostly
“on their own ■’ as to judgment, and don’t care a rap for
anybody’s “name”), he seldom appears to the best ad-
vantage. He feels like Twain's guide when the party
refused to be interested or surprised at anything. And
once the celebrity is out of his atmosphere he is just
ordinary, common, clay man. Goodwin was a notable
example of this. Ranji is another. He is undoubtedly
a good cricketer, and just now the Adelaide barrackers
have themselves prevented him from showing that
he is a great one. Persistent jeering robs any
man of his nerve. Which, by the way, obtrudes
the failing of the average Australian. He can’t
stand criticism if adverse to himself or his coun-
try. Praise he is as fond of as a child, but criticism of
almost any kind moves him to “barrack.” Hence his
inability in the present instance to dissociate, in the
dual capacity of cricketer and critic, the man with the
bat from the man with the pen. In effect, the Australian
himself kills his “celebrity” goose and then blames it
because it doesn’t lay golden eggs.
♦
A Dual Referendum.
The Victorian Premier still sticks to his ridi-
culous scheme of the “ dual referendum ” to
settle Federal deadlocks, which, considering
Turner’s usual level-headedness, is rather re-
markable. In one House of the Commonwealth
Parliament it is proposed that representation
shall go by population, so N.S.W. and Victoria
can command a majority. In the other it will
go by States, so Tasmania, S.A., and Westralia
cau command a majority. If one House is
solid for a measure and the other is solid
against it, the general meaning will be that the
majority of people are on one side and the
majority of States on the other. Turner pro-
poses to get over the difficulty by submitting
the matter to a popular vote, and if the majority
of the people avd the majority of the States
say Yes, the matter shall be carried, but not
otherwise. And, seeing that if the majority
both of the people and the States felt inclined
to say Yes, the two Houses would be in agree-
ment and there would be no deadlock to settle,
Turner’s scheme isn’t any settlement at all, and
why the author of the dreadful thing can’t
see it passes comprehension. Owing to the
constitution of the Commonwealth Parliament,
so far as it has been agreed on, the Referendum
seems of very little use for adjusting disputes
between the two Houses. One of them will
speak for the majority of the people— in other
words, it will mainly represent N.S.W. and
Vic. The other will speak for the majority of
States, and represent mainly the three pro-
vinces which have no populations worth men-
tioning—Tasmania, Westralia, and S.A. If
they disagree, and the matter is referred to the
people, a majority vote toi decide, that is prac-
tically the same as leaving the matter to the
Lower House, where the majority of the people
runs the show, and there is no need for any
Referendum. If a majority of the States is to
decide, then that is practically the same as
leaving it to the Upper House, where the
majority of States runs the show, and there
is no use for any Referendum. If it takes a
majority of both States and people to decide,
that is leaving the deadlock just where it
was, and again there is no use for the
Referendum. Obviously, neither House will
agree to a Referendum at which the
other House’s constituency will have the
sole power of decision, and yet a Referendum
at which the constituencies of both Houses
have to agree before anything can be done is of
no more use than a wheelbarrow or an old boot.
Turner’s wild fad is also noteworthy, inasmuch
as it gives three chances to one against any-
thing being done. It provides one way in
which something can be done—by the majority
of both States and people saying Yes. On the
other hand, if the majority of States says No.
or the majority of the people says No, or both
majorities say No, things will remain as they
were—which is altogether too heavy odds in
favor of things always remaining as they were.
The only expedient likely to meet cases of
hopeless disagreement between the two Houses,
so far as The Bulletin can see, is to combine
them in one and let the combined majority de-
cide. The process will be quick and cheap,
whereas an all-Australian Referendum would
cost several months and probably about £50,000.
It w'ill give both the State majority and the
popular majority a show. And it will give a
definite answer, which Turner’s referendum
often wouldn’t.
Departure of Capital.
Melbourne Punch, which is decidedly more
democratic than it used to be, has still
occasional relapses into Toryism. On these
occasions it wails like a banshee in a moated
grange about the way capital is being driven
out of the country by the hobnailed legislation
of a dreadful democracy. A few days ago the
moaning Punch broke in foam upon the beach
with a remark that “the calling away of so
much English money w'as a very serious matter
indeed. Also the causes of the regrettable exit
were, “ the low rate of interest ruling for first-
class securities, the heavy taxation under the
Land and Income-tax, and the uncertainty as
to future legislation in this free and demo-
cratic country.” It finished up with the usual
plaint that the Turner Ministry should take
“ a broader and more statesmanlike grasp of
Governmental questions,” which is the old
trouble ; Punch always thinks the Government
should do something in a large, broad way, but
never by any chance explains exactly w'hat it
should do or what broad way it should do
it. The “uncertainty as to future legisla-
tion ” in Victoria is a weird complaint
anyhow; future legislation is always un-
certain in every country ; so is every other
thing. Meanwhile, as regards the departure of
British capital—which presumably means Bri-
tish cash, as the lands, buildings, railways,
harbors, and similar heavy and securely-nailed-
down forms of wealth haven’t departed much—
it appears that the visible coin in the province
at 31st December, 1897, as shown by the bank-
ing returns, was £7,358,000. And in 1891,
when there was no democratic party in power,
and no uncertainty about derhocratic legislation,
because such a thing wasn’t then dreamt of in
Victoria, and the banks hadn’t burst, and there
was no income-tax at all, and the province was
still bringing in vast sums of British money in
the form of loans, the visible cash—also as
shown by the banking returns—was £6,956,640.
These disgusting figures seem to show that
Victoria has £400,000 more coin, now that
British capital has been flying from the pro-
vince for years and confidence has been
wrecked by democratic legislation and Income
Tax, than it bad when confidence was quite
sound under a Tory Administration, and
British money was arriving in large bagsful
by every steamer. Under these conditions,
the “withdrawal of British capital,” which
the Tory always declares is going on “ some-
thing awful ” when his gang isn’t on top,
looks like a very small ghost indeed a
baby ghost that is leading an unhealthy
existence on tinned milk, and not growing
worth a cent. Every province has had a turn
at that bogey now. Maoriland got it particu-
larly bad in ’9l, at the beginning of the Bal-
lance era, but, after capital has fled out of the
province for seven years, there seems to be more
capital in it than ever before.
If Premier Reid comes back to power after the
N.S. W. general elections he will not be averse,
he has allowed it to be understood, to having a
larger lay element in the composition of his
Cabinet. Law reform is impossible with the
present proportion of lawyers in the Cabinet
and the House. “You keep them out of the
House,” said Reid one day lately, “and I’ll
fix the Cabinet to malcli.’ But Reid’s Cabinet
has stood at seven lawyers (or rather legal
practitioners) out of ten—which greatly exceeds
the proportions in Parliament. Law reform
made considerable strides in S. Australia
because, as Kingston once pointed out, there
were only three legal men in the Assembly
there. The Cabinet has more influence on the
making of laws than the body of the House,
and more than one half of if should be com-
posed of laymen, whatever the proportions of
lawyer to layman in the Legislature. In fact,
a leader of Opposition would only do his duty
in tabling a want of confidence motion as re-
gards any Cabinet, the composition of which
shows a predominance of the lawyer element.
A few months back a Church of England vicar,
or rector, or something, writing in the Con-
temporary, referred to the decadence of the
Wesleyan clergy ; “ while in his private
capacity a Methodist, as a rule, will go beyond
a Scotchman in his efforts to make the best of
the main chance.” Now, this evolution pre-
sents an interesting problem, and The Bulletin
has been wrestling with it. Having no State
aid and no family livings, the Methodist parsons
have had to hustle all the time, and the most
successful of them have, generally speaking,
been those who have been able to beg best.
But, if the adherents parted every time a most
persuasive appeal was made, they would be
perpetually empty - pocketed. Result the
Methodist, more than most men, is trained to
harden his heart; and that is the beginning
and the ending of his special aptitude for
making and holding on to the cash. Watch if
the operations of Booth’s battlers don’t have
the same effect !
4
The proposal to get the charters of Australian
universities altered so as to allow them to con-
fer divinity-degrees is one which was, sooner
or later, to be expected. But it is one which
should be none the less strenuously opposed, on
the simple grounds that a university is a State
institution, and that the State—an absolutely
secular institution—doesn’t, or shouldn’t, know
anything whatever about so-called divinity. It
is the business of the State to provide instruc-
tion only, either in what can be known, or in
what is of demonstrable benefit to the mind of
man, and divinity not only deals with what
cannot possibly be known, but has ever been
the greatest clog upon true intellectual advance-
ment. Theology is the dry-rot of the mind,
and the case is, therefore, essentially one of
obsta principiis.
The French are extremists. The middle course
of more phlegmatic races is rarely, if ever,
adopted by them—in matters political, at any
rate. It is, therefore, within cooee of proba-
bility that the telegram is correct which
informs us that New Caledonia is to be relieved
of its convict strain, and that henceforth
French black sheep will be sent to Kerguelen’s
Land. Now, Cayenne, on the equator, and
Kerguelen’s Land, in the 40’s, are surely anti-
thetical points of climate. It may be, however,
that to the French genius it is wise and politic
to consider this question of latitude in relation
to the offal of France. Even the French
criminal may be held in check by the reflection
that if he is nabbed he will have to either
frizzle or freeze.
*
In connection with the agitation for “ increased
facilities for the investment of British capital
in our mines,” it is fashionable just now to
write to the respectable papers to show, “ with
regard to some particular mine in which the
writer is interested,” how much of the revenue
has gone into the pockets of the working man
and how little into the pockets of the share-
holders.” For a change The Bulletin wants
to hear from the Jugginses who have backed
impossible horses to win the Melbourne
Cup. They, of course, will complain that,
while they are out of pocket, the absurd
fellows, doncherknow, who take the tickets at
the gates and drive the engines on the Fleming-
ton line have had their pay regularly. Which
is grossly unfair, you see, because if the
Jugginses had owned Gaulus and backed him
for a million they wouldn’t have thought of
keeping the boodle themselves—they would
have divided it equally among all those absurd
fellows at the gates and elsewhere, dontcher-
know, like all other winners do !
4.
Federal Convention item :
Mr. Gordon : “ New South Wales was, of course, in a
peculiar position. She held the body of the tributaries
of the Darling.”
Mr. Reid : “ The whole of them.”
“ I said the great body of them,” answered Mr. Gordon.
“ I say ‘ the whole,’ ” retorted Mr. Reid.
“ Certainly, with the exception of a few’tributaries in
Queensland, which do not amount to much,” Mr. Gordon
admitted.
The above quotation shows that there are a
body of men, picked by election, assembled to
consult about the federation of a continent, the
simple geography of whose principal rivers they
are as ignorant of as the last imported cockney.
Premier Reid stated, and was not contra-
dicted, that New South Wales held the whole
of the tributaries of the Darling, and Gordon,
of S.A., admitted that some insignificant
tributaries did come from Queensland. Let us
see how it stands, and what anyone but a pro-
fessional politician knows. Roughly speaking,
the drainage area of the Darling amounts to
231,000 square miles. Of main tributaries,
Queensland contributes the Condamine (Culgoa),
the real head of the Darling, draining 47,923
square miles ; the head of the M‘lntyre, drain-
ing 15,232 square miles ; the Warrego, draining
26,368 square miles ; and the Paroo, with a
drainage area of over 25,000. Therefore,
Queensland supplies 114,523 square miles of the
drainage area, or nearly half. So far as the
water-flow is concerned, the sub-tropical rains
of Queensland supply most of it. All the
N.S.W. tributaries north of the Lachlan are
not in it compared to the Queensland waters.
And not only does Queensland supply about
half of the drainage area, and the bulk of the
water which Reid claims as being wholly
N.S.W. property, but in actual mileage nearly
one-half of the river system which Reid says is
wholly in N.S.W. is in Queensland! Yet
Reid’s fat-headed ignorance of his own country
was so extensively shared by his neighbours
that no one knew enough to contradict him.
Some day, when all the provinces are federated,
and each has absolute control of its own river
system, it will suddenly transpire that Queens-
land, should it choose to go in for huge irriga-
tion and conservation works, can pretty nearly
abolish the great N.S.W. river system.
——♦-
The first liberal idea submitted to the third
Federal Convention was thrown out almost in-
stantly. Howe, of S.A., proposed that the
Federal Government should take over the Old
Age Pension business. If the provinces run
it they have to demand that the pensioner
shall have lived for (say) 15 years in one parti-
cular province, otherwise the State with the
most liberal system would have to maintain all
the aged of Australasia. As a natural result, a
man who had wandered a great deal back and
forward among two or three provinces might
reach the age of 152 without having a claim
on any one of them. Federal control would
settle this difficulty. But the dreary M'Millan
asked “ why should the people of one part of
Australia have to bear the poverty of the rest
of Australia ? ” and that settled it. Of course,
it wasn’t proposed that the people of one part of
Australia should bear the poverty of the rest of
Australia ; but that the people of all Australia
should bear the poverty of all Australia. And,
if the balance didn’t come out right to a frac-
tion, it would be no worse than it is now, when
the people of one part of N.S.W. have to bear
the poverty of the rest of N.S.W. The voice
of M'Millan was that of the Scotch hunks cry-
ing in the wilderness about the possibility
of losing an odd halfpenny; and all along
the odd halfpenny has run the entire
business. The proposal for Federal river
control is evidently coming to grief for the
same reason. South Australia has absolute
control over the lower Murray; N.S.W. and
Victoria over the upper Murray ; N.S.W. and
Queensland over the Murray’s principal tribu-
taries. It is suggested that the whole thing
should be lumped under Federal control, but
the general fear that the other fellow will get a
pint of brown, muddy water the best of the
deal blocks the way. Nobody really wants
that pint for himself, but everybody will see
the other fellow dead before he’ll let him have it.
A Cure for Curious Males.
Editor Bulletin, —From your last number I
learn with surprise that the Vic. Govt, reprehends
that ancient and artistic instinct which collects
its citizens in the vicinity of ladies’ bathing-
places. The Vic. Govt., in its individual com-
ponents, can never have read Halked and Sheri-
dan s translation of the seventh epistle of
Aristsenetus, which recounts how Cyrtion was
fishing when a lady came along and asked him to
mind her clothes while she had a swim—
“ I want to bathe, sir, and I wish
You’d watch my clothes while I’m away.”
Cyrtion promised not only for himself, but for his
dog also—
“ I’ll watch your clothes, and by their side
My faithful little dog- shall lie.”
Then the epistle proceeds—
She bow’d, and doff’d her mantle blue ;
Good heavens ! what beauties struck my sight ;•
Thus morn’s sweet ruddy skies I view,
Fresh from the midst of lagging night.
And those are the aesthetic raptures of which
Premier Turner and his graceless crew deprive
young Victoria. The poem charmingly con-
tinues—
Two rising globules at her breast,
Whose swelling throb was such,
They seem’d upheaving to be prest,
And sued impatient for the touch.
The wind was hush’d, the sea was calm,
And in she leap’t, and plough’d the tide;
The froth that bubbled as she swam
Lost all its whiteness by her side.
But soon the wave’s impetuous gush
Dash’d o’er her form a crimson hue;
She blush’d—you’ve seen the rosebud blush
Beneath its morning coat of dew.
And when the lady emerges—
Quick to present her clothes I rush
And towards her stretch my longing arms;
But she repulsed me with a blush,
A blush that added to her charms.
Bage would have sparkled in her eyes;
Yet, still they twinkled lovely, sweet:
As suns in farthest skies
Emit their light without their heat.
Admirable simile ! And the incident closes most
morally. Who can estimate the educational value
of such incidents? Consider the noble stimulus
which Collingwood and Melbourne would receive
if the Vic. Govt, hired a band of ladies to have
their clothes watched at St. Kilda on Sundays
and holidays !—under the strictest ehaperonage, of
course. The Vic. Govt, teaches its children the
three R’s in a dull, mechanical fashion ; it stores
their minds ; but when does it inspire their souls?
Never, so help me Peacock ! Yet how much
more stimulating to the Better Life is the message
of Beauty than the message of Euclid and Colenso !
The Vic, democracy should sing with democratic
Gerald Massey—
Come let us worship Beauty: she hath subtle power to
start
Heroic word and deed out-flashing from the humbles
heart!
Our bliss shall richly overbrim like sunset in the west,
And we shall dream immortal dreams, and banquet with
the Blest;
Come let us worship Beauty with the knightly faith of
old,
O Chivalry of- Labour toiling for the Age of Gold !
After this, it sounds sordid to say that the clothes-
watchers would be sure voters for Govt.; but I say
it, for Govts, are sordid things. The only diffi-
culty would come in procuring, not willing ladies
(the job is just what they would like), but shapely
ones. My experience, professional and otherwise,
enables me to say that probably not one Victorian
girl in a hundred is artistically fit to have her
clothes watched. If the Turner Govt, really thinks
that an indecent zeal urges its populace to lie in
wait outside the ladies’ baths, the cure is obvious.
Don’t arrest the villains ; don’t imprison them ;
simply let them in. One glance would send mis-
guided manhood fleeing, shrieking. There is a lady
of my acquaintance, an ardent and able swimmer,
livingwithin easy distance of certain baths. She has
visited them once. “Such a nightmare, my
friend ! I shall never_ forget it, never ! Excep-
tions —oh, yes! but swallowed in the writhing
crowd of bow legs, curved spines, bulges, protru-
sions, a horror of misshapen flesh ! Oh, it haunts
me ! haunts me ! ” Doubtless enthusiastic and
inexperienced Youth will rush to combat this im-
pression. But I appeal to the sensible average
man in the words of Chris. Wren’s epitaph, Si
monumentum queer is, circumspice! Translated—
If you want an awful example, consider your own
wife. The young Spartan was warned against
drunkenness by the spectacle of the drunken
helot. The young Victorian should be warned
against curiosity by the spectacle of the average
woman without her clothes. Is not that how
Peeping Tom of Coventry was blinded ?— Brigham
Brown, M.D.. F.R.C.S.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1897.
. , (Preliminary Statement as conveyed by Cable)
ASSETS exceed ... ...
Increase in Assets during 1897 exceeds
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897 exceeds
ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds...
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 exceeds
£48,950,000
3,750,000
10,000,000
1,000,000
197,900,000
7,250,000
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation i ADpro a ~ .
any other Life Office in the World. valuation LARGER than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W,
Startling Reduction
In the Price of
PHOTOGRAPHS.
The Ideal Portrait Co.
Beg to announce a reduction in their prices,
which, until further notice, will be as follows :
12 Cabinets (Enamelled) Bs. 6d.
12 do. do.
(with Opal 10 x 12) 10s. 6d.
6 Cabinets for - - ss.
The quality of work which has rendered
IDEAL Portraits so famous will remain the
same; and no trouble will be spared to give
satisfaction.
No Stairs . .
No Elevator * .
. . No Extras.
The Ideal Portrait Co.,
480 George-street, Sydney
(opp. Main Entrance to New Markets).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood.”
Lyceum “ Work and Wages.”
Royal “Jack the Giant-Killer.”
Criterion. “The Strange Adventures o#
Miss Brown.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Combined Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Ben-my-Chree.”
Royal. “ Dick Whittington.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Co.
“Work and Wages,” the new Lyceum
play, has a title that is even more irrelevant than
the average. At the beginning, the horny toiler
is on strike, and doesn’t receive any wages. He
goes to work once in Act 111., but proceedings
are suspended owing to the immediate blowing-up
of the premises. Later on Sweeney states that he
is making match-boxes at 2|d. a gross, but be isn’t
seen either working or collecting the remunera-
tion. Finally, Diver is going to receive the wages
of sin in the shape of a drop of hemp and a sudden
stoppage, but he dies prematurely in the dock,
and the event doesn’t come off. Johnson Weir,
as the hero, preaches to the strikers the doctrine
of co-operation, while Diver, the sneerful boss
with two wives, regards them like the Almighty
scoffing at a locust. But, apparently, Diver
drinks his huge factory, for presently Johnson
Weir is found owning it and running the place on
philanthropic lines, till Diver blows him up.
After that the latter spends most of his time
hustling.through dark slums to murder his two
wives so that he can rehabilitate bis wrecked for-
tunes with a third marriage. Maud Williamson
is his principal victim, and she repents all through
the story in a bare head and a long black cloak.
Why some girl doesn’t repent just for once with a
hat and feather and a pale frock with a waist to it
this paper knoweth not. The bareheaded girl re-
penting in all sorts of weather seems to be a fixed
stage tradition.
• • • •
Allowing for all discrepancies, however,
the drama is a respectable affair with a good deal ot
meat in it. There is a particularly rich streak of
humor in it when 23 Englishmen set on one solitary
Belgian with bricks, and the latter stands at bay
with a knife. The hero comes on just then, and
reproves the Belgian severely for not fighting in
fair English fashion against his 23 antagonists
armed with bricks, and tells him that Englishmen
don’t use knives. Seeing that they obviously
carry bricks instead, this seems quite true. Pro-
bably the author didn’t know that this was humor.
Diver’s sneerful capitalist is probably the best
single fact in the show, though the co. is a strong
one throughout. Diver has made one or two un-
successful attempts at playing the good man, but
as the gentlemanly ruffian with the scoff and the
cigarette he is always a brilliant success. He
hasn’t the versatility of the lamented Scot Inglis
—or at least he hasn’t developed it so far—but,
viewed as a cold evening-dress scoffer with a smoke
in his mouth, or a gambler who has aces down bis
back, or a really bad capitalist who doesn’t believe
in God, or an insolvent captain with three wives who
sells the fort to the enemy, Diver stands very
nearly alone. Frank Harcourt, King Hedley
and Sweeney especially the latter—always
give a good account of themselves, and
Stirling Whyte, when be is cast for a loath-
some, funny Jew, needs no recommendation.
Johnson Weir also seems to get a little above his
old dead level, and Phil Walsh probably wouldn’t
look quite so dreadful as he does if be wasn’t
playing Scot Inglis’ old character. As it is, be
looks very wooden, and much ashamed of himself,
and terribly embarrassed with his hat and feet.
Four nice girls, Lilian Wheeler, Maud William-
son, Noney Seabrooke, and Ethel Grey, support
the woman part of the show, and when so much
talent and beauty are thrown in for 2s. it must be
admitted that Australia is a cheap country to live
in. But if the management had any sense of
humor it would revise that part of the drama
where Johnson Weir reproves the aged Belgian
for bis un-English conduct in drawing a knife
against the 23 infuriated Britons with rocks, in-
stead of fighting them all at once with his un-
dressed fist.
35 35 35 35
Thornton’s co., at Sydney Criterion, is
rapidly getting through its last nights. “ Charley’s
Aunt ” closed up last week, and the co. has done
a brief season of “ Sweet Lavender,” and has
nearly hustled through the “ Private Secretary.”
That mournful, wrinkled curate has only two more
nights (Thursday and Friday) to go, and on
Saturday Thornton starts from scratch on a very
short race after “Miss Brown.” A special inter-
est attaches to this latter, inasmuch as there is a
perfectly new heiress, and the coffee-colored girl
from Demerara will also be in fresh hands. The
Bulletin has a sympathetic feeling for that
dusky dreamer from the tropics, partlv on
account of the womanly kindness with which she
receives the tattered Miss Brown when that lady
is brought back in handcuffs, torn, muddy, sulky,
with her hair down, and more than half inclined
to bite the spinster who runs the seminary.
So far the new Thornton co. has been quite as
successful as the old one, and up to date it hasn’t
played Lavender with flaming red hair as the old
lot did. Bessie Rignold’s Lavender, with the
sunset hair and the red tomato knob and the
fringe that was one concentrated howl for blood,
•will he long remembered in Sydney.
* 35 35 35
Eight times a week, regularly, “Babes in
the Wood ” unfurls its magnificence at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), to payable houses. Coleman
and Burke add fresh points now and then to the
bitter altercation about the stolen florin ; and
Uncle occasionally ties himself in different kinds
of knots when he comes home, full of crime and
beer, and fights a bloodthirsty battle with the
keyhole; and sometimes he flays his dog dif-
ferently ; but, in a general way, it is the same
deserving spectacle all the time. Sydney in gene-
ral has taken the babes to its capacious heart, and
the gallery has fallen in love with the girl babe
unanimously. Any eight youths that you could
pick in the gallery would be glad and proud to
jointly boot her traducer—if she had one, and
there was only one of him, and the eight met him
at night, and could all get on top of him before he
knew they were coming, and they could raise any-
thing on his watch afterwards. Also, there isn’t
one respectable male citizen in the d.c. who
wouldn’t defend her character in strong language
anonymously through the telephone any day.
There are plenty of good points about the boy
babe, certainly, but it is the girl babe who has got
the biggest hold on the public soul, and this coun-
try would make a bonfire of its income-tax paper
in her honor any day.
35 35 35 35
The second of Sydney’s three pantomimes
begins to show signs of giving out in the feet.
Rickards announces the last nights of “Jack ” at
Sydney Royal, and though the exact date of its
foundering isn’t fixed, it is understood that that
gaudy spectacle will go down very shortly. Con-
sidering the respective prices, it might fairly
claim to be the most filling Xmas spectacle
in Sydney, and the lavish array of talent and
clothes and ballet might have ensured it a longer
existence if the Government had only put a
.£4,000,000 loan on the market at the right
moment.
35 35 35 35
Henry’s silver coin co. is now in its 65th
week and is doing considerable destruction with
‘‘Crime in the Clouds”—a title which suggests
that someone has committed drunkenness and
assault in a balloon.
35 35 35 35
Phil. Newbury has returned to Sydney
Tivoli, and the eight Kellinos, and Austin Rudd,
and little Alma Gray, and other gems of song and
dance keep the globe revolving. Nothing abso-
lutely astonishing has eventuated since last week,
but the usual respectable level of excellence has
been maintained, and some paralysing novelties
may come along any day.
35 35 35 35
The large and varied assortment of God’s
creatures which constitutes Fitzgerald’s circus got
up its last profuse perspiration in Sydney on
Saturday night last, and immediately departed
for M.L. On the preceding Friday night the big
tent, with a bumper audience, most successfully
withstood a tremendous storm. The rain drove
down, hitting the canvas like so many million
bullets, the wind roared, the lions and tigers
roared, the thunder roared, the trainers loudly
cracked their whips, the horses galloped round
and round the circle, and the kiddies whistled
and yelled with delight.
35 35 35 35
Unless Wilson Barrett and the Firm re-
pented at the last moment of their promise to set
aside a certainty for the uncertainty, “The Manx-
man ” retired from Melb. Princess's after Tuesday
night, and “ Virginius ” is taking the floor. “ The
Manxman ” caught on to a public that had not
been laid hold of by “Claudian.” Under the
circumstances “ Virginius ”is probably a mistake
in business tactics, but, in any case, it will not do
much damage. The ancient Roman father will
knife his offspring and curse Appius Claudius for
three nights only. On Saturday the dramatic
version of “The Deemster” is to be produced.
It is handicapped with the title of “ Ben-iny-
Chree,” which sounds very like half-brother to
“ Arrah-na-Pogue, ” and “Colleen Bawn. and
“Savourneen Deelish,” and many other Irish
identities whose hair is turning grey. Therefore
the management cannot dwell too" loudly on the
point that “ Ben-my-Chree ” is another child of
Hall Caine, born on the little islaud where Pete,
Phil, and Kitty first saw the light. The plot is
the story of “ The Deemster,” with special addi-
tions by the author of the novel.
* * • »
Some of the little incidental items in
“ The Manxman ” performance are the most
effective. Kate’s musical cry of “ Pete ! ” fetches
the love-sick fiddler instantly, after maid-ser-
vant Susan has been screaming in vain, and old
man Caesar’s chunks of wood have whizzed past
him unheeded. Then there are the items of Ross
Christian, the caddish cousin, and his pugilistic
pals. Ross makes three brief appearances on the
scene, speaking only a few lines each time, but
every line bites the ear of the audience. The two
pals tell the story of their lives in- a couple
of monosyllables. Another clever bit of work
is the introduction of the choir, practising
a hymn for Caesar’s next open-air service, whilst
that steely-hearted impostor beats time with an
axe. One remembers the choir through Caesar’s
casual remark that the last time he allowed them
to help themselves to refreshment in his pub. they
mixed gin with their beer—in “ mistake ’’ for
water—and got most religiously tanked. These
minor touches of nature are capital, whereas
Wilson Barrett’s ambition for cheap realism
is apt to over-reach itself. He stages a num-
ber of hens, and picking hens are quite un-
suited to a moonlight scene, especially at
matinees. The other Saturday afternoon, when
the shades of night were darkening the first act, a
member of the rooster’s harem announced her in-
tention to lay an egg, and 500 women tittered
vigorously. Astonishing how the female sense
of humor (or is it indecency ?) gets excited at the
thought of egg-laying in public, or at any mention
or a cat s accouchement.
35 35 35 35
“ Dick Whittington ” has plugged along
into the fifth week at Melbourne Royal, and is
just now sprinting. Probably Maggie divested
herself of several pounds avoirdupois whilst the
thermometer was doing its worst, and this accounts
for the name-part having put on much pace lately.
Harry Roberts is likewise travelling faster, not
that he is any thinner than usual, but because the
pantomime track has been rolled, and banked, and
the roar of the multitude is more encouraging
than at first. Also, the fall in temperature agrees
with the Flower Pot Ballet, and the clown doesn’t
suffer from a sudden exodus of perspiring audience
when the comic scenes are about to begin. “ Dick
Whittington ” is rooted in the rich soil of favor-
able circumstances, and the advt. announces that
a second edition will blossom soon with fragrant
beauty. The Bulletin’s nose has never yet de-
tected new fragrance in the second chapter of a
pantomine, but, perhaps, this will prove an excep-
tional case.
** * *
The Rickards show booms along its ever-
lasting way at the Opera house, where the three
Hegelmanns are still alive and doing well. Miss
Lilian Tree’s fine, robust warble accounts for some
of the extra crowding on Saturday nights, and
Michael Nolan, the man who wrote “ Annie
Rooney,” appears to be rather popular despite
his connection with that distressing ballad.
** * *
The M‘Gregors, assisted by Dan Barry,
continue to defeat Ranjitsinhji with great slaugh-
ter at the Alexandra. On the sacred word of
Daniel aforesaid, “ The Relief of Lucknow ” is
guaranteed to act like a tonic to the soul of the
Briton ; also it is good for rheumatism, sore feet,
and many other diseases too numerous to men-
tion. Any drama that can last for a fortnight at
the Alexandra must have a startling feature of one
sort or other. The feature in this production is
Ranji’s rolling eye. It is the most bloodthirsty
and remorseless optic ever staged in this country,
and The Bulletin cordially recommends its
claim to an advance in salary dating from the
15th instant, when it started to roll. On Friday
there is to be a grand military command night at
the Haleck, under the patronage of Lord Wolseley
and the rest of the Salvation Army.
35 35 m 35
Harmston’s Circus was to conclude a
highly-respectable and well-conducted season in
Melbourne with a couple of performances on
Anniversary Day, but t e season may possibly be
persuaded to last a day or two longer on the old
spot. Before the end of this week, however, the
tent will fold itself up like the Arabs, and steal
silently away to Tasmania.
35 35 35 35
Some men have all the bad luck. The
kindly attempt to provide a handsome purse of
sovereigns for Henry Burton through a benefit
performance at Harmston’s Circus (Melb.) was
considerably cruelled by the weather last Friday
night. Burton, the first of our old time circus
proprietors, is now, in his 75th year, a pensioner
upon the Distressed Actors’ Fund in one of the
cottage homes supported by it. His benefit, with
veterans G. B. W. Lewis and Pollock acting as
ringmasters, had promised to be a much bigger
success—but, alas ! the wind and the rain !
* 35 * *
Wybert Reeve, lessee of Adelaide Royal,
is still humping a cinemat. through Maoriiand
with but medium results. Meanwhile, Adelaide,
with a population of 120,000, sighs for good
shows in vain. The Royal is open intermittently,
and the Bijou—of which the travelling Hudson is
lessee —is closed eight months in the year.
At Poverty Point .
Miss Cecily Staunton, the handsome Maorilander with
the fine contralto voice, has gone to Hamburg after her
course of study under Marchesi. At this place, Herr
Spengel, a musical potentate, beamed upon the singer,
and arranged a concert for her. She sang to a colerie of
German critics, who were quite charmed with her vocalisa-
tion. Miss Staunton, however, does not mean to confine
herself to German and French music, but will visit Santley
for lessons in English ballad singing.
Miss Maud Jeffries, the tall, handsome (and i/otrag)lead-
ing lady of the Wilson Barrett co., would make a charm-
ing Rosalind—down to the waist. Her one troublesome
defect is a rolling gait, which, however, comes natural
enough to the character of Kitty in “ The Manxman.”
Ethel Levien, the pretty and vivacious daughter of Vic.
M.L.A. Levien, the onion-king of the South, made her
ddbut in a London burlesque last month. Possessed of
the usual musical ability of the Hebrew race and a plump
and pleasing figure, the young lady should score.
An Australian theatre, usually very well conducted,
was the other night invaded bv a band of larrikins in
evening dress. The circle was'already well filled, and
when these roughs bounded in the performance was well
started. Yelling, jostling each other, jumping over the
backs of seats for no other reason than sheer vanity (for
all seemed sober), they assumed their seats, and spent
the rest of the night loudly barracking each other and
the performers. An inquiry as to why they were not
cooling their heels in a police cell elicited the explanation
that they were a “ party from Govt. House," and though
the writer, after careful inspection, could find nobody
officially connected with that edifice, the crowd comprised
several of the Naicest, and men old enough to know
better.
On Saturday, January 15, there were no fewer than five
matinees in Sydney. One of the pantos has since been
called off.”
Reading “ Virginias, ’’ it seems odd that it should be
revived by Wilson Barrett in the year 1898. It is 78 years
since the piece was first produced ; Sheridan Knowles,
then a Glasgow schoolmaster, had scribbled it in bits upon
a schoolboy's slate in leisure moments. The rhetoric
bubbles along the lines like soapsuds down a drain. Thus
Virginius’ description of his infant daughter with her
feeding-bottle :
“ At the generous
And sympathetic fount, that, at her cry,
Sent forth a stream of liquid, living pearl
To cherish her enamell'd veins.”
It is the sort of stuff that Fitz Gibbon could write.
Improved title: “The Manxman and the Minxwoman.
To a correspondent,—“ Iv.V. Jim Alexander was seen
at Batavia a couple of months ago.
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and noyv she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
Surchases a “ Home ” Phonograph for <£l2 at the
id ison Electric Parlor, IG2 Pitt-street, Sydney,
can make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality.*
The silliest thing in the “Manxn)an” is Philip’s affec
tation of ignorance of the infant consequence of his
escapade with Kate Cregreen. When she informs him in
hints that are as broad as Euclid’s axioms that he, and
not her husband, is the parent of her baby, he looks
puzzled, and when she is at last forced to tell him in
plain English, he moans “Oh, my God !” and sits down
on a log, mopping' his brow as though an awful, unex-
pected blow had fallen on him. The gallery titters with
a titter that means “as if you didn’t know ! ” Philip is a
dramatised Hall Caine himself, who professes not to
understand (and not to have meant) the obvious meaning
of the big scene in his book, “The Christian.”
Manager : “ You can take some hints for this character
from Hall Caine’s ‘Christian.’” “Who’s Hall Caine?”
“ What, have you never read him ? ” “ No, I never read
anything but plays and in them I never read anything
but my own parts.” “By thunder, you are the actor
that will get on.” “Yes, I do. I have now acted the
villain in * A Day of Reckoning’ for 150 nights, but have
not yet the faintest idea what it’s all about. A splendid
man for my cues.’ t.
The Sydney Lyceum management, if it wants a really
good advt., might do worse than dig out Davison Sym-
nions’ old-time verses in the Bohemian about the history
of the M‘Mahon clan, and hang them outside its'theatre.
A sample :
Two little souls in two little shirts
Arrived in the early morn,
And said, “ Just state in a local, please,
That Jimmy and Joe are born.”
Harrison White (Colborne Baber’s hubby), late accom-
panist to Sydney Liedertafel, is now in good company
abroad. He was last heard of as travelling with a concert
co. comprising such big folk as E})a Russell and Mrs.
Gomez. His wife, it seems is so charmed with England
and the English that she prefers to stay on altogether.
Ruth Vincent, daughter of H. H. Vincent, of Austra-
lian repute, has been understudy to Florence St. John.
One night the latter had a headache or something, and
Ruth had to come to the rescue. So effective was her
appearance that Florence made a phenomenal recovery,
and now the pair are such dear friends.
Sydney’s tenor, Jules Simonsen, has gone to Cali-
fornia, where he has secured an engagement.
One Darcy, a patient at Sydney Hospital, killed, some
weeks ago, by a fall from a window in that institution, is.
The Bulletin hears, identical with Harvey, who was, 30
years ago, a leading N.S.W. cricketer, and Who'was at
one time a singer in the chorus of Lyster’s opera co.
The young and handsome deserted hubby, in the most
recent alleged society elopement case, is an object of
charming commiseration to every unmarried girl ac-
quainted with him. There are darksome rumors afloat
that a fascinating member of a recent theatrical co. is at
the bottom of the affair.
Was Amory Sullivan’s death mentioned in. The Bulle-
tin ? Amory, the youngest son of Barry S., died
some three or four months back. Melb. Royal share-
holders will remember him sadly as the London agent for
George Coppin during the veteran’s unsuccessful syndi-
cate season at the old house in ’9O. The Laura Villiers
co. (which included Julius Knight—but womankind
didn’t “adore" Julius at that time) was one of Amory
Sullivan’s engagements, for which he hardly atoned by
sending Billee Barlow for the “ Dick Whittington ” panto.
Also, he did well by buying at second-hand a gorgeous
lot of costumes from Mrs. Langtry’s production of “Cleo-
patra.” Those costumes, or some of them, have not yet
dropped to pieces. They have appeared in Royal pantos,
every time up to the present, and the weary pressman is
always glad to see them again. Such visions of the past
make one feel younger.
Old Clown : “ The absolutely gross benefit to Mr, Henry
Burton, the veteran Australian circus-man, at flarm-
ston’s, Melb., all hands foregoing their pa y, is a creditable
tribute, more especially as the manageress is only a bird
of passage. Mr. Burton gleans this, perhaps, most because
of his unblemished character as a paymaster." o
Spangler : “ G. B. W. Lewis figured in Harmston’s Melb.
circus as ring-master for Burton's ben., after an absence
of, the bills say, 40 years from the sawdust. He was
instrumental in building the old Melb. Princess’s, as
Astley’s Amphitheatre, when he brougnt a co. from Lon-
don, with Tom Barry as clown. Worth at one time
£30,000, he has been boomed. Lewis performed as an
acrobat, in the Risley business, with Lilliputian Tom, at
Rowe’s circus, Melb., 1854. Tom Lewis, afterwards
familiar as a pantomime clown, has been • long dead.
G.B.W.L. became the most influential theatrical manager
of Calcutta and Bombay, later of the Melb. Bijou, asso-
ciated with his smart wife, the Miss Rose Edouin; of the
profession.”
_ Paradis : “ I observed an actress wearing her wedding-
ring on the boards last night. This indicates a position
which can defy the manager, whose sine qua non is
habitually that the circlet must off. I will not score-under
particularly those few bad men who fancy their own
designs are thus forwarded. They exist most, though
not exclusively, in novels. The manager in geneial is
only actuated by considerations of ‘ business.’ The ring
excites sympathy, but drives away money. It is with a
great sigh that every actress draws off her wedding-ring
for the first time after putting it on. No people are so
superstitious. The funny thing is that you hardly ever
see the wedding-ring on a slage-wife. Stage-manager
says : ‘ Put your ring on.’ Actress says : ‘ No, I’ll not
make a joke of it.’”
“ How old is George Coppin ?”asks a Bulletin corres-
pondent. “ Bar gout he does not look over 60. Fresh,
rosy, plump, with never a wrinkle on his shrewd, good-
tempered visage. Much better-looking now than when
he kept the Auction Mart Tavern, in Hindley-street,
Adelaide, ever so many years ago. He ran the theatre
there at that timp. As a younker then, I can remember
a performance he improvised, called ‘ A Peep into
Coppin’s Auction Mart Tavern.’ All the notables of the
little town were on the stage—the Fishers, Dr. Meymott,
the brothers Williams, Gemmell, and a host whose names
escape me. And there was Coppin, as landlord, waiting
on each and taking his orders, and making him laugh,
the while he wore that grotesque, serious look which was
half his capital as a comedian. How many of these
young men live now? But there is George Coppin, any-
how, who looks as though he were good for another 30
years. He sang ‘Vil'ikins and his Dinah,’ the other
night, with all his old go and gusto. Confound that
gout! But for that we might once again revive the past
in the present, and enjoy, as then, those touches of
quaint, dry humor such as no comedian living now is
capable of illustrating so well as Coppin. Toole isn’t in
the same atmosphere with him.”
Showman Barnum attributed his success to “ knowing
enough to hire people who knew more ! ” Letters of gold.
TRIOLETS.
If there’s more of her than of yore
She’s welcome still on Austral soil;
We only know we love her more
If there’s more of her than of yore,
And give to “ Dick ” the old-time roar
For Lizzie Stofel in “ Struck Oil.”
If there’s more of her than of yore
She’s welcome still on Austral soil 1
The Bijou once again is closed,
The mummer’s road through Life is rough !
Here pros, have sung and pros, have prosed ;
The Bijou once again is closed,
When- once an audience never dozed—
O, for the palmy days of Brough !
The Bijou once again is closed !
The muinmer’s road through Life is rough !
H.C.C.


R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
. . . British Vestas.
Ars. )
Reps. j
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Building's,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash Kitio Benzine.
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
173 WiUiain-st., Melbourne; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
POWERS Whiskey.
Sydney :
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Piiilp & Co. Ltd.,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
A Sulky to Balance
must have
A Moveable Seat.
... The BEST is . . .
Simpson’s
Patent Jump-Seat Sulky.
\ V _____
Factory and Showroom:
73 KING STREET, NI-’.VTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth—Robt. Wolfe.
Geraldton— A. M '(vioworoft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia reports that
the half-year’s profit is £53,222 as compared with £52,529
last half and £41,636 at December, 1896. This covers the
whole period since the new reconstruction, so that thing’s
have improved very steadily with the Commercial since
then. The earnings are now over 31 per cent, on the
shareholders’ money—which is very well up to the
present Australian average. Preference shareholders
get 2 per cent, dividend (£21,171), and £30,000 is carried
to the “ special assets trust reserve account ” to cover any
further possible losses on the old assets of the pre-recon-
struction days. This reserve now stands at £83,000, and
what it will have to amount-to before the old trouble is
finally wiped out is a gamble. If the revival goes on con-
tinuously, the reserve may not be needed at all; and, on
the other hand, the best part of five or ten or twenty
years’ profits may have to go into it before the ordinary
shareholder can get a dividend. Everything depends on
the dreadfully uncertain “ revival.”
During the last half-year the Commercial’s
new deposits have increased by over £400,000. The
profits, as shown above, have increased £7OO. Cash
and liquid securities (£1,903,088) show an increase of
£643,000. The reconstructed deposits still owing have
been reduced by £41,000 ; and £30,000, as above men-
tioned, Iras been added to the reserve which is being ac-
cumulated for the further protection of the reconstructed
depositors, if necessary. Taking all things into account,
the Commercial of Australia appears to be making very
steady progress in every respect, and, though it must
needs be a long time before it is again the overwhelming
institution it was, there is no visible reason why it
shouldn’t get there in time.
• * • *
The steady repayment of the burdensome 4J per
cent, reconstructed deposits (about 80 per cent, of which
will be paid off when the next release is effected in April)
is at last producing an effect on the profits of the Bank of
Victoria. The net takings for the half-year just ended
(£22,729) are the best since June, 1894. Following are
eight half-yearly returns
June,’94 ... £29,921 June,’96 _. £15,068
Dec.,’94 .. 21,087 Dec.,’96 ... 17,928
June,’9s .. 19,863 June,’97 ... 17,877
Dec.,’9s ... 20,631 Dec.,’97 22,729
None of these profits are made, either, by buying up
depreciated deposits, for the Victoria’s deposits are above
par, and can’t be purchased except at a loss. The profits
this half-year run a little over 3 per cent, per annum on
capital. A dividend of 5 per cent. (£10,419) is paid on
preference shares, and the other £12,310 is carried for-
ward. As this makes £58,689 at credit of profit and loss,
The Bulletin again asks why the board doesn’t apply
£50,000 of it towards starting a new reserve-fund ? A
bank without a reserve-fund never amounts to much, and
never will.
During the last 12 months nearly £73,000 of
capital has been written off on account of forfeited shares,
and this sum has gone unobtrusively into the bottomless
gulf of depreciation. It would be interesting to know if
this is all the depreciation that the directors know of;
there wasn’t even the slightest hint that these losses re-
quired to be provided for till the above w T riting-off was
effected. The general appearance of things with the Vic-
toria is very good. Despite repayments of old deposits
the total deposits have only declined £50,000 during the
half-year and amount to considerably over £5,000,000.
Cash and liquid securities (£1,709,547) are £40,000 more
than they were six months ago ; and the large increase in
profits is a notable feature. Still—is there any more de-
preciation to be provided for ?'
* * # «
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney shows
£40,150 profit for the half-year, which is just a shade
under 4 per cent, on the shareholders’ funds (capital
£1,000,000 and reserve £1,010,000). Four per cent, seems
about the Australian level nowadays. But the desperate
accuracy with which this big bank always earns just
enough to keep up its 8 per cent. div. begins to get on
The Bulletin’s nerves For instance :
Profit. 8 p.c. dividend.
Dec., ’94 ... £36,599 _. £36,498
June, ’95 ; ... 38,037 „ 37,984
Dec., ’95 _. 39,474 _. 39,227
June, ’96 ; ... 40,303 _. 39,965
Dec.,’96 ; ... 40,067 _. 40,000
June, ’97 j ... 40,119 ... 40,000
Dec., ’97 1 ~ 40,150 ... 40,000
£274,749 £273,674
This intense exactness in always show-ing just enough
profit to pay the 8 per cent, dividend, and an infinitesimal
fraction over, is very remarkable. In almost all respects,
however, the big bank shows a steady improvement.
Deposits have increased in the half-year by £200,000.
Note circulation has gone up £76,000.. There is a ma°-
mficent reserve of £2,263,000 cash, and in addition the
holding of Govt. Securities has gone up from £712,000 to
£1,009,000. Cash and liquid securities in all equal 35J
per cent, of all liabilities to the public, which is about
the most solid line of defence in Australia. The practice
of holding a solid reserve of State securities is especially
commendable, as they are easily realisable, and yet yield
a return which the coin peacefully festering in the cellar
doesn’t.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland, for the half-
3’ear ended 31st December, ’97, has a net profit of £1559.
The following are the profits for the last seven half-years :
Dec., ’94 .. £1674 Dec., ’96 .. £1717
June, ’95 .. 1736 June, ’97 .. 2003
Dec., ’95 .. 1182 Dec., ’97 .. 1559
June, ’96 .. 1703
The net takings for the half-year equal a little over 1$ per
cent, on capital; for the year they run to a shade over If
per cent., and though the results for ’97 are better than
for ’96, while those for ’96 are better than for ’95, the im-
provement is very slow. During the last half-year
deposits have dropped from £260,000 to £233,000, and cash
on hand from £91,500 to £44,500, which are very con-
siderable drops ; still, the 8.N.Q., having a callable capital
that equals the w-hole of its liabilities to the public, must
be regarded as solvent far beyond the Australian banking
average. Even such a solid concern as the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney is only backed by unpaid capital
to the extent of one-ninth of its liabilities.
Shareholders’ prospects, however, don’t improve
much. The North Queensland was the first reconstruct
to pay up in full, but seemingly it gained little by the
advt. There is no dividend—there hasn’t been one for
five years—and the accumulation at credit of profit and
loss is only £10,927. At last year’s rate of progress it
will be 45 years before the bank earns 5 per cent, dividend
annually, and, according: to present results, the share-
holders would do a lot better to sell their bank and put
their money in 3 per cent. State securities. The B.N.Q.
apparently hasn’t enough deposits to make the business
pay, and it possibly buys some of them too dear— £so,ooo
of them are fixed for 10 years at 4£ per cent. It exists for
the purpose of lending out £408,000, of which £200,000 is
the shareholders’ own capital, and no bank can make a
decent crust now by lending out its own capital. The
present arrangement is vastly safer for the depositors, no
doubt, but as a means of making dividends it is a great
deal better for a bank to lend out £2,000,000 and for
£1,800,000 of it to be the depositors’ money. Perhaps the
best thing the B.N Q. could do would be to transfer
£150,000 of its capital to a reserve-fund, and then it could
have a fair prospect of paying 5 per cent, dividends on
the other £50,000. The situation would be really the
same, but it would look better.
» * * *
The half-year’s profit of the Royal Bank of
Queensland is £7440, equal to a copper or two over 3£ per
cent, on the shareholders’ funds. The profits for the last
eight half-yearly periods show as follows :
June,’94 .. £6360 June,’96 .. £6445
Dec., ’94 .. 6477 Dec., ’96 .. 6515
June,’9s .. 5946 June,’97 .. 7463
Dec., ’95 .. 6033 Dec., ’97 .. 7440
These figures show a reasonably steady improvement for
four years past. The Royal now declares its usual 2J
per cent, dividend (£5075, including dividend tax), carries
the usual £2OOO to reserve, making it £37,000, and the
remaining £365, added to previous balance, leaves £3685
to credit of profit and loss. The policy of always carry-
ing something to reserve, no matter how small the divi-
dend may be, is a variety of wisdom which should have
more imitators. The business shows a further expansion,
and the cash reserve (£239,000) is very strong, equalling
30 per cent of the liabilities to the public. The only
feature which isn’t wholly favorable concerns the
capital account. During the half-year the Royal of
Queensland has written off £19,483 on account of shares
forfeited for non-payment of calls. This sum hasn’t gone
to reserve nor intoprofit-and-loss—in fact, it hasn’t visibly
gone anywhere, so the presumption is that it has gone to
cover depreciation of the securities. And the absolutely
ideal bank (the kind of bank that never existed) would
always keep its securities written down to their bedrock
value out of the regular profits, and wouldn’t need to use
casual windfalls like this for the purpose. If there was
£19,483 of depreciation that hadn’t been previously men-
tioned, and which is now unobtrusively provided for, it
naturally raises the question : Is there any more deprecia-
tion which isn’t mentioned ; and, if so, how much ?
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney, with a half-year’s
profit of £8395 (equal to £3 7s. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds—£4oo,ooo capital and £100,244
reserve), shows a slight improvement on recent figures.
Profits for the last nine half-years have been as follows :
Dec.,’93 .. „. £10,736 June,’96 .. £B,lOB
June,’94 .. .. 11,468 Dec.,’96 ... ... 8,071
Dec.,’94 .. .. 10,004 June,’97 ... ... 8,048
June,’9s .. .. 10,030 Dec.,’97 .. ... 8,395
Dec.,’9s .. .. 10,020
The usual 4 per cent, dividend absorbs £BOOO, and the re-
maining £395 the largest margin which the City Bank
has shown since ’93, — added to previous balance, makes
£8703 to carry forward. During the half-year, note-circu-
lation has increased £BOOO ; deposits have diminished only
£2OO ; and cash (£292,678) has increased £23,000, and now
represent 25 per cent, of all liabilities to the public—a very
solid reserve.
The present is the fifth half-year in succession
when the City Bank has abstained from the practice of
writing-up premises and furniture, so presumably that
habit is definitely abandoned. Since December, 1895,
these items have stood at exactly the same figure, no allow-
ance being apparently made for depreciation of the chairs
and oil-cloth. How far the same dangerous policy is pur-
sued as regards other depreciation it is impossible to say,
in view of the exceedingly scanty information in the
balance-sheet. The share-market, at all events, insists on
taking a very low-spirited view of the City Bank of
Sydney. J ust before the present balance-sheet came out
its shares (new issue) were being vainly offered at less
than one-third their paid-up value, which is something
most unusual for a steady dividend-paying bank stock,
and the buyer could get 124 per cent, on his money. At
time of writing, after a sharp rise, they are still offered at
much less than half their paid-up price, and yield 9j per
cent. And the next most depressed dividend-paying bank
stock in the Sydney quotations only yields £5 ss. 6d. per
cent.
« * * *
The Federal Bank has so far paid its creditors
Bs. 6d. in the £. If the remaining assets realise their
paper value—which is about as improbable as a dead
prawn walking upstairs—there should be another ss. in
the £ for distribution. Probably half-a-crown will be
nearer the reality.
**• - *
The big and still remunerative National Trus-
tees, Executors and Agency Co. (Melb.) continues to
sacrifice its fine prospects in the rush after huge divi-
dends. The following is an epitome of its last five years’
career. The profit is less allowance made for deprecia-
tion, whereas the co., in its report, shows what it calls the
year’s profit, and then takes the depreciation off it: —
Net profit. Dividend paid. Deficit.
1893 .. £4442 .. 15 per cent. = £4500 .. £5B
1894 ... 2813 .. 10 „ „ = 3000 .. 187
Surplus.
1895 ... 3001 .. 10 „ „ = 3000 .. 1
Deficit.
1896 .. 2986 .. 10 „ „ = 3000 .. 14
1897 .. 2388 .. 8 „ „ = 2400 .. 12
Therefore, in four out of five successive years, the National
Trustees has paid away more than its' earnings, and it is
now £270 poorer than it was in 1893. Between 1893 and
1898 it has earned over 10 per cent, on the average, and
the management wanted bloated dividends so very badly
that it wasn’t satisfied even with that. It has added
nothing to its reserves in these awful five years,
when the necessity for strong reserves was very
great, and its accumulated fund of' £23,400 is
a very weak line of defence, even though it may be rather
stronger than that of some other similar institutions.
And even now, with the profit getting down to very little
more than one-half of what it was in ’93, and nearly half
the capital represented by foreclosed mortgages, the
National Trustees goes on its fine old promiscuous way
just the same. Whether the fall in the profits arises
through a decline of business, or through a very great
drop in the returns from investments, this paper isn’t
positive, but when £13,726 out of the £53,400 share-
holders’ funds are represented by foreclosed mortgages
the position cannot be any too good. And the manage-
ment, judging by the policy pursued with regard to divi-
dends, seems to be awful.
* ♦ * »
The Australian Widows’ Fund Society will get
a healthful shake-up at its annual meeting on the 31st.
For the first time since the Society started business one of
the retiring head-office directors—A. Dick, to wit—has an
opponent in the field. Barrister Ernest Joske, shep-
herded by Attorney-General Isaacs, is appealing for mem-
ber’s proxies on the ground that “ the stimulus of fresh
minds is already needed,” and Mr. A. Dick is by inference
pointed out as the stale mind who ought to be rejected at
the poll. Dick has the advantage of running in double
harness with his old colleague Simon Fraser ; but, on the
other hand, Isaac Isaacs is a powerful name to conjure
with, and the betting is a shade of odds on the New
Blood candidate.
» * * *
Some interesting Bananaland figures for ’97:
Gold escort beat that of ’96 by £454,435 ; meat export
shows an increase of £109,146 ; pearlshell has increased by
£30,794 ; but sugar export has decreased by £182,715, and
wool by £509,821. Brisbane imports are about four times
those of Townsville and five times those of Rockhampton.
In the matter of exports, Rockhampton leads by £12,271,
while Townsville’s exports are £139,459 less than Bris-
bane’s.
• * * *
Two more furnaces have been blown in at the
B.H. Prop, works at Pt. Pirie ; and the volume of smoke
and fumes from the giant stacks on the mine dwindles.
By the way, according to official returns supplied by the
mines under the Lead-poisoning Prevention Act, only 17
cases of “leading” were reported during 1897. There
used to be as many cases in a fortnight in the old car-
bonate days.
* * • *
For the new School of Mines at Broken Hill
the choice of the Public Service Board has been given to
Alfred Rutter, a Fellow of the Chemical Society, trained
under the English technical education system, and lately
experimental chemist to the B.H. Prop. Co.
* * • *
“ A Curlewis Miner * to The Bulletin :—“ At
the Curlewis colliery, 11 miles from Gunnedah, N.S.W.,
where some 30 miners are employed, the ventilation is re-
membersome. The air never reaches the working face —
there is no canvas or other brattice to carry it in. The
thing is just slow killing. The mine people have got a
fire-lamp stuck in a hole for a furnace. An inspector
visits us, but apparently does not see anything wrong
in making men toil in foul air for a bare existence. There
is no inspection of the working places before the miner
sets-to in the morning ; in fact the Mining Act is a dead-
letter here, and no one seems to care a rap. The owners
have the Govt, railways’ contract at 7s. 6d. per ton ; the
miners are paid 2s. 9d. per ton for clean coal, which
should leave a clear profit of at least 3s. per ton.” Then
follow a number of ugly allegations, which The Bulletin
doesn’t see its way to print. Perhaps the Mines Dept,
will take a steady look at the Curlewis colliery aforesaid,
which seems to be a bit out-of-the-way.
* * * •
The recent chopping about of Girilambones is
averred to be merely the result of market, and not mining,
operations.
• » * *
According to the Lake George (N.S.W.) mines
figures for December, there were smelted during the
month 5174$ tons of sulphide ore and 1199 tons of gossan
ore ; total, 6373 tons—for per ton of ore : 1.78 per cent, of
copper, 2.2dwt. gold, and 4.50 z. of silver. The original
estimate of the value of the metallic contents of the ore
was from 38s. to 40s. per ton. The estimated profit, after
all due allowances, is from 12s. to 18s. per ton, or from
£3BOO to £5700 for the month.
* * * *
The manager of an English co.’s purchase down
south, who had gassed irrationally about the thousands
of tons of 9oz. stuff that he had ready to shove through
the mill, found himself in a tight place recently after
sending into the boxes every rock he could rake out of
the levels, and discovering about enough amalgam on his
plates to keep an active dentistry going for a month. In
this extremity he set all hands to work, raking ton and
half-ton patches out of the little pot-holes and bits of
reef all over the country side, and by this means kept the
mill going a week or two, and secured a retorted cake
about as big as a saucer. That dirty cake, an empty
mine, and a heap of fine machinery represent the avail-
able assets after the expenditure of a great mass of Cock-
ney coin. Does the British investor ever investigate ?
• • • *
Amongst miners companies are known by the
managers they keep, and there is one (not uncommon)
type of manager who uses his position as a means of
securing a cheap complete spree once a fortnight and an
unfailing stream of beer throughout the weeks. He is
the manager who has only room for the man who shouts,
and who sends down the track the miner who neglects to
liquor him at every opportunity. Two or three Bull co’s
in Gippsland have mine-managers of this stamp—known
among the men as “ Suckers.”
• * * *
Still John Bull’s agents nibble at the Great
Southern, Bendigo. Two years ago £40,000 cash was re-
fused. As many months back the price went to £130,000 ;
and George Lansell, who holds a commanding interest,
said no. Now the owners are tempted with £66,000 cash
and £66,000 shares in a £200,000 co. in £1 shares, £20,000
to go to the co.’s credit. The new offer has also been
declined.
* • • •
Vic. Minister of Mines, in reply to a deputation
of Mount Deddick speculators, promised that Govt, would
consider the matter of providing a tramway, or narrow
gauge railway, from the mines to the coast on receipt of
a statement showing the prospects of the mysterious
Deddick lodes, and the amount of stuff likely to be
trucked. Thus far the principal Deddick co., with 1000
acres of leases, employs only 18 men, and, as the Minister
mildly observed, “ when shares are quoted at £lO or £l2
it is only fair to say that a reasonable amount of labor
should be put on the mine.” Mt. Deddicks have been
rushed as high as £l6. Just now they are quoted at
about half that figure for “ small lots.” Very small lots.
* * * *
What has become of the Central Deddicks mine,
anyway? The Central was boomed in a hole-and-corner
manner at the time of its birth, and a few shares were
placed by Melbourne jobbers at a heavy premium before
the show got a quotation. Within a week of being quoted
the shares were knocked clean off the market—no buyers
at any price. Strong suspicion of Scented Dedcats in the
case.
• • • •
W. J. Koehler, B.Sc., successively assistant-
metallurgist, metallurgist, and assistant-general-manager
of the B- H. Prop., is transferring his services to the Westralia
Smelting Co., whose works are now going up at Fremantle.
The £2500 salary offered is the attraction. Mr. Koehler,
who was imported 10 years ago from America as under-
study to Mr. Schlapp, has the further distinction of being
about the most rapid speaker in Australia. Fortunately
for the peace of reporters, his public utterances are few.
♦ * * *
“ Although the W.A. goldfields contains many
Jews,” remarks a Bulletin correspondent, “ you see none
on the new rushes—and the writer has been at every one,
up to Lake Darlot. Pioneering is apparently right out of
their line. Is it horror of inconvenience, or lack of en-
durance, or merely disinclination—-or is it their fixed rule
always to allow the cat to pull the chestnuts out of the
fire for them ?”
* * • *
W. G. Brookman and brother George have had
a dispute about a big parcel of Westralian scrip, and liti
gation was begun, but the matter was settled before it-
hadgone any further than “chambers.” Several thou-
sands were involved.
• * * *
“The late Captain Glass,” writes a Bulletin
correspondent, “ did not die at the Gordon. He expired
just over a month ago on ‘ Tindal’s ’. Cause of death, an
affection of the heart. The pig-dog crowd who run the
* show ’ are enough alone to break any man’s heart. Pro-
bably he was worried to death after an eight-months’ up-
hill fight on perhaps the most messed-up ‘ show’ in W.A.
Up-to-date, it is purely a jobber’s mine, but I’ve an- idea
that the old man put them on the right track at last, the
result of which you will very likely hear of shortly.”
* * * *
Sensational finds are reported from the Plunder-
derry. Let us hope it is all true that there has been found
“ a continuation of the original rich vein ” on the golden
knobs whereof people hung their hats of yore.
* * • *
Mt. Bischoff, Tas., declares another ss. dividend.
Yet the shareholders make no move towards erecting a
monument to the memory of “ Philosopher” Smith, who
discovered the mine.
From Maoriland comes news that the Waihi
stampers have been legally prevented from Sunday work.
* • * *
The palpable attempt to check a fall in Crown
Lyells defeated its purpose. As soon as the stock was
showing a downward tendency at Melb." Stock Exchange
stimulating reports appeared. “ Mine assured; lode over
40ft. wide, opening up splendidly. . . . Proving
width of lode. . . . Full force of men pushing develop-
ment work with most satisfactory results.” The publica-
tion of this joyful news had the immediate effect of send-
ing the shares down—about three shillings.
* * * •
At a gold-mine in S.A. a tunnel from a shaft
was being put in to meet one driven from the other side
of the hill—and they missed each other by only 60ft.
• • * *
From a single Alaskan mine has already been
taken more gold than equals the price—£2,ooo,ooo—for
which U.S. bought all Alaska from Russia in ’67.
* * » *
The Whitaker Wright crowd of exploiters is
operating sensationally in the Klondyke region ; its
“ British America Corporation ” was far over-subscribed.
Lord Dufferin and Whitaker Wright each applied for
50,000 shares, and Lord Loch for 25,000—His ex-Ex. must
have struck it rich in South Africa. The Alaska Commer-
cial Co., which has been taken over by the new corpora-
tion at £600,000, is said to have made in 21 years ovei
£4,000,000 profits. The company’s engineers in British
Columbia report that several of the properties acquired
there will pay £lOO,OOO per annum each, to say nothing
of the results from the Mondyke claims.
* • * •
Higby, who designed and built the statue made
of solid Montana silver, for which Ada Rehan, the actress,
posed, now proposes to build one of solid gold to repre
sent President M'Kinley. It will cost £250,000 sterlirg.
will first be exhibited at the American Exposition of ’! 7,
and then in Paris the following year. Not a bad scheme,
as the President can always be melted down for all he is
worth.
“ Always try to get killed.”—Wolseley.
Prof. Agassiz and party are reported as
having lunched at a South Sea island “ upon the
site of the cannibal feasts in days gone by ”; and
as a further example of the fitness of things, they
were shown in the church the stone upon which
the victims used to be brained—now a pedestal for
the baptismal basin. “ Lest we forget! ”
Goose-and-bottle clubs are popular in Mel-
bourne. Members pay in every week, and at
Xmas get a goose and so much drink to take home.
The affair is held at a pub. Brown (small and fat,
no hat, bald-headed, very drunk and limp, drag-
ging dead, plucked goose after him). Big 6ft.
policeman, holding Brown by the arm and walk-
ing him along; policeman with bottle in the other
hand. Brown (to policeman): “Stick to the
goosh, old man ; musht take him—hie —home, you
know.” .
A tale called “Bridget Souchong” looks
original. She comes to Melb. in an immigrant
ship, from the bogs of Hoganland. Then green
and orange unite—she marries a Chinaman with
lots of money, and their children, boy and girl,
are respectively educated, on the highest scale, at
St. Patrick’s College and the Loretto Convent;
but there is the familiar difficulty over getting the
almondy girl married. Monetary affairs take
Bridget and her husband to her native Tipperary.
Sensation. There is a general haul-off till the
Soggarth takes them under his patronage, for
Mr. Souchong is a most intelligent gentleman, and
rebuilds the chapel.
London Referee on police prosecutions
of fortune-tellers :
It is curiosity far more than credulity that has to do
with the prevalence of fortune-telling, and the gratifica-
tion derived from a “reading” is usually worth all it
costs. Take the case of a couple of servant-girls visiting
in secret some poor old woman who “lays out the cards. ”
It is a delicious experience for them. They know all
about the dark man and the fair man, the rivalry, the
money, and the other episodes of the well-worn tale, but
they like to hear it all over again, and it is cheap at six-
pence. If the State is concerned to prevent people from
being swindled, why does it strain at gnats and swallow
camels? For every person who is done out of sixpence
by a fortune-teller there are thousands rooked in busi-
ness, the State meanwhile standing by and even keeping
a ring for the operators. It is not to learn the future
that people go to a fortune-teller —that’s where the
police theory is faulty ; it is to procure a sensation, and
they get it, so that the bargain is perfectly fair.
O.P. tells The Bulletin a South Sea
story : —Several' years ago, when I was on a
’Frisco whaler, we called at three small islands
—Guam, Sipan, Sension—6oo miles due west
of Honolulu, and we hadn’t time to let go the
mudhooks before two boat-loads of native
women, dressed in a quarter of a yard of rag apiece,
shoved off towards us. They got half-way, then
turned and skedaddled back to shore. Then we
sighted a third boat coming from the opposite
island with a benevolent-looking old white gentle-
man in the stern-sheets. He came aboard,
had a few minutes’ secret conclave with
the skipper, and went back. The follow-
ing morning two boatloads of sable beauties
came aboard and stood bashfully in line to be
picked and wooed, and we duly picked and wooed
’em. When the ship was ready to leave again,
donations in the form of print, cotton, needles,
and matches had to be paid to the ladies. So we
rolled up aft to get them.. “ Oh, it’s all right,” said
the skipper, “ I’ll pay the women.” He then said
something to them in their own tongue, and they
went away. That afternoon the white-bearded
old gentleman came aboard and carted off a boat-
load of print, needles, cotton, and matches. That
was all the women were to see of it, unless they
repurchased with native produce, so one of the
chiefs told me ; and, judging by appearances, the
missionaries were doing a roaring trade in this
line. When we were paid off at ’Frisco I
shipped for Liverpool, and in the shipping-
office at the latter place they used to have
a habit of shoving all sorts of collection-boxes
under the noses of incoming sailors. They
introduced to me the green one, with the
nigger painted on it. Of course, I “performed,”
and told the whole story. Next day, I had three
or four parsons and flat-footed females chasing me
about the Sailors’ Home for details. And I gave
them all the details I had. At length, a long-
tailed gentleman came down, and assured me that
the London Missionary Society had made the
fullest investigation, and found that they had no
connection with the islands I had named, and that
these isles must belong to the American mission.


y
ORIENT
v -=*-n CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
I'OE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s,
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
(°l
Opposite \
G.P.O. )
SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Society
Evidently the only real remedy for the
Adelaide hospital trouble is to burn the hospital
to the ground, and sack everybody connected with
it, and dissolve Parliament, and have a new
Government, and shift the S.A. capital to Port
Augusta. If all these things are done, and a law
is passed that any allusion to the old heartrending
scuffle shall be visited by a fine of =£loo and flog-
gings, there might be peace in the land. Other-
wise the grandchildren of the present hospital
crowd will be keeping up the row as gaily as ever
in 1950.
• • * •
Girls of the Sydney Telephone Bureau are
not allowed to favor rude man with even “ Good
morning” or “Good evening.” An insulting
person employed at the G.P.O. was in the habit
of saying “ Good morning” to one of the young
ladies, but never received an answer until the
matron explained to him that the young lady
did not wish to be discourteous, but that
the rules prohibited her from replying to his
salutation. Saint Joseph the Second is appar-
ently determined that the young ladies in his
immediate charge shall not be led astray by any
designing wretch who conceals some deep-laid plot
beneath an apparently harmless “Good morning.”
♦ * * *
At a recent fashionable wedding the people
in church were supplied with leaflets on which the
hymns-and-order-of-service were printed in gold.
One of the hymns was the inevitable “ Voice that
breathed o’er Eden,” but the truly awful printer
had printed the first line, “ The vice that breathed
o’er Eden.” Good old printer’s devil!
N. : “ The Thorpdale bushfire, Gippsland,
is eminently providential for Fat Man, who is
looking it up. He will unload a bit of subscrip-
tion, but get it back with severe interest. Thorp-
dale, a flourishing township, is simply gone. But
there can never be another bushfire in this locale,
which is now bald as a baby. An already rich
territory is incalculably refreshed by the ashes.
The subscriptions cannot by any possibility be
enough to set up the long array of Burnt-outs
again. They must sell. So a fine body of inde-
pendent farmers will be shifted into a parcel of
dependents on a syndicate, or individual. Poor
Thrift!”
* * * *
WEDDED.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
You rose before the day was done;
I watched your shadow flit.
The heart that stirred at setting sun
Throbbed when the lamp was lit.
You spoke : and stilled my pulse’s play.
You looked : that calm was vain.
You whispered all my fears away,
And kissed them back again.
Last week my light commands I gave,
With careless glances such
As queens bestow on favored slave,
And now'—the Master’s touch.
Still lower yet the love-light burned,
Until my terror grew
To peace, as, fearing you, I turned
For comfort unto you.
And what to you was passion blind
To me meant sanctuary—
O, arms encircling close ! O, kind,
Strong shoulders sheltering me !
Maoriland. Constance Clyde.
♦ * * *
At time of writing, some £BOO had been
collected for the Tas. bushfire sufferers, “ Tatter-
sall ” Adams and M.L.C. Crossby heading the list
with £lOO each. The Govt, persists in calling the
fire “a national calamity,” but only accepts
responsibility for dealing with it as a national
affair by promising a £ for £ subsidy and appoint-
ing a private committee to disburse the funds.
As the biggest end of the committee is composed
of persons to whom many of the burnt-out settlers
are mortgaged, and, as the public are suspicious
of mortgagees, the latest Braddon-Fysh blunder
is not likely to help sweet Charity’s chariot along
very much.
* • • •
Ponte : “ Spoke to an adherent of the
Seventh Day Adventist colony located at Coorom-
bong (N.S.W.). Seems a communistic affair.
Full-blown members ‘pool’ all property and
earnings. Outside adherents pay a tithe of their
gross earnings. Local idea of the faith is summed
up thus : —They have two Sundays a week ; they
find you a job if you join, and they anticipate the
millennium very shortly—and still you ask what
the Faith has to recommend it ? ”
N. : “An in-
terviewer tackles,
first, a young lady
engaged teaching
the Chinese, atthe
City Missions,
and, secondly, one
of the Chinamen
operated upon. In
Melb., the Angli-
can and Wesleyan
Missions have
about 30 of these
girls at work, all
volunteers, and
each teaching one
Chinaman to read
English, through
the. New Testa-
ment. The suc-
cess is this way :
Formerly, the
Mission Churches could only get a few inferior
Chinkies to attend the humdrum of services in
the Chinese language ; now, they get the very
pick of the community, the swell Chinamen,
in dandy cutaway black pagets, welly nice new
hard hats, and it is proper form among them
to twiddle a compact umbrella. The Chinese
explanation of this assiduity is that they are
desirous of learning to read the newspapers
and books. This accounts for the vogue of
mission-schools in India, China, and Japan.
In India, the youths lust to get atthe English
novels, while the Japs are all for the papers.”
Yic. Government declines to entertain a
proposal to utilise the cellars of Parliament House
to store wines of the province for a term of years.
Our oath ! How much of that wine would there
be left on the recurrence of “ the boom ” —with a
new Speaker, and a select assortment of New
Women to dally with the mace in the small hours
of the morning ? The experiment was tried about
25 years ago, when Rev. Dr. Bleasdale put down a
lot of wine under Melb. Public Library. Six
months afterwards the worthy divine entered the
cellar to find a beggarly array of empty casks.
• * *
*
It was at the ball marking the termination
of certain protracted festivities that one of the
chief potentates —who in private life looms large
in the softgoods—swelled with honor as he stood
beside the wife of a real live Gov. for the first
quadrille. Opening the conversation with an
observation about the beauty of Australian
women, the lady was met by the glorified bagman
remarking, “ Yes, but their figures are very bad,
especially in this hot climate.” The subject ap-
pealed to his professional instincts, and, growing
eloquent, he continued : “I have often remarked
that Australian women, young and old, should
always have their corsets made to order, as it is
impossible to fit them out of stock. Still,” he per-
sisted, holding his partner out at arm’s length,
“ we have endless makes, and I’ll guarantee we
have at least three shapes in stock that I could
fit you perfectly with.” Here the lady began to
feel tired.
Hermes: “As to lady-medicoes having
more nerve and more sympathy than males:
When writer was in Sydney Hospital, his gash,
being near the equator, was dressed by a man,
while that of the next-bed patient, being in his
face, was fixed up by a nurse. The way that nurse
used to wade in, regardless of pain inflicted,
seemed to prove that she had ten times the nerve
of the male dresser, who used to stop at the slightest
gasp. One day a cockroach took a hand in the
game, and the nurse’s splendid nerve turned out
to be only ghastly indifference to suffering on the
part of the patient.”
• • * *
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos your remarks
on Indian evidence. Some time ago I paid a
round of visits to the prisons of Co-
lombo. While going over the
female side of the big prison (not
the Hullsdorf, the other one), I
saw a number of Indian women,
some young, some old, and asked
their crimes. I was told, to my
amazement and horror, that
their crime was murder. “ But
you know,” said the superin-
tendent, “ they didn’t actually
commit the murders. The crimes
were committed by male relatives,
and as males are capitally punished,
and females are not, the women
take over the crimes and suffer in
order to save their murderer friends.’*
It appeared that the
authorities of justice
in the island of the
“ spicy breezes ” are
quite well aware that
the women are inno-
cent ; but the evi-
dence is always so
clear and conclusive,
the witnesses so una-
nimous, the details
so well corroborated,
and the prisoners so unanimous in confess-
ing their crimes, that nothing is left for
it but to find them guilty and make a
pretence of punishing them.—Cornstalk.
P. : “A note for the novelists who write
* bushigrams,’ and things. Met the other day, 80
miles from anywhere more populous than a Dar-
ling head-station, two ladies from one homestead
biking over to another, 25 miles away, to pay an
afternoon-call and show some new fashion-plates.”
* * * *
Sydney Sunday Times penlady :
“ A woman’s proper place is the home.” What hypo-
crites ! There is no reason why women should not be as
successful as men in medicine. We have greater nerve to
start with, a cleverer eye for detail, a quicker mind, and
gentler touch, and more sympathy. . . .
Then, a bit further on—
WE WANT A CHANGE!
lam sure that in no city in the' world is there less re-
spect for women. If you travel in’buses you’re likely to
hear from the roof the most objectionable language and
suggestions, followed. by idiotic laughter. In the streets
men will puff smoke in your face or expectorate on your
dress; in the trams they will place their feet near your
new gown, and attempt to fascinate you by an idiotic
stare. If a tram or ’bus is crowded ten chances to one no
man will stand up and offer you his seat.
Naturally. Unlovely woman can’t have her cake
and eat it, too. As the Sydney women have
“REFORM FUNERALS ” IN THE WEST.
“ Well , Bill, Westralia may be a dear place to live,
in, but I’ll eat my boots if it ain’t the cheapest
place to die in that I ever see’d!”
“ greater nerve to start with ” than the men the
men, who have “ less sympathy ” and less inclina-
tion for detail, let ’em stand up.
* * m •
“ In an Australian cemetery, not long ago,”
writes a Bulletin correspondent, “ a comely
weed-clad young widow was observed —after taste-
fully arranging some flowers on the departed’s
tomb and remaining for some time in silent
prayer—to solace herself with a light luncheon of
bananas, the peels of which she then placed care-
fully amongst the flowers, and departed.” Well,
even Sorrow has tissues to be recuperated, and,
after all, why shouldn’t we eat to a memory as
well as drink to it ! Solomon struck it both
ways when he said: ‘‘Stay me with flagons —
comfort me with apples ! ” There is really, never-
theless, nothing keener amongst the many ironies
of life than the brutal unromanticism of Nature.
“ Your dead are nothing to me,” she says ; “ but
you are alive, and my business is with the living.
So, grieve if you will —but grub you must ! ”
* * * *
A white man and a Kanaka had a scuffle
recently at Port Douglas (Q.), and the cheap
harmless nigger promptly gathered up three or
four hundred strong, and threatened to loot Port
Douglas and carry away its wives and daughters
to be his white Mary. The inhabitants kept off
the mild toiler with revolvers. The only reason
why half-a-dozen N.Q. towns haven’t been looted
by the gentle brown agriculturist is that he is
always short of a leader. If ever a Napoleonic
nigger arises to sool him on, there should be a
picturesque breakage up North.
SPORTING ITEM.
BOBBIE (who has just got a punch on the nose)
“ BOBBIE-hoo-oo! ”
REGGIE: “ Well, what did yer want to say that
Jones throws fer?”
Brisbane Street prints a yarn which,
slightly varied, has reached The Bulletin, to
effect that when Gov. Lamington came away from
Eulo, W.Q., some of the boys asked him : “ How
did you leave the Queen of Eulo, your Ex-
cellency?” “I don’t know the lady,” said his
Ex. “ Not know the Queen of Eulo ? ” “ I have
not that honor.” “ You better git, mate. I guess
you’re an impostor. You’re not the Guv’ner we
hear those yarns about. He not know the Queen !
Garn ! ” And Gov. Lamington garned.
NEIGHBOUR O' MINE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a pretty brown aottage just over tho
way
Begirt with a garden of roses,
And a virginal vision as fair as the day
The door standing open discloses;
Ah, me! As she daintily glances and trips,
I warrant me little she guesses
Whose soul she hath limed with the lure of her
lips—
Whose heart she hath snared with her
tresses ;
She recks not what riot and ruin take place
In the breast where the thoughts entwine
Of the gentle grace of her sweet young fac&—
This beautiful Neighbor of Mine!
I care not for collect or sermon or creed,
I smile at the words of the preacher;
But a worshipper true is my spirit indeed
When I see the Divine in the Creature;
I know that the benders of orthodox knee
Might cry the confession should shame me—
But give them the glimpse that is granted to
me,
By Heaven! what mortal would blame me 7
For I venture to hold that a heart that is
cold
To the fervour of topics divine,
May yet worship a goddess of mortal mould—
This beautiful Neighbor of Mine!
And I dream, and dream, till the garden swells
To a region of joyaunce Elysian,
Till the silvery tinkle of temple bells
I fancy I hear in a vision;
Till a vot'ry of old for the moment I seem
Whosei orisons rise up and falter,
Till pillar and portico glisten and gleam
Bound fane with its goddess and altar;
Till a weird and wonderfid change takes place ,
And the cottage expands to a shrine,
Through the spell in the grace of her gentle face —
This beautiful Neighbor of Mine!
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.


Caledonian Liqueur Wliisky
fd
Soft Car? VaS Sb>rts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
gdf
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure iSrsize of collar worn. PIKE IIIIOTIIKRS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
TJOSE’S CELEBRATED
53YE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Igg*" 1 Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QXJ AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/0 each.
Recommended by. the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Truly we are a fighting people. In Hyde
Park (Sydney), the other day, a terrific combat
took place between a misguided boy of seven
years, fighting one hand only, and a belligerent
infant of five, who fought all over. Each had his
second, and a tall gent in a shiny hat acted as
timekeeper and referee. About 200 heathens
stood round enjoying the fun and making en-
couraging remarks. Among the crowd were a
well-known medico, a hospital nurse, an individual
garbed as a minister of religion (all presumably in
case of accident only), and two detectives ; a big
majority of the remainder were well-dressed
“ladies and gentlemen,” evidently with a stake
in the country. The bruisers were very ragged
urchins indeed. Had either of them worn the
white collar of Respectability, that well-dressed
crowd would, no doubt, at the outset have
squelched the battle as disgraceful.
* « * *
Commandant Holled Smith, of the Yic.
army, still nurses his resentment against Colonel
Templeton, the paunchy accountant who onetime
marched into the local War Office and hung his
umbrella on Holled Smith’s peg, when that modern
majah-general was outside the beastly kawliny.
Templeton, as officer in charge of the Kolapore
Cup winners, doesn’t seem to have been compli-
mented from head-quarters, neither did head-
quarters condescend to work a knife and fork at
the little Melb. banquet in honor of the rifle
team’s success, possibly because head-quarters
couldn’t have very well stoked its official interior
under the circumstances without putting some
melted butter upon Tem.’s plate. This scornful
attitude of Smith towards the more commercial
warrior will seem very ridiculous in the event of
any European power going to war with Melbourne.
Templeton is, undoubtedly, good at figures, and
if, perchance, headquarters should want to pub-
lish a balance-sheet of the first battle his services
would be absolutely indispensable.
* ♦ * *
A Melb. Argus report speaks with evident
admiration of the “motherly instinct” which
saved a child’s life the other day. Lady of the
house placed a full bottle of chlorodyne on the
table, and went into another room for a few
minutes. Upon her return, she noticed that the
bottle was nearly empty. Instinctively she went
in search of her small daughter, “whom she
found in great pain,” and the doctor was fetched
in time to avert a funeral. How wonderful is a
mother’s love ! Now, a father, or a casual visitor,
noticing the sudden removal of chlorodyne from
that bottle, Would have put it down to the cat, no
doubt.
* * * *
“Is it a crime to be single?” wails an
Argus correspondent. Well, there is no penalty
provided, as in the other state.
Another
strange death :
Evans and Key,
day-shift in the
shaft of the Golden
Hope on a Tas.
field, sinking in
the rook. Their
braceman, a young
fellow lately re-
cruited from a
local potato-mine,
whil s t fooling
around the mouth
of the shaft at crib-
time, dropped a
sharp drill. There
was nobody below
at the time—the
two miners, Evans
and Key, were
on top. indulging
in a smoke after
crib, and yet that
drill falling killed
a man. The brace-
man said nothing
abou t the accident.
That evening,
James Collier,
working below in
the Golden Hope
was struck by a
falling drill, the
point of which
went in at the
base of the skull,
and came out at
the mouth. It
was the drill drop-
ped by the brace-
man on the day-
shift nine hours
earlier. When
the drill first fell
it embedded itself
in a “green”
centre about 50ft.
down. Some tim-
ber sent below in
the bucket by the
braceman on the
four-o’clock-shift dislodged it, and it got the man
it had been waiting for.
* * * *
A fragment of orthodox morality. In the
four years, 1893-96, there were, in N.S.W., 27,309
couples who rejoiced in the birth of their first
child. In 8542 cases the said first child was born
in less than eight months after marriage, and in
6074 of these cases the birth took place in less than
sixmoiithsafter marriage. Consequently there were
probably less than 20,000 cases, out of over 27,000,
when that first child even preserved a semblance
of being above suspicion. Also, in the same
period there were 9916 infants who were openly
illegitimate ; altogether, 18,458 undesirable infants
came to light in the Mother Province within a
year. Apparently, a very large proportion of
N.S.W. marriages are not made in Heaven, but
under the gum-tree, with the laughing jackass to
give the bride away.
* ♦ * *
The lodger’s apotheosis—in a Melb.
court. Wife sued husband for threatening. Hus-
band pleaded that he was an Othello, with the
grim spectre of the lodger lago. He had come
down from the bush. His wife represented that
he could take his meals at home, but it was not
convenient for him there to doss. In other
words, he replied with St. Paul ‘ This one thing
Ido ’—doss. As for the eating of the meat and
partaking of the souchong, he would do that
without Mr. Lodger readily enough, and go any-
where, but an Englishman’s castle was his bolster.
Case dismissed.
* * * *
Loyalty in Exhibition-street, Melb. In
June last there arose in that classic thoroughfare
a Jubilee House, whereat another Jubilee residence
higher up the street waxed wrath at the infringe-
ment of copyright and erected over the door a
plate with the words, “This is the Jubilee House.”
Ask for Jubilee House, and see that you get it.
None genuine without the signature blown in the
bottle.
*
A correspondent : “The Bulletin will,
of course, be delighted to learn that another Bul-
letin, also published at each week-end, has been
established in an important N.S.W. mining
centre. And more delighted still to know that it
proposes to devote itself largely to religious
matters, and is edited by a prim Methodist parson
out of place.”
« • • •
S.M. Herald advt. of last week :
rpRAVELLER. —Collector for Bathurst dist. open
eng., own turnout, undesirable test. Salus,
Herald, King-st.
It only appeared once, so apparently the man with
the undesirable testimonials was promptly en-
gaged.
* • * *
An unfortunate selector of Croydon (Q.)
recently got himself into trouble through over-
anxiety about the family honor. His daughter
(unmarried) became the mother of a baby, and the
poor devil registered the child as his wife’s—the
daughter (it was alleged) officiating as midwife.
Committed for trial. Such are the victims upon
whom the Law is always ready to pounce.
» » « *
“ Does any lady or gentleman object to
smoking in this carriage? ” said the smoker. No
one objected. Pipes were filled, when a ladylike
gent drawled out: “ I must object to smoking in
the presence of ladies.” Argument was no use,
and pipes were put out. But one man looked
hard at the objector and growled : “ I beg pardon.
I did not know you were one of the third sex.”
Then there was a long long silence.
The non-smoking carriage was crowded with a
Sydney cricket-team, and the boys were hungry
for a smoke. One old fellow alone objected and
swore he’d report the lot. At next stopping-place
the captain called the guard and asked him to
remove the Old-’un, as he would persist in smok-
ing and annoying them. The Old-’un swore and
howled that he had never used a pipe in his life.
“ Why, he’s got a pipe in his pocket now ! ” said
one of the boys. Out it came, and it was warm.
Then out he went and was shoved into a smoker,
GIVING IT A NAME.
IRATE PARTY : “ What! do you mean to say that I have deliberately made up
a lie?”
PLACID PARTY : “ Well, we’ll call it a Financial Statement if you like! ”
and one of the villains walked out and bought
another pipe, and the train went on.
* * ♦ *
French-Canadians hold the multiplication
record. In Quebec the father of 12 lawful
children can claim an allotment of 100 a. as a State
reward. In ’95, 1742 proud fathers claimed this,
and one claimed 300 a. on the ground that he was
the father of 36 children ! The wife (still on the
sunny side of 30) of another father of his country,
has already provided him with 17 children —
including two sets of triplets and three pairs of
twins —in five years.
* * * *
Here is a casual contribution to the
lady-doctor discussion. Furious ringing at the
night-bell of an English (married) female medico.
Her husband —who for excellent reasons is up and
A NEW YEAR’S DAY EPISODE IN THE BIG SCRUB.
(The finish for the “Charcoal-burners’” stakes—last jump, rounding the home turn.)
1ST WARRIGAL : “Hold tight, Bill, he’s only judgin’ ’is steps!”
dressed —opens door to excited person, who re-
quests Mrs. Doctor’s immediate attendance upon
his wife in her confinement. “Very sorry, my
dear sir ! —but it’s quite impossible. The doctor
herself has just been confined of twins!” Tableau.
Another contribution —by a lady medico. In
this case it is a male doctor, and an excited female
tears the bell out by the roots in the dead of night.
The doctor’s wife —who also has excellent reasons
for having her skirt and blouse and boots on —
answers the bell. “ For God’s sake, send the
doctor round at once. My husband’s got the
horrors.” “Very sorry, my dear madam, but it
is quite impossible. The doctor has the horrors
himself.” Yells and loud smashing sounds up-
stairs ! More tableau—stacks of tableau, in fact!!
* * * *
Sometimes the house of Cohen comes out
underneath. A ’cute Brisbane newsboy found
one of the Chosen too hard to draw for a sixpence
for a seasonable paper during the recent silly
season, but “ Striker ” kept at his man, and drew
him (for a very hairy chuckle) when he said
“ Will yer ’ave a copy of the Xmas number of the
Jewish Chronicle, Mr. Cohen?”
* * * *
It is indeed odd how teetotal-bossed con-
cerns go bung. Soda-water appears synonymous
with mental fog. There seems to be a screw loose,
a linchpin out of the water-drinking mind for the
conduct of large affairs. Probably it is in the
lack of sociability. The abstainer is apt to be
hugful of a mean self —has no idea of the scatter-
ing that increaseth. It has been pointed out how
the whisky-corned Melb. building societies have
ridden the storm. The more teetotalism in a
concern, the worse the slough, till the lowest
financial deep is reached, with the two-M. rule of
Munro and Mirams.
The usual summer sailor from the war-
ships in the Derwent is just now providing the
chief recreation in Hobart. One jolly Jack, con-
fined in the local lock-up for absconding from his
vessel, promptly climbed out per skylight and
vanished. A score or two of the clean-shaven
beer-chewers trotted along to a big laundry fire
the other night, and, in defiance of orders, took
charge of the proceedings, to the great delight of
the larrikins and the utter disgust of the local
fire-brigade. The most noisy expression of public
opinion at the fire being apparently in their favor,
the tars performed stupendous deeds of daring, and
most successfully got in at impossible windows,
and climbed uselessly over burning roofs, until
raked fore and aft by well-directed streams from
the hoses of jealous firemen. They couldn’t stand
cold water, so beat a retreat to their vessel, and
next day their admirers wrote letters to the papers
giving the fire-brigades “ beans ” for their
cowardly assault on the gallant tars. The rever-
ence for anything British is even more pronounced
in Tasmania than on the mainland.
* * * *
The present Sir Tatton Sykes, successor
to the good old “sport” who made the name
famous of yore, seems to be suffering considerably
from a wife thirty years younger than himself.
Sir Tatton is 72. Not long ago he repudiated the
purchase of the racing mare La Fleche for .£12,600,
which investment had been made on his behalf by
Lady Sykes. And now he repudiates his ap-
parent signature to £15,000 of promissory notes,
and declares that his partner for life forged it;
a jury has found that the baronet did not sign the
bills. The case is remarkable for the name of the
money-lender who took the paper—Jay. Evi-
dently there is more than one sort of jay engaged
in sixty per shent transactions.
Dear Bulletin, —On 6fch Jan. last the
licensee of a well-known King-street (Sydney)
hotel was fined for selling liquor at 11.22 on Xmas
Eve. Now, if the testifying constable will cover
the amount, I am prepared to lodge £2 2s. in
your hands—the whole to be handed over to the
Sydney Hospital if I succeed in finding for him
at least 12 neighboring hotels in full blast all day
Sunday, and to any hour after 11 on week-nights.
—Fair Play.
* * * *
H.M. : “Paused before a city con-
fectioner’s, the other day, to admire a dainty
design in wedding-cakes. Caressing Cupids and
flower-adorned females chased each other round
this hymeneal sacrifice in all the abandon of un-
conscious nakedness. My appreciation was pre-
sently disturbed by the vicious voice of a soured-
looking woman telling her giddy spouse he ‘ought
to be ashamed of himself stopping to gaze at such
indecency.’ They were an elderly pair, and he
sneaked after her with the uncertain tread of a
guilty man.”
* * * *
In a recent Sydney Factories Act case—
thrown out of court on a technicality—a 15-year-
old girl gave evidence that she had worked from 7
a.m. until 7 p.m., or later (with brief intervals for
meals), for ss. a week. A fraction over one penny
an hour !
* * * *
The cheerfulness with which the average
person will jump forward to identify “the prisoner,
yer worship,” was never better shown than in the
so-called Collingwood (Vic.) “murder” case, the
other Saturday. First, a man found placidly
sleeping on a verandah alongside the corpse
was aroused to announce that said corpse was
that of his poor brother Pat, and with a wail
of anguish he rushed off to break the news to his
mother. He had hardly turned the corner before
another man arrived to declare the cadaver was
“ Poor old Pat,” his brother, and he too rushed
off in tears to tell the family of its misfortune.
Then an elderly female came along and swore
positively that “ she knew the dead man well, and
had paid him for a job he done for her. He was
John Smith.” Later, she changed her mind and
decided that he wasn’t John Smith. And the
corpse turned out, after all, to be John Smith’s.
4.
That popular Melb. non-producer, the
lengthy D. T. Davies, went ’Ome some weeks ago
with a couple of modest gold-mine specs., which
he hoped to “ get off ” on tempting terms, and a
new bike patent. This may, or may not, take the
wheeling world by storm. It is a chainless bicycle,
with an apparently abnormal motive power in two
steel cylinders, the works whereof are the secret
of the inventor, Mr. A. I. Madden. The speci-
men machine that Davies took away with him
seemed to offer the maximum of travel at the
minimum cost of labor to the pedallist, and if the
hidden parts can be trusted not to go wrong under
severe treatment “ Madden’s Chainless ” should
boom presently. This must be the bike which a
’Murkan paper had heard of when it ascribed the
authorship to Victoria’s Chief Justice. In the
event of D. T. Davies forming a London company
to run the patent he will find himself paragraphed
as ex-Speaker-Boomster Matthew of that ilk. One
mistake naturally suggests the other.
Great is the wisdom of the Hobart Jay-
pee. The other day, a grocer was prosecuted for
selling, as mustard, a mixture containing but a
small percentage of that condiment. The up-to-
date justices who heard the complaint dismissed
it, on the ground that informant had asked for the
cheapest mustard, and that, anyhow, the adulterant
was not injurious to health. The board appealed,
when it was decided that a buyer who asked and
paid for mustard ought to get it, whatever the
price charged; and that whether or not the
adulterant was injurious to health was beside the
question. The stuff might even be beneficial to
the health of the consumer, but it was an adul-
terant all the same. So the Jay pees had to take
back their judgment, and fine the grocer. Apropos,
mustard and pepper appear to be as apocryphal
just now in Melbourne as the Book of Esdras.
According to the Govt, analyst, the general public
consumes a great deal more rice-starch than
genuine mustard condiment. Same with pepper,
which is chiefly peas. The manufacturers plead
that everybody knows that the genuine articles
couldn’t be sold at the price charged, and that the
practice complained of is universal in the old
country. So that, for clean, unadulterated front,
you can’t beat the Vic. representative of native
industry in the pepper and mustard line.
OPPOSITE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some men, they say, have got a knack
Of going to the dogs,
And end their days away out-back
On sun-baked plains and bogs.
But with poor me it’s opposite—
Though why, I cannot see ;
No matter where I stand or it.
The doggies come to me !
N.S.W.
R.H.


The Bulletin acknowledges the following sub-
scriptions in aid of the fund to get Suffield fair
play and an open enquiry :—
Previously acknowledged, £57 15s. 2d.; Carter and Co.,
15s. ; Dryblower, 5s. ; The Old Cove, 5s. ; Urisino Em-
ployes, £2 12s. (id. ; .Sympathisers, per R. Rutledge, £2 ;
G.B. W., 7s. 8d.; A. Stevens, 5s. Total, £64 5s. 4d
PRESS NOTICES.
Gisborne (M.L.) Telephone, Jan. 8 : “ A perusal of the
evidence by any unprejudiced person must be convincing
that there was no evidence upon which to convict the
accused, and there is much reason to believe that a hor-
rible mistake has been made. Things would probably
have gone differently with Suffield if he had not been a
working man.”
Grenfell Vedette : “ The trial was undoubtedly
another one of those monstrous proceedings over which
Judge Windeyer so often presided, in which he formed
predilections from the beginning against the prisoner,
and almost forced an adverse verdict down the jury’s
throat.”
Wingham (N.S.W.) Chronicle: “We cannot help
agreeing with what seems to be almost a universal idea,
that Suffield is suffering punishment for a crime he did
not commit.”
Tatura (Vic.) Guardian: “An impartial reader of the
evidence must admit that a re-hearing of the case cannot
be denied the accused.”
Before leaving for the Federal Convention
N.S.W. Lands Minister Carruthers federated —
got married again. So there !
When William the mountebank topped-off
his Kiel deliverance with “Long live his Royal
Highness Prince Henry. Hurrah, hurrah,
hurrah ! ” that ecstatic young man arose, in
slavering adoration, and got off his chest the
following astounding loathsomeness : —
Most Serene Emperor, most powerful King and Lord
illustrious Brother, — ... I am only animated by one
desire to proclaim and preach abroad to all who will hear
—as well as those who will not hear—the gospel of your
Majesty’s consecrated person. This I will have inscribed
on my banner, and will bear it wherever I may go. . .
1 raise my glass and call upon those who with me enjoy
the happy privilege of being permitted to go forth, to
remember this day, to impress the person of the Emperor
upon their minds,' and to let the cry resound far out into
the world, our Most Serene Mighty Beloved Emperor,
King, and Master, for ever and ever. Hurrah, hurrah
hurrah !
All which, if not the raving of an actual lunatic,
is sufficiently like thereunto to suggest tha.t, after
all, specific brain-disorder may be responsible for
the insensate caperings of this unspeakable pair
of imperial bounders.
11l
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to"
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette’’ and “Sailing List’’ to-
THOS. COOK & SON.
The CALLAGHAN Boot.
g
We want to double the
number of our customers
before January, 1899.
This celebrated Comfort Boot can be
obtained only from
CALLAGHAN & SON.
This Boot is made to fit the foot. No
dwarfing nor distortion. An end to
corns and bunions. No fear of ingrowing toe-nails. Fresh
shipment just received in all sizes and fittings for both ladies
and gentlemen.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
396 George-st., Sydney.
(Experts in Footwear.)
M
dRRoWRP°£
JUQBi
eh
*.••••
> ©
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
, Sydney, January 25,1898.
Mr Dear Myee—
A very floppy, tired-looking collection of cricket
enthusiasts decorated the grand-stand at the
match between N.S. W. and Victoria on Saturday.
Whatever the women went for it wasn’t the game,
for they only occasionally threw a languid glance
on the field, and passed the rest of the time in
chatter. One girl was reading a novel with deep
interest. The dressing ran mostly to washed-out
cotton frocks tied with wilted wisps of waist-
ribbon. A yellow muslin with a bilious green
streak suggested eggs-and-spinauh, and was the
vividest creation of the afternoon. From the
back of the stand the tawdry show of shabby hats
looked like a vegetable garden wilted by a heat-
wave. His Ex. made his first appearance since
his return from Geyser-land, but didn’t seem to
court inquiry—he and the new Admiral kept
quietly in the background most of the time, with-
out God-save or any other demonstration of grovel.
To women, cricket is certainly most tedious to
watch—this whether you understand the game,
from having played it in your early girlhood, or
not. men seem to retain the instincts of
babyhood longer than women do. If anybody
doubts this let him or her take note of the veteran
of the N.S.W. v. Vic. match. To see him saunter-
ing up and down the lawn, with his hands in his
pockets and a beautiful 10-year-old simper on his
50-year-old face, suggests to me the necessity of
putting the gentleman in knickerbockers, with
one pocket full of marbles and the other full of
cake, in order to complete the figure. But no
doubt he looks much more formidable when sign-
ing the receipt for his salary.
Ihe lady cricketers of Sydney propose working
up their little agony by having a match with the
theatrical gentlemen in March; the excuse for
airing their calves in public being— sweet Charity.
If that is so, much more gate would result from
rounders, interspersed with kiss-in-the-ring and
find-the-slipper. Then the ladies and the styge
gentlemen would meet an common ground and
thoroughly understand each other; and every-
body, including the forgotten crowd, would have
a real good time. What a draw it would be:
the prospect of George Rignold in Henry V.
costume dropping the handkerchief and being run
to earth by some thin slab of a girl !
The summer sales now in full blast at most of
the big draperies are a harvest for the shop-lifter.
Crowds of bargain-hunting women who line up in
front of Mark Foy’s, and grumble loudly at hav-
ing to wait till the doors are opened that they may
be drafted in like sheep, don’t all know the real
reason why they are let in by one door and out in
single file by another—where a zealous (and ex-
perienced) door-keeper stands and eyes them nar-
rowly over. This cautious treatment of the
shopping battalions aim two bricks at one fowl:
A/r S a h -£ ge at * vt ‘ > also > it keeps a check on looters.
Mark Foy says that in every hundred customers
who rush in when the doors are opened five are
plainly “on the make.” These angels filch all
kinds of things, can stow away a large mantle as
well aB a bottle of perfume. They are dressed for
the part by wearing under their frocks black
calico bloomers, tied tightly round their ankles,
and into these bags they slip their spoil through
long slits purposely made in their skirts. The
proprietor once ran to earth, in a near-hand hotel,
a looter who was stocking-stuffed as if by a
pillaging Santa Claus, and made her unload a silk
cape, a case of scents, odds and ends «f lace and
frillery, and thirteen pairs of boots !
Invitations for a recent Northern wedding m
parvenu high life were restricted to eminent
officials, the very Naicest, and those members of
the wealthy lower orders who could be depended
"P™ 1 for a fair-priced present in exchange for the
thrill of seeing their names figuring at the big
shivoo in the sassiety papers. When the cere-
mony and reception were over, a lordly flunkey,
evidently hired at enormous expense, stepped for-
ward and loudly yelled the names of the prin-
cipals whom he escorted to another room, where a
lavish gorge had been laid out. The guests natu-
rally prepared to follow, but after the “big”
people had begun to vigorously stoke themselves,
and the Naicest were grabbing at the edibles, the
wealthy lower orders, who had set up the young
couple in furniture, found themselves blocked by
the aforementioned flunkey, who referred them to
a buffet in another room, where sandwiches and
“colonial” awaited them. This is the first
instance of the sort since the historic occasion
when a Southern Mayor divided his guests into
two batches at the annual ball.
History repeats itself. Minister of Lands Car-
ruthers, in marrying fresh on the heels of a sensa-
tional court-case, follows the illustrious example of
Sir Chas. Dilke, who was accepted by Mrs. Mark
Patti son immediately after his private life had
been dissected by the world. Gordon-Cumming
wedded his gilded true-love and fell on his feet
financially while the whole world was ringing with
the baccarat scandal. And now Miss Burnett
courageously steps into the shoes vacated by Mrs.
Joe No. 1. To work a woman up into a frenzy of
devotion the man has only to pose before his ador-
ing one as a maligned and suffering hero and she
rushes to his side to console her darling for the
misjudgments of a base and slanderous world;
Anybody who goes to the Criterion expecting
to see dressy drama in the revival of “ Sweet
Lavender,” and other frocky plays, draws a
blank. The only actress of the co. who calculates
sartorial effect is Miss Carew. Her Mrs. Gil-
fillian was Mrs. Grundy Dersonified; her curls
were as rigid as little telescopes all the time, and'
she swept a purple velvet train about like a pall of
all the proprieties. But all the other gowns had!
an inartistic hitch in front which revealed toe
much foot—as if the wearers were ignorant of the
effect of stage slope on the front view of a gown.
This defect makes the performers’ feet the great
solid facts of the play. And from the stalls the
view of boots of all sizes blots out much of the
pathos proceeding on the stage.
A theatrical rumpus has been the talk of the
town. A well-known Blockite was treating a
theatrical lady to an oyster supper, when a male
theatrical arrived on the scene and objected bub
couldn’t knock the other man down because he,
the male theatrical aforesaid, is such a little one.
But there was a vulgar row, and the other man
Eassed the night in a dungeon cell. The story has
een blown up to enormous dimensions, but the
above simple tale contains all the essential facts.
All the time Her Ex. has been away the various
goody little organisations headed by her patron-
age have been languishing to inanition. All the
Friendly Girls and Praying Mothers and Needle-
work Guilds and Dorcas coteries and other charity
fads have been unchronicled while their titled
backer was absent, for the dailies don’t give space
except to the philanthropic palavers of the high and
mighty, Self-advt. is the very soul of charity.
The pars, announcing the return of the Governor’s
wife say nothing about the Hon. Alice, the daugh-
ter who accompanied her and shared the memor-
able weepful send-off from Margaret-street pier ;
and her other chick, Douglas, has been left behind
at school. So the diminished family will probably
obtrude itself less than ever on public notice.
A select contingent of the bong-tong went to
Redfern to welcome the Vic. Governor’s return
from Jenolan Caves. One waiting personage was
arrayed in a Knowlesian garb of black tailcoat,
tall hat and white trousers. The women's eyes
were gladdened by a sight of Lady B.’s travelling
dress, which was accurately cut. Like most
Englishwomen, she looks better in tailor-built
gowns than in fussy evening confections, with
elaborate fixings.
The process of cleaning-up is going on vigorously
at Admiralty House, which is going to have, in
the near future, a missis residing there, when Mrs.
Pearson takes up her abode, Sassiety is anxiously
looking forward to a good time, and expects to
be entertained at more festive functions than the
late regime spread itself over. Garden-parties
were the most frequent form of social agony on
the rockyjledge where the house is perched, and
guests scrambled like goats about the precipitous
and breezy grass-patch. Mrs. Bridge didn’t live
here, because she is a member of an exclusive
little social and intellectual coterie at ’ome, and
she feared, if she left it for long, she would drop
out of the procession altogether. Besides, the
admiral’s wife has a lop-sided kind of position
here ; she must play second-fiddle to the Governor’s
wife, and, as she can’t reckon herself on a level
with ordinary grovellers, she has to exercise much
tactfulness to balance herself aright on her tight
rope.
A blessed relief from the eternal “ pretty wed-
ding ” indoors was given by a bold innovation at
a Vic. country town. To vary the monotony the
alleged happy couple were made one under the
shade of two blackwood trees garlanded for the
occasion with white flower-festoons. This pas-
toral rite is evidently the improved, up-to-date
Australian form of being hitched under a hedge ;
but it’s a risky experiment to make here : the im-
pressiveness of the ceremony would be almost cer-
tain to be marred by a ’skeeter alighting on the
parson’s nose, or by the bridegroom jumping away
with a wild yell from an adjacent bull-ant’s nest,
or by the bride having to shoot flies off herself all
the time.
After 13 years’ of hard work with the Lieder-
tafel, conductor Delaney has resigned his post, to
the regret of musical circles. It was his grit and
zeal which kept the above society together during
the bank-smashing time when the Metrop. Lieder-
tafel had to go under, but he now finds it neces-
sary to quit, as, besides his organ-playing at St.
Mary’s, ne has much teaching work. Also, his
late illness has told upon him.
A matrimonial engagement which is convulsing
sassiety with interest just now is that of a Melb.
girl, Ethel Greene, daughter of the ex-Commis-
sioner of Railways, who by her own pluck and
ability has made a name and a big business as a
fashionable dressmaker. Some timid snobs turned
their backs on her at first when her career as a
young woman in business began, and afterwards
when they saw that Govt. House and other holy
places were still open to the “person in trade,”
veered round and tried to rush her socially. Now
that the lady is actually going to be married
to (think hard here !) the brother of the husband
of the sister of the Victorian bart. the small fry
are gasping in astonishment. Nothing succeeds
like success.
Our specially-imported nobility has a way nowa-
days of arriving and departing as unostentatiously
as the bad boy who leaves the family mansion for
a night out by climbing quietly over the back
fence so as not to wake the old man and the slum-
bering Towser in the kennel. A certain earl
glided away lately like morning dew. He was
the highest-priced aide ever on an Australian vice-
regal staff. Gov. Brassey gave him .£lOOO, which
was all the scion of Hingland’s aristocracy had to
keep the wolf from the door. For a time he
dangled temptingly before marriageable moneyed
maidens, and reports were published that he was
actually engaged to a local baronet’s sister (after-
wards emphatically denied). But society damsels
cooled off latterly. Racecourses and theatres were
his chief haunts. He left this sorrowing conti-
nent per Orizaba, with the intention of eventually
joining his regiment after a little pasear on the
way.
A certain Sydney stage-manager never swears
at rehearsals, but is bitterly and freezingly sarcas-
tic to the chorus-girls, who are mostly too chuckle-
headed to catch the point of his innuendoes, and
refer to him as a “nice polite man.” Of the
sledge-hammer type of swearing managers, the
brothers Harris (of Drury Lane) were shining
examples (so say pros, who have been directed by
them). Rehearsing a panto. Chas. Harris would
scatter lurid language about till 2 a.m., and then
|brotber Sir Augustus and croak hoarsely,
Gus, just go down and cuss those girls, my voice
has gone.” Lately a local stage-director rehears-
ing a ballet which had got itself badly tangled,
collared a small danseuse with the intention of
putting her into place, and inquired irately,
Now, my child, who the deuce are you ? ” And
the terrified fairy lisped, “ Please, sir, I’m a ‘ nut ’
in the wedding-breakfast ballet! ”
I he latest move in fashionable charity is for
drawing-room tenors and baritones to warble
gratis at philanthropic bun-parties for sailors, un-
employed and other down-trodden persons who
can be coaxed by the prospect of getting out of
the rain for a while to listen to them. A certain
Judge addicted to gospel-meetings and charitable
concerts usually has half-a-dozen singing young
men in his train at these slummy shivoos.
The English cricketers keep on filling their
united w.p.b. with the shoals of invitation cards
which still steadily rain in on the “amachures,”
in spite of the lofty scorn with which the gentle-
men players regard all such courtesies. When at
Bendigo a tea-party was wrecked owing to the
non-arrival of Maclaren & Co. at the festival
specially-arranged, by worshippers in their honor.
The professionals all turned up.
A recently-married Sydney sassiety maiden
wrote a long account of her own wedding and sent
it to a>city paper. Being of an extremely modest
disposition, she naturally did not care to say much
about herself, so she merely wrote that ‘‘The
bride looked a dream of loveliness in a beautiful
and charmingly-made,” &c.
Madame Henry, who has successfully carried on
for some years the only school for the study of
French comedy which N.S. W. possesses, has un-
fortunately suffered a breakdown of health ; while
summering at Bowral she became seriously ill.
Until her recovery her Cercle will be kept to-
gether by Mine. Verner.
Silver is on top at the moment as a fashionable
metal. Every high-toned family owns at least
one “ silver-table,” and no dressing-room is con-
sidered up-to-date unless the owner can afford to
have her hair-brush bristles backed by silver,
while her luxurious lord and master must jerk his
razor-strop out of a new patent silver strop-case,
or the very servants would sneer at him as a hope-
less plebeian. Also the woman who heats her
curling-tongs at the kitchen gas-stove can’t expect
to be on visiting terms with the superior person
who boasts a silver curling-stove in a hammered
metal velvet-lined box. This is where the newly-
married score heavily, because all these things are
generally added to them in the wedding-present
grab. If the silver craze continues and spreads
into the guest-chamber, prudent hosts will have
to chain down all small portable articles in the
spare bedrooms.
That vulgar vegetable, the onion, is the sort of
bulb that no really Naice woman would own up to
eating, but it is much devoured in private by
youth and beauty, as it has quite a reputation as
a complexion-clearer. Boiled onions and a glass
of Btout have formed for years the prosaic mid-
night meal of a bewitching comic-opera soprano,
who would disenchantingly swallow her savory
supper after capturing all the male hearts in her
audience by warbling, in her alluring way, come-
and-kiss-me ditties. The handsome Gaiety Girl,
Maud Hi bson, takes her nightly onion raw and
sliced with vinegar.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A rather sickening development in the Ranji
craze at Melbourne just now is the rush of small
and giddy girls to get hold of his dusky phiz on a
‘ Cameo * button and pin it outside their padded
breasts. Button portraits of the real Hinglish
cricketers are a drug on the market. The average
damsel who has a ‘full collection’ will gladly
swap away all the white men for another Ranji to
pin elsewhere upon her form divine. In hard
cash the ‘ Prince ’ is worth sixpence, and the stock
has a rising tendency.
“Ranji’s diamond bolt seems to be quite a
popular myth among Australian girls. The value
of this glittering fabrication is estimated at two
million pounds sterling, or thereabouts, and the
dear creatures believe that their own sweet Prince
will keep it in reserve for the last test-match, as a
special device for dazzling the Australian bowlers.
Nobody that I know of has ever seen Ranji’s belt,
and if he possesses such an article he had better
produce it at once and shine accordingly.
“ The Indian prince, I hear, was almost mobbed
in Adelaide on the second day of the test-match.
A large crowd of women crowded outside his
hotel after the day’s play, and waited patiently
tor a glimpse at their dusky idol. Strange that
whilst Adelaide society women called him ‘ the
dear prince,’ ‘the lower ordahs ’ simply dubbed
him— 1 Liquorice ! ’
“President Zeal and Speaker Mason are between
them running an afternoon tea kiosk in the
grounds of Parliament House whereat tea and
trimmings are served out to the female belongings
of the delegates two afternoons a week. ‘ The
first commoner ’ looms very large at all conven-
tional affairs, and his confused-looking whiskers
and inevitable velvet collar are beauty spots at
every gathering. A walk down Collins-street,
however, makes it a little difficult to take Our
Speaker seriously. Blatantly displayed in a
photographer’s show-case there is a picture of this
Charles I-looking worthy in a fearful and wonder-
ful get-up. The lower half of his anatomy sug-
gests a harlequin in reduced circumstances. It
takes a ballet dancer to show how spangled stock-
ings can be worn convincingly and, for the dignity
of the Chair it would be as well to consign the
aforementioned photo, to oblivion.
“ The Mayoress is like the princess in the fairy
tale—young and fair and wealthy. She is the
ideal entertainer, and on Thursday evening turned
what might have proved but a dreary function to
the women who gathered to see the lions feed, into
a very pleasant shivoo for all concerned. As the
gushing “ Fedora ” of the Akgus remarks in her
inimitable way, ‘the view of the banquet from
the gallery was really very beautiful,’ and the
speeches, until Toby Barton passed the twentieth
lap in his oration and folks began to yawn, were
considered most interesting even to the feeblest
feminine intellect present. The one blank in the
expensive programme was the music. The grand
organ was absurdly out of place when it came to
‘ musically honor ’ the toasts, and papa Plock and
his excellent string musicians were the most missed
men at the whole affair.
“Thrilling annals of bush-fire horrors provide
interesting reading for those at a safe distance.
Think of the cremated corpse at Thorpdale, for
instance, or the Neerim baby, planted up to its
neck in moist earth, and watered all day like a
flower by a sentinel brother, while Dad anil Mums
beat the flames back from the cottage. With the
danger over and the furnace-blast gone by, Babs,
dug up damp and smiling, provided a compara-
tively cool oasis for a hysterical done-brown family
to water still further with thankful tears. Also,
from Thorpdale side, comes word of a plucky
mother, who fought the fire all day, until the
children seemed to be literally toasting before her
eyes. Then she gathered the crying bairns in her
arms, and determined to drown herself, with them,
in the well, so as to save them from the agony of
roasting alive. Happily, the wind changed in the
nick of time, and ‘ the pretty chickens and their
dam ’ were saved—after all.
“ Like all the elements, fire is no respecter of
persons. Here, there, and everywhere, Judges,
fashionable surgeons, and all sorts and conditions
of ‘Nicest’ have been kept busy ‘beating out’
their summer residences. The sole male scion of
a toney old Gisborne (Vic.) clan had enough to do
to save his hearth and home. And he was just
married, the other week, to the dashing only
daughter of an equally well-known local family.
But his married life has been stormy from the
start. On the eve of his wedding, some insect
‘ bunged ’ his eye. His sisters, cousins, and aunts
did the ministering angel by the injured optic all
night. In the morning, however, he arrived at
the altar beaming with happiness, but facially
suggestive of a damaged pug.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
To Thomas Suffield.
Meeting of the Executive Council.—A meeting 01
N.S.W. Executive Council was held yesterday, when the
Lieutenant-Governor (Sir Frederick Parley) presided
The business transacted was of an official and routine
character.
Drink a bumper, Thomas Suffield, water’s cheap
with you, I ween,
To the business that’s “ official ” and the glory of
'* Routine.”
Take no breath of comfort, hoping that the “busi-
ness ” may be yours,
For the heart that beats “ official ” human suffer-
ing never stirs.
But though walls and bars are round you, shutting
out God’s light and air,
You are freer still than they are who are leagued
to keep you there ;
For the flaccid brains that flounder in a cold,
official sea
Are more cramped and bound than you are, and
no key can set them free.
Take this grain of comfort to you, may it help to
heal your soars,
When you feel the sunlight warm you as it filters
through the bars,
Just thank God you are a pris’ner, prison’d MAN,
but not machine,
With a soul for ever handcuffed by Officialdom’s
Routine !
Sydney.
B.E.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. . .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £ 1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £8 Bs.
The Premo Hand Camera', £l/. 4 s -
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
rfi
675 George Street, SYDNEY;
960 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queue Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
r*j
m
74
0
ipiM^y'itr
;i/>
njif
1>
3IIIIIII"
111* I '*
jiiiiiijijnninn
*
u3i
mil
f/
ft
limit!
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
FOSTER’S ALE
, Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Stated that editor Finlayson, now in Eng-
land, is to succeed Astley Cooper as S.A. Regis-
ter’s London correspondent.
The late father of the Earl of Seafield,
just come of age in Dunedin, occupied at one time
the position of a bailiff at Oamaru, and his
mother is a Salvationist. The young fellow in-
tends to stick to Maoriland.
The trail of the Jubilee. A loyal N.S.
Wales pair had twins born unto them last June.
They christened one Irene Victoria, and the other
Albert Record. Both died a few days ago. l
“ Infantile debility,” the doctor said. Not strong
enough to carry those names.
Every American isn’t a humorist. Some
smart Yanks who run in Melbourne a somewhat
mystic medical institute, where all diseases are
healed “on modern principles,” proudly advertise
that they now occupy the fine oJd house of the
lately-deceased coroner, Youl.
Not one out of ten persons manages to hit
Melb. Mayor MacEacharn’s name at first try.
He relates that when he first hung out his shingle
nobody dared to ask for him by name, but on
and all would point to the brass plate and blankly
inquire “ Is that gentleman in ? ”
It is proposed in S.A. to establish some
sort of memorial of the late P. P. Gillen, King-
ston’s well-beloved Commissioner of Lands. A
start has been made, though it does not seem as if
more than enough to put a sign-board on the
grave will be forthcoming in the end.
The Baron Pierre de Coubertin, who gives,
in the Fortnightly, a Fcench view of the British
Empire, makes some funny blunders about Aus-
tralia. He calls Deakin “the Prime Minister of
Victoria,” and attributes to him a belief that the
Pacifio Ocean will become an English lake. The
cruiser Ringarooma he calls the “ Kangarooma,”
and says, truly enough, that the name (as he gives
it) has an Australian character.
Don’t trust promises made regarding a fund
for “ perpetuating the memory of a good man.” In
the awful heat-wave of two years ago one of the
most experienced and universally-respected of
N.S.W. Land Board chairmen—a man with a
clean record of about 40 years’ service in the back
country-died beside the track while travelling on
duty. Big promises flowed in for a mighty monu-
ment—yet the widow has done all in that way
that has actually been accomplished.
DEPUTY O'BRIEN, Melb . Fire Brigade .
Photo., Ch[?]mont.
A fine, bullet-headed, thick-set hero is
Melb. Fire Brigade Deputy O’Brien. In a pro-
fession which demands pluck, strength and deter-
mination as a matter of ordinary routine, O’Brien’s
distinction, in these respects, is all the more
notable for the unostentatious manner in which
it has been acquired. No “ gallery-work ” in
O’Brien’s exploits; about which, generally, no-
body hears anything until rescued persons or eye-
witnesses come forward to testify. It is O’Brien’s
behaviour after,he has done anything particularly
plucky that make% him so unpopular with
Melb. pressmen. A couple of years ago O’B.
got the Humane Society’s gold-medal for
rescuing Deputy Andy M‘Do wall from the
hold of the Hilaria, burning at Port Melb. pier.
M‘Dowall subsequently died from the effects of
the smoke, and O’Brien, who was then super.,
was promoted to the vacancy. During the big
fire of Flinders-street O’Brien had several narrow
escapes, but his most striking adventure of late
was his determined daring attempt to rescue the
sufferers in the South Yarra sewer disaster.
O’Brien penetrated the drive for some distance
again and again, only to be driven back by the
Sas, and at last he fell insensible himself and was
rought to the surface apparently dead. Upon
examination he was not expected to have a chance,
but he pulled round, and after a fortnight’s holiday
at Sorrento, during which he assisted to save the
life of a drowning boy, he went back to his work
as good as new. He has a son in the brigade,
and quiet and suave as the “ old man ” generally
is, he proved himself as good a man at “ language”
as his chief officer, when he heard erroneously
that the boy had been cut off on a roof in the big
fire. O’Brien is extremely popular with his men,
because he never asks anybody to take a risk he
won’t take himself.
Justice Owen, now away on leave, was
designated for N.S.W. Chief Justiceship on the
death of Martin, C. J. The Premier of the day
cabled the offer, but Judge Owen, who was then
also enjoying a holiday, did not receive the mes-
sage, and the post was otherwise filled. The Judge
is a Trinity College man, but has been nearly 40
years in Australia. He lately left the Equity
Bench to afford free scope to his son in that
division of law, the public mind showing signs of
irritation at sons pleading in their fathers’ courts.
A PATRIOTIC PLEA.
HIS WORSHIP. “ Three months ; take him away ."
PRISONER: “Your Worship, I have a request to
make.”
HIS WORSHIP: “ Well? ”
PRISONER: “ Let the sentenee start after the next
test-match? ”
The wife of H. M. Addison, the Adelaide
State Bank chairman who was prominent in the
recent Nixon attempted murder case, died this
month.
Chas. Norman, of the Age reporting
staff, has been appointed night sub editor of
Sydney Daily Telegraph. He is an accom-
plished musician—was in Maoriland a profes-
sional organist—and possesses a head of fluffy
golden hair that only needs coaxing to rival
Paderewski’s mop.
Dr. O'Connell, who died suddenly at
Goolwa (S.A.) on Jan. 15, was a member of the
honorary surgical staff whick struck work at Ade-
laide Hospital, and he was also on the Board
which the Govt, declined to reappoint. He was
a prominent Catholic, and the late Archbishop
died under his auspices.
Stated that trouble is likely to arise re
S.A. Chief Justice Way’s position as Judge on
the Privy Council. Way’s last trip cost him
much money, and the S.A. Govt, claims that the
other provinces ought to contribute to future
salary and expenses. Way is due to return to
Britain in April next, but he wants to know his
financial position first.
Leopold Fane de Salis, who resigned from
N.S.W. Leg. Council the other day, owing to
financial misfortunes, belongs to a fine old adven-
turing and pioneering stock. The head of the
family is a German count, but sons and daughters
have ramified through half the titles of England.
William, a brother of Leopold’s, who died last
year, was chairman of the P. and O. Co. and of
the London Chartered Bank, and in his day was a
competent authority on South Sea Island
affairs. His collection of curios, picked up
in the South Seas and in China, was unique.
He and Leopold gave years of study to
early Australian history and the manners
and customs of the aborigines. Leopold in-
herited .£3OO a-year from his brother and an in-
terest in .£20,000 worth of English property. Wil-
liam died worth about £ 140,000, a great portion
of which he left to hospitals and almshouses in
England and Australia. Maitland and Tam worth
hospitals both benefit under his will. Leopold and
William, though enterprising and energetic, were
reticent men, and averse to company. Leopold
is noted for being able to listen with apparent in-
terest to people talking ignorantly on early Aus-
tralian topics, about which his own knowledge is
full and accurate.
At Auckland (M.L.), the other day, a fire
occurred, by which, among other matters, copies
of old treaties connected with Tahiti were con-
sumed. Which is a reminder that, at one time,
Britain and France were perilously near to war
over rival claims upon the Society group. At
that time, a French frigate sailed into the harbor
at Hobart, during the night, and anchored off the
old battery. Captain Moriarty, R.M., was then
port-officer. When the old chap arose in the
morning, and looked out of his bedroom-window,
he beheld the Frenchman flying the tricolor over
the British ensign at the peak of the spanker-yard.
He called for his uniform, cocked hat and sword,
and commanded that his barge should be ready.
Thus he boarded the French frigate, where he was
received by the officer of the watch, with many
bows and compliments. But he paid no heed.
He mounted to Che quarter-deck, drew his sword,
and with one sweep severed the halyards. Down
came the flags. Then the old chap marched back
to the gangway, took off his cocked hat, made a
prodigious bow, and departed, leaving the French-
man agape. When he got ashore he went to Govt.
House, reported to Governor Wilmott, and then—
and not till then—called for his morning dram.
The “ incident ” led to reams of correspondence,
and a leader in the Times upon the loyal temper
of Van Diemen’s Land.
Melb. : “ Demise—auctioneer Walstab,
aged 88, sire of George Arthur Walstab, the
brilliant and universally esteemed journalist and
author. Mr. Walstab was one of those elect with
the genuine brand of the English gentleman.
Nobody could imagine his deflection, in a hair’s
breadth, from the line of truth and honor. Was
in Melb. business since 1852. Demerara sugar-
planting had failed to microbe him, as such things
almost invariably do, and he was sound as a slim
wheat-stalk.”
The father of Judge Forbes,
now retiring from N.S.W. District
Court Bench, was in the days of his
Chief-Justiceship frequently taken to
task for his John Norton-like expres-
sions of Republican faith. On one
occasion a fire-eating Royalist named
Moodie assaulted the Judge, and for
months the country was almost in a
state of war. The Chief-Justice w'as
a native of Bermuda, and although
Bermuda was, and is, a British de-
pendency, the young lawyer appears
to have taken his politics from the
Pacific Slope. He was the first to
introduce trial by jury in Australia,
and to defend the institution when a
dead set was made to abolish it. The
father ascended the Bench in 1824,
the son descends in 1808.
About time that Peacock’s steam laugh
was remorselessly suppressed. He burst out,
apropos of nothing, immediately the Convention
was opened in Melbourne—just to get his laugh
paragraphed. And par’d it was accordingly, as
an event of moment. He does not do it because
he is amused at anything, but because he thinks it
is expected of him. It is not a genuine laugh. It
is simply a habit he has of making a large hole in
his face and belching forth a hideous sound. And
as the people are tired, Peacock’s laugh ought to
be Put Down.
George Throssell, W.A. Lands-Minister,
is a large-sized original. The other day Fre-
mantle council sought to honor one of its num
ber, a gentleman from the distressful country, by
naming a street “ Doonan-street.” Having no
new street to christen, the council decided to re-
name one of the two Queen-streets in which the
town rejoiced, but the Lands Department objected.
Representations were made to Throssell, with the
result that he approved of the change, and, when
noting his approval, wrote the following rhymed
minute :
“ What’s in a name ? ” The rose by any other name
would smell as sweet.
And “Doonan” is as good as “Queen” — when it only
means a street.
Which utterly paralysed the permanent heads*
and at once established the reputation of the
Minister as a poet.
Michael Flurscheim, the Swiss economist,
land reformer and socialist, pays Adelaide and
Melbourne a flying visit on his way to M.L. about
the end of this month. He is the author of
“ Rent, Interest and Wages,” and the “ True
History of Money Island. ’ ’ He is on board the
German boat Barbarnssa, and is accompanied by
his daughter. Flurscheim must be an old man
now, but is still fit for the fray, and impatient
with the slow headway his ideas on land and cur-
rency reform make in Europe ; to use his own
phrase, he wants to try whether it -won’t be easier
to accelerate a moving ball than to set in motion
a still one. With him are Ignatius Singer and
family. Singer is the co-scribe with Behrens of a
book (“Some Unrecognised Laws of Nature”)
which attracted much attention in scientific circles
last year by its robust reasoning and the boldness
of its attack on some assumptions as to matter and
energy. The latter happen both to be old
Adelaide men, and are foemen worthy of very
good steel.
Tom Finney, M.P., a big Brisbane (Q.)
draper, and very ordinary politician, is once more
taking a “ tour to Europe,” and is being adulated
all round. A stranger would take him to be a
little Christmas tin-god, with his in’ards stuffed
with chocolates. He has just paid 20s. in the <£
to the liquidation creditors of the old firm of
Finney, Isles & Co., who had given the firm
clean receipts for Bs. in the £; but the resultant
advts. have been worth it. Every local rag
(barring the Worker) has found it necessary to
spread on the butter with a shovel. Why ?
Because, firstly, ordinary honesty’s rare in Bris-
bane ; and because, secondly, Finney is the
hunkiest advertiser in Brisbane’s little business
world. Floods may overwhelm, fires may con-
sume, bankruptcies may bleed him, but the big
advertiser plunges around boss of the maelstrom,
like a porpoise circling round and always ahead
of the ship of public patronage. And Finney was
born with an advertising caul.
“Someday ” (writes “ Hiram ”) “you will
want to look up the antecedents of noble families.
Here is something. T. J. Lipton, the great tea-
merchant, has been.made a Knight Bachelor ! I
In 1870 Tom Lipton was driving a mule-car from
New Orleans to Jefferson City for lOdol. a week.
In company with Phil Mowbrey and Jack Ross, he
got arrested on a charge of arson in Poydras
Market. The three were suspected because they
had been having a jollification with a shopkeeper
(a Jew), one J. White, the night before his shop
was burnt. All were discharged, of course. In
’7l Tom opened a branch of his father’s butter-
and-egg shop (11 Stockwell-st.) in Stobcross-st.,
Anderston, Glasgow, where I often used to call on
him. After I came to Australia he printed imita-
tion .£l-notes, promising a pound’s worth of
groceries for a pound ! So many were passed
about Glasgow that the police blocked them.
Next he blossomed into tea-and-eoffee, and is
now the greatest dealer in the world, owning his
own plantations. He was tall, pfoo&y-faced, in-
clined to jewellery and green neckties.”
The Westralian Govt, has imported from
’Ome, as “Superintendent of Relief,” James
Longmore, lately in charge of Bamardo’s Central
Home in London, where, he says, 100 clerks are
employed, so vast has the old man’s begging busi-
ness grown.
A story about Lieut. Aupen, one-time
torpedo - lieutenant on H.M.S. Orlando here.
Years ago, when he was a middy, his ship was
stationed at Vancouver, and Aupen being seized
with a sudden illness was invalided just prior to
the departure of his vessel on a cruise. The only
other officer then left in port was the chief car-
penter, also invalided. The youngster had deeply
studied the Queen's na\al regulations, and the
time for his examination coming round, he applied
—seizing the golden hour —to the only senior
officer in the port, the chief carpenter, to be
examined for lieutenant. This he or any officer
is entitled to do whenever or i.'berever he may be,
if the requisite term of his service be fulfilled.
The chief carpenter accordingly examined the
lad, and passed him with flying colors. Aupen
immediately thereby became the senior officer on
the station, and his first act of authority was to
order himself to England with despatches, an
order he obeyed with consummate address and
with all the haste possible, seeing his ship might
return any minute, and Xmas was approaching.
He arrived one evening at Portsmouth and found
he would have to wait eight hours for a train to
London. Again the regulations came to his aid.
Reg. No. So-and-so directs all officers carrying
despatches to take every available means to
expedite the arrival of same at headquarters.
Aupen decided that the Admiralty ought to
have his despatches forthwith. He ordered a
special train to London, and presented himself
before the First Lord. The great man, who had
heard nothing about either Aupen or his de-
spatches before, requested an explanation, which
the lad respectfully gave. He escaped without
even a reprimand ; he had complied to the letter
with the Queen’s regulations, and the whole affair
quickly became the laugh of London. The cream
of the joke was that Aupen’s despatches contained
nothing but a narrative of his own illness, and a
glowing account of the brilliant manner in which
he had passed his exam.—written by himself.
His next ship received him as lieutenant.
HER REA DING.
“Is uncle proud of the twins , aunty?”
“ Yes, dear”
“I thought to. He had in the paper, 'hom
papas please copy.”


“THREE GOOD THINGS”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershi re Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Pure Malt Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce been awarded more p r ize Medals
than ainy, other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook's Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook's Vinegar
IS BREWED THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
AN AUDACIOUS SWINDLE.
Palming off counterfeits of Ogden’s
Gold Cigarettes. Beware of imitations,
genuine unless bearing Ogden’s name.*
Guinea
None
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.*
AT THE OAFE.
‘Hello! Have you taken a half-holiday f ”
“ No ; why did you think so ? ”
‘ ‘ Because I once heard you say it was a mystery
to you how people could keep awake after
dining at mid-day.”
“Ah! that was before I got LOASBY’S
‘WAHOO.’ You see, I was a dyspeptic
then. Now, I dine when I like, and eat
what I like ; but always with my eye on
the ‘WAHOO’ bottle.”
FRANZ JOSEF
filsekter
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Aboriginalities .
Grief in the camp of the Murrumbidgee
whalers. Their only friend and shade on Hay’s
famous One Tree Plain was lately blown down.
With that historical tree disappears one of
southern N.S. W.’s best-known land-marks. The
trunk of the well-known gum was literally covered
with carvings of names, initials and dates—it
boro dates as far back as 1850. The surprising
thing is that, so far as is known, no one ever hung
himself on that tree. What an advt. it would
have been : “Hung himself on the one tree on
the One Tree Plain ! ” One advantage of the
tree’s downfall is that buggies, drays and waggons
can now safely cross the big plain without fear of
Funning against its one tree. It seems hardly
credible ; but, in true accordance with the general
eussedness of things, many vehicles have, at one
time or other, collided with it.
» * * •
Jack the Bullocky, Charley the Ringer,
Marsupial Bill and others, in a northern shed, are
discussing the carrying capacity of the P. and O.
boats. After an argument as to whether the
Perthshire, which took from Sydney some 9000
odd tons of coal, was the largest vessel that has
loaded in Australian waters, the Bullocky
paralysed the company with the information that
when he was down in Rockhampton he saw the
Fitzroy (the vessel that trades up the Fitzroy
River), and that she had a house on deck so big
that he could walk in at the doorway without
“ bending ” his head ; that the mast was thicker
than his waggon-pole and three times as long, and
that they loaded her down chock-full of bananas
and put three horses on board of her, and then she
didrvt sink l
ANOTHER COINCIDENCE.
Beneath the window of the W.C.T.U. building.,
Little Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Kangaroo pathology, according to the
Medical Press and Circular :
The deprivation of active exercise, which is entailed by
board and lodging in the Zoological Gardens [London],
afflicts the kangaroos in a marked manner. They develop
enormous corns, several ounces in weight, which are
very troublesome to remove, and, on the approach of
damp weather—and damp weather seeing to he the rule in
the purlieus of Regent’s Park—they are prone to gouty
manifestations, usually affecting one hand, or paw, and
then the opposite foot.
• * * •
W.D., from Mulgerrie (W.A.) :—On New
Year’s Eve the police here had to go round to all
the groggeries begging the publicans not to supply
any more fire-water to the diggers, because the
lock-up was stuffed to its utmost capacity with
“ drunks,” and, as the logs for chaining purposes
had been sneaked by the mill-owners, they, the
police, had to cry a go.
• * * *
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” :
I should like to know your M.L. correspondent (on
the Derrink). He is a man who views cause and effect as
I do, and, although I have not yet tried Kola Nut, I can
substantiate the facts about the other drinks. “Cobbler’s
punch ” is the best of all mouth-vvetters when you are
spitting cotton-wool through cracked lips. Any acid
(with water and sugar) composes the beverage—vinegar
for choice. All the Urana drunks used to come to me for
a recovery on rest, cobbler’s punch and reading. The
puhlicans would send them off with a nip in a soda-water
bottle, just to carry them my distance. When vinegar is
scarce, jam will do, also cream-of-tartar, tartaric acid, or
weak vitriol. The acid is necessary to give it a “ bite,”
but, as your Maoriland brother boozikin says, it is the
sugar that does the trick, being a food and therefore
satisfying. Having soothed the innards with this punch
exhibit beef-tea, soup, milk (with lime or soda to prevent
curdling) then meat, and when you can stand that you’re
ready to “ go on the tank ” again.
* » * •
Dear Bulletin, — The man in the far bush,
besides being a tailor in a small way, and many
other things, is an adept at mending old boots.
There is no call for a tradesman to set up business
in his neighborhood, and his absence has caused
bushy to think and act for himself until he has
become expert. Finding his leathers going,
he first appropriates all the sprigs or tacks that
come in his way, and steals a piece of good sole
leather; then he takes the loan of somebody’s
hammer and goes to work. If chance permits,
when the job’s done he “sells out” for a bob or
two and goes serenely on his way. He’s not far
out when he says repairing costs nothing. I knew
one man though, whose repairing cost him three
months. But he was only an apprentice.—
Werrimee.
• • * *
Writes “ A.L.” :
I was listening to the reminiscences of an ancient ex-
policeman at a town on one of the Northern rivers, and
the name of a well-known medico in the early Sixties was
brought up. “ Know him ? ” said the venerable cop ; “ I
do, the divil ! He was afther getting me iift.o trouble
once. There was a reward of LlOO out for a blackfellow
who had murdered a boundary-rider, and we were all
eager to get him —and the money. Well, I came across
him and arrested him, but when taking him in he died
about 10 miles from the police-station. There was an
enquiry, of course, and the doctor said the black was
over-driven, and died from fear and fatigue. Fear and
fatigue,” and the old man’s eyes blinked viciously, while
a grin crept over his face. “ The devil a bit of fear and
fatigue it was. I had a collar on my horse’s neck and
another on the darkey’s, with a chain betwixt them, and
we were jogging along easy, not distressing him in the
least, when the black devil buried his teeth in the calf of
my leg. With that I dug the spurs in my horse, and the
plunge he gave landed that darkey clean off his feet into
the middle of the road, and another plunge sent him fly-
. ing six feet in the air head downwards. Then I did a
half-mile gallop with the nigger sometimes on his feet
and mostly taking jumps in the air and the rest of the
time trailing. I guess he must have died through getting
his neck broken in five or six places. And the old saw-
bones said it was fear and fatigue. Perhaps it was after
all; the sudden jump might have made him feel tired.
Anyhow, I never got the £100.”
* * * *
Thus a Westralian to a Melbourne man :
“ I travelled from Mullewa to Cue on the same
coach with a police-escort. One said he liked the
nor’-west better than the Murchison, and explained
why. ‘ You see we are allowed 2s. per day for
the keep of nigger prisoners up there, and we
. take good care to have as many as we can always
in the logs, and we take ’em out and make them
catch their tucker, and we pocket the cash. My
word I did well up there.’” The great and
glorious West!
* * * •
Dear Bulletin,— Re “R.H.’s” doubt as
to whether bung-eye is produced by a small black
fly or the ordinary house-fly, after feeding on
putrid matter. The latter alternative is, in my
opinion, out of the question, except where actual
blood-poisoning sets in, which often means death
—not merely a closed eye for three days. I have
been bitten on the eyelid by what we call up
North the “sandfly,” and have had a bunged eye
with the consequences described. No perception
of the actual bite, but gradually increasing
itch, and then swelling. The fly is a very
small grey one—sometimes nearly black. I found
I could cure this itch, and prevent the swell-
ing by bathing the eye in water as hot as I could
bear it; keep the water hot, and keep on bathing
until you find the swelling reduced. When I com-
menced beekeeping, I found that a sting on the
forehead, between the eyes, or near either eye,
meant one or both eyes bunged up. But, several
times, I averted this result by the above method
of hot fomentation. I am used to bee-stings now;
they cause no swelling, even when on the eyelid,
and do not seem so painful as of old, except, curi-
ously, when delivered by an odd Italian who
seems to be extra powerful at the business end.
But to the point. If “ R.H.” will try the hot-
water fomentation, I almost believe he will find
it a preventative of bunged eye, and, though I
don’t expect the fortune he mentions, I would be
glad to learn the result.—J., Tweed River.
* » * *
Ed. Bulletin,—We decided to build a
bark humpy ; it was a bit cold living under calico.
The bark did not strip well, and, when taken off
the tree, it was hard to open without placing it
over a fire to heat the sap. We stripped a few
sheets, and started to carry them down the moun-
tain to our camp. To carry a sheet of bark pro-
perly you stand it on end, place your back to the
sap-side, half sit down, keeping the back straight,
put the hands low down, catch a grip each side,
and give a couple of hitches as you straighten up’
shooting the bark well out over the head. Dave,
the green-hand, managed all right, but, in the
hitching process, he shoved his hat partly over his
eyes, and when he let go with one hand to shove
his hat back, like a spring-trap the bark closed
round him, and there he was, cased in a cylinder
of stringybark, and rolling down the mountain
side—bounding over rocks, bumping against trees,
and making straight for where the descent ended
in a perpendicular fall of 200 ft. into the Blue
Mountain Creek. We followed as fast as we
could, until, luckily, a peppermint-tree brought
the cylinder up, and we soon had the occupant
out, not much the worse for his shaking. “ Dave,
old man,” said Sam, afterwards, “I reckon some
of them Bulletin tight places ain’t a patch on the
fix you were in to-day, and, if you had gone over
that bluff you would have been the first man on
record to be killed in his coffin ! ” —R.F.
* * * *
Dear B.—l remember it so hot on the
Damlie River in N.Q. once that the fish were
coming out of the water dripping with perspira-
tion to lie on the rocks and fan themselves with
their tails. But the heat was so overpowering
that they couldn’t keep it up, and were all duly
turned into broiled fish.—S.E.O’B.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin,— Did you ever see a rain-
bow at night ? Was watching cattle one showery
night (full moon) when I saw a perfect rainbow,
sa?is colors. It was quite white. I have told
several people, but they do not seem to believe me.
It was on the same trip, dodging behind the cattle
one day in some thick mulga, I sighted a scrub
turkey, as white as the “ driven snow.” (Have
never seen snow, but am told it’s white). -I had
seen white kangaroos, and heard tell of white
crows, white “ grey ” parrots, &c., but am inclined
to think that white bush turkeys are extremely
rare.— The Wanderer.
* * * *
A Maryborough (Q.) newspaper bi*ags
mightily about a local bullock-driver-aboriginal,
who never drinks, curses, or uses a whip, and who
has been (credat Judaeus) a successful bullock-
driver for many years. Now, come ! Aus-
tralia has stood the fish-lie and the snake-lie and
the shooting-lie for many a long day, but this sort
of thing is too stiff. Where be the witnesses ?
• * * *
You see some strange sights out West
during a drought. An iron tank was sunk a few
months ago, on a certain station, to a level of
about 15in. below the surface, and used ■ r water-
ing horses. During the water-famine clouds of
parrots used to fly to this tank in the evening,
crowd into the water, and fight furiously until
numbers of them were drowned. Rabbits met
their death in the same manner, and things got so
bad that the tank had to be cleaned out daily to
purify the water from its holocaust. Writer has
known teal flying over a station in search of water
to drop suddenly on a gal vanised-iron roof, the
sheen of which in the moonlight had, by its sem-
blance of liquid, deceived the birds and caused
them to make a descent.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —“ W.O.R.’s ” uilcle’s
ram’s butting exploit is good for a sheep, but I
knew an old Tas. prospector named Yates who
was a better butter for a man than “ Billy ” was
for a ram At the age of f»8 I saw him knock out,
in quick time, a young six-foot Victorian native—
and the young ’un was sober and the old ’un
drunk. Mr. Yates could hit hard enough for
ordinary people with his hands, but harder with
his head. I saw him, for the wager of a bottle of
rum, run at a solid four-railed fence and break the
top rail in two with his head. Yates is dead
now, but it wasn’t the fence-rail that wiped him
out —it was the rum.—C.R.
CONSIDERING THE SIZE.
THE NEW-CHUM : “ Haw! what a vewy fine sun-
set!”
COCKY : “ Yes ; I must say we gits some blanky fine
sunsets for a little place like Boggabri! ”
Dear Bulletin, —A study of your columns
tends to convince one that this is a bank-burdened
country, and that the nation is pretty well run by
the dummies of “our financial institutions.” Per-
sonally, I do not know the squatter, and have little
knowledge of how he squats, but I do know the
bush-township, particularly in Victoria, and find
that it is almost invariably owned by the bank—
from the new, red hotel, managed by an equally
red, drowsy man, in last month’s shirt, and
ancient, down-trodden carpet slippers, to the
gable-ended humpy, inhabited by Smith’s spotted
cattle-“ da wg.” The fact that the bank owns the
township is largely due to the boom and the sub-
sequent burst. During the boom, Ragan the pub-
lican, and Ryan the smith, and Hogan the grocer,
and Mooney the butcher, grew suddenly too vast
for their low, cheap, weatherboard premises, and
instantly borrowed and built. Then there was an
explosion, and presently Ragan, and Ryan, and
Hogan, and Mooney found themselves and theirs
in the hands of a decrepit and despairing bank,
and were glad to escape with a shirt to their backs.
And, where formerly a few ricketty wooden sheds
faced the station, and were called Budgerygubbery,
or something of the kind, a line of blatant brick
establishments now juts out of the wilderness and
frowns down the wretched little dog-box of a
station ; and they arc called Seaton, or Beacons-
field, or Frogmore. And there is only one man
worth mentioning in the place, the manager of the
“local branch,” an elegant young person, who
habitually wears a cigarette and a cummerbund,
and is lord of all he surveys.—S.
FIVE LITTLE (QUEENSLAND) NIGGERS.
Photo., J. J. Hogg & Co., Brisbane.
Stated that Longreach (Q.) publicans only
employ white cooks, because one can get a white
cook for =£l a week, whereas one would have to
pay a Chinese cook a fair wage of from =63 to <£4>
“We are ruined by Chinese dear labor ” ?
'* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— H. J. M‘Cooey asserts
that the laughing-jackass “never killed, nor is
ever likely to kill a full-grown snake.” Per
contra, —During one summer a year or two ago I
saw jackasses on four different occasions flying
with snakes in their bills, the reptile in one case
being 4ft. long—about as much as the bird could
wobble along with. Mr. M’Cooey had in future
better stick to what he has seen for himself.—
Wombat.
The Giant of Medicines.
Warner’s Safe Cure is not a “cure all.” It is a
specific for the diseases resulting from a weakness
of two or. ans—two only— the liver (known by
jaundice, flatulency, nausea, bilious headaches,
spasmodic pains in the stomach, and the “ tired ”
“ played-out ” feeling) and the kidneys.
The Kidneys, unlike other organs in the body,
when diseased, may themselves be free from" pain,
and this fact leads many to believe that they are
not diseased. But medical authorities agree that
they can be far gone with disease, and yet give forth
no pain, because they have but few nerves of
sensation.
We do not open a watch to see if it is going or
in good order; we merely look at the hands, or
note the accuracy of its time. So we need not
open the kidneys to see if they are diseased. We
must study the condition of the system. Kidney
disease produces any of the following symptoms :
Backache, flatulency and pain in the heart, irregu-
larity or excess in urinating, sour stomach, heart-
burn with dyspepsia, pains in the small of the
back, headache, neuralgia, loss of memory,
rheumatism, chills and fever, red or white brick-
dust deposits, shortness of breath, and a pallor
or puffiness of the skin.
Theseare thechief disorders, or symptoms, caused
by a diseased condition of the kidneys. If the
kidneys are restored to health by the great specific
—Warner’s Safe Cure —these ailments mentioned
above will disappear. THERE IS NC MYS-
TERY ABOUT If, Warner’s Safe Cure does
cure. When the kidneys are diseased, the albu-
men, the life-property of the blood, escapes in the
water, while the urea, the “ kidney-poison,” re-
mains, and it is this “ kidney-poison'' in the blood
that, circulating through the entire body, affects
every organ, and produces all the above symptoms.


Wrinkles should merely indicate where the
smiles have been.—Mark Twain.
Drowning runs sometimes in families. A
Constable Black was drowned in the Warrego
river, Charleville (Q.), in : 94. His father and one
of his brothers were the only persons drowned in
the recent Brisbane flood.
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing-.
The Flying Scotchman Pen,' instead of a Quill.
The Plying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
Simple rules for saving money.—To save
half : When you are fired by an eager impulse to
contribute to a charity, wait, and count 40. To
save three-quarters, count 60. To save it all,
count 65.—Mark Twain.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, Patent and Trade
Marks Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, wishes to
notify his clients and intending patentees that
Mr. T. C. Allen, Consulting Mechanical Engineer,
has joined him as partner, and will henceforth
control the engineering branch of the business.*
“APENTA,”
The best Natural Aperient Water.
Relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver, and
opens the bowels.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co., Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
In the early thirties it was a moot point as
to whether Brisbane or Cleveland Point was to be
the head-quarters of the penal settlement at
Moreton Bay. A few hundred yards of mud at
Cleveland sent' Governor Brisbane up the river.
Now the water comes down and swamps most
of the Q. metropolis every year or so, and silts up
the tortuous waterway a few feet. But Brisbane
doesn’t pay for the drainage or the dredging—the
whole province is saddled with the cost of the
awful blunder. Change hopeless, owing to vested
interests—and flood-prevention doubtful even if
inillions are spent.
ISTewman. & Snelson,
. . The Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speedy. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
“ SURPLUS."
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate;
due provision being made in the valuation for the
rights of future participants. The natural ten-
dency of distribution is to diminish the surplus
for the moment; but in the case of a prosperous
company, the decrease is speedily more than
covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withho ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. It requires
but a moment’s consideration, however, to per-
ceive that it is easy to keep in hand more than
the future will require under any possible circum-
stances ; and, when that course is followed, in-
justice to present participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was J 26,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance—of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
24 millions sterling 1 This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
=£44,445,244, which is more, than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid intere ts of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
this course, the Mutual Life of" New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as “ the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,” “ the Co. which does the most
good 1 ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in exces; of
any possible needs of the generations to come.*
4k’
Wißi awierfulroij
I was a -Well- no matter!
We need riot go into that.
BMh>~
I questioned tlie PpstepMaidcn
’Whv do the Poster Races
No louder interest
limply a gift for Bardeii-
ror know he rides a Swift’s
CYCLES
(Fitted. with. Dunlop Tyres).
In connection with these easy-running machines, we have just issued a daintily
got-up brochure, fully illustrated, entitled “ Cycling for Ladies,” containing some
very useful hints for beginners, and for those who are anxious to look as smart
as possible when wheeling. A really good hint given and received at the right
time often decides the all-important question of whether a lady looks awkward or
elegant when cycling. For those interested in cycling from the racing standpoint,
we ha\e also issued a little souvenir booklet, containing an account of the dis-
tinguished
rider, C. F. Barden, whose appearance ALONE on the scratch mark of the Austral
Wheel Race made the Swift the cynosure of all eyes. This Xmas season we are
sending to all our old customers an entertaining Xmas story, entitled “ Xmas in
Australia,” illustrated by our own special artist. Should any of these esteemed
patrons be accidentally omitted from our list—which is a very long one a post-
card to any of our depots will command instant attention.
- ■— ■
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rundle-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers.
Warrnambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamp's
(of any province) accompany.
R.F.M.: And the moral —when you make a
wager, read your ticket carefully B. : You say, re
“R.V’par. about the Moncrieffs, that “Lady” Munro
isn’t related “by the Dudley marriage” to that family ;
she is, you aver, one of the sisters Moncrieff, and aunt of
the present Lord Dudley. Now, when Lord Dudley was
in Australia he denied that Lady Munro was his mother’s
sister Arthur (Melb.): You are not so much to blame ;
but your friends in the office, who advised you to send
along the verses, have no excuse for their error. Heaven
save you from your friends Pelican: Some dramatic
force, but handling rather crude ... S.O’B. :“ Promise of
Life ” over-conventional; “ Pupil ” much better : will
consider Bunt: Alleged that technically there isn’t
any collective “Australian flag’’—that the flag of each
province is the “ blue ensign,” with distinguishing
badge in the “fly.” J.F.B. (M.L.) : Thanks.. ....
Woga: When we came to “Avaunt!” we avaunted.
Boom: Slumped badly X.E. : Not original.
N - : Terse and pithy; but not enough story to
carry off the horror Recruit: Pretty good character-
study, but treatment too strenuous and finish weak J.
Reklaw : Decided improvement, but fear your faulty ear
for metre is fatal Barcoo : Barcoo rot! P. Orex •
Warm, but slushy Tim B. : Old situation, handled in
old way C. J.S. : Bulletin readers have nothing to do
with a writer’s age. Is the screed good enough ?—that’s
the only question H. : Where did the Duke of Bedford
get that million-and-a-half you admire him for possess-
ing? Probably out of Covent Garden Market, where his
tax-gatherers collect on every bit of fruit, every bunch of
flowers, that enters the precincts. And you want Ran-
furly to do the same with Mildu,-a ? T.P. (S.A.): Sorry
none usable J.B.C. : No—merely returned your brick';
and conflict stops there .. . . Carambo : Hunter’s Hill
doesn’t take its name from Gov. Hunter. Muir, the
ancient crank, of Sydney Cove, named the place Hunter’s
Hill in memory of his old home in Scotland. Gov.
Hunter found the name flourishing on his arrival
Bronzewing : Long—and dull C O’H. (M.) : Can’t say.
Each item must stand on its own merits .... Rock Cod :
What do you take us for? ... Casual : Never heard it
before .... Andys : Thanks, but Bulletin doesn’t print
“papers.” “Papers” are the things you hear read at
debating-societies. Bulletin isn't a debating-society. It
is purely oracular .. H.R.M.C. : Great “go,” but no
“stay. ’, You can do better Karl C. : Don’t remember
the “severity.” Last sketch decently written, but lacks
vigor and point .... Marreh D. : Thoroughly conventional
in motive and treatment. Try to get out of the beaten
track Rara : Wish you were a lot more so.
Triton : Only amongst the minnows .. L.L.E. : Has the
real ring about it, but workmanship very clumsy, as yet.. .
Mamoose : “ Single” accepted 0.8. (T.): Utterly and
hopelessly useless .... E.S. A. : But why is John Norton so
reverential to the Cardinal? .Combo :In the long run
no doubt big sweeps will be drawn on the day of the
race. For the matter of that, is there any particular
necessity to have horses in the business at all ? Wouldn’t
cash prizes, pure and simple, less Tatt.’s commission, be
better than having to “whack” under threat with a
grab-all owner?.... Kauri Gum : May be quite true, but,
all the same, very improbable. Also, unsavory Frank
L. N. : Yes, we’ve all been to England. Can you suggest
anything shorter than “Bull” to denote J.B.—or any-
thing apoplectic? .... E.L. : “It is Australia’s duty to
Christianise. New Guinea.” It is Australia’s duty to
Christianise or de-Christianise, as it pleases itself; and
leave other folks’ morals and religions alone until it has
scrubbed its own clean .... G.G. : Too long a tale of woe.
W.D. : Not up .. Queenslander: Too young—come
back in a year or three V.K. : Can’t use ' Frank L. :
Nice for little Johnny aged nine to read in the Infants’
Messenger. Leo : You “ween” over-much R.
Rog. : Idea trite—treatment dull Tennis Spot: Some
merit—not enough Dargo : “Barker” wants point;
other meanders G.C.F. : Declined G.D.C. : Ditto.
Max: Don’t agree Maniototo : Nicely-written, but
too much dialect and too little climax for Bulletin
Louis M. : Humor rather too mechanical Morris-tube :
Will probably use R.F. : One already printed ; other
will be M. Bel.: Smothered with irrelevant detail
Arthur J.R. : Too long and lean —with here and there a
verse of reasonable plumpness Hekla : Idea trite ;
rhyme wretched ; metre unspeakable... Rhoda G. : You
are on the right track; “getting there” is only a
matter of time with you Wanderer : Not quite up
M. (Echuca) : If you don’t ride better than you rhyme,
old Bobby Rand would have boiled you down into low-
grade tallow. Whence the sad reflection : What a lot of
good axle-grease is roaming about the bush and writing
“ poetry ” 1 W.C.S. : The good in it’s like a star you can
only see on very dark nights when your eyes are very strong.
Send us a sun that will blaze through the brain of a blind
man with his head in a blanket Q.X. : Price of Dr.
Roth’s book is 21s. 6d., (not 10s. 6d.) posted from this
office D.B. : One fair —and we’ve got exactly the same
motive in type for another fellow A. J.G. : Don’t send
us didactics on “The Course of Sin”—send the Sin,
warm from the oven, pressed in a two-inch mould, and
garnished with red fire. Then we’ll love you D.L.S :
Thanks Louisa (M.L.) : Poetry something between a
gasp and a yearn—does your earthquaky province breed
mental seasickness? Galliard : One Moan received. The
universe is a beastly thing, isn’t it ? Y.Z. : Yes, exactly-
A.G.W. (N. 8.) : Will print Peter Mushrooms : No,
there are none publicly on view'. Some have been shown
at the periodical Artists’ Exhibitions Anastatia : Never
give your yarn away on the first page—you might as well
put your goose in the oven ready cooked .... R.K. (Melb):
Can’t use B. and V. Have come to the conclusion that,
like everyone else, he’d better lay to his book. Every
low’-comedian wants to play Hamlet—just as Phil May
yearned to leave black and white and become a painter.
Guy: Parodies must be Al. Yours is bay rum, or
kerosene, or whatever the shanty - keeper gave you
last Torre : Only a third of a yarn —or say two-
fifths if you hold your breath and strain hard Starlight:
Yarn too mechanical—always keep the handle out of
sight, and work it with a bit of string from round the
corner, as it were. Also cover up the string Frank H.
(W.A.): Only comic-song merit—and that is 95 fathoms
below the third pit of perdition A.J.V. : Logic isn’t
watertight—if women turn brutes into men, what do men
turn women into ? “ Brutes ! ” you naturally veil. Well,
you’re a man ; and you can’t expect this chivalrous organ
to print contributions from anybody who treats a woman
like that.
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave,
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
, ~ T> .i at o w
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published,
_,,„ ® J f .
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
Mr. T C. Allen, Consulting Mechanical
Engineer, has joined Mr. Arthur Griffith Patent
Agent, as partner. Mr. Allen will control the
engineering branch of the business, and advise
and assist clients free of charge, bee advt.
At a recent English fashionable marriage
the bridegroom presented the bride with the bullet
which had cost him his arm in South Africa. It
was mounted in gold, fashioned into a double-
headed serpent.
The hydrophobia scare in England is very
bad just now, and the dog-muzzling question rose
to political importance at Deptford election,
where the Unionist candidate was defeated on
account of having originated the regulation under
which sporting dogs are allowed to go unmuzzled,
- ~ . , “
Mr. J. Button, organist, and Rev. I homas
Davies, preacher, officiated in the same church in
Harrington (Eng.) in 1877. Without any know-
ledge of each other’s movements they met again,
a Sunday or two ago, in the same relative posi-
tions in a church at Parramatta, N.S.W.
Seven years ago the dead-and-gone Parkes
laid the foundation - stone of a trades hall at
Broken Hill. Not another stroke was done—
except by somebody who presently capsized the
stone and collared the coins. Now Mr. B. Back-
house, M.L.C., has presented the local unions
with complete plans of a building, and a start is to
be made with it at once.


THOSE ART ENVELOPES.
Joe Cook , the N.S. W. Postmaster-General , proposes to issue a series of “ Art Envelopes” to advertise the province. Our
artist herewith submits a few designs.
No. 1.—An official envelope for use abroad, intended to convey some idea of N.S.W's prosperity under
Freetrade. No. 2.—Is intended as a sort of pleasantry on the part of the P.M.-General at the expense of the Attorney-
General, and may have some bearing upon Alien Exclusion. The pun is just what one might expect from Joe Cook.
No. 3.—For use in legal correspondence. No. 4 and 5.—Self-explanatory. No. 6.—A very re-assuring envelope
indeed. No. 7.—Introduced for picturesque, rather than for moral effect. No. 8.—How to bring George Reid within
the domain of “practical” politics. No. 9.—An encouragement of youthful Australians. No. 10,—Social.


- C os* 1 ' **
df
°i^S / l\um r o'irv a ■Vtctin'x 01-lfc*
\)usk j-ttes. D lv-ol& hu.m?cl o u-/~ Ao uS€
an ' ' h.o m e-~ . V /
HjjItCPTL.
The depth of graves in the Melbourne;
General Cemetery was referred to at the j
meeting of the Metropolitan Board of
Health yesterday, . it was* stated that a'
coffin containing the corpse of a person who'
had died of typhoid fever had been buried
within 2 feet 6 inches of . the
/surface.. “ . .■ . • ~
. /
nvr
i nere nas been a suggestion oy the
Imperial Government, which bears part of
the cost of administration, that the colonies
should undertake all the expense among
themselves.| little'or
no benefit from its share in the compact;
and beyond considering whether the colorfy'
shall incrifeae its contribution it is a ques-
tion whether Victoria will continue to pa/
the same proportion or any portion'of the
cpßt at aH. -- -
Turner ■._? ■fincl foj etlydear at Ihe jo/esent
Jo-rice, 3ofin. V\/i>ose nigger is he f andhour ?
J.Bu.d-—Qh he's rn/ ne f a?? and J'ff
7a /fp /i im oVfr as soo>? as
Ae & ecorrte soc
jbrofid /V> A/'s
o Ksr?
cJ *
itif
Jjf had head f&r JfU-Smess .
<V / / 4/
( M t ,
a s’X^^
' V %K ;>
o*,< >l^
"• VV
fcs/i'
' /V*o tfy yh-K asc 7'4/s Ja77 / seorje.
Tfracreamgs o/iened y as
MELBOURNIANA.


Toronto Hotel,
halce
Macquarie.
First-C'aes Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
eive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel. Toronto.
BURGLARS BAFFLED BADLY.
SECRECY. SECURITY.
McDermott's Burglar Alarm.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
See the WORKING MODELS at our Offices. Prices quoted for Installation to any extent
* at any address. Telephone No. 1674.
The UTDermott Burglar Alarm Coy.,
Castlereagh-st. (opp. Australia Hotel), Sydney.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
STOVE,
Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
>rovements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” burner
fitted to any stove.
“Primus” Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
BRA.KTDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
m
Direct from Tea Garden to TnapoL
CEYLON TEA.
g
CAPTAIN FERGUSON, P.S. to HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR, writes as follows :
“ I beg to inform you that the sample packet of Nirvana Tea you were good enough to send
me was prepared for His Excellency, and the Tea seemed to be of excellent quality.”
Mr. C. R. BLACKE IT, Govt. Analyst of Victoria, Bays, September 21st, ’97:—
“I have analysed the Nirvana Tea, and am able to affirm that it is of Eirst-class Quality.
Rich in extract, it is of pleasant aroma and flavour, and is absolutely pure.”
Dr. J. E. ELLIOTT (Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney), says :
« This is to certify that I have examined several Samples of Nirvana Tea taken from stock.
lam satisfied that it is an unusually fine, pure Ceylon Tea, consisting of young leaves. It has
a very pleasant aroma, is rich in extractive, and contains little tanin or astringent matter.
Owing to its being packed in lead at Colombo, its freshness is preserved, and it is a pleasure to
recommend such a high-class tea.”
fd
CEYLON TEA is put up in Lead in Colombo
in order that it may reach the public in the ori-
ginal packets, pure, fresh, untampered with.
On sale by all Grocers, and Wholesale at the
Sydney Agency, 56 Margaret-street, where, by
writing, any person unable to get supplied
locally can obtain a free sample, pamphlet, and
price list.
r.
t
O'
%
THEY'RE SATISFIED-NOW
jm-vtoor MINERVA,
SOAP.
Nothing is of More Importance than the Quality of your TOILET SOAP. In the Nursery
the Wise Mother remembers the delicate sensitiveness of her baby’s pretty pink skin, and uses
MINERVA. Why should adults be less wise in regard to themselves? MINERVA SOAP
maintains the natural texture of the skin, and, because of its rare medicinal properties, acts as
an antidote for stubborn prickly heat and itchings and chafings of all kinds. Of a peculiar,
healthy aroma, which lasts right to the end, it is an elegant-looking article, and is, morever, the
greatest cleansing soap in the market.
Mr. W. A. DIXON, Registered Analytical and Consulting Chemist, Laboratory, 97 Pitt-
street, Sydney, says :—“I have analysed several samples of Minerva Soap, and have to report
that it is a superfatted, milled Soap, impregnated with soothing and antiseptic medicaments. It
is evidently made of the Purest Materials, and is Absolutely Neutral—that is, it does not contain
any free alkali such as is found in cheap soaps, and which, whilst it promotes the formation of a
lather, renders the skin hard and dry. For this reason Minerva Soap may be ÜBed with safetv
on the most delicate skin. It contains a very low percentage of water, and, therefore, a high
percentage of actual soap—higher than any other I have examined.
(Signed)
F. 1.5., F.C.S.
MINERVA SOAP is on sale by Messrs. PATTINSON & CO. at their Ten Branches, and
by all other Chemists in N.S. Wales ; as well as by the Dealers throughout Australia.
MINERVA SALVENA is an infallible internal remedy for Scrofula, Scurvy, Sores,
Cancerous Ulcers, Eruptions of the Skin, and all other Blood and Skin Diseases. It is free from
all deleterious ingredients.
MINERVA OINTMENT is an efficacious preparation for Sores, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions,
Contusions, Piles, Ulcers, Chapped Hands, Cuts, Wounds, Chilblains, Bites of Poisonous
Insects, &c., &c.
If your Chemist fails to stock MINERVA, send direct to any of Company’s Australian
Dep6ts, as follows : —Sydney, 56 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-st. ; Adelaide, 98
Currie-st. ; Brisbane, 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st., or Messrs. Taylor, Colledge & Co.
XMAS PRESENTS AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS
Most Artistic, Unique and Up-to-Date Jewellery Display. Beautiful Chased Silver Plate for Presentation.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 265.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
jc. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 ss.
5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
180. Gold Pure Diamond, £2 108.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 8-bar Amethyst, 265.
16c. Gold ti „ 465.
ST*5
A. Saunders.
16a Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
16a Gold 6 Pure Double-cut Diamonds, £i.
Neat and strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
18c. Solid Gold Nurljd Edges
Dress Keeper, engraved, 255.
Raised Flowers, 30«.
Send for Size Card.
180. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £6 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 los,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 160.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s
16c., 20s, 265; 18c.
265, 30s, 355, JE2.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
JE3 ; Double -cut Dia-
monds, £S 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Bings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15<\ Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
card.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
16c. Gold, 165,; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, Ss'Od.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6d.
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
16c. Gold (ab above), 355.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s; Large, 21*
16c. Gold, 265, 80s, 365,
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
mmi
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Plated Butters, Cut
Glass, 15s 6d j Large size, 20s.
Send tor illustrated book.
g
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
365, £2 6s, £3 ; extra,
£3 6s. 16c. £3, £4,
JB6, U 6; with key pad-
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
A. SAUNDERS
FOR STRONG RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £8 10s. Strongest, cheape
and best timekeepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10 ,
£6, £7, £8 —3,4, 5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key
or Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Shortwind Keyless, 7s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality. 20s guaranteed. Gold, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherham’s and Waltham Levers.
Send for price list. Send for price book.
No. 1.
2.
3.
15c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
No. 1,15 s ; Nos. 2 and 3,14 s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 13s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s;
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and ss.
Newest Style, very pretty.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin.
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
255. Gold, 26s 6d.
Quite jNew.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 13s 6d.
Links to match, 13s Od ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Initials on Brooch Free.
Our Silver-plate Department is worth inspection. Butters from 3s 6d to
30s Jams, 10s t& 20s. Dinner Cruets, 32s 6d to £4. Entree Dishes,
57s 6d (4 pieces). Hot Water Teapots, 33s 6d.
Send for Complete
Illustrated Price Book.
Post Free.
Tea and Coffee Sets, £2 10s, £3 2s 6d, £4 4s, £5 5s to £l5 15s. Teapots
10s 6d to £2. Mind—We sell cheaper than down-town sellers, because wo
“ buy for cash and sell for cash ” only.
I
Send for
Price List.
A. SAUNDERS
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W.


<6
DOWHIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
9>
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC inc 'ases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
‘To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“ Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
, . “W. MARTIN.
American Cyclist.”
’S TONIC
FISHER’
—IS THE—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
po YOU SHAVE ?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d.; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
S- ’ s ' an< * 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney
drink
5
j\Wrs
vv* OISUUE®
SPtCIAIj
as
flttl
3*
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 103.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send tor Price List. ISft
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
df
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. • . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & D. CURPIiVIXr,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
moat effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution o resist climatic
influences.
PER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all cases o',
anaemia. Influenza and
general debilit
FERBRAVAE
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-
dren
LANCET •* A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
Business
Announcements.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
gSSusMI
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
wr
Prof. DDRCOT'S MDSKAL
1 Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
1 Hajron Smoothest Pace or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d., Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
F absolutely per*
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without tho
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Enq.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PILES.
THE Advertiser having suffered for years from Piles and
tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, .accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Puddin
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kiuds of Fruit Pies.
. u “ e 9“ all ed for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
followed, the proprietors entertain the greates confidence in the article, and can recom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Custard. Giveitatrial
.... Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending November 30,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE _
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman's Helical‘'Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman's Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 45...
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s.
30 Sets of Carvers ” £\ | S .
Cloth Bound Books ... „ £ioo
SEND THIS TOP PORTION
GHftOAP/
7
.war does
* ~"a woman
"look OLD
SOONER THAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house or can
be obtained by application to |_£VER jjg 63 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
The Smelting* Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
'
'
KS
m
m
’t.':
m
. ' ■
m
.. V!
m
•«,: *•“
mm
PURCHASERS OP ALU CLASSES OP . .
Gold, Silver, Head $ Copper Ores $ Products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
S^. LP ?- UI^ IC AC ? P MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., eta
lre . supervision of G. H. Blakemoke, Metallurgist, late of Broken. Hill. The favorable
situation of the being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivallediacilities for
obtaining cheap Coa,, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HCWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
g
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20ln. long, 5/6. all real hair,
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked yp, 2/6 per oz.
We are th'e eheapestin Aus-
tralia! for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzgll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street.
- SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
fdg
Send stamps for full Price Lie*.
Prompt attention gym to Country Order*
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THH
Hercules t Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Fxplosiona Impossible
Always Ready for Use.
df
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
U
H
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
. description, cash,&o. Queerest., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Anglo Conoertinas by Lachenal,
, Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
, plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos,‘‘iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
. for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
. plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
. all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
'OWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from 6d.
, to 1 guinea, great variety. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
, in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
. Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
. terms. Large stock landing. Woollah ra.
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD S Double Bass, three or f©ur string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
OWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25gs. ; cash or terms.
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
French, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
H
H
H
OWAED’S Saxhorns or E Elat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Baritones, brass'"and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver ; cash, &<;. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
K
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3/-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12/6.
i Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
f cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 6000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/li. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/6. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosaplw of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order, from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with pe'rfeet safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
13?” Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be earned on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSHLL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ST
g
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF ;
Australia gives us BILLY TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !! !
Let them “ train ” upon GRANUMA,
“The finest of the wheat.”
their
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA !
'.—From “Bards of the Wood Blocks .*
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
Thk HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chaibman (President Legislative Counoil, N.S.W.)
G. 0. Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by.
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
gg'” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Heard on the stump, in Hobart: “ Since
‘Tattersall ’ Adams assumed the reins of govern-
ment in this island, an appropriate name for the
province would be Tattersmania.”
The only M.L.A. on Tomjoe Byrnes’ re-
ception committee, in Brisbane, the other day;
was Labor-member Dawson, who, rumor holds;
is likely to perform a sudden acrobatic feat.
Ricardo : “ The most important of the
rings within rings of the China question is a pro-
spective fight between Russia and Britain for
the tea-trade, in which the Siberian railway is ex-
pected to beat the British ships.”
The Germans of S.A., with one consent,
decline to have anything to do with the petition
framed by Sydney German-Hebrew South Sea
traders, asking the Reichstag to strengthen the
German fleet in Australasian waters.
Not all the great many licenses issued to
Syrian hawkers in Sydney, to which The Bulletin
referred the other day, remain there. A good
many, it is said, are transferred to country dis-
tricts, where a little more difficulty is sometimes
experienced in getting them in the regular way.
Three members of N.S.W. Parliament
have, since prorogation, executed what are practi-
cally assignments of their estates. Trustees col-
lect their incomes, Parliamentary salaries even
going into the pools. The difference between such
assignments and insolvency is merely a legal one.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott, who admits to
being “not a violent Protectionist ” just now, is
supposed to be “ not over-anxious ” for the down-
fall of Reid at the coming elections. “ I don’t
agree with everything the Protectionists say
against Reid,” he observed lately—which is a pro-
per enough frame of mind to be in with a vacant
Agent-Generalship looming ahead.
T.D. : “ Hinted that, through giving
legislators too much rope, Chairman of Committees
M'Court has effectually debarred himself from
N.S.W. Speakership. When the House goes into
committee it is the immediate signal for an out-
burst of conversation, and visitors to the galleries
are astonished to hear luridities of language for
which an ordinary nerson outside would spend a
month in gaol.”
An Englishman
died, and by some mis-
chance got past the
keeper of the Great
Gate. He strolled up
the main avenue, much
astonished and a trifle
annoyed. It wasn’t
named High-street, nor
were there any hotels to
be seen, nor yet any
churches; and the
cherubs seemed far too
familiar—to a stranger.
At last he reached the
Great White Throne,
and was about to grovel
before the Presence,
when—glancing at one
of the pedestals —some-
thing familiar caught his
eye. Going closer, he
observed carefully, and
when at last the awful
truth struck him he fell
dazed—and was lost.
For the pedestal carried
a label bearing the words
—“ Made in Germany.’
Sydney Telegraph
leader of 14th Jan. :
“In the meantime the
Treasurer (Reid) mana-
ges to pay his way in
cash from year to year,
and yet leave in the
pockets of the people
.£BOO,OOO per annum,
which the previous Gov-
ernment used to extorb
from them.” N.S. W.
Govt. Statistics : Reve-
nue for 1893 (Dibbs’ last
complete year), .£9,499,-
000 ; ditto for 1897
(Reid’s last year), =£9-
107,000; difference in
amount extorted from
the people £ 392,000.
But the fable about the
.£BOO,OOO which Reid
has “ taken off the pub-
lic burdens ” keeps cir-
culating, and even the
pious ex-parsons who
run the Freetrade
Sapers are not ashamed to help it along. Parsons
emoralise very quickly in the dirty ways of
politics.
F. B. Suttor, who now definitely announces
his candidature for Bathurst in the Protectionist
interest, was Minister of Justice in the Parkes
Government of 21 years ago. Of the eight
Ministers who then composed the Government,
five are dead, and the rest (except Suttor) politi-
cally extinct. Suttor figured again as Minister of
Justice in the Parkes-Robertson batch of ’7B.
Estimated that the population
of N.S.W. increased in ’97 by 25,820
This is 100 more than the increase in
’93 and 6000 more than the inorease in
’96, but otherwise it is the smallest
record for very many years past. The
province loses 1434 inhabitants by ex-
cess of departures overland to Vic-
toria, S.A. and Queensland, but it
gains a lot by arrivals oversea, and
the net result is an increase of 2852
by immigration. The remainder of the
increase (22,968) is through excess of
births over deaths. Barring ’96 and
’B9, last year was the worst for births
within the memory of this generation.
People really haven’t time to be born in Aus-
tralia now.
According to an apparently inspired state-
ment in the Sydney Daily Telegraph, Premier
Reid is going back on his definite promise, which
appears in Hansard, that a referendum on the
fiscal question shall be taken at next N.S.W.
general election. It is now proposed that the
fiscal vote shall be taken at some indefinite date
in the dim hereafter. Did G. Reid ever make a
promise that he didn’t go back on, more or less ?
Suppose Premier Reid makes one-fifth of
N.S.W. Leg. Council retire every five years, he,
as it were, pours (at the best) one-fifth of whisky
into four-fifths of water —and then allows the
mixture to stand and evaporate for 60 months;
then he renews the operation. Let the whisky
stand for reform and the water for Upper House
Toryism. How many thousand years would it
take to bring about a reasonably-strong mixture ?
N. “ ‘You and I are wise fools, able to
take care of No. 2, but not of No. 1.’ —Charles
Reade to Mrs. Seymour. Isn’t this just the case
of such as Parkes, Graham Berry, and Dibbs?
Nay, one applies it to Pitt. Familiar cant is
about a man who cannot manage his own affairs
not being able to manage a nation, but these men
are ruined by their absorption in the public good.
The hunks would be nowhere against a Graham
Berry, if such a man could bend his mind to his
own concerns. This for thechuckly concentrative
crawlers to Gorgius Midasity and Thriftability.”
Melb. : “ Superfluous to remark that the
Federal Convention excites infinitely less public
notice than a boys’ pi ay-game of cricket. The
great National Concern, meaning Federalism, is
too much in the hands of the lawyers, a class in
whom it is impossible to rouse general confidence.
When the French Constituent Assembly was
formed, in 1789, some philosopher remarked, ‘ A
mass of lawyers. No good can come of it.’
Finance is a great question, but what is needed in
the beginning is the Blast Furnace —the orator
who can really make the Australian kangaroo sit
up and drive on the nation to a conviction that
Federation is an indispensable step towards Inde-
pendence. He must be racy of the soil, Australia’s
Patrick Henry or O’Connell. Here’s the Hour —
Where’s the Man ? ”
D'YE MOIND IT?
BRISBANE (Q.) PAW-LIS-MAN: “ Wor she disardherly, yer Washup?
To be eoorse she war, She wor-fightm' bare-fishted ter th' elbow
laid another man!"
Under Westralia’s new cheap foreign nig-
ger-labor law, one colored heathen only can be
imported for every 500 tons of a ship’s capacity ;
when his contract expires he must either enter
into a new one, or leave; and the foreign cheap
blackfellow is not'to be employed in any mine, or
to go south of latitude 27. This latter provision
ought to be a great deal of use. The Bulletin
has a vision just here of 60,000 policemen guarding
the blazing wastes of latitude 27, to see that the
cheap foreign nigger doesn’t come across.
UP NORTH ,
CUSTOMER : “ That razor is in very had order."
DEMON BARBER : “ Really, sir! It oughtn't to he.
I did it up this morning, and I’ve only
shaved two Kanakas with it since."
Suppose the problem of reforming the
N.S.W. Leg. Council is submitted to a popular
vote, as now proposed, how will the question be
put ? Presumably it will simply read : “ Are you
in favor of reforming the Leg. Council ? ” Nearly
everybody will answer “ Yes! ” And then the
Government will presumably allege that its
lunatic scheme of appointing Councillors for 25
years is a reform, and that the people have en-
dorsed it by a huge majority.
Pity the Adelaide W.C.T.U. ! Three can-
didates ran for the seat of “ poor M'Pherson,” as
somehow or other everybody calls the deceased
Labor-leader. One is a good fellow, who “ shouts ’ ’
for everybody ; another is interested in a paper
which has a “bung” column, and has sadly sati-
rised the good dames ; and the third looks very
kindly upon the man that lays the odds. It isn’t
all beer and skittles — i.e., tonic ale and parlor-
quoits—to spot the “good men” for whom all
‘ ‘ true women ” should vote.
N.S.W. Labor-party corrobborees at New-
castle on 26th instant, and will thereafter issue an
electoral manifesto. The party favors the aboli-
tion of the Upper House, but evidently regards
that scheme as impracticable for the present, and
so will discuss what attitude should be assumed
in regard to reforming the Council as it exists
to-day. It is pretty safe to assume that
M'Gowan and co. assent to Premier
Reid’s scheme of watering (or whiskying) the
Council to the extent of one-fifth every five years.
If they do, they may, as a Labor-party, just
as well jump off South Head.
Next year will produce the best crop of
industries yet manufactured in New South
Wales. The police in each district have got in-
structions to ascertain the number of farmers who
manufacture butter, and the number of hands em-
ployed in such work. It will pan out this way :
The old man milks the cows. The wife makes,
say, 10lb. butter a day, ai d two boys drive the
cows from the paddock with much blanky and an
old cattle-dog. Premier Reid calls this an in-
dustry becauses it has four hands employed and
produces 36501 b. of butter a year. N.S. Wales
will next year be one vast industry, and almost
every one in it will be employed in a factory.
Yic. : “Railway Commissioner Mathieson
has thrust his hand into the gauntlet. Even
Premier Turner finds, and says, that Mathieson
may be broken, but not bent. Taking it myself
for a good thing, I must say Responsible Govern-
ment is wholly done away with in our railway
department, and a beneficial David Syme substi-
tuted, the Minister of Railways being the veriest
puppet in the country. No man with any self-
respect would hold the post. Mathieson is nearly as
popular as Speight with the employees, and if he
would but draw on the velvet glove over the wrist
of steel would do yet better. He is over-brusque,
Scotch-bristly, almost hedge-hoggy. But he is at
home.”
G. Republican Dibbs, it appears, refuses
to listen to the voice of the charmer. He will not
re-enter political life, but will lay to his book,
and, in the interests of his family, rest uneasily
in the more or less uncomfortable security of his
official -01300 a year. Dibbs is buoyant beyond
his years, but what sane politician can, at 65, look
back without a shudder on the dying days of the
ever-neoessitous Parkes, or the last years of poor,
hard-up, old Jack Robertson, or on the bone
contemptuously flung by Parliament to the septua-
genarian Berry—flung with the injunction that
his penniless wife is on no account to be allowed
to gnaw it after he is dead ? The rewards of
politics !
Note the tendency in municipalities to
refer disputed matters of local policy to a plebiscite
of the ratepayers. But in N.S.W., at any rate,
there is no provision for it in the unwieldy and
indefinite Municipalities Act; at any rate, no
special provision. Thereupon the further dispute
invariably arises whether the vote should be taken
on the cumulative plan, as the Act provides with
regard to the election of aldermen, or whether it
should be on the one-ratepayer-one-vote system.
Until that is settled (and there seems to be no way
of settling it except by still another amending Act)
the local Referendum will be valueless, and,
besides, the Referendum itself will be brought into
disrepute. Yet what a valuable bit of education
it might be !
N. : “ It is impossible to rouse the alarm
of ‘ wolf ’ in the public mind of Australia anyhow
over the China divide. People are convinced that
such things are settled up beforehand by huge
vultures like Britain, Russia, Germany and
France, and then a sham is made of sparring and
turkey-cockery, just to delude the commoners of
each nation. The Charles Marvin business showed
up this kind of useful dodge. But for the disclo-
sures of this tenpenoe-an-hour copying-clerk, what
a delusion the globe would yet be under re the
brilliant triumph achieved by Dizzy and Salisbury
at Berlin ! All rehearsed like a common panto-
mine. The China play has been under rehearsal
since the war, and they are just doing the first act
according to the book.”
Dear Bulletin, —After reading about the
reciting, speech-making, snufflebusting Governors
of the mainland, we Tasmanians feel quite proud
to report that our only Jenico won’t, or can’t, or
mayn’t perform as above. But he can fish—thank
Heaven, he does nothing but fish ! —C.H.R.
From Broad Arrow (W.A.) Standard of
Dec. 18, 1897
Mr. George Webb, the enterprising landlord of the
Exchange Hotel, has opened a new saloon bar, which
should speedily become a resort for those in search of &
quiet and cool spot. The bar is handsomely decorated,
that part being carried out by the genial Jim Bogie. The
walls are hung with a paper of charming design and the
floor covered with linoleum on a bed of sawdust 3in.
thick.
In the bush journal every man who has anything
to do with liquor is “ genial ” —he is either the
genial host, or the genial boots, or the genial
chucker-out, or the genial drunk lying under the
form with his head resting genially on the house
dog. So when a man gets a job to paint the inside
of the new beer-haunt he naturally becomes “ the
genial Jim Bogie.”
The boy-burgiar is becoming an institu-
tion in Melbourne. He is very small and very
ingenious, and he preys upon the grocer as a rule.
The head of the last band arrested was a reckless
desperado aged eight, and he and his subordinate
bold buccaneers had taken possession of an empty
house next to a big grocery, furnished it with
paling fixtures, and stocked it with edibles lifted
from the neighboring emporium. During holidays
and evenings the gang would push in the bottom
half of the back-door of the provision depot until
the small but desperate leader could crawl through;
then the banditti looted biscuit-barrel and lolly-
tin, and humped away chocolate, and cocoa, and
tinned fish, and fruits, and many cakes, and
stowed them in their den. The captain locked
up before leaving, and was let out as he entered,
and while the police were scooting far and wide,
and galloping up and down, hunting clues, the
burglars were making themselves beastly ill with
raspberry vinegar and sardines next door. A
traitor “blew the gaff,” and the burglars are to
be sent to a State establishment to be reformed by
steam.
ANY EXCUSE IS BETTER THAN NONE.
“ Mother, here’s the man at the door for the rent of
the piano."
“ Tell him , darlint, that Oi'm out a-callm ’ wid
Lady Barley!”
After three years’ wanderings in the mazes
of the law, and after enjoying the ponderous con-
sideration of twenty-one Judges, the great indus-
trial case of Allen v. Flood has been decided in
favor of the appellant, Allen, by the House of
Lords. Two shipwrights, Flood and Taylor, were
employed by a shipbuilding company to do iron-
work on an iron ship—a work which the boiler-
makers consider their own. The Boilermakers'
Union, through Allen, protested, and threatened
to withdraw their men, and the company dis-
charged the shipwrights. Flood brought an action
against Allen and union officials for maliciously
and wrongfully procuring his dismissal. A Judge
and common jury decided in favor of Flood,
the Court of Appeal confirmed verdict, and the
case went to the Lords. The Tory journals are
rather hysterical over the judgment, but it is as
much in favor of their friends, the employers,
as it is of the unions, because no employer or union
of employers (they always call it “ federation ”)
could induce any other employer to sack a man—a
thing very popular amongst them if the man is a
prominent union official —if the decision went the
other way. And the ruling seems fair enough.
An employer has a perfect right to discharge a
man with whom he has no contract, and the
decision goes that a third person has a perfect
legal right to use lawful means to induce him. to
commit that lawful act. Lord Watson, in giving
judgment, laid down that malice, only comes in
when the act to which it leads is an actionable
wrong.


$ (a
&
\
Everywhere..
Over this grand and glorious New-
South Wales, ladies are wearing nay
UP-TO-TSE-tITEST
Boots and Shoes.
What’s the reason? Because they’re
good. None can give you better.
See them. If you live in the country
drop us a line, and we’ll get there
all right.
J" OHN HUNTER —The Boot King of Australia
City Boot Palace, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches all over the City, in the Suburbs and Country Towns in N.S.W. and Queensland.
“System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national Cash Register
- IS .A. .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments.
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
the
on
KEY
saves
1
’Pressure
on the
Brain
df
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LIN GUAM,
General Manager for Australasia.
Make no Mistake!
ffl
m
hi
mi
llli
mu
Sill
mi
IHSi
3123
iim
lISSSI
IHH
m
Paling’s
r Ts undoubtedly the
best house in Austra-
lasia for Music and
Musical Instru-
ments of every de-
> scription. Their prices
are the LOWEST,
their goods are of the
BEST QUALITY;
they always give
VIOLINS . .
Well-made Modfels of all the Best Masters at lowest pos-
sible prices ; also a large stock of Old Instruments.
CORNETS . .
Besson & Co.’s “New Star,” Boosey & Co.’s “Victor,”
Couesnon’s “Student’s Model,” a marvellous instrument
at the price—viz., 555. in case.
GUITARS . .
Spanish, French, German, and American.
STRINGS . .
lor Violin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar or Harp,
specially suited to this climate.
FLUTES . .
Boehm and Pratten Systems; also Boys’ Band Flutes at
very lowest prices.
AUTONARPS . .
Meinhold's—Three and Six Bar —the Best Instrument in
the market.
*§*o
.
WTf
■\
%
MANDOLINS . .
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CONCERTINAS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and
English by the Leading Makers of the World—
Lachenal & Co., London.
ACCORDCONS . .
“ The Imperial.” These Instruments are beauti-
fully finished, and the quality and volume, of
tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices are
extremely moderate.
The polyphon musical Box.
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music un-
limited.
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Return Mail.
W. H. PALING & GO.
338 George-st., Sydney;
Limited,
and at BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE
The
Star
that
Sever
lljanes.
First discovered in 1888, since
, when it has grown in size, until
now its influence and brilliancy
are felt all over the civilised
world.
Dunlop
First in 1888
EVER SINCE
It does not matter what part of the globe you travel, you will
find that where Bicycles are used,
Dunlop Tyres
are always
found to be the Best, and to give the most
satisfaction.
First in ISSB. ' Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
AND AT
Supposed left in train, a book of annotated
verses, “ London Nights,” with name on title-
page. Will finder kindly return to Bulletin
office ? Reward.
Evenin’ ’Erald (Melb.) takes a quiet shot
at Minister Carruthers:—“The hon. gentleman
appeared to be recognised in the galleries, in
which there were about 20 ladies.” Why, of
course. Carruthers is an interesting personage.
Fitzroy (Vic.) councillors fell out and
fought in the Council Chamber one day last week.
Unfortunately, nobody was injured. The Bulle-
tin is in favor of compelling councillors to learn
pugilism in order that they may hurt each other
sufficiently when they clash. In the multitude of
councillors there is wisdom, but no science.
Election for Thursday Island Hospital-
committee took place the other day, and out of a
total of eight members elected three were colored
men—one a Manilla man, one a Jap., and the
third a Hindoo. Significant! Also, at an alien
wedding m that same cheerful little island a Malay
man came along with a gun and shot three of the
guests. You see, he hadn’t been invited. Signi-
ficant also.
The election to fill the vacancy for East
Adelaide in S.A. Assembly vacated by the death
of M‘Pherson, resulted in the return of Hutchin-
son, nominee of the united Labor-party. Voting:
Hutchinson (Labor), 1002 ; Shaw (Liberal, i.e.,
Tory), 890 ; Salmon (independent Labor), 60. But
Salmon was neither fish nor flesh—he was only a
red herring, but the dodge didn’t work as well as
was expected.
The widows and orphans of the men killed
in the South Yarra sewer, the other day, will, in
all probability, be the greatest sufferers by the
Gippsland bush-fires, since the later sensation has
completely “ knocked ” the earlier one kite-high,
and an emotional public can only squander sym-
pathy on one horror at a time. The Gippsland
calamity has tapped the flow of contributions, and
the public (as always) overlooks the sewer disaster
and forks out for the big show only.
A derivation: “Sholto.’' An insulting
epithet, indigenous to southern Maoriland. Years
ago, the Government of the day settled a number
of Shetland crofters at “The Neck,” Stewart’s
Island, furnishing them with boats, nets, and
quarters in a large building known as “ The Bar-
racks.” “ The Barracks ” was still standing about
12 years ago, and was then used as a dancing-hall
by the brown maidens of the vicinity and their
admirers from the Bluff oystering-fleet. It was
then being steadily converted into firewood by the
oystermen, so it has probably disappeared
by now. The crofters were expected by their
sanguine importers to catch fish, but they
soon found out that things were livelier on the
mainland. So they removed there, over-running
the country districts of Southland. Fishing, even
when combined with the unlawful manufacture of
whisky, did not provide in those primitive days
enough oil for the rag upon the smell of which the
Shetlanders were popularly supposed to exist, so
they invaded every local branch of industry.
Owing to the low wages for which they worked
they became extremely unpopular, and as two out
of every three of them answered to the name of
“ Sholto,” anyone who was mouldy for want of a
fight had only to enter the first country pub. he
came to and remark to the first man he ran against,
“ Hullo, Sholto, when did you come over ? ” to be
instantly obliged. “Sholto” was an insult that
shrieked for blood.
The recent Chinese New Year’s Day passed
off in Sydney without the customary tremendous
firework racket, because “the Emperor has de-
cided, on account of the eclipse of the sun, to
postpone all festivities.” Very natural and proper
on the part of the “ Brother of the Sun.”
Bananaland editors poke endless fun at
Clement Wragge because he always writes in the
first person plural and dubs himself “We.”
Surely Clement has as much right to do so as
“ the dirty man in the back office” who runs the
Banner of Bugaboo, or the Clarion of Dead
Dog. Besides, Wragge is a very plural sort of
individual—prophet, poet, and meteorologist all
in one. Also, tee adoption of the “We ” business
may possibly signify that Clement is inclined to
admit that Providence has some little say in the
weather question—occupying, probably, the r6le
of junior partner. Probably “We” is a meteoro-
logical abbreviation of “me and the Almighty.”
Melb. Argus, commenting on the cable
news of a suicide epidemic among New York
society damsels, refers quite seriously to the
Suicide Club (for gentlemen only) which was said
to have been discovered in the ’Murkan city some
months ago. No such club ever existed. All the
newspaper stories of that cheerful institution and
the orgies perpetrated therein, were merely works
of fiction based upon some facts which haven’t, so
far as The Bulletin knows, been published here-
abouts. These are the facts : An R.C. mission is
carried on among the prostitutes of New York,
and if a sister happens to die during one of her
intermittent bursts of penitence, she gets
an impressive R.C. funeral. After witness-
ing one of these theatrical interments, a
number of low-spirited “gay’’-girls, feeling that
the only thing worth living for was a solemn, pic-
turesque removal to the cemetery, formed them-
selves into a Suicide Syndicate, and drew lots for
the privilege of taking a dose of poison on the Ist
of next month. Tickets were drawn from a hand-
bag, and the one fatal ticket decorated with a
crude representation of a skull fell to the girl
who had proposed the scheme. Whereupon this
bold spirit warned her lady friends that if
any of them failed to carry out the con-
tract when their turns came round, she (the
pioneeress of the movement) would arise from her
grave and haunt ’em —haunt ’em “ something
horrible.” A couple of weeks later she took a
dose of reclamation from the R.C. missionaries,
previous to taking a dose of poison on her own,
and her “ funeral came up to the best expectations
of the syndicators.” Then came another drawing
and another suicide, but this time the girl
didn’t get any funeral to speak of. She was
buried as a pauper, and the enthusiasm of the
surviving girls slumped considerably. The next
one to draw the winning ticket was not eager for
death. In her distress of mind she took to drink-
ing more than usual, until at last she drank
herself into a fervent belief that girl No. 1
was chasing her around the Bowery with
a view to burying her alive at midnight.
The shrieks and gruesome remarks of the unsober
sister led to an enquiry, and the nuns came
down in force and broke up the Suicide Syndicate.
The association was, by this time, quite ready to
be broken up. When the girls learned that no
more cases of suicide would get buried with
musical honors, and wreaths and crosses, they lost
their craving for the Hereafter. As for No. 1
Girl, who was going to haunt ’em something
horrible —well, they got over the difficulty by
praying hard for the repose of her soul.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIKTIIKK ItKI»UCEI> KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
■\TEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
J3I D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
the above Company will be held on MONDAY,
31st instant, upon the Company’s premises, as
above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
LEWIS LEVY,
General Manager.
Business :
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance-sheet, and to transact any
other business that may be brought
before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th January, 1898.
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inclusive.
By order.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Dated 15th January, 1898.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEHEAGH SIS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ...
„ 1,950,000 0 0
_ 1,200,000 0 0
... 1,950,000 0 0
Total
6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Han. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The '!<ii)k allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
Mud letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank algo issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Ell llott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded bv post, gvatiSy to any address on
application to the proprietors,
&
LI) WIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COL 1-1 NS STREET MELBOURNE.
r 8 HIE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
| THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rviHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890. ”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 o 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,708,093 12 9
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 41,906 7 3
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2,805,78C
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; Acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L. A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP „ £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. «. 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney- Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in ail Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent,. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. -2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thon ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicoi,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaijy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee;
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo Off
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Mo being & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
CIELI-lte & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS.
ADELAIDE,
—AND —i
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TQ
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
"Tyrian, Saturday, February 5, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
Connects with S.S. Gabo leaving
Melbourne Tuesday, February 1.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, January 29, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Feb. 1, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 5, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, January 29, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 5, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CriMCIM' FAKES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
Dy the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
*:: u
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TAESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
-L/ STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
■or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, ’
MelbourrwOre Testing fy Technical OheiMStS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers ,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. M^lboOriK.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEISN ST., MELUOUIINE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innatnincka (from MelbourneJ
Friday, January 28.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innainincka(from Melb.,
Friday, January 28.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
January 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
February 1.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The ~al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money:' TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Koyal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydnev;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS Ao CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEIiS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies. 'The
S.S. P.R. Luitpold and following steamers will call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. J. MERGELL, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


A FEW HEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co.
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED. VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130. —15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
No. 145. —9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102.— 9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
’ and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117. —Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17s 6d.
No. 101.— 9-ct. Gold Bi-ooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
No. 335.—501 id Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in. high, £2 10s.
No. SOB. —Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s 6d.
No. 136. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 201.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss; 15-ct. Gold, £2 ss; Silver, 6s 6cL
No. 134. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No, 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Iljamond,
£ll2a 6d.
No. 289. —Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2|in. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332.—Electro-Silver o»
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6d.
No. 150. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
£i 7s. 6d.
.No. 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dishj
by siu., £1 7s 6d.
1
No. 263.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 17s 6d.
KS: ‘ >:
fe/r,*
1- -
No. 260. —Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. sJin. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s ; ditto to hold three, £2 sa.
No. 347. Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong, llin. high,
£1 10s.
N )• 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons,
in morocco case, £llos.
No. 197.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s (id.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 190. —Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ; 15-ct., £llss ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 215.
9-ct. Geld Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 200.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d; Silver, 5s 6d.
No. 284.—Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, £1 ss.
No. 23li.—Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 16s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
No. 133, —15-ot. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
.. dnd Diamonds, 14 17s Cd.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
No. 118.—15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Rubies, £l l2s 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7.
5 TtWART -OAyv SO N c'
No. 319.
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe Lilt,
16s 6d.
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £l lss.
a ■
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Rings.
2 in case, 8s 6d ; 4 in case, 16s 6d;
6 in case, £1 ss.
N 0.336.
Twelve Eleetro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal. Silver, 3s 6d.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-<:t., £l l7s 6d,
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
goods, any of which will be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet op Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


g
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales —
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Mm
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Smoke
Chief
rntamimr
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
'&3ZO* ...
fa
Our New BLACK BIRD Models
are to hand, and contain many
improvements which cannot be
found in other cycles at double
the price. We are the Manufac-
turers direct, which makes this
possible. Why purchase from
middlemen and dealers, paying several profits on your goods,
when you can purchase from the direct Factory Branch, with
direct guarantee ?
RED BIRD,
RUBY RIM, and
BLACK BIRD
Cyclei
ARE MANUFACTURED, SOLD, AND GUARANTEED by
The Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 64 King-st., Sydney.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; EDWARD ST., BRISBANE ; and at ADELAIDE, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
Factories : Brantford, Canada.
HUMBESR CYCLES (AMERICA)
reduced
Lady’s p 26
Gent s *25
V These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and are of the Most Approved American Design. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the SAME GUARANTEE
as with the .. country agents wanted. The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
«Toe Darling, the man who laid the foundation
©1 the big Australian score against England in Adelaide,
must be glad that he gave up farming for cricket. Joe
was a great cricketer at school—he made 252 for his col-
lege on Adelaide oval—but his father, a prominent S.A.
politician, and, in business, a keen wheat-buyer, appren-
ticed him to a farmer in the dry northern areas of S.A.
Joe, hovvever, after about two years of farming, rebelled,
returned to Adelaide and started a cricket-depot, much to
the parental disgust. Joe’s cricket prowess put' him into
the S.A. eleven against Stoddart’s last team and he
thumped the English bowling mercilesslj - , making a
century in one innings. Gradually the old man relented,
and he much astonished his family by happening down to
cricket matches when his lad was batting. By-and-by
there came a reconciliation. On top of a big score the
Hon. John D. walked into his son’s dressing-room. “ Joe,
ma boy, 1 think you’re best at cricket. Here s a gold
watch and a cheque to ye representing one poon’ per run
of your score to-day.” Joe was speechless. That
year the old man followed his offspring to Melb., and
when begot there he said—“l don’t keer aboot beezness
so much noo,” and he went frae there to Sidney. And
now the Hon. John—who five years ago had never seen
a cricket-match—is always there, provided that Joe is
there too; and the score of 178 against England on
Friday week brought a cheque for c7B. The old man
only makes it k ;1 a run over the hundred noo—“ One has
to be canny wi’ Joe, who bats better when the siller is
up.”
* * * *
Adelaide test-match was an eye-opener to the
great Wardill. The attendance beat all previous S.A.
records, and over £lOOO was taken on the first two days.
When Harry Trott won the toss, someone asked him
what the Australians ought to make. “We ought to
make quite 600,” he said, “but I’ll be satisfied with 500.”
And they made 573.
Over 45,000 people witnessed the match in Ade-
laide. The gate totalled £2174 3s. 9d., far and away an
Adelaide record, and, in proportion to population, an
Australian record also.
The best innings of the match were Darling’s
178, Clem Hill’s 81, Hayward’s 70, and Iredale’s 84.
Darling's big hit out of the Oval—the biggest ground in
all Australia—went not only over the outer fence, but
over the barbed-wire netting as well. When Darling and
Hill were together—they put on 170 runs—the English
bowling seemed helpless, indeed. But they had a run of
luck next day. Darling just touched a ball and was
caught by Storer; then Gregory was bluffed out by
Storer with an appeal for a catch which Phillips allowed.
Syd. says he never went near the ball. Then “Noss”
Iredale played a ball on to his wicket just when he was
commencing to clout the bowling.
M’Laren’s 124 was the one decent display of
batting in England's second innings, and he once more
proved that he is a better man than Ranji. The Lancas-
trian amateur is the brilliant man of the English team.
* » » *
The versatility of Australian bowling was illus-
trated in England’s second innings in Adelaide. M'Leod,
who had not bowled in the first essay of England, cap-
tured 5 wickets for 66. But Noble and Howell were the
bowlers of the match. The former bowled quite up to
Giffenian form, and bids fair to take champion George's
place in Australian cricket. Howell proved that Aus-
tralia has at last secured a reliable length bowler. Like
Hearne, England’s crack, he kept down the runs even
when the best men were in.
• * * *
The unexpected usually happens, so perhaps
Trott will win the toss in the fourth test-match. All
Melbourne seems to have made up its mind that the
Englishmen are to take first innings next time, and a
considerable portion of Melbourne expects them to win.
In fact, Young Australia seems dissatisfied with the all-
roundness of the local men’s superiority in the two last
matches, and (without considering that they made 400
runs in their follow-on innings at Sydney) nurses a sus-
picion that “ the other fellows have been having the loan
of ’em.” Than which nobody knows better than the
Other Fellows, seven of whom collapsed for 17 runs in the
attempt to avoid a one-innings licking at Adelaide. But
stay. Briggs didn't collapse. He carried out his bat,
with a blob to his credit, after putting in 35 minutes at
the wicket.
* * • *
The British Lion, with his tail between his legs,
has roared “wretched and paltry!" at the batting of
Stoddart’s team in the third test-match, and, notwith-
standing the fact that the Australians played a portion of
their winning game almost as slowly as the visitors scored
in a losing game, the roar of the indignant animal afore-
said was justifiable. No English Eleven has made such a
poor display, on paper, as the men who tried to keep
their wickets up (and couldn’t do- it) at Adelaide last
Monday week. Lord Sheffield’s lot, of yore, lost a couple
of test-matcht-s in a respectable, slap-dash manner. They
at least tried to bat brilliantly. The latest failure of a re-
presentative English Eleven wasprobably more pronounced
than it might have been if they had batted after the
devices of their own hearts instead of attempting to graft
the Australian “safe” method upon their ’Ome-made
style. Maclaren ranks as a rapid scorer when “set.”
Going in after lunch Mac. had made only 43 at the
4 o’clock adjournment, and when stumps were drawn his
score was 70. If the “ brilliant ” Britisher’s slow rate of
scoring (20 per hour) was due to the quality of the bowl-
ing there is no more to be said. Stoddart’s team, in that
case, haven’t a ghost of a show to win either of the re-
maining test-matches on their merits.
Hinglishinen in Australia seem quite unable to
realise the truth about Stoddart’s team up-to-date. Of
their six recognised bowlers, one (Wain wright) hasn’t taken
a wicket in elevtn-a-side matches. Hayward, Hirst, and
Briggs have captured 26 wickets among them, at an
average of 50 runs, and although Hayward is a much
better bowler, on figures, than the two nuggety little men,
he is apparently unfit for hard work. Richardson and
Hearne are the only English bowlers of importance, and
they, on hard wickets, are dangerous only by com-
parison with Briggs and Hirst. If we have already seen
the best that the English bowlers can do, we are likely to
see the Australians make 800 runs next time they win the
toss. Give Richardson a strain in his arm and Hearne a
cold in his head, and what is there to prevent the looal
talent from scoring 1000 runs for one innings?
Australian bowling against the Englishmen is
quite another story. Only two of the visitors have taken
10 wickets apiece, whereas five Australians have done it.
A sixth man, Howell, has the fine average of five for 66 in
one innings of a test-match. Outside of these, there is
Trott, always good enough to do a certain amount of
execution within a reasonable period, if he had no better
bowling at command. A gigantic All-England innings—
i.e., 600 runs—is barely possible, as averages stand at pre-
sent.
Batting returns, thus far, give no solid indica-
tions of English supremacy. The visitors’ play has been
absurdly uneven. Seven times out of twelve, in first-
class matches, the crack Mason has failed to put up
double figures, and one of his double figures was a score
of ,11, anyhow. Ranji and Druce are the only batsmen
who have made double figures every time. Four Austra-
lians have done as much as that —Olein. Hill, M‘Leod,
Gregory and Iredale. They have each defeated six
attempts by the enemy to get rid of them for a unit.
Wainwright, the disappointing Yorkshireman, has
managed to score double figures in seven out of eight
tries, although his highest score was only 37. Stoddart
will, presumably, give Wainwright a show in place of Mason
or Briggs this wc'ek.
Allowing that they have lost the last two tosses,
and have had one doubtful wicket to bat upon, the
Englishmen’s chance of winning the fourth test-match is
a poor one, on paper. But not much poorer than the
chance that Stoddart’s previous team had (on paper) of
winning the rubber after they had suffered donkey-lick-
ings at Adelaide and Sydney. The Kangaroo will most
likely knock the Lion into small bits, but the time for
dancing among his fragments is not yet
* * * *
Ranji’s declaration that he will play in Adelaide
no more show's his childishness, writes The Bulletin’s
local correspondent. Barring a few spectators who
made references to ice-cream and bananas, the crowd
cheered the Injun far more than he deserved. He
drop ed two catches and batted only fairly. What must
warriors like Giffen and Trott think of Ranji’s attitude!
The other day a Melb. man sang out to Trott, “ Why
don’t, yer put Worrall on, ’Arry? Are yer jealous?”
This has been Trott’s favorite joke ever since. Then
what about George Giffen and little brother Walter ?
Milk-and-w'ater cricketers make a mistake in coming to
Australia, the home of the “ blankv ” barracker.
* * •* ■ •
Ranjitsinhji has been at great pains to explain
to the Argus man that he receives not a penny of pay-
ment for his Australian trip beyond his expenses By the
way, didn’t W. G. Grace’s “expenses” amount to £2OO0 —
while the sordid, money-grasping professional Englishman
got in wages and exes, about £'sooall told? Ranji., if he
says anything on the expenses question, should go into
details.
* * * *
It would have been more adroit had Ranji said
little or nothing about the unseemly barracking of the
Adelaide crowd. The sensitiveness of our dark guest is
due to his not having played football in Australia for a
while and got used to hearing the opposing team en-
treated to tear his blanky liver out, and to chew him up
and spit him out—and other little courtesies of the sort.
The Indian batsman's plaint was injudicious in that it
has given the Australian barracker the tip that Ranji’s
cricket is badly influenced by remarks from the fence.
Remarks from the fence in the succeeding test matches
may be consequently expected in large quantities.
* * * »
When Ranjitsinhji made a batting slip in the
Adelaide match the crowd yelled : “ Huh ! read Ranji’s
book on batting!” When he dropped the ball in the
field : “ Hi! see what Ranji says about fielding." The
Adelaide revulsion against the black no-prince was all the
stronger because, previous to his chattering, he had been
a strong favorite in the holy city. A local brewer named
one of his tonics Ranjitsinhji ginger-beer; a boot-man
honored him by advertising a special line of Ranji shoes ;
another tradesman promptly produced a brand of Ranji
complexion soap; and in return the dark enslaver gave
them hot chutney, so to speak.
* * * *
As compared with the test-matches, this week’s
little-cricket (even an interprovincial match is small-beer
when an English ■ Eleven is around) could only raise a
simmer of excitement. The Englishmen have been lan-
guidly playing a Hamilton (Vic.) twenty-two, who got
the visitors out for 179, and made nearly as many them-
selves in the first innings. Tasmania played a Vic. second
eleven at Melb. and started with 154 to the Victorians’
107—Eady’s speedy bowling taking seven wickets (four
clean) for 96. At, Sydney the 60th N.S.W.-Vic. match
commenced with the local men batting ; and Saturday’s
play left four wickets down for 177. On Monday rain
commenced to fall, and the match had to be postponed.
Iredale’s 13, last Saturday, was the result of
very sick work, and his innings, when compared with
Donnan s slow but sure 56, awakens the query as to
which gentleman should stand out of the next test-
match. Perhaps both should stand out: Iredale for bad
batting, and Donnan for slow batting.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin, —He test - matches and
“ Britishah’s ” assertion that in the first one the English-
men scored faster than the Australians. “ Britishah "
has evidently taken a leaf from the book of the astute
financial jugsrler who runs N.S.W.— i.e., he presents one
set of figures bearing out his view, and carefully suppresses
any others. Why not pick out the last two matches in
Melb. and Adelaide, in both of which the Australians
scored considerably faster than the Englishmen? Let B.
look up the scores and see. “ You pay your money and
you have your choice,” and my choice is the last two
matches—two to one, you know ! Fancy talking of the
brilliancy of the English attack after 520 and 573 in two
consecutive innings !— The Swimmer.
• * * *
After Giffen’s indifferent exhibition in the inter-
provincial, the test-match selectors were in a difficulty
about the great man. But genius found a way out—he
had not heard from the promoters with regard to the
higher pay, and, therefore, it was useless to pick him!
So his reputation was saved — and so was theirs.
* * * *
From Grey River Argus (West Coast, M.L.): —
“I, the undersigned, challenge R. Mundy to kill more
rats than him by teeth work for £25 a-side.—T. Baggs.”
* * * •
Even betting that Tasmania, finding the
“blind ” tote unworkable because of punters’ opposition,
and being too tired to invent any plan likely to meet the
wishes of owners and punters, will shortly repeal the law
against Ikey Mo. The T.R C. has just arranged to run a
machine for investors of £2 or over, but, as it will be
open to public gaze, it will serve no purpose beyond
giving £2 investors a chance to get their bit on without
having to rub shoulders w ith the common herd. The
“ outside push ” is quite agreeable for owners to have a
“ blind ” tote so long as the moneys are kept separate,
but as the owners want the “beans” of the “outside
push ” more than anything else in this weary world the
suggestion falls flat. Meantime the “ sport ” flourishes
like a lily of the valley in drought-time.
• * * *
“ Tattersall,” replying to an Otago grumbler
last year re the blackmailing of ticket-holders by horse-
owners, said : “ We think our assurance that the utmost
secrecy is preserved by us as to names and addresses of
drawers should be sufficient.” But it isn’t sufficient.
Neither is “ Tatt.” justified in asserting, as a fact beyond
contradiction, that the large majority of subscribers to
his sweeps are quite sitisfied with the “ early-draw ” sys-
tem, which places the drawer of a probable starter at the
mercy of a secretly-informed owner who may refuse to
run his nag unless he is allowed a 30 to 50 per cent,
share in the ticket. The public are dissatisfied wdth the
original system, now that they understand how' it admits
of blackmail. For every one horsey customer content to
sacrifice a portion of his prize-money chance, for the sake
of the chance of “ hedging” on a valuable ticket, there
are 50 simple speculators, who would prefer to get their
ticket valuable or worthless —at the last moment
before the race, or even after the event is decided.
To them a “Tatt.’s” sweep is merely a lottery,
and if it were advertised to be drawn as a lot-
tery, devoid of the horse element, they would send
along their money all the same. These members of the
great majority have to run the risk of being blackmailed
in order that the “ sweep” character of the drawing may
be maintained.
Let “Tatt.,” when next Melbourne Cup time
approaches, make the experiment of advertising one
“ early-draw ” subscription for the benefit of his horsey
customers who are content to stand their chance
against the rapacity of owners, and two “ late
draw ” lotteries for such as don’t care a button
whether they get their tickets before the race, or im-
mediately afterwards. The writer, for one, would rather
be surprised to find that he had won £5OOO or so, than
experience the awful shock of seeing his “sweep” horse
beaten by a short head out of third place. If a man can
depend upon getting a fair chance for his investment—
and he can depend upon it where “ Tatt.” is concerned—
he is all the better for not getting the long-drawn-out
excitement of knowing that a certain horse is running
for him. Also, he is the better for not having to suffer
the pangs of blackmail.
* * * •
Whitemailer : “Let Tatt. still draw his sweeps
a few days before the race, and discard the horse element
from the first three prizes—the first three horses in the
race to count merely as starters. A man could then make
his first, second, or third-prize pile without interference
from owners, &c., and ‘ starters ’ money would be
divided among drawers of all starters, including the three
that happened to be placed.”
* ♦ * *
Owner and trainer G. A. Powton won £lOBO in
12 prizes at the Xmas-week Perth Cup meeting. “J. G.
Arthur” (Mr. Jenkins) came next with £BBO in the five
prizes won by Le Var and Yale Lock. Bolger, long a
N.S.W. back-country rider, working under Mr, R. B.
Pell’s eye, trained and rode both these winners.
* * • *
In a little “ out-back ” town, recently, the land-
lord of the Bullocky’s Retreat and a couple of his hench-
men made a house-to-house canvass for subs, for an after-
noon’s sport on Boxing Day, and collected some £lO odd.
The sports were duly brought off in the backyard of the
above-mentioned hotel, to the perfect satisfaction of the
landlord and his lady—which should act as an object-
lesson for other up-to-date publicans.
• * * *
In N.S.W., the other day, four horses started in
a race—A, B, C, and D. A, the winner, was ridden by the
trainer of the second horse, B. B was ridden by the
reputed owner (not the nominator) of A. C, the third
horse, was ridden by the nominator of A, while D was
on its own and had its own boy up. Needless to say, on
account of D’s presence in the race, there was the usual
bumping inside a post, running off the course, &c., &c.,
and the supposed “ dead bird ” just managed to squeeze
home. Then followed carpeting-, to the dismay and also to
the great indignation of the guilty ones ; and horse B
its rider, and trainer were given a rest for six mouths’
whilst the rider of 0 escaped with a caution.
* * * *
Pungaridgee regatta was the event of the year
in Barataria, and this year, finding the interest likely to
fail through paucity of entries, an enterprising delegate
was despatched to the capital of Barataria invested with
full powers to do his best. Accordingly he waited upon
the Barataria R.C. and instructed the members of that
club that open orders of £5 each awaited the winners of
the senior races, and could be practically had for the
picking-up. The Baratarians waited no longer; they
reached-Pungaridgee with a dozen men of mixed classes
and entering their boats they had little difficulty in
sweeping “ the card.” But the races were senior races
according to the programme, and the Baratarian Rowiiw
Association has decided that all the maiden men who
rowed are senior oarsmen. In vain the competitors
pleaded that the entries closed earlier and that, the races
were merely scratch ones. The Association was obdurate
and, like the Sunday-school teacher who threw his pupils
to the wolves, the oarsmen are now engaged in puttin'*-
all the blame on to a high official of the association who
was one of their number and who participated in the
deal.
* * « *
Although the L.V.YV. had very good attend-
ances, as times go, for its meeting on Melb. Exhibition
track, there was a considerable loss on the deal. Too
much money given away in prizes, it is said. Can any-
one say what the takings would have been if the League
hadn’t put up a liberal programme? The Melb. public-
takes little interest in wheel-racing ; the names of its
“champions” are dropping out of notice, and only the
big holiday handicaps will draw a big crowd. The excep-
tion to the rule is the Austral Wheel Race, which flour-
ishes as a social, rather than a sporting, event—an annual
show of racing under absurdly unsatisfactory conditions.
And the exception, in this case, certainly proves the rule.
A public that believed in bicycle racing l with the enthu-
siasm of a newspaper-reporter wouldn't roll up to witness
a rough-and-tumble Austral contest on a slippery grass
track, any more than it would trouble to attend an inter-
national cricket-match on a corrugated-iron wicket.
* * * *
Exports from N.S.W. per s.s. Mariposa: Good
old Plugger Bill, also £450,000 in sovs. How many of the
“ best yellow ” Bill took with him does not appear on the
ship’s manifest, but in an interview Bill modestly admits
making about £5OOO in Australia after all exes.
* * • *
The fact of Joe Choynski wanting to meet
Peter Jackson looks much as' if the latter cannot be the
Jackson of old. No man knew better than Choynski how
good Peter was, and a team of bullocks would' not have
drawn the Yankee into a ring with the Jackson of yore.
“WHO FEARS TO SPEAK OF 98?"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Who fears to speak of 93?”
I’ve got ’em and I want 2 more !
Alert the fieldsmen for me wait!
The bowline's better than before 1—
Or is it that their trundlin,'’s tripe,
And I have not the nerve to swipe!
“ Who fears to speak of 98 ? ”
It’? glaring’ at me from the board !
The crowds that make this bumper “ gate ”
Have cheered each run that I have scored
O, God of Cricket, put on, do,
Thy Universe—and give me 2 1 t
“ Who fears to speak of 98 ? ”
I wish they’d bring me out a drink 1
They’ll “ shout” all round when it’s too late 1
Of 98 I dare not think !
Here’s one I’ll slap ! It’s just the sort 1
A twoer ! What! Jim’s called “One short
“ Who fears to speak of 98 ? ’’ —
At 99 you feel the pinch!—
I’ll go for one, and chance my Fate !
f Runout —by just a blooming inch !
I’ve done a-wearin’ of the green —
The band strikes up “ God Save the Queen 1"
H. C. COGHLAN.


PAINT Covers a Multitude of Sins, but will not insure safety
against flaws or shoddy building.
THE SILVER RIBBON NAME PLATE
on the MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLE
is a Guarantee of Perfection by an old and honorable Company
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA. EST^r ED
Australasian Branch : 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots : 29t Bourke Street, Melbourne; 3H6 Georee Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Of the £350,000 left by Brewer Simms, of
Adelaide, not a cent goes in charity. Which, so
far as the public know, is eminently characteristic
of his conduct in life. Some years ago, Simms
was set down as a millionaire. He must have lost
heavily by hanging on to Broken Hills. His
death probably leaves Barr Smith at the head of
the S.A. rich-man list.
XRegifyald A. F. MG r ray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Yictoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
X
N
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
EW ZEALAND INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Shareholders of the above Company are hereby
notified that a DIVIDEND of 2s. per Share for
the Half-Year ended 30th November, 1897, is now
payable at the Company’s Offices, 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
S. HAGUE SMITH,
Manager.
Hotels.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GtEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
'* Ellis’ King-street Coffee Enlace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
jPJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
\THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P. Q.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE,
Manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
EDWIN SMITH, formerly of Ballykistoen,
County Tipperary, Ireland, and afterwards
of Princess Terrace, St. Kilda Road, Melbourne,
is requested to communicate with the undersigned.
Any persons who can give any information about
Mr. Smith are also requested to communicate with
the undersigned.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING,
Solicitors,
69 Melbourne Lane, Melbourne.
CROW.— Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
hankfully received and acknowledged.
WANTED TO KNOW the whereabouts of
JAMES McCARRISON. , Left Ban-
bridge twenty years ago for Queensland. Last
heard of ten years ago. Any information of his
whereabouts would Ire thankfully received by his
Father , and Mother at _ .
No. 1 LAGANVEW STREET,
Ballymacarrett,
Belfast, Ireland.
jgt A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease L
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
-3
A\ a Obtainable of Chemist,, _t
vl Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from ■
ol J<i Streep
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufacturers of
<SR€VILL€
BICYCLES.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4j|in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New .£l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
TCiroer Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
||]olf American High J|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed, 4®" Everything fancy but the price.
English |i American [ cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL f'v MACKLIN
WAVERLEY J I HENLEY
CRESCENT 1 I GRIMLEY
WEARWELL V ’ QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow f
yrrE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ” We know a good wheel when we see it, and stoek
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A3T Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
KIN<S OF
CYCLES,
Price,
£l2 10s.
TN€ ROAP
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIES.— WeIdIess Steel Tubing through-
out, Clear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Carrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
“ Phiz 99 Cycle Works,
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an i.-- D _ _ . . ,
Duplicate parts always in stock. I «VI r'fc.rilAL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not .already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Ca talogues and discounts on application.'
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 C&arknch Strbit, SYDNEY.
mODERD JIMS.
Cures Performed that Rival
those of 1800 years ago.
Consumption, Cancer, Rheumatism, Para-
lysis, and other diseases, CURED in a
short and seemingly miraculous way.
The MODERN MECCA to which the
Sick of the Country go. Facts that will
live in history for ages !
GREAT EXCITEMENT
IN MELBOURNE.
Merit, like murder, always “ will out.” Mere
assertion never proves anything. Only practical
demonstration of claims to distinction can con-
vince the public mind. The brain of man is the
harbinger of doubt. It accepts nothing that can-
not and is not supported by proof—proof founded
on truth, walled about, domed and turreted with
facts. Tacts are the offsprings of development,
and development is the material and legitimate
progeny of doubt. Doubts lead to investigation,
investigation to discovery, and discovery en-
lightens the mind, expands the intellect, and
brings man into closer affinity with nature.
Things that are commonplace enough to us at the
present age would have, less than a century ago,
subjected the projector or discoverer to imprison-
ment and torture, and perhaps death. The dis-
coverer of the earth’s rotundity and the propa-
gators of the fact groaned and suffered beneath
the rack of ignorance and superstition, and were
put to cruel and ignominious deaths. When
Herschell first swept the horoscope of Heaven
with his wonderful telescope, and proclaimed the
existence of the stellar world, the million of glit-
tering spheres whirling in space, compared with
some of which our earth is but a tiny speck, an
avalanche of malice and manevolence was hurled
against his devoted head. So on down through
the whole realm of natural science, until within a
few decades, every new discovery, every fresh
revelation of fixed natural law, was met with a
tidal wave of credulity and doubt. That word
“impossible” has stood a colossal barrier on the
highway of “ Acceptance and Belief.” It took
ages to beat it down, but thanks to modern educa-
tion, which has ungyved the hand and unfettered
the brain of man, that monarch of nature, and
permits him to go on untrammeled, solving her
great problems and interpreting her wondrous
laws.
To-day there is passing in review before our
eyes such a panorama of recent discoveries in the
world of natural phenomena and other branches
of science that we stand convulsed and amazed,
but it must be patent to all who have given the
subject attention that the advancement made in
the medical field eclipses all others, and towers
like a white shaft to the clouds above and beyond
conception.
The Polypathio system in the treatment of
chronic disease is undoubtedly the most advanced
of all medical science, and if one were to judge by
the the vaBt throng that may be seen daily at their
offices in their magnificent institute, 84 Collins-
street, Melbourne, it would seem that half the
population of the city were clamoring for their
services.
The success attending this new system is almost
miraculous, but it is in accordance with natural
and applied science, and wins its constant vic-
tories over disease because of the true following
out of that which natural ability and the highest
developments of Medical Science has shown to be
sure and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
fullest investigation of the POLYPATHIC
MEDICAL INSTITUTE, of 84 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. Wm. HENRY GAZE, M.D.,
L.S.A. Lond., L.R.C.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. Eng.,
is Physician in charge.
Those who cannot call personally, can
write. All communications are strictly con-
fidential, and an opinion will be given in all
cases by return mail where the consultation
fee of 10s. is enclosed.
More capital invested, more physicians
employed, more cures made by the Poly-
pathic System, than by any other similar
Institution or body of Physicians in the
world.*
(Registered).
Typboii)
• (rkgistkrkd)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fisher & Co’s
TYPHOIN.
is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Pive
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured Only by
Fisher & Company,
Manufacturing
Chemists,
337 George-streeb, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Ulie Last of Six.
~ PRICE 1«. ; per Port, Ib. 3d.
v
•p,
ri
'M.
■ jf •
.*—»<ssk:.
; -»J
:I|P ;
« , FIRST PRIZE
. A-N-a ART .UNION
“•awnat# of mhkkk <*»
H’Novm/im Af£tßO ußHl
Value -
rjiHE A.N.A. £lOOO GOLD "VASE is the
largest piece of work of its kind yet
turned out in the colonies, and is now being
exhibited by the Manufacturer, Mr. H.
NEWMAN, of Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
It stands 2ft. 3|in. high without the pede-
stal, and weighs 2560 z. of 22-carat gold, so
that in gold alone it is worth £lOOO. The
design is made emblematical of “Federa-
tion,” and the contrast of frosted and
polished gold with the colored enamels has
a very pleasing effect, and the style and
finish throughout reflect great credit on the
manufacturer.
CRICKET.
FINAL TEST
MATCH,
25th Per, 1898.
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA
PICK THE RESULT AND WIN THE
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
£5O.
The Proprietors of Wolfe’s Schnapps will pre-
sent the sum of .£5O (Fifty Pounds sterling) to
the person who gives the result (as per coupon
in this advertisement) of the Final Test Match
between England and Australia, to commence
in Sydney, on 25th February, 1898. Should
no one give the actual result, the person who
guesses me ARE ST WILL RECEIVE
THE Wolfes Schnapps £5O presentation.
If more than one person becomes entitled to
the prize, the amount .£5O will be divided
proportionately amongst the lucky guessers.
COUPON.
I select the team to win the
Fifth and Final Test Match hy innings,
wickets runs.
Full name
Address
Selections must be written plainly on the above
coupon, with the full name and address of sender
and the whole of this advertisement cut
out from The Bulletin and forwarded so as
to reach us not later than 18th February, 1898.
Coupons will not be considered if received after that
date. All envelopes must be properly stamped : out-
side Sydney, 2d. ; Sydney and Suburban radius. Id •
IT 1181 , 'i e m£ irked “ WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
£5O and be addressed to the
Sole Agents for Wolfe’s Schnapps-
M. MOSS and WVf()
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, N. S. Walks.
All the results will be sealed before the match
commences, and deposited with the manaarer of the
will R, AILY Telegraph, who has kindly consented
to hold them during its continuation.
CO.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi>
for , Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioi)-


Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
I,ose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “A woman is as
old as she looks, ” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦. ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World's
Chief Expositions.
df
Ladies.- call and
see our OH HAP
.w A CHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc. -— —
S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
d
"We
o
FOUR
Gu\
ST
IV
o
I®
*
Centennial Insect pouider.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers —Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO. LIMITED, 62 Queens-
land Offices, Bridge-street, Sydney.
g
?cafi)€SS
and HEAD
NOISES
/ilson’s Common
arise Ear Drums
Relived
Relieve all conditions ot Deafness
nd Head Noises, where medical
kill fails. The only Scientific
viiral Sound Conductor. Safe to
\ ear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
ttecuit mended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
N. : “ What eyesores are those three
Religious Colleges stuck on to Melb. University,
the Trinity, Ormond, and Queen’s, all with offen-
sive names, too. They ought to be severally the
schools of mining, agriculture and engineering.
In my individual opinion, these smug Anglican,
Presbyterian, and Wesleyan institutions are a blot
oil the educational system. Surely the Salva-
tionists, Muggletonians, Jews and Symists are
just as much entitled to have a show. What
beastly intolerance it was to leave the Jews out,
anyhow.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. Gd. everywhere. *
“ Compton ” to The Bulletin, —
Don’t let the “bushed” man have all the sympathy.
What about getting sent on the wrong track? The very
familiarity of the average bushman with his surroundings
makes him the least capable, of instructors. You ask
for O’Brien’s place and you are told to “turn round by
O’Toole’s.” You ask for the township and you are told
to follow the track. The fact that there are two tracks
with—to a stranger—equal claims to a trial, is nothing.
To the local mind, one is the obvious and unmistake-
able “turn-off to “Brown’s” or to “Smith’s.”
At midnight, scarcely able to see ten yards before me, I
have been told to take a road “past the end of the
house,” and have found, on reaching “ the house,” that
there were roads on all four sides of it. Which is the end
of a house? My informant knew. There was a clear
conception in his mind when he spoke (it is marvellous
with what clearness bushmen do picture space-relations),
but he failed absolutely to realise that his words called up
no answering conception in mine. Two illustrations: 1.
Road runs w'ith the Barwon on the right. Two men
(shearers — i.e., travellers themselves) direct me. Says
the first, “Go down the river five miles, and take the
first turn-off to the left.” Second intervenes, “Don’t
go down the river road beyond the first gate.
There follow the mailman’s tracks, bearing off
to the left. It’s a straighter road.” I follow it
as after events show, accurately enough. But in
about four miles I come upon a “Warnambool,” which,
to my inexperienced eye, is the river. (The Warnambool
has never been mentioned.) Conclude I have missed the
mailman’s tracks, and am on the river road. It is late
dusk. I recall my first directions —“ Turn off to the left
from the river road.” So I ride on in the dark looking
intently for it ; and pass the station on my right, only a
couple of hundred yards off the track, without seeing it.
Find a turn-off on my left, eventually, and push along it
doggedly for eight miles before concluding that I am
helplessly astray. Observe : all the local world knew of
the Warnambool, therefore to neither of my informants
did it occur that I didn’t. Another experience : “ Follow
the track this way ’’—pointing to a certain star. In a
quarter of a mile I come on two tracks. I select
the one leading “ this way,” which ends at a tank
—trampled out by stock. Not being able to pick it
up again in the dark, I steer back by the stars. Again,
all the world (of that part) knew the road I followed was
a mere turn-off to the tank. Why shouldn’t I know it,
too? Summed-up—chief causes of misdirection are-
failure on part of director to realise mental state of
directee ; under-estimate of distances—which makes a
traveller believe himself to be on wrong road, after cover-
ing distance specified without seeing destination; and
habit of identifying a track by more or less inconspicuous
locally-known landmarks. The one safe rule is to describe
the road, saying how often it forks, and whether right
or left branch should he followed. That’s all. Scenery
and astronomical phenomena are irrelevant and confusing.
DB
GO TO HELL-
-1 GOLAN)> for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Before Starting
tr s: -
M.
f
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Jiemedy forS^Sea-sickness.
jggT" Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer ; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2s. 6cL. AND -3Ls. 6d. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
PM
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &. CO.’S
Celebrated "Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins=st. f
Melbourne.
Agent fob F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
OGDEpjJyiNEA
-C^# :^OLD
gf*
r
K 0
ESN
cyryf
Plum
Pin
THE
Plum’
GENTLEMEM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is spec)ally-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p . J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rnce Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
B Y ROYAL WARRANT of APPOIKTXMBKTT to “ THE
QTJEEOr.
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
SCHWEPPE.
Schweppe
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODAWATEK, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD Fo|t
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold by
? Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
jG
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Paline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
-are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OE HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How* often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Hem edies.
df
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
4 i
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pins, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
their life. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
r # <9l
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSCH’S Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
j you they NEVER PELT BETTER in their lives.
S
iW&
~\ -$k ‘
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills,
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFAI.INE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
s
\\
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
! Fat-Reducing- Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
o
A
w-
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, ana rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Bassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, la. ; posted, la. fid.
YOUNG
ladies
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifle,
m
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
a
-t
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
i head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
I &c., and at the same time be tormented by some
i ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
I FESSION. Too close attention to business,
| being confined too much indoors, and the worry
i and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
j or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
i who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in , boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
M
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
In 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmubsen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
BT When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING-.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’a
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies oan only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He hai no agents.
m
r
-
K
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WES'!
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Patnphletsent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN^
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLuOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 12«., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Pat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thia
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
Bs., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beantifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills-For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 12s„ and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6st
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
I Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
I kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
I Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
I Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcadb;
Adelaide— ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Xaigoorlie—Hannan Street ;
Premantle —Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTEKS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Inleteolonial
branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547. George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy sake
"PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Ghnkrai, Post Omen
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT PAIL.


The Great Dental
Divorce Case.
ft
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE:
Did you suggest to R ds that he should take
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness : I may have ; I think he was taking it
at the time. I think that is in answer to a tele-
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness.
Have you had a drink to-day?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
Mr. W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nub Tonio?
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yes.
Do you find it good for you ?
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.)
The Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
‘ ALOK”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter : What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “ Oh! my favorite reviver—
-11 ALOE,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
“ ALOE.”
Mighty “ ALOE ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK
If You Do Not Specially Order
“A.LO K,”
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
IN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
‘fltOK/fidpGMSS.
2s. 6d. & 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR—
“AL O K ”
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY “ALOE”
PHARMACY:
337 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE),
SYDWTEY.
3
In the Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening. Matinees, Wednesday & Saturday.
The grand, gorgeous, spectacular, comio pantomime,
Tb? Babes ii} tbs Wood.
Interpreted by a Great Burlesque Company.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
FAREWELL WEEK IN AUSTRALIA.
FRANK THORNTON.
TO-NIGHT and FRIDAY,
Th.e Private Secretary
NEXT SATURDAY (January 29) 4 Nights only
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF MISS BROWN.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
Unanimously Acknowledged by ONE and ALL that
JACK THE GIANT KILLER
Is absolutely far and away the best Pantomime ever
staged in Sydney.' —Vide Press opinions,
This Saturday Afternoon and Evening-Everything fresh;
new songs, new gags, new witticisms.
MILLION PRICES—-3s, 2s and Is. Plan at Paling’s,
Qeorge-st. Matinees every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
■T* I V O L I T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
"*■ Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Coolest Theatre, owing to the Sliding Roof.
Reappearance of the Great English Tenor,
Mr. Philip KTewtonry.
Enormous reception nightly of Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
See this artist in his song “ Gallery and Boxes,” of
which he is Author and Composer.
A Furore created Nightly by
8 The Kellinoes 8
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY.
■¥*HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE MOST SENSATIONAL FURORE
Ever Known in Australia Nightly Created by the three
HEGLJEM;A.]\rKrS.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
JOSEPH —THE WALDRONS ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
mHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
“■ Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SUPERB XMAS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON.
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Acting Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr. H.
R. Roberts, Mr. Percy Ward; for Messrs. Holloway and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hardy.
Amusements.
LEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Grandest Military Stage Pageant ever seen in the
Southern Hemisphere, the
Relief of Lu.cltn.oW.
ZW~ CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
JSRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
-VIEIRGrIICTIETTS.
Saturday, January 29, first production in Australia of the
tremendously powerful play, BEN-MY-CHREE.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
HARMSTON’S GIGANTIC CIRCUS AND
ZOOLOGIA OF WILD AND PERFORM-
ING ANIMALS.
LOCATION: PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESS!
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
R. Love, Manager; Col. C. B. Hicks, Representative ;
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent.
Government Notices.
JJEALTH DEPARTMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Office of the Board of Health.
Sydney, 6th January, 1898.
APPLICATIONS are invited from LEGALLY QUALI-
FIED MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS for appointment to
the following posts under the Public Health Act, 1896 :
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Metro-
politan Districts; salary, £750.
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Hunter
River Districts; salary, £7OO.
The selected candidates will be required to devote their
whole time to their duties, which will be such as are pre-
scribed by the Act, and such as may be ordered by the
Board from time to time. They will be required to reside
in such part of their districts as the Board may approve.
Applications, with statement of age, qualifications, testi-
monials, &c., should reach the undersigned not later than
Monday, 7th February, 1898.
2d4 O. A. SIMMS, Secretary.
Wanted.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE
WANTED AT ONCE, in every locality, an
intelligent person to act as our Agent. No special
knowledge required, and without interfering with
present occupation. An excellent opportunity for
a capable young man or lady.— Address, Morse
Manufacturing Company, 3, Red Lion Court,
London, E.C.
Our 1898 Registered Novelty “ Bird Brooch.
Surpassing the old style of Twin Swallows for Strength and Durability.
9ct. Gold,
15s.
15ct. Gold,
20s.
POST
FREE.
ssi
GfS-Alliance
JTeg/sferea/
CLOSED
O PEN
15ct. Gold,
■with
Rondella
Bead
in centre
of
chain,
225. 6d.
POST FREE
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone
(Merry Thought) Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
pearl centre, 20/- each.
Plain, larjre size ... 7/6 each.
„ small size ... 6/-each.
Pearl Set all round ... 20/- each.
Tusk Links.
Silver-mounted, 4 6 pair.
Gold-mounted, 13,6 pair.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant,
13 6 each.
With Bell and Chain Pendant, 12/6 each.
mm
18c. Half Hoop.
6 Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
[•earls, £3, £4, £5.
6 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Solid Plain Plat.
9-carat, 17 6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat, 35/-, 40/-,. 45/-
Silver, 5/-
RICHLY CHASED.
9-carat, 17'6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 4/-, 6/-
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Silver-Mounted ... 4 6 each.
Gold-Mounted ... 13 ; 6 „
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
Hundreds of other Novel Designs
—IN —
KINGS, LINKS, BROOCHES , &c.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-.
Rubv or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
Plain Band Ring.
9-carat, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
16-earat, 20/-, 22 6, 27, 6
18-carat, 21/-, 25/-, 30 -
With any name, 1/- extra.
9-ct., 22/- pr. 15-ct., 37/6 pr.
Silver, 4,6 pr. 6 patterns.
Ux
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MINI
WARRANTED
Finest fland-made BRIARS.
Sole Agenta-S. HOFFNUNG & CO., BRISBANE.
Publications.
A “ Province ” Map of
THE KLONDYKE
ABSOLUTELY PE EE
To New Subscribers to “The Province."
The Province claims that it has the largest circulation
west of Winnipeg, and that claim has never been ques-
tioned or challenged. It is now determined, if money
and energy can do it, to increase its circulation until* it
can prove that it has The Largest Circulat icn In
Canada. To attain this object, the Directors have ar-
ranged with The Province Publishing Company, Limited
Liability, for the supi ly of One Hundred Thousand
Copies of the Famous Map of the Klondyxie.
To every NEW subscriber who sends $l.OO to The Pro-
vince, Victoria or Vancouver, Canada’s only high-class
weekly, The Province, will he sent for one year from the
date the subscription is received to any address in Canada
or the United States (United Kingdom $l.OO extra), to-
gether with one copy of the above map. The map has
never been sold for less than Fifty Cents or The Province
for less than a Dollar. By taking advantage of this un-
precedented offer, which is only possible in the case .of
New Subscribers who enclose their money with their
order, they get the two for the price of one. This offer
will be withdrawn as soon as the special edition of one
hundred thousand copies is exhausted. It is the most
generous offer ever made by any newspaper in any part of
the world to obtain new subscribers. Every subscription
booked under this arrangement means a direct loss to
the publishers, but a larger circlulation means more ad-
vertising at better rates, and in this way The Province
hopes to make good the deficit. Send $l.OO to The Pro-
vince by return mail, and get a copy of this beautiful and
accurate map and The Province for a year.
*• THE PROVINCE ” MAP of the CANADIAN YUKON
is in Three Colours ; size, 28 x 42 ; Price, 50c. It shows
Mining Regulations, Mining Information, Routes, etc.,
etc., one of the leading features of the map being the
prominence with v\ hich the BOUNDARIES IN DISPUTE
are shown. The Canadian contention ; the American
contention. Compiled and prepared from the following
authorities—“Ogilvie’s Reports and Maps,” “Dawson’s
Reports and Surveys,” “ Department of the Interior (of
the U.S.) Map of Aiaska,” “ Postmaster-General’s (of the
U.S.) Official Postal Map of Routes,” “ United States
Geodetic Coast Survey.”
Order quickly—THE FIRST EDITION is ENTIRELY
SOLD OUT, and the SECOND EDITION is NOW READY.
Is a credit to the publishers.— Toronto Monetary Times.
Contains the latest information.— Winnipeg Tribune. Pro-
nounced by persons who have been there very accurate,
reliable, and valuable. We congratulate The Province.—
Victoria Times. It is an excellent production.— Miner,
Nelson. Those familiar With the country say it is the
most reliable and correct map yet issued.— Kootenaian,
Kaslo The Province maps are of good size, clear and
accurate.— Toronto World. Without doubt the finest
yet issued.— Brandon Times.
The Province Publishing Co., Ltd. Lty.,
VICTORIA AND VANCOUVER.
ABSOLUTLY
JHE®EST
LLAa§
V
1 UISTS
m
CONTAIK
They
I __ —— ■
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Gborok Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
'Photographs of Knylish A Colonial Celebrities
JNTE3W JIVETTSIC.
" Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,’’ a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy, “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, IF.
PA XTON & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “ Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2<. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., Loudon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
ASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
$e e "pHat
yo*S Get
IT
wmmmm
Sole Agents-S. HOFFNUNG Si CO., Brisbane.
Reat ser.i7ian Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRSNIING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesal*: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON.


Stocktaking Closing-Out Sals
-t-AT—
FINNEY ISLES & CO.’S
IS NOW ON.
GOODh in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED for this
CLEAR.TNG-OUT SALE.
ORDERS should he sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Any Change over, after executing Orders, will
hi} at once refunded, and COUNTRY OUS-.
TOMERS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, .with the ex-
ception of certain heavy or bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods are thus Delivered to all parts of the Colony
AT BRISBANE CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Closing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed.- In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sol'd, authority should be given for
us to substitute the nearest. In substituting goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
FINNEY ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
HELLINS
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLfIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
tTAIKUKE.S»IiIt.S AN It IVIkIUKf HS
** To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, IG, IS, 20, 22, and 21
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
(Jroquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets. Wig Blocks
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs’
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mir ors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Macliin rv, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
Hair Clippers And Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, & 0 .
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Departments*^
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10*. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scaluets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SQUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
(180 *V (»S'i Cieorge Street, Sydney,
S'oua Life. 6a thatsi&NE.T tobacco!
'MOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best C Igarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
•I A RCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
'PALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
i Price Wakung ; Is. 3d. posted.
In Adelaide Register and Advertiser
offices are posted notices' that linotypes will arrive
before the end of February. A Happy New Year
for the compositor, who will—except as a high-
class specialist—soon be as extinct as the mega-
therium.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholiue Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
H.M. : “ Surveyed a city crowd to-day,
devoting the precious lunch-hour to sampling the
Gospel. Their orator, of the fiery order, was
giving ’em Holy warmth and other pleasantries in
the good old imprecatory way. I noted the effects
of the fervid feast on his disciples’ features, and
left, reflecting that it is an icy iconoclast who would
employ Reason to deprive these mental cripples of
their crutches.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S'. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This, cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
A Sydney suburban draper lately erected
a water-fountain in the main street and presented
it to the council. At the opening the local resi-
dents rolled up in force, and proceeded to show
their gratitude for the plenteous water by wading
in the free beer that the draper had provided, and
sundry of them were locked up. The aforesaid
draper, evidently an all-round public benefactor,
again came to the fore and paid up their fines.
"I'll Try It.
'The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillaries !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l'rkc, 10s. Gd.
Soiiß Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 6SO-J32 Goorge- st., Sydney
TANGLEFOOT
erdskb'^
« ui
A
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly Paper
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dealt Sir,— Please inform your readers that. T have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WII.BER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
TRADEMARK
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth,
Eids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION- —Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
SVoFIViIW/
- Jo 3>l\^3i
Jl falo) SksoO^
SqUoom Suwtyg
Jh^
pw^2
lo^Vcf.
©
MELBOURNE.
CATALOGUE?
P °ST FHEF-v^
Watches-Clocks-Jem/ellery-BirtHdav«
Wedding e CHR(STEft!ny|c Presents
rt'NEY/MArsl-1755177-ELIZABETH S T «
OPPOSITE C:P.O .*
MELBOURNE.
6 —jocta-lla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
f-godialla. TR r,c on
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
B ocd alia Ha,rxxs
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
• 229 SUSSEX STREET, S TONEY.
SAW MILLING ■ .
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING j Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
lliow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet F ree.
Address A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
g
TTIOUNS, 7s 6d, 12s 6a,
’ 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25sand 30s: Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. "0s and 90s; Banjos, best,63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos 'ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang- Mouth
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. weehly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are ninazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of brou
chitis, distressing: cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightfu
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest, it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats 'left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have muen pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man - Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN *ELEOTRIC APPL'ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
.
J IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease ot Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SUi PHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied froimjthe Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN,
55 Elgin -st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Gribbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydnsy,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in*
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/o6S Weakness . . .
AND
Cerehro-Spioal PiscaseS,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist then/
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth. Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
rI'iALES OF Tl 1E CONVICT SYSTEM.
JL Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
“She.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Wealth.
Winsome little thing,
Playing on the floor,
Tiny Nymph of Spring—
Doris, cetat. four.
Smiling pretty mite,
Happy as the day ;
Little elfin sprite,
Chasing care away.
Ev’ry wish and whim
Instantly attained,
Governess so prim,
Bound to be well-trained.
Envied she must be,
Hers the pride of place ;
Surely you'll agree
Riches make the pace.
Money oft reviled—
Why, I cannot tell;
Doris, only child,
Liked it very well.
Seminary tall,
French and German cue,
Doris beat them all,
Thumbed the banjo, too.
Little Miss in skirts
Hiding- ankles’ make—
Maze of lace, who flirts,
Causing hearts to ache.
Presently this dove
Smiling meets her fate ;
Then the verb “ to love”
She will conjugate.
Trousseau very choice,
Wedding very smart,
Happy pair rejoice,
Honeymooning start.
Nurtured, cared for, well
Brought up has she
been ;
She’s a modern belle,
Fashion’s social queen.
Envied should she be,
Hers the pride of place ;
Surely all agree
Riches make the pace.
In Poverty
Ushered into sin,
Such plebeian type,
Nose and mouth and chin—
Little guttersnipe.
Mother’s morals loose,
Father never known—
Grumble ! What’s the use?
Vice will claim its own.
School she always shirked,
Ignorance is bliss;
For her bread she worked—
Plucky little Miss.
Selling papers here,
Hawking matches there ;
Soon starts drinking beer,
Then she learns to swear.
P’r’aps she’ll lie and steal,
Hunger presses sore —
For her country’s weal
Get six months or moi e.
See, her looks are bold,
Though her feet are bare 1
Charity is cold,
So is wintry air.
Virtue bids her go,
Stares in holy dread ;
Vice, now bowing low,
Welcomes her instead.
Decked in colors rare,
Rouged and painted face,
Tinted auburn hair,
Sunshade trimmed with
lace.
Kept and clothed and fed
By the fruits of Shame ;
On chill Virtue’s head
Shall we put the blame ?
Ere we cast a stone
Let us look within,
See we do not own
Friendship with such sin.
Mother’s morals loose,
Father never known—
Preach it 1 What’s the use ?
Vice has claimed its own.
LANCE T.


WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb'Ogtoo H-SoCil &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160, and. 268 Pitt-street, Sydney • AND AT
Cliixrcli-street, Parramatta.
fldams’s TattersaH’s Hotel,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
This Establishment has recently undergone the most EXTENSIVE ALTERA-
TIONS, and is now one of the MOST COMFORTABLE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS IN SYDNEY. The following Additions have been made:—
NEW ENTRANCE HALL and GRAND STAIRCASE:
COMMODIOUS SUITES OF ROOMS ;
DRAWING and READING ROOMS :
SMOKING ROOMS, &e. &c.
BOILING WATER for Baths, &c., and
ELECTRIC LIGHT all hours of Day and Night.
Tariff Moderate.
This Establishment has TWO Entirely Separate KITCHENS and TWO DINING ROOMS,
thus giving to Visitors an advantage offered by no other Hotel in Sydney.
For further particulars apply to
WM. J. ADAMS,
Telephones 728 and 1938. Manager.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS Df
Tbe FiQtSt ai>d Largest tyliSic WareljoGSe
IKT AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £ 35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
POKER MACHINES.
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
CICARS
FREE
i
/PROP 3? IN THE SLOT'
iiiiimnmmimi
AGENT for the following
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS.
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brushware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fanov
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers'
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes..
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdrest-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN*
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGE!
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY.
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, L.-*.
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HFG r
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANS.
ALPINA MANILA, &c„ &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Salooi
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
£3T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Tr ide supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAKKET, SYDNEY.
Bedstead and Woven Wire tyattress Combined.
Made with extra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loose
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them.
2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
French, lin. posts, very strong ... ... ... 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. .. ... ... 30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPRING WOVEN WIRE
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No. la, Extra close woven double wires
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands
No. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires...
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OF MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
Mattresses
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want!
ALL WE ASK.
Try us for your Bedsteads, Bedding, Kitchen, Dining,
and Bedroom Furniture, Austrian and American Chairs,
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
m,i
'<TOR CLUBS. HOTELS.
••ARRACKS,
' SCHOOLS.
'HOSPITALS * OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS.—Now is
the time to Replenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
but Call and See, or Write for our New Wholesale
Catalogue, with Designs and Prices. If you want
to buy in the CHEAPEST MARKET, WE ARE READY
with LABGE STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to draw Trade to your Stores, and letting your Customers
know you are alive. Let us talk the matter over with you. When Goods are Cheap, buy freely. Ours are always
Cheap and Saleable ; population must increase. Do not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
sending us your orders. You are somebody’s customer ; why not ours ? We have been established more than 30 years
on the same spot. No change of firm. No failures, nothing but continued and steady progress. The above facts are
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John Lawler & Sons
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No. 4,6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
4
TiOOK OF AATL l IF
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYBN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London,' by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
The Serpent Tempted Her : A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post free. -
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine; illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Boolt Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
S,O-A.ID
Locomotives
r'OR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
df
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
! Cellular AU sSL.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
i
; The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
| White Cotton, 5/- and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
I Ec u Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
wit.ii Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New \ 73 & 75 King Street,
Address: J (near York .Street), Sydney.
I>. Hit AIIAM & CO..Sole Agents (or New South Wales.
ill!
ifHl
m
mam


Quaint crank letter from the typical hazy
correspondent— the sort who loves to write about
the Beast of Revelations and the like :
Editor Bulletin, — In 1894 there came before a certain
court of justice in N.S. Wales one of the strangest cases
that ever took place in this or any other country ; during
the hearing of the case one of the defendants hypno-
tised the presiding Judge and several of the jurymen,
and when passing sentence the Judge did so with a ft a *'
vanic bat tery between his legs to keep him awake. Last
September or October the same man was in Sydney and
hypnotised a good many people, the peculiar feature ot
the case being that all those Hypnotised declared they saw
pictures in his eyes. Still more remarkable is the fact
that neither whilst in gaol or out did they get the man s
photo. ; all that was shown on the photograph was the
man’s nose, and although many snapshots were taken in
Sydney all alike, for some unaccountable reason, failed.
The affair occasioned some little stir at the time, but
seemed to die a natural death until last week it was re-
ported he had been seen in one of the sifburbs of Sydney.
Writing on this subject brings to recollection a lot of
strange incidents connected with the affair, but I cannot
recollect them. Clearly there was something connected
with it about Deeming, the murderer, being still at large
and known as the Destroying Angel of a certain sect :
also,about the line of life in the man's hand as .described
by palmists, and a dim recollection of a peculiar minder
happening in a country gaol. If you could furnish a few
particulars you would greatly oblige me and, I daresay,
interest others.
Melb. Unitarian Church, the late Chief
Justice Higinbotham’s place qf worship, after a
shepherdless spell, has just imported a new pastor
in Rev. R. H. Lambley, M.A., said to be big
intellectually. Local Unitarians, tired of frequent
changes, hope much from the .new man.
A closely-cropped bristly head is the pride
of one Melb. pressman, whose pet theory is- that
the brains ooze through the scalp, and that the
more hair in the way the less chance the in-
tellect has of asserting itself —in support of which
he instances the average musician. The other
day the man of copy was at the .door of Melb.
City Court, and just as a stalwart constable
roared “William Blinks, on bail, assault and
robbery,” he pushed his way in to meet every eye
in the court. “My word,” audibly observed a
little man at the back, as the journalist strolled
down the passage towards the table, and, by the
way, also towards the dock, “ I wouldn’t care to
meet that bloke of a dark night.” W. B. Dailey
wasn’t far wrong when he said, “Place the most
pleasing face behind the spikes and it becomes at
once a face that expresses every evil passion.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of a}l other Australian gems.*
A BIS BOOM.
MARK
€V€RY LAPY KNOWS WHAT IT
FOY’S
SUMMER FAIR.
IS.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES Best only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OR MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Fresb.
Cooling. Sparkling.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
CIGARS FRE
DROP IN THESLO
ilium
3
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines
A t Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Dome Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors :
TII«l(OCK &
Soldi in Bottles, 6d., i and 2 - eacb.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and UVURPOOL STRia.TS, SVDNIiV.
When the World was Wide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They wore boys, Billy and Jim, and I looked up
to them from a long way underneath. They
smoked and were happy. I smoked and got sick. ,
Smoking came natural to Billy and Jim. It
wasn’t the considerable undertaking that most
boys find it. And fishing came natural to them ;
and fish-talk came natural too. Billy had a bit of
a halt in his utterance. Evidently ISature was
afraid of him from the first, and had tried to tie
his tongue. But she didn’t succeed to any great
extent. When Billy started to embroider he was
an artist. The fish he missed were leviathans.
He always missed the big ones and caught the
small ones. It’s the way with more people than
Billy, and other things than fish.
Bill and Jim had a contempt for harbor fishing.
It was too safe, Billy reckoned ; and Jim said that
the Dagoes had cleaned the bays—scraped them
clean of all but bung. I hated the term “ bung,”
because it meant yellowtail, and yellowtail were
the only fish that I could catch. But Billy and
Jim were master fishermen, and wouldn’t allow
that yellowtail were anything but “ bung ’’—too
silly to catch except as a means to an end.
Saturday afternoons we would go down to the
wharves and catch yellowtail. They generally
caught ten to my one. Mostly I’d be undoing tan-
gles. That was how I learnt to swear. Nothing in
life teases halt so much as to sit negotiating an end-
less mess while the fish underneath are hungry and
anxious to be hooked. When the afternoon is far
gone, it’s particularly hard, because at sunset the
yellowtail close their mouths and won’t open them
for the best bait in the world.
With me yellowtail were an end. With Billy
and Jim they were only bait.
• * * •
After dark on Saturday evenings I’d meet them
trudging eastward. At other times when the
night was pretty late—they liked going when it
was pretty late because anything might happen
to them then—they’d come to the back-gate and
whistle. Then I’d go down and we’d talk.
“Whereto, Billy?”
“The R-r-ocks.”
Then there’d be silence to allow me to digest
the information, and during the pause they would
fill their pipes and smoke.
“Don’t you think it’ll rain, Billy?” Billy
would cock his eye heavenward and answer posi-
tively, either for or against, as to how the weather
would shape. He always settled things at the
start, and if they didn’t turn out as he predicted,
he would lie. his way out like a meteorologist.
“ Can’t you come ? ” Jim would say—“ heaps of
tucker.”
“ No—worse luck.”
Then another silence—sad on my part. Billy’s
“ old man ” was invariably drunk and didn’t care
what became of Billy ; and Jim’s people lived out
West. Billy and Jim had better times than any
other boys I knew. Just about this time a wind
would whiz down the street, picking up a handful
if dust and flinging it against the lamp.
«It’s going to blow, Billy,” Jim would say.
“My oath—big guns!” was Billy s answer; and
he’d draw himself up and look as though a gale
or two were little things.
“ Where will you camp, Billy ?.
“Mar-owbra.”
“A tent?” . .
“ No,” from Billy. A t-t-tent in this wind !
not m-much—a cave.” , ,
Then he’d puff disdainfully a while and hitch
up his bacrs. He always wore two one in front,
and the other behind. “There’s a cl-lipper
coming up the c-coast, Jim. She 11 be beating on:
Marowbra about three o’clock; keep your eye
open for her.’ ,
“ Yes, Billy ; anyway, we re bound to spot the
Governor Blackall heading up from Melbourne.
“ That’ll be about f-four o’clock, eh ? ’
“ About,” from Jim.
Then, before they went, Jim would be sure to
ask Billy if he had his sheath-knife; and Billy
would shake his head wisely, and remark that
sharks were plentiful off the “Rocks. ’ And per-
haps he’d hint at other uses for the knife—of
land-sharks that lay in wait for men m lonely
places on coast roads.
It happened sometimes that the wind rose
came up in a great gale from the south. AVhen
my window rattled I would wake up in bed to
lean on an elbow and dream of the two
boys—who had left their friends of the street
corner and the gas-lamp to lie all nigh t in a smoke-
blackened cave and mate with wild winds and tall
seas.
• • • *
I had one expedition with them ; I managed it
at a great sacrifice of veracity. We went away
early in the afternoon, and reached a wild spot
under the cliffs, Bondi-way, just before night. _ It
teemed with fish in those days, but now, alas, it is
fished no more. The great sewer of the city
empties there. ,
We made a fire of honeysuckle, the wood that
is red as blood and pretty as a painted thing.
Towards night Jim found a skeleton-key in a rock
hole. Billy said that it must have belonged to a
convict who ran away in the early days and used
the cave that we were camped in for a refuge.
Jim agreed with him, and my hair rose.
It was thrilling afterwards when darkness had
come and Jim and I lay at one side of the fire,
and Billy stood at the other with his hands in his
belt, smoking and stuttering out lies. He was in
great humor that night—rose to the occasion and
excelled himself. , ,Y
He talked of caves first. Said they had a habit
of coming down. They were so nicely fixed up
that the least noise would sometimes shift them.
Where he cams from —the South Coast—a man
just whispered and down the cave came on top of
him. No one ever knew when they were going
to fall. They just did it when they liked. Water
helped at times. The water ate and ate and ate
away at the foundations, and then perhaps a
fellow started to sing, and before he knew where
he was—where was he? “Head and buried,”said
Billy. He took a pull at his pipe and went on. A
lot of people were killed in that way every year.
Lord ! if we only knew how many were lying dead
in broken-down caves along the coast, we'd just
rise and go on the moment. Bellows like us, too,
who were out for a bit of fishing, and were lying
Siiet when it happened ! He concluded by saying
at if he was the Government he’d have every
cave in the country propped. Then he paused
and' took a careful survey of our camping-ground.
He conducted the operation like a general,
tapped the roof and listened, tapped it again and
shook his head doubtfully, stamped his feet on the
floor, and then got down on all-fours to look under
a crevice. In th at position he said “ Pooh ! ” and
called for a stick. Then he raked out a dead
leather-jacket and an oyster-shell. And now he
began to wonder how these came there. It was
a funny thing to find a dead fish and an oyster-
shell so far above sea. Jim said that they might
have been left there by fellows like ourselves.
Put Billy inclined to the opinion that they were
there from the beginning, remained there when
the sea backed away from the land in the early
days.
■’****
There would have been much more argument
only that Billy thought he saw something. He
climbed a rock to get a better view, and
pointed to a white patch that palpitated in the
dark sea. Billy said it was a blue-pointer, and
began to talk of sharks. He asked me had I ever
heard tell of Big Ben. I answered, “ Of course —
who hasn’t?” Then he asked had I ever seen
him. I said “ No,’’and he smiled wisely and shook
his head. Which meant that Billy had seen
him—and that he was just trying to think when.
Big Ben was the biggest shark on the coast.
He was supposed to be more than 20ft. long—
some said 36ft., but no one ever yet heard of a
shark that size—except the white shark of the
Mediterranean —the brute that swallowed Jonah.
Big Ben was the best-known shark in Australia.
If ever anyone happened to be taken under in the
harbor, or on the beaches outside the harbor, it
was always credited to Big Ben. There was
hardly a fisherman in Sydney that hadn’t had
him on one time or another. He was said to be
just one mass of hooks and gaffs and harpoons,
and his jaws were festooned with fishing lines. It
was generally believed that he was full of watches
and rings and other valuables enough to make a
man rich. Bellows always talked of Big Ben
when they were out as we were, and if one got his
line snapped it was ten to one that a week or so
after he’d suppose it was Big Ben that did it.
Billy took his pipe out and told a story. He
and the old man, he said, were fishing at Long
Bay one night, and hadn’t any luck. Every fish
they hooked was taken from them before they
could land it. They got a head now and again—
but that was all. The old man knew at once that
it was a shark, and said that he’d get him. He
put out a line that’d hold a horse, with a whole
mullet for bait. In a couple of minutes the shark
took the bait, and was nearly taking Billy’s old
man, too, because the old man wouldn’t give an
inch of line away. Then Billy took the old man
round the waist, and they dug their heels in rock-
holes and braced themselves back. In a little
while the shark sickened. “He didn’t want to
get away,” said Billy. Billy supposed the hook
in his jaw hurt him too much. They hauled him
in, and— —
“ Cri-i-ikey! it’s Big B-ben !” said Billy’s old
man, as it lay on the beach looking up at them with
small white eyes. The old man got his sheath-
knife and put it into the shark. But Big Ben
gave a roll, and stood up on his tail like a penguin.
Then he began to waddle forward, and Billy
never saw anything so funny as the way that the
old man turned tail and cleared out. Billy ran
too, and—but enough of the boy’s talk. The sea
was beating on the rocks, sluicing and swishing;
and in the rock-holes the crabs were crawling to
and fro like spiders all on fire.
• •- *. * .
After that, I saw much of Billy, and heard him
often. But, alas, a girl came. Ah, why did the
little girl move into our street; and why did she
part us so daintily-a smile for one and a dis-
dainful toss of brown curls for the other ? Could
she not have left us boys a little longer .
RODERIC QUINN.


A distinction with a slight difference !
fIHVO prepossessing- young ladies wish correspond
with two fairly good-looking gentlemen, age 22
to 26, view to matrimony. Anxious, P. 0., Marrick-
viile.
Viator : “ Re Parisian Pompes Fun fibres.
There are seven classes of funerals, the most ex-
pensive .£2OO, and the cheapest .£3 10s. When
the next of kin certify they are unable to pay. the
funeral company has to give free and respectable
burial, on the .£3 10s. fashion. Notwithstanding
that one-third of the burials are gratuitous, the
company pays 40 per cent, di vidend —a commentary
on the profits of undertakery. It has a guaranteed
monopoly from the Paris Corporation, and no
private undertakers are allowed.”
Widgeree: “ A post-officS dodge. Should
a letter-carrier be curious as to the contents of a
certain letter, he will deliver it to someone of a
name similar to that of the addressee. For
instance, a letter addressed to T. B. Smith will be
handed over to one of the numerous other Smiths,
say T. F Aforesaid T. F. opens, reads, marks on
it ‘ Opened by mistake- not for me,’ and returns it.
The letter official then has it at his mercy, and,
after perusal, delivers it to the correct person.”
January 20th, 1898.
Ladies, —You can’t beat the Horderns for sell-
ing reasonably. If you would like one of our
New Glove Fashion Books, drop us a Postal Card,
and we will send you one. Alsp, please write foi
one of our Almanacs, which we will send free upon
application.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211,
Pitt Street (only), Sydney.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
«'>•
ae>
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
ouer Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food ; to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.-1 remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— ( From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S 1 FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now lam RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTlON.— Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO’S *.FRUIT SALT.’
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WORTH LESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
THE SUFFIELD CASE.
f IW NEWSAGENTS AND OTHERS.--A 64 pp. Piimphlet, giving full evidence in this notori-
JL ous Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage. Just Published.
icycles
BICYCLES!
icycles
HURRAH! Everyone can now AFFORD to CYCLE. We are
Closing Out our entire Stock at HONEST IMFORT COST.
BEHOLD THE LIST:-
VIKING}
LADIES’ AND GENTS.’ ROADSTERS.
TRACK RACERS.
TRACK TANDEMS.
SYRACUSE}
LADIES’ ROADSTERS.
GENTS.’ ROADSTERS.
GENTS.’ PACERS.
ILLINOIS}
LADIES’ AND GENTS.'
ROADSTERS.
WILLIAMS}
(JUVENILE'.
20in. and 24in.
GIRLS’ AND BOYS.
EVERY BICYCLE the very LATEST MODEL (no back numbers). MADE by the
BEST MANUFACTURERS in AMERICA. WHEELS WITH A REPUTATION.
WHEELS that GIVE SATISFACTION. WHEELS that are AS GOOD (to say the
least) as those you are asked to pay £25 or £3O for.
SELLING PRICE,
From £8 to £l4.
CALL, SEND, OR WRITE FOR LISTS WITH FULL PARTICULARS
ABOVE PRICES ONLY WHILE PRESENT STOCK LASTS.
F. W. FRANCE and CO.,
Importers.
172 CLARENCE ST. (between King 1 and Market Sts.),
SYDKTJEY, UXT.S.-W.
USE IVORY SOAP.
The Crosscut at the Hundred 'n
Seventy-Nine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, good-bye, graphite bars an’ schists an’ diorites,
We’re goin’ west and south and east to see the
Melbourne lights.
Good-night to good old 1.0. U., and all the Maggie
line,
For we’ve struck it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine !
Last week when they were sayin’ that the stock
would have a fall
I laughs because I taps and hears the lode behind
the wall ;
Oh, bless your heart! I hears that iron vein be-
hind the wall!
Good-bye ! So long !
For we’ve hit it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine.
For don’t you hear the East a-callin’ ,
Singin’ on the salt lake — singin’ on the camel-pad,
Callin’ on the sleeper—welcome whether good or
bad!
Calling from the hundred ’n seventy-nine l
They wanted for to cross-cut west—my little voice
was last,
But I said, “East; for Melbourne’s called that lode
so loud she’s swung round fast.”
So they cross-cut east for eighty feet and never
any sign,
But —we struck it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine !
For I says to them “ Why don’t you drive the way
the voices call ? ’
And, driving just a foot, I hears the lode behind
the wall.
Oh, I hears the two-ounce vein-stuff soundin’ dull
behind the wall—
So, Good-bye ! So-long !
For we’ve hit it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine.
And noiv you'll hear the East a-callin’ —
Calling South to Albany, calling westward to the
Cross —
Calling from the loco.—good though it be gain or
loss —
Calling from the hundred 'n seventy-nine.
There’s the voices of the streets we knew a-callin’
loud and strong,
There’s a cry for us uplift from Melbourne stones ;
There’s a call from ali our women—half a wail and
half a song—•
But there’s little use to call the dead men’s bones.
Sing hushy! for the graveyard’s peg a peg that
marks our claim.
Sing hushy ! for good men lie there asleep,
Who played the silent tragedy which never knows
a name,
Who hid their home-tugged heart-strings deep t
They kept their grit—they never shed their home-
sick tears till dusk,
Soft as breeding women—steadfast as the stars ;
They have left us to the joys of life—the music
and the musk—
It’s our luck we’re warm ; our luck I’ve struck
then; bars.
Sing hushy ! for the mates I leave who’ve pegged
their final claim,
Whose women folk are waiting east like mine ;
And now by Luck and Blessed Lode I’m chuckin’
up the game
For We’ve struck it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine.
Ahd I'm full of every Stinkin’ pride, for I heard
the voices call,
/ heard the two-ounee Vein-stuff soundin’ dull
behind the wall,
And driving just a foot we found the lode behind
the wall!
So Good-bye ! So-long !
For we’ve hit it at the hundred ’n seventy-nine.
And now we hear the East a-callin’,
Callin' on the iron range — callin’ on the rattling
train,
Callin’ on the claypan —“ Never leave your love
again 1 ”
Calling from the hundred ’n seventy-nine.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
White Feather (W.A.).
Te Wiria's Potatoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Villiers was on good terms with the dispossessed
lords of the soil. He had a sort of romantic re-
gard for them. He considered they were an
ill-treated, down-trodden race—he used to tell his
pakeha friends so. And when men met him in
Auckland they wcmld ask him how his proUg£s
the Ngati-Ata were getting on. Of course he
spoke the Maori lingo. He doctored the members
of his pet tribe when they fell ill ; bought their
kumera at exorbitant prices ; helped them in their
land transactions with the grasping pakeha-. gave
them fche use of his out . houses for s i eep ing in, and
o{ his paddooks for their horses .
So far, the Ngati-Ata had done nothing for
Viiliers in return, beyond warning him of the
approach of pack-horses from the interior—bony,
pi'mh-bellied pack-horses were the bane of his life
and a menace, to his clover-paddocks
Villiers lived m an old pa close by the sea. Its
earthern walls stood twenty feet high, and were
surrounded by a ditch fifteen feet deep. The
whole earth-work was overgrown with maiden-hair
fern and lycopodium—in token of the return of
peace. In the middle of the pa, commanding a
view of the sea, Viiliers had built his bouse ; and
his farm stretched its rich acres all round.
He had grown a phenomenal crop of potatoes,
but the question was, who would dig them up?
He himself was turning sixty ; his sons had gone
to the Thames to dig gold; all the able-bodied
men of the district had caught the gold-fever too
—worn-out old-soldier Saunders and one-armed
constabulary-man Murphy were the only men left.
• • • *
Viiliers stood on the pa bank and pondered.
The bay stretched glittering before him ; a gentle
breeze stirred the trees in the orchard below
and rippled the surface of the sea. Two big
canoes came in sight round the nearest point and
made for the shore in front of the house. Villiers
anticipated a day spent in kororo and eating.
Two score Maoris came straggling up the beach,
through the gap in the pa bank, and stood -in
picturesque groups ahout Villiers’ verandah.
“ We come from Tohitapu, our chief,” said the
spokesman of the party, a huge fellow of fifteen
stone. “ Tohitapu loves the pakeha people, but,
most of all, he loves Te Wiria, his great friend.
Tohitapu has stored up in his heart all the good
things Te Wiria has done for the Maori, especially
for the Ngati-Ata hapu. Nothing can ever make
Tohitapu forget the kindness Te Wiria has shown
to him and his kainga. Therefore Tohi’ has said
to us: ‘ What can we do to show Te Wiria our
thanks ? How can we return this great ranrjatira's
many services ? How can we preserve the regard
of our pakeha friend for a long time? I will tell
you. Te Wiria has a fine crop of potatoes, just
ready for digging-Hakiri has seen them, .and so
has Titore. But how will To Wiria dig up his
crop at this time, when all the pakeha have gone
to the gold-fields, and men are scarce? Now you
men of Ngati-Ata, I will tell you what you must
do. You must take the largest canoes you have,
the biggest of all, and go over to Te Rapa, to Te
Wiria, and dig up his riwai crop for him. Then
we shall show that the Maori people love Te
Wiria, and there will be great friendship between
him and us.”
Villiers replied almost with tears. He was
overjoyed to know that the Ngati-Ata had his
welfare so near their heart. He had tried to show
that he looked on them as friends : they had come
to prove that such they were. They were good
men--they thought of the needs of others. They
deserved to enjoy plenty all their lives. Might
they never lack kurnera and potatoes, pigs and
tobacco. As for his riwai crop, it was a good
crop, as they had guessed, and ready for digging.
He would be glad to accept their generous offer.
He considered Hakiri and Titore and Haneke and
the rest of them had shown a proper spirit in
coming over to help him just in the nick of time.
It was what he might have expected of such
generous follows.
Forks and spades were taken down to the potato-
field. The Maoris—men and women—began to
dig for all they were worth.
• * * •
Towards mid-day, Villiers’ women-folk took
down to the workers large quantities of pork and
a huge iron cauldron. The Maori women, with
many smiles, fixed up a cooking-place, and soon
the koh.ua was sizzling over a bright fire. The
pork was boiled with thistles in the same pot.
r i he Maoris gathered round; squatted on the
ground ; dipped their fingers in the stew, and ate
till they were full. Then they stretched them-
selves. -They praised Te Wiria, his house, his
horses, his pork, his potatoes. And Villiers’ little
son looked on and watched them feed, and coveted
their eating capacities.
In the evening the work was finished; fifty
sacks of potatoes stood heaped in Villiers’ sheds.
With many flattering speeches, and laughter and
chattering, the Maoris got into their canoes, and
disappeared round the cape.
Villiers went to sleep with a light heart that
night his endeavours to maintain friendly rela-
tions with the Ngati-Ata were not in vain.
At one o’clock, his big kangaroo-hound began to
bark with all its might, and tugged furiously at
the bullock-chain that held -it; »■ The dog-often
barked at night-—usually at wild cats or the moon.
Villiers put his head out of the window, but
could see nothing—so he went to bed again. But
the dog barked on for hours.
* * * *
Next morning, Villiers went to the sheds, to
feast his eyes on his wealth of potatoes. He
opened the door of shed No. I.—not a sack was to
be seen. He went to shed No. 2. —that also was
empty. His potatoes were gone.
Villiers did not go for the police—there were no
police to fetch. He saddled his horse, and rode
over to Tohitapu’s pa,
Tohi’ met him with all the dignity of the true
rangatira, and his mouth full of pork—Villiers
had arrived there at dinner-time. The pakeha
quickly told his story. Tohi’ listened with the
deepest respect. Villiers pointed to some sacks
marked with great red W. hanging on a fence
near by. Tohitapu acknowledged that it was
strange that they should be there—beyond a
doubt some of his fellows were arrant rogues—he
would see to it. Viiliers pointed to a newly-dug
rue, almost under his horses feet. Tohitapu ac-
knowledged that it had been dug that morning,
Viiliers remarked that it was full of potato*!
Tolii’ relinquished his hold on Viiliers’ rein and
called his people together.
“You Ngati-Ata are a bad people,” he said,
“ You always were a greedy, thieving set of men.
I have long felt ashamed of you. Te Wiria here
is niy pakeka he has lo be ' n n friend and the
friend of Ngati-Ata. So you men there, Hakiri,
Titore > and Haneke, when you hear tl.at Te Wiria
has got a fine riwai crop, you go to Te Rapa and
say that I, Tohitapu, told you to dig* it up. Te
Wiria is a guileless man-he let you do the work,
You store the riwai in Te Wiria’s sheds. You
are a low-bred set of men, taurekareka, all of you.
Yon have no shame ; you forget the pakeha thinks
Stealing is a sin ; you forget tlie pakeha people put
thieves into gaol and make them herehcre, prison-
ers. So you go and take Te Wiria’s riwaA crop ;
you steal it in the night-you dare not go in the
( biy. You are great cowards, you Ngati-Ata.
And you bring the potatoes to th ekaim/a, and say
to yourselves, ‘ It is well : we shall have plenty of
food for the winter. ’ He ware te hum,a nci ! You
are a wicked, lazy lot of people; you are a set of
cowards; you are an ungrateful, foolish people;
you have disgraced me in the eyes of my pakeha,
Te Wiria. lam ashamed of you. Get out of my
sight, everyone of you!” And Tohitapu strode
through the spell-bound Ngati-Ata, and resumed
his interrupted meal, his meal of pork and baked
potatoes—Te Wiria’s potatoes.
Viiliers sat on his horse, wondering whether
Tohitapu was a great actor, or a great liar. He
rode home, wondering. He is wondering to this
day.
M- L -
ALFRED A. GRACE.


IMPURE BLOOD
Is the Cause cm very many of the Ills to which Flesh is Heir.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and enriches the Blood, as testified
to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Storekeeper, Breeza, New South Wales»
who sends his portrait and tolls the following interesting storv;
I
lr!
:
5
.Vi
fotiiiiS
I
vm
X
m
“In the year 1890 mv ankle broke out, and I went to a doctor who told
me I was suffering from blood poisoning. He prescribed for me but did me
no good, and I tried several other physicians without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, X duev, and after a month’s treatment there came
out worse than ever, feeling greatly discouraged. I suffered terribly for
four years, until my wife, hearing of your Sarsaparilla, got me a bottle.
She persuaded me give it a thorough trial. Soon I noticed that the sore
orrrny ankle began to heal, then the pain diminished, and after a course
six bottles. I became-as well as ever I-was in my life, and I:remain in the~
best of heal [hr , •• . _ >
"EveryboiH- for miles around here knows what tribulation I went through.
I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer with impure blood,
and I an! glad to say that ijjhas done good to all who have tried it.”
Be sure that you get tbe original
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
and be not deceived by the numerous, imitations of this wonderful medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. G. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mail., V. S. A,
Boniiiiigton s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTER ATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER. Removes
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
'~ 7 ' i
Bonningtons Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LIVER, STOMACH, & KIDNEY (&)MPLAINTS. Stimulates
and Creates a Healthy System.
63F”
ir* oillt C.. X- s
Four Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HEADACHE
Readers of this caper should
know, that Bishoprs Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
, highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache. It is
pleasant to take and will be
found most refreshing after
shopping, or as a morning
restorative. The “ Lancet” com-
mends it. Of all Chemists in two
sizes. A Booklet on Headache
6ent post free on application.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, S.
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY
'Encalsfpftts Oil
BUY THE
or Extract,
BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEQL, Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian EuciXLYrrus Oil. Co. Ltd., Hobart.
'T&.nkafd’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and -Residence par
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
m
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Street#, SYDNEY,
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms :
From lGs. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
ISITOK.S to CAIRttS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. lEaperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comtort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
g
m
Have been before the Public for more than
50 years, and have now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This lias been achieved
without the publication of testimonials,
the convincing fact is, that Beecham’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES,
fd
' $ w SUCH AS ■ ‘ ■■£ ■-
S1ck Headiache, Coiistlpation,
Weak Stoma city Impaired lliggestion,
Disordered ILiver & Female Miments.
Annual Sale, SIX WILLI
Sold everywhere in boxes, 9hd., &Jkd.
and 2!9 each .
8
11 m it I
-Z3'
-r
Si
%>• :;
2
£
5
UtB
/?
<*■
7>s
*-4§ # X*
fJKAXDV POX HAS. ,
’ GRACH (artlessly): “I wish Santa Claus had giyen _y ou a, pony like mine.”- a
Eleanor (just as artlessly): “Mama says he would if papa wasn’t so fotact-
of ponies himself.” - ■ — — "
Boi?i)ii)gtoi)’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy rernpdy for BLi-ousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, . Constipation, Torpid Liver.
ls„ a Box.


§B*
What is_Health?
JRheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ac,,
Completely cured by Mr, C. F.
» 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
' these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
GfRIEFEITDORFF’S
‘KEPRO;
TEST I Pi/I O IA L.
Mdld-on (Victoria), 21st September, I*9B.
n£rZ? e in Stating that the rout?
c <° r ? d Minin< > Company has used Griefen
d ™P“' ( to paint the inside of on,
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing tin
cyanide and gold liquor. We are pleased to 'slate
that we found, it admirably suited for that purpose ,
and can safely recommend it to others.
__ IF. n. Git AY,
Managing Director South German G.M. Co., Maldon.
ALSO useful to Squatters for COATING
fir™ fnA a Electricians and Chemical
CaTb/ A «f T F G ACld Tank8 > and all ™ers Of
Caslcs and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFRED LA WHENCE <f- CO. t
527 Collins Stujokt, MKLUOURNE.
Wortbiogtoi) PGnjpiog Eogip€ Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SimpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTRINGTO
N
TRADE
Sydney, KS.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
n , . ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLennan & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION
,«®T t B a L J? SSING in EVERY family.
TI °_^' L 0 } VAY S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
Jl 8 there is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu"
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. iW" Pur-
chasers shouW look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious, • J
N OTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where*
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale .
EPPS’S
GKATEFOL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD
Pioneers of
THe i VTT , LK TRAI)E J the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
Iias done 80 much for th ® colony and colonies); the
REFRB^K^^nIJ EM Tn O J, T B V TTER - MAE:iNG has done more) J
KEIERIERAIION; ICE-MAKING.
The only the very Best Articles. Supplying *ll the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS and 23 Royal ArC ade-for
Note. Arrangements may be made at either el these Depot* ter AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The
A.gexits
l SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WOPI n
THE “ HEAD ™ stbkmx-thev will SLi* VVORLD -
" PATESON, Manager.
IMPROVED 6ft FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
gdf
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Frues” sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being ‘ just as good as the Frue.”
1 here are worthless imitations in the market,
txenmiie Frue Vanners are now all fitted with
‘ ,l> fiange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents. '
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED SYDNEY
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers. %
SBe “
PRICES AND CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
T7TRP A TAT) the - - ALL SINGEK Dewing machines.
V JJjltAlUll ACjATT T A TAT) THE--
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES. ’ CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
B^kin 3 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to dear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrel
lMks U w'ith o earf°i | le ' n '\'-° x B P' ri »K triggers, best ste
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners conmle
sual price £B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns,
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, ,
cartridge machines and cleaners complete, usual m i
110 Os, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete. '
< Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
barVelhm'T ril> > rebounding locks, snapaction, left-hand
With lll f e C I ! < r > U r^ ore ’ n K hthand bal ' rel modified choke,
w th all the latest improvements, with cartridge machine
each? conmlet^° lrlp ete UB,Jal *<• reduc^i
), complete,
s, snap action, wal
rc, steel locks, wit!
plete. Usual prici
* tv iiiuiitrOvcr ouub v*uiis t six consecutive Shots, extra wpII firiicihn/i inisna
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price i.‘lo 10s, reduced C 4 16s each p-,,,!'! f improvements, with cartridge
ta '' **"“* *”>■• -Wa ,t 150yds. Usual pH,, m
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. * A Fair Trial given with e'tery 'gun ' ''*' ' ,Wed
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
EI, ° I . NE^ ES * OENERAI machinebt mebchawts,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. O 345 Bourke-st„ Melbourne.
k-'
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the most Approved Designs
and highest workmanship, from
1 horse-power.
Every Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools m Stock.
1 w2f! “ftifSd® *,, 80l^ er Fittin S s - Machine & Mill Supplies.
