

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
LAMB’S RUM.
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
8a CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 61 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Orb ” ana “Pyramid” Galvanlzefl Iron.
10,000 Casks Knight Sevan’s Cement.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
%5,<
<RAc«a«
R. A. HTSRYEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Bustos’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Riston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steani - driven HYDIiO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And see that you get it;.
PROOF
GfJ eYJs
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE stocks always on hand.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., I*td.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
U QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
fDE
PROOF;
$
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked toy Royalty and Notoility.
HOBART.
— zm —
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
Bffore viyifing The City wrirefo fhe Manager for
Ora of Tariff, Correspondence promptly amended to.
TIHIIE - -
Hot^l,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDKrBY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontages.
PIONEER
LEATHER
UNBELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Pi ices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWFI & SOIJ, LTD.,
162 CLARENC3 STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS t 3 CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
.. - AUSTRALIAN -..
Boomerang Brandy.
DR. PHILIP MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says:—“l have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY should be sold in bottles of a smaller size. A
poor family should be able to purchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion,
or prostration.”
In Flasks and Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON I™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
Smoke JDUBEC' EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES and EL TRIUNFO CIGARS. Ask for them at leading tobacconists.
The Bulletin
Voi 19. —jNo. 945. j
[Saturday, March 26, 1898,,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Q.EO. ROBERTSON AND CO.
David Lyall’s Love Story, 2/6 and 3 '6; post, 3 - and 4/-.
Fenn's High Play, 2 6 and 3/6 ; post, 3/- and 4/-.
Wood’s Weeping Ferry, 2/6 and 3/6 ; post,, 3 - and 4/-.
Browning’s Peter the Great, 2/6 and 3 6 ; post, 3 - and 4/-.
Marsh’s The Duke and The Damsel, 1,6 and 2 6 ; post, 2/-
and 3/-.
Moore’s The Impudent Comedian, 1/6 and 2 6; post, 2/-
and 3/-.
Wemyss’ ’Tween the New and Old, 2,6 and 3/6 ; post, 3/-
and 4/-.
Well’s War of the Worlds, 2/6 and 3/6 ; post, 3/- and 4/-.
Gordon’s Years of Transition, 2/6and 3 6 ; post, 3/- and 4/-.
Dudeney’s Man with a Maid, 3 - and 4-; post, 3 6 and 46.
Darmsteter’s Life of Renan, 2 6 and 3/6 ; post, 3/- and 4/-.
Parker and Haswell’s Text-book of Zoology, 42/-; post, 46/.
O'Connor’s Gas Engineers’ Poclcetbook, 10/6 ; post, 11/-.
Hogan’s Gladstone Colony, 7/6 ; post, 8/-.
George Robertson and Co.’s Colonial Library—
THE SWORD OF A SIN, by Alexander Montgomery;
wrappers 2/6, post 3/6 ; cloth 3/-, post 4/-.
TWIST SHADOW AND SHINE, by Marcus Clarke ;
new and cheap edition, 1/-, post 1/3.
MY LIFE IN TWO HEMISPHERES, by Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy, Colonial Edition, 2v015., 10 6, post 11/6.
DEAD MEN'S TALES, by Charles Junor; picture boards
2/-, post 2/4.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
IX Prose and Yerse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
ON THE TIP
... OF EVERYBODY’S TONGUE
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
Dainty-
Delicate
Delicious
Cameos
F
TP
resh
Fragrant
amous
Cameos
Pure
Palatable
Perfect
THE RED PAGE.
[A note is to hand from the Secretary to the Society for
" ell }q Rather Tired of Things. ‘ Dear Bulletin,— At the
weekly meeting of this society*, held on Tuesday evening
last, it was unanimously resolved : “That we are Rather
JLired of Burns.” Kindly notice and oblige.’ And
George Black agreeably closes the controversy.)
George Black further writes—
career or my ‘ ponderous uninspired
verses been the subject of debate, the sympathy
shown by the Red Page for my failings, trials and
struggles might have blunted the point of my
skene-dhu. But you quite mistake
the issue. I am not on trial ; the Red Page is—
for defaming Robert Burns; whose ‘ handsome
face it had the desire, if not the skill ‘to spoil.’
TThis is the interesting method of the politician who
atnrms what he is supposed to prove, and drowns protest
with leather lungs—a method of Misrepresentation plus
Vociferation. If any body is on his trial it is obviously
Burns; and G. 8., if he will, may call himself counsel for
the defence—or devil's advocate.]
I want justice for Burns; I ask no quarter for
myself ; I never sought it in my life; I never re-
ceived it ; I never required it less than I do now.
Nor can the patronising condescension of your
reviewer induce me to extend it to him ; for I
shrewdly suspect him to be more concerned about
the safety of his own literary complexion than
about mine. If that be not his motive, then how
blinded by conceit must be the offender who
gravely takes credit to himself (the criminal) for
the clemency he shows towards me—the counsel
for the prosecution. Let me say now, that had
he, no matter how successfully, followed out the
plan of attack devised at his eagle’s nest —decor-
ated doubtless with the shank-bones of slain poets
it would in no way have cleared him from the
definite charges brought against his journalistic
honesty. So far, he has not attempted to defend
himself His mouth has been full of the in-
coherent prevarications of the detected cul-
prit. His replies, being his, are, of course,
satisfactory to him, but his satisfaction cannot be
so great as mine. Their weak evasiveness proves
the strength of my case.
[More Vociferation. Three specimens of what passes
for Burns’s work were printed on Dee. 4—“ The Dusty
Miller,” “ A Red, Red Rose,” “ Auld Lang Syne"—
together with the originals from which Burns horrowed.
G. B. did not—he could not —question theaecuracy of the
presentation, or destroy the damning inferences. What
he could and did do was to cloud argument with a dust
of side-issues. And he kicks up a very effective dust
regarding the Vamps which were not paralleled with
the originals—for the reasons that readers tire of 9ueh
parallels ; and a host of other topics clamor for treat-
ment ; and, anyway, a yard of space so devoted is as good
as a mile when Hanley’s notes are available by the curious
in respect of the other 1759 yards. Also, discussion is in-
terminable as to whether, in respect of any particular
Vamp, Burns is entitled to 90 per cent, of credit or merely
to 10 per cent. : that is a matter on which everyone must
make up sis own mind according to its lights.]
To meet his misrepresentations, I must recapi-
tulate : Burns’s reputation, according to acknow-
ledged authorities, is based on his Poems and his
Satires. They assert, nevertheless, that he lifts
his head, high as the tuneful morning stars, among
the world’s song-writers, on the footing of songs
indisputably his. Here the worm that bores into
reputations gets a chance. Burns, purely for
love of country, endeavored to enrich her min-
strelsy by collecting for publication the old bal-
lads that ran like fire along the country-side at
merry-making times. Some, wedded to beautiful
airs, were unprintable; these here-wrote. Others,
word-perfect, were twined with poor melodies;
for these he found fresh music. In other cases, a
felicitous phrase, line, or verse was embedded in a
mass of vulgar verbiage. Burns liberated the gem
and set it in a circlet of jewels. He did more ; in
every case he forwarded copies of the originals
[This should be ‘in many cases’—there is no evidence
to show that Burns forwarded his originals * in every
case.’ For a would-be precisian in language, G.B. is
singularly unprecise.]
with his versions to the publishers. (Since his
day unscrupulous men have traded on his name,
and published editions which contained songs he
never wrote and never claimed. This caused a
confusion which was increased by the fact that
Hogg, Cunningham, Stenhouse, Buchan, and
others were so regardless of Burns’ reputation
as to forge ‘originals’ to songs that were unde-
niably Burns’. By the way, instead of taking
away from Burns, Henley has actually restored
to him songs which were wrested from him by
these forgeries. How many more of these so-called
Burns’- ‘ originals ’ are forged?) Had Australia
possessed an unwritten song-literature, how highly
would, the poet, say Henry Lawson, have been ex-
tolled in your columns, who played towards it the
part of a Burns, and rescued it from extinction.
[Doubtless ; but there would have been preserved a
proper discrimination in extol in ent. Lawson, as a vam-
per or editor, would have got a vamper or editor’s credit,
and no. more. The real Burns, sp far as is known, rari-lv
claimed more; but for the legendary Burns, the Scottish
M umbo-Jumbo, the credit of full authorship is often
claimed—by statement or by suppression. Whence these
tears.]
But how does ‘‘The Bulletin’ reward Burns for
this great mass of laborious and gratuitous service
to Scots', nay, to universal literature? He is
treated like a detected thief; he is denied all
originality ; he has done little, says Red Page, but
[Misrepresentation again. Burns was never here
‘denied all originality.’]
milk other men’s cows into his own bucket. Your
[Misrepresentation again. What was said was (R.P.
Oct. 23): ‘The later Burns survives in virtue of the
ability with wliioh lie milked other men’s cows into his
own bucket’—a very different statement. Admire the
Black art of perversion !]
reviewer is so badly cornered by me on this point
that, seeking a mouse-hole of escape, he endeavors
to apply what I said concerning some of Burns’
contributions to Johnson’s and Thomson’s collec-
tions to all the poet ever wrote, and claims, by the
detachment of certain phrases of mine from their
context, to prove that he and I are agreed that
Burns is ‘a mere vain per, mender and tinker, and
little more.’ lam not in any way concerned about
[Nothing of the sort. * According to G. 8., Burns took,
built Up, put new words to, collected, adapted, borrowed
—other fellows’ songs or fragments of songs.’ (R.P.,
Feb. 5). There is no general implication in this state-
ment, which obviously had force only so far as G.B.’s own
particular admissions gave it force.]
his alleged opinion of my opinions. Let those
who desire to pass judgment refer to your issues
of Oct. 25 and Dec. 4, 1897, and Feb. 5 and 19,
1898.
[Here two paragraphs not concerned with Burns—and
replies thereto—are reluctantly excised for reasons of
space,]
Youv reviewer accuses me of misleading, be-
cause, he says, I apply what he wrote of ‘ the
average Scotchman ’to Burns’ countrymen. I
accuse him now of quibbling. I took the words
‘average Scotchman,’ as I do now, to signify the
bulk of the people. I quoted them merely because
they occurred in a sentence which strikingly con-
densed much that Red Page said before and after.
Let me show that I was not unjust to him by
quoting a preceding sentence. Therein he said ;
‘A graver injury has been done by Burns’s
countrymen to Burns himself.’ Throughout, as
will be proved in the succeeding paragraph, he
railed at Scotchmen in the aggregate—their lofty
notions of Burns, their meanness, their lack of
humor, their love of whisky. When he argues
that the average Scot constitutes ‘a class ’ ; when
he accuses me of misrepresentation while neglect-
ing to ascertain what he had said, he proves his
weakness in controversy, and not mine. Let him
adapt his cheap sneers to his own unhappy predi-
cament.
[Again, Vociferation comes to aid Misrepresentation.
To reiterate is tiresome, but necessary. The actual state-
ment wasiß.P., Oct. 23): * The average Scotchman does
not know how good or how bad Burns’s verses are, and
he does not know how much Burns plagiarised.’ Instead
of quoting that, G.B. preferred to attribute this (R.P.,
Feb. 5): ‘Condensed, your arguments were these: (1)
That Burns, for his own uses, stole the ideas, and even
words, of preoeding writers ; (2) ThXt his countrymen
are wholly unaware Of this alleged fact.’ That is (it
was rejoined), what is said of a particular class of
Scotchmen G.B. applies to the whole body: a quali-
fied allegation of ignorance he perverts into a charge
of complete ignorance. G.B. shirks the second half
of the rejoinder, and defends the first half by quot-
ing the third sentence preceding the relevant sentence,
which has no bearing on that sentence’s particular
statement. Once more, his method is characteristic.
The expression ‘ the average Scotchman ' ohviously ex-
cludes the Seotohman who is not average ; hilt by mis-
quotation G.B. makes argumentative capital from
suppression of the here implied and admitted fact that
the uot-average Seotohman does know something of
Burns’s plagiarisms. And, instead of admitting his error,
he dubs himself dullard or worse by repeating it.]
I have made a random guess that probably but
one-third of the published editions of Burns con-
tained ‘copious notes.’ Your reviewer quibbles
therefrom that the alleged ignorance of the
average Scot of Burns’ alleged plagiarisms is due
to the noteless two-thirds. This is lovely, coming
from one who throughout eight columns revelled
[There were not ‘eight columns,’ but only ‘eight
columns’ less a substantial body of advertisements; and
the alleged ‘ revel ’ certainly did not extend throughout
the not-eight columns, of which a large part was occupied
in quotation. The point is unimportant; but. it serves to
show that. G. 8., who exacts such accuracy from others,
cannot himself be accurate even in small tilings. And
since he will hang himself, he shall have not only his own
rope, but also his own pack-tiiread.]
in the idea that Henley’s edition —published at
two guineas net—would constitute a revelation to
the Scottish nation and would obliterate ‘The
conception of Burns which is legendary and
Scottish.’ Ha so gloated over the disillusionment
this fatuous race was about to experience, that he
said , ‘ One can conceive the horror of the foolish
people who have transformed Burns into a sort of
Scottish Mtunbo-Jumbo.’ Therein, he betrays
his belief that the ‘foolish people’—foolish because
they admire Burns —who were inaccessible to
former annotated editions from 50 to 100 in num-
ber, were suddenly to be shown the error of their
ways by Henley at forty-two shillings per shook !
By the way, what about my misrepresentations
as to the scope of the term ‘ average Scotchman ’
now ?
[More Misrepresentation. The suggestion regarding
* the horror of the foolish people ’ (1t.1’., Dec. 4) specifi-
cally referred to Henley’s essay on Burns, wbicli was cer-
tainly inaccessible ‘ in former annotated editions from 50
to 100 in number.’ So Q.B.'s perversion is once more
pointless—and his gibe.]
But your reviewer excels himself in one state-
ment whose slap-dash audacity seems remarkable
even when its source is remembered. He boldly
says—
*So far as their borrowings are concerned,
Burns, for the most part,' gilded refined gold ;
Shakespeare made gold out of lead.’
Such ravings might convince the credulous or
delude the ignorant; they cannot impose on those
accustomed to weigh words. In Burns, the use of
‘ a lyrical idea, that is a rhythm, a burden, a
drift,’ already utilised, constitutes ravishing,
filching, clean-stealing, and a gilding of refined
gold. Shakespeare gets different treatment.
When lie lifts, as he does almost without excep-
tion, his Plot, Situations, Characters, Colors and
Atmosphere, from the Gone-Before, lie does not
filch ! Oil, no; he only turns lead into gold. The
[Really, G.B. is in a very elementary intellectual state.
Of course Shakespeare ‘filched’; it was never said or
implied he did not; the statement that he turned lead
into gold implied that he did. But while Shakespeare,
for tile most part, and so far as js known, filched quantity,
the song Barns filched quality —and a considerable quan-
tity as well. That was the difference which was sought
to be expressed, and wliioh was expressed.]
unprejudiced, those qualified to judge, will agree
with me that the plays of a dramatist thus
equipped by his predecessors, are more than half-
written. But the alchemy which enabled Shake-
speare to turn lead into gold, did not end with his
borrowings of cruoibles for the melting and
moulds for the shaping of his precious ores.
What shall be said of Sir Know-All with his prate
about Shakespeare’s transmutation of the base into
the royal metal, if it be shown that the dramatist
not only stole his apparatus, but also two-thirds
of the golden coins he professedly minted. Un-
[G.B.’s instinct for Misrepresentation is ineradicable.
Shakespeare stole many coins ; but there is no evidence
to show that two-thirds of his golden coins were stolen.
What evidence there is goes to show that, if his silver and
copper were others’, his gold was mostly his own. Con-
trariwise, the song-Burns horrowed most of his gold from
others. One need not quarrel with G.B.’s previous meta-
phor of the circlet of jewels and the central Gem. But
one asks, with Henley, what would have been the worth
of the jewels without the Gem.]
fortunately for me, Boswell’s Shakespeare, with
Edmund Malone’s notes, is not accessible. So,
ignoring all Shakespeare’s eonveyings from the
Frenoh and Italian, let me quote Emerson, of
whom your Red Page may have heard —
Shakespeare esteemed the mass of old plays waste
stock, in which any experiment might be freely tried. . . .
He owed debts in all directions, and was able to use what
ever he found. The amount of his indebtedness may be
inferred from Malone's laborious computations in regard
to the First, Seoond and Third parts of Henry VI., in
which, says he, ‘ out of 6043 lines, 1771 were written by
some author preceding Shakespeare ; 2373 by him, on the
foundations laid by his predecessors, and 1899 were
entirely his own.’ Malone’s preceding investigations
hardly leave a single drama of Shakespeare’s absolute
invention.
[Unfortunately for G.B. ‘Henry Vl.’ is not one of the
plays for which we chiefly esteem Shakespeare.]
What of the lead now ? Aye, and what of the
gold ? Go to, thou vain man, and learn, again
from Emerson, that :
Great men are more distinguished by range and extent
than by originality. If we require in them the originality
which consists in weaving, like a spider, their web from
their own bowels; or in finding clay and making bricks,
and building the house ; no great men are original. The
greatest genius is the most indebted man.
This is Emerson’s apology for Shakespeare. It
With the exception of the final sentence, which is ques-
tionable, ‘Emerson’s apology for Shakespeare’ goes.
Thoughts can no more do without ancestors than bodies
can. In ourselves we assimilate and perpetuate our
parents. The trouble with Burns is that many of his
songs' not only assimilate and perpetuate the songs of his
predecessors, hut even swallow them, raw and holus-
bolus. Wherefore, aye and nay, also nevertheless and
notwithstanding, go to, thou vain G. 8., and learn that no
man may eat his father.
may serve in a lesser degree for Ben Jonsen, who
[As G.B. wrote ‘Jonsen’ in the copy and revised
‘Jonsen ’ in the proof, it is lawful to (sic) ‘ Jonsen ’ as an
admeasurement of the uneasy fit of G.B.’s plagiarised
erudition. If great men cannot be original they might
at least be unoriginal correctly.]
paraphrased ‘To Celia’ and * Drink to Me ’ from
the Epistles of Philostratus ; to Herrick, who also
borrowed from that Ancient; to Chaucer, whose
obligations to Boccaccio and the French are
obvious ; and every other English writer of emin-
ence. For who shall estimate what any modern
owes to the past? Literature is a mass of stored
impressions. The man whose impressions are all
self-gathered is not half-informed. The wise
glean experience side by side with their study of
the stores of the sages. Your hermit is the only
original—when he can’t read.
The writer on the Red Page cannot mitigate
his chastisement by quoting against me the fact
that lam Scotch. While lie fails to answer my
arguments that will not reduce his discomfiture by
one iota. But no Scot was ever less clannish than
I. No Burns-worshipper, I had mentally assessed
him in a much lower place than has Carlyle,
Matthew Arnold, Taine, Gosse, Henley,
Francis Thompson, and many others, superior in
weight and authority to my opponent. And so
[Then G. 8., in all probability, ‘assesses’ Burns in a
muoli lower place than he is entitled lo hold.]
little thought of clan or clique have I in this mat-
ter that, had Burns not been in hand, I would
have dulled a nib in defence of Tennyson. I hate
to see any man unfairly attacked, and particu-
larly one who cannot defend hitnself. Nor does
[As no dead man of letters can defend himself, it follows
that criticism of all dead men of letters (a considerable
number, at last accoun's) should stop short when G.B.
imputes unfairness. The idea seems swelled, somehow.
Also, query ; If the work of a dead man of letters can’t
defend itself, what exactly is a defender’s status ? Also,
another query (for next Sydney Univeisitymatriculation-
paper in Eng. Literature): ‘l. Contemplate by and large
the spectacle of g.b. defending BURNS, and state in as
decent language as you can what BURNS would be likely
to say about it.]
my Jekyll-llyde paragraph afford any proof
of your reviewer’s impartiality. Both sides of the
shi-ld were never shown. Jekyll devoted some
thirty or forty lines to out-of-place kindly refer-
ences to Burns. These, Hyde utterly contradicted
and completely overwhelmed, qualitatively and
quantitatively, throughout the remainder of the
eight columns. Jekyll’s remarks were but as
scanty specks of lustre on the rusty side of the
shield presented by Hyde.
But, let me again point out, it is not my com-
petence to judge which is in question—it is his.
He is charged with bearing false witness against
Robert Burns., A strong case has been made out:
let him clear hitnself—if he can !
[This is merely G.B.’s amusing way of putting things.
Another way : ‘G.B. is charged with bearing false witness
in favor of Kobert Burns. a strong qase has been made
out: let him clear himself-if he can !’]
Nor can the writer of the Red Page evade re-
proach by his specious plea that the meagre space
afforded by eight columns necessitated a recourse
to generalities which led to misconception as to
his true meaning. The writer who cannot mak
himself understood in 148 inches of solid matter
has mistaken his vocation. But, apart from that,
I ignored him in the general; I dealt with him in
the particular. For instance, I challenged him to
state why he charged Burns with stealing ‘The
Primrose,’ when the poet had expressly dis-
claimed its authorship. For instance, I chal-
[The original statement ran: ‘ln the same Clean-Steal
category’—of songs not written by Burns, yet neverthe-
less included in editions of his work—‘ are “ The Prim
rose ” (ravished from Thomas Carew—Burns himselt
calls it “ an old English song, which I dare say is hut
little known "—wherefore he ravished) . . .’ This
made it clear that Burns did not disguise his ravishing
from his editor ; but the poem as it appears in editions of
Burns is none-tlie-less a Clean-Steal, inasmuch as it is not
Burns’s, and has no business among Ids original work.
Somebody-else’s silver spoons have ho right to be
reckoned in a dead purloiner’s estate because in life he
owned up to collaring’em. Burns, who in this matter
‘ claimed not the maker’s honors, hut was content with the
vamper's' was merely accused of ‘ravishing*—and the.
word is Henley’s. But the poem was put. ‘in the Clean-
Steal category’ because certain of Burns’s editors have
claimed for him a maker’s credit—and ‘this notice, of
course, does not profess to deal thoroughly with the
adequacies and inadequacies of Burns ; only to hint how
far the true conception of him is removed from the con-
ception of him which is legendary and Scottish.’ —(R.P.,
Oct. 23; repeated Dec. 4). And if G. B. still thinks
Burns unfairly treated he can ponder Henley’s note to
‘Behold the Hour,’vol. iv., p. 96—‘one cannot choose
but wonder that Burns, for all his habit of appropriation,
should ever have palmed it off upon a sweetheart as his
own.’]
lenged his right to say that Burns stole
‘ Laddie Lie Near Me,’ when the poet had
expressly said, over his signature : ‘This song is
by Blaclclock.’ For instance, I demanded proof,
[lf Burns says so (G.B. gives no reference) Burns was
mistaken ; for Blackloek certainly did not write the
black-letter original which Henley has hunted up. And
if Burns distinctly says the song is by somebody else,
why is it included in apparently all locally-availahle anno-
tated and unannotated editions of Burns on the same
footing as Burns’s own work ? And it was not said that
Burns ‘stole ’ the song ; hilt that it came ‘iri the Clean-
Steal category’—which gives a very different implication
when taken in connection with the context, and with the
twice-repeated disclaimer (see above). If G.B. will have
‘ Blacklock’s ’ song taken out of ‘Songs by Robert
Burris ’ this little matter will square itself. While it re-
mains there his indignation is surely misplaced.]
or withdrawal, of the cruel calumny chat.'
* Burns’s friends and relatives, with intent to
heighten his reputation, deliberately destroyed
many of the old ballads from which he borrowed.’
This is so far from being true that Mrs. Burns
actually disclaimed her husband’s authorship of
certain songs, and Gilbert Burns, his brother, dis-
owned the following—‘ As I was a Wandering
‘ The Winter It is Past; ’ ‘A Bottle and a
Friend ;’ ‘The Battle of Sheriff-Muir ; ’ and
[‘ln our Notes to individual songs, we have done our
best to trice his ’—Burns’s— ‘ connexion with the past.
This is now the more difficult because (I) much of the
material he colleoted (including the origins of the publi-
cation known as The Merry Muses and a good deal else)
has been destroyed—by his relations, or by Currie, or by
later owners—in the interests partly of mords,
partly of that cheap decorous chromo-lithograph (ns it
were) which bids fair to supplant the. true Burns—ardent,
impulsive, generous ; but hypochondriacal, passionate,
imperfect —in the minds of his countrymen ... ’ —
Henley and Henderson’s ' Burns,’ vol. iii., p. 296.1
others. On such definite ground Red Page will
not meet me ; he is safer in the regions of blathe”
and bluster.
[ln his chosen instances G.B, has been met; and he can
he met even more decisively in every other instance.
But what is the use of wearying readers? The contro-
versy about. Burns has degenerated into a controv- rsy
about the controversy—‘and thank goodness,’as W. S;
Gilbert sings, ‘they’re both of them over.’ G.B. may
take the last word.]
Let me again conclude with a quotation* this
time from Charles Whibley—
Burns, who rescued half-a-doz°n measures from unde-
served obscurity, is one nf the few singers that the wnrld
has known. ... To say that he was a plagiarist is to
misunderstand his method. . . . He laid his hand upon
whatever mateiial he found suitable, but he himself was
the first to declare liis indebtedness, and the genius which
transformed a hasty sketch into a marvel of music was
all his own. In undertatinr, therefore, to discover the
origins of Burns, Messrs. Henley and Henderson have
but completed the task indicated bjf himself.


if*. FReemnn $ niluce,
3|'F
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
x vwv;
THAT THESE
. . NOTED SPECIAIISTS
at the HEAD °F THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
mntp wnrfv, r^ ated furt, her into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than their
RECORD RIGHT I HEREMn’SYDNEyT’ n ° W aoknowledged b y all ‘ Their experience is lifelong, and THEIR
T A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
THEm’llOmfs LSE THEY HAVE MADE THEIR lives happy, and brought sunshine into
.. , valuable treatises
NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Our New Medical Work,
RESCUED at LAST over
000 pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of 'its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward .£1 by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your aihpent.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
soune men, imoDceneED & old men.
TLS troubled with Pimples, Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
'ifflirtpH mi, ,*tion, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE MEN !
anH aonf,® Thousands of you Troubled with Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
fl-t Sffn ” t Unn< l’ and , ofcher unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Manv die of
P ASF<» which is the second state of Seminal Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
OASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CURED
without Pain or Detention from Business.
FSv'v
SPICOY
All Trains stop at the. Door.
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility', and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
PE.YfeIJE.H4 sX
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
,¥ an who would KNOW the grand
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE , in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to tie the
Equal of your Fellow-man?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a"
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve: power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Hen who are lacking in
this element, can recover it. They can he strong, as many
other men have been and are. - -They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of-Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng,,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
RAFFSN’S hepatic
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
' 55 Eij-in-st., MELBOURNE.
WEAK BACKS.
lame back,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
, PAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of a
strain, cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.’’
It sends a soothing,
warming, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes EIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for weak back. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
1.” Address Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL & CO, 158
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JPHNOURANTS
■SPECIFIC CAPSULES
MoB4feFferßax.
FULL T>IRECTiaUS , |
u . ENCLOSED? Jj
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on.receipt of Six Penny-Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 llunter-st., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
t@T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
. Improved. Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,"
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Dlt>.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Yoimg’ Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE’
KURALIA.
UTH
EY
01
and C f|
f ° r Direction^
•r a ’ u ! b A*^
Price 2/’
v "'Oy tor
Lumoago
pgSbi
ffi'Sfds, “ , u ' s ". »nd
I'C-
Cash Trading M
COLLiNCWOOt
IP
The Greatest
PAIN
Neutralizer
Known.
CURES
Rheumatism,
Gout,
Sciatica,
Cuts,
Sprains,
Bruises. I
Price 2/-
Post Free.
Tbe Poo Cash Tradiog Co.,
206—214 Johnston Street,
COLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE, VIO.
*9
4-
o
ip
OLD
RNS
3C
SUNBU
FINg
c/>
c?
HA
&iC
O'
y
O/yr
S
Y
p f*o
p,? 'etors
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing: cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
J "tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned,- and I was able to get up; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Your;
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments.,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOHCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J,COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodtne. I never travel
without it, and its general* applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
rHLOROPYN


I I •
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
HAYVKESBURY H.
April 2.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTER,SALE.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ;
DONCASTER H. April 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : shares in the above.
Name
Address
SYDNEY C. April 11.
25,000 Subscribers a>t 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me : shares in the above.
N ame
Address .
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame !
Address
BIRTHDAY C
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in. the above.
Name
Address
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame A
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name «
Address '
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


6QOD
BOOKS
FROM
Anthony - Hordern’s
get BOTH!
No. 1. GENERAL
CATALOGUE
560 Pages. Profusely illustrated.
No. 2. Portfolio of Autumn
and Winter Fashions
. . Over 250 Sketches.
POST FREE ANYWHERE . • .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE. _
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Publications.
Geo. Rotoertson & Go.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers 8t Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
■jr*!
L * .
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
fiaupfiS
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
JXEBW music.
“ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “Tops and Bottoms,” a right, merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE (3d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, W.,
PAXTON <0 CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
TTENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
LI- and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
UIBELL’S Fluid Dininfeetant, exterminates
Bugs, Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Sllverflsh & Fevers.
<3rO TO HELL-
HOUND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Crt.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian .Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Yindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
Send for a Catalogue.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Susseoc-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE-
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST MESSING FOR THE HAIR
I
1/-
2/6 & 4/6
OP ALL
SkoMAMCOPAS COY., ENGLAND,
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
/
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
LOOK A.X OUR RRXC-ES 1
Our special
No. 2.
mmm.
i
&
m
m
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for Onr Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
expensively perfumed. ONE SHIELING FEH TABLET. Doctor s certificate with eachi cake,.certifying
to its harmlessncss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes :“I find Dr. Mackenzie s Arsenical loilet Soap most excellent. 11ns
,Jf J,®g jr ACK Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or pettiness under the eves, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and cniickly reniove frecLlcs
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. I rice 3/6 per bot le lar e
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and stores.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders,. Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from T>. Cohen St
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“EDUCATION.”
The infant soul lies in its shell,
Unknowing all and all unknown,
And, ere it wakes, a Fetish fell
Has round it cords of bondage thrown.
Through childish dawn and youthful morn
Mid-day of Manhood blossoms out,
Its Sun of all its glory shorn —
Befogged by sombre clouds of Doubt.
So in the darkling afternoon,
When Joy of Life should swell to prime,
The man can only false creeds croon,
Or soothe his soul with lies sublime.
And senile night, Death’s peaceful porch,
Grows hideous with silhouettes
Cast by Religion’s mocking torch
Upon a scene of vain regrets.
P.M.
TO A LADY.
The Devil once wrought out a woman, the best
Ever fashioned below —with the subtlest of
touches
He modelled her form ; and with infinite jest
He dowered her with gifts would have suited a
duchess,
Could the germ of a duchess (O mad supposition !)
Be ever prepared in so strange a position 1
He finished her lips ; and he cackled with glee,
So pleasing her lips were on closest inspection.
He spent one whole month on an ankle ; a knee,
With a dimple bewitching, was “ simply per-
fection.”
And her hand! —I must say as a chronicler
dutiful,
That the gods never fashioned a member more
beautiful.
And he chafed, and he sweated with troublesome
thought,
Ere he settled the pigments which colored her
iris;
And for her eyes’ bright’ning a live coal he brought
From Phryne’s apartment, where hell’s hottest
fire is ;
And he quivered with Let this strange fact be
delivered :
It was not at all cold, yet I’m sure that he
shivered !
And the curves of her bosom were such as might
drive
An anchorite daft. Let the catalogue end. as
To name all her beauties I ne’er could contrive.
Her like is held over—ad Orcecas Kalendas.
Then with life and the joy of it quick he inflamed
her,
And, for want of a sweeter name, Inez he named
her.
And the parts that she plays on the earth might
be told
In a latter-day epic—most curious reading !
She owns two divinities, Passion and Gold ;
Well-taught by her master she follows his lead-
ing— . .
For the Artist who planned every exquisite part
of her
Maliciously, wantonly left out the heart of her.
FRANK MORTON.
LAY OF THE PRACTICAL MAID.
“ The most serious want in the character of the Aus-
tralian youth is a lack of ideality and imagination.
Especially is this observable in the young women of our
country.” —Brisbane Weekly.
A graceful youth was he,
So straight and tall and slim;
A dainty maiden she
Who only lived for him
And Love,
Who only lived for him.
His brow was once so glad,
Her smile was once so sweet;
But late so sad, so passing sad,
They gaze whene’er they meet
So sad,
They gaze whene’er they meet.
“ O dearest! ” quoth the swain,
“ A hapless pair are we —
Our parents say we two are twain,
And twain shall ever be,
My Love,
And twain shall ever be.
Come, place thy hand in mine,
We’ll wander side by side ;
We’ll seek old Ocean’s bitter brine
And plunge beneath the tide,
My Love,
And plunge beneath the tide.
Then spake the maiden low
All in the gloaming dim,
“I would, my dear, but then, you know,
I really cannot swim,
My Love,
I really cannot swim.”
The sky grew black as pitch,
The clouds did lower and loom ;
He gave his pants a mournful hitch
And all again was gloom,
Ye ghouls,
And all again was gloom 1
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Another tight place. A 50-ton slab of
rock fell from the roof of a working in the British
Broken Hill mine the other day. It killed four
men ; but a fifth was doubled up and so fitted into
a crevice in the fallen mass, while a 10 x lOin.
piece of timber, projecting from under the stone
at that point, allowed air to reach him until, with
the help of screwjacks, the burden was taken off
and the prisoner was liberated,
Ed. Bulletin. —You say Yic. Govt, has
suddenly discovered that Lake Tyrrell is lower
than the Murray, and is proposing to fill it.
Now, as Lake Tyrrell is one of the greatest salt-
beds in Australia —thousands of tons of salt can
be had for the shovelling—what will be the use of
the water if it is filled? In Feb. and March the
lake is a sight worth seeing, the salt glistening
like snow, while any shrubs that grow there are
covered with salt after the style of alum-work. —
A.B. _


TltiStraliai) WGKial ■ *
L'he Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■OV 3 0 l Ool€ t Sf m
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR. #
Directors. —The Hon.Sii J. P. ABBOTT, KjUM.G.,M.L. A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
q ' ’ IHOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.P.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. . Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428 797 yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. ’
Head Office z 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
. ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A
Hotel,
wdm/& upwards
A ,/s,c LUtTVE. OF ALL WEALS AMD ATTEhDANCE
-Auttbalia
ArWjrtV Mpore,
E.Rich&Co.
Ltd.,
AGENTS,
6 FS
ABLE-
24 and 26
O’Connell - st.,
SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
AJD EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
fltcharley and jjamson, [imited,
257 George Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, ’’m
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d>, Bt> 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
‘SSS&'FS®*
Sol ' "“■ ''""■ So,,:h "'«'“ • TILLOck & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
PIANO
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tbc FiijsSt ai)d Largest Warel?oGSe
IKT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO £35
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS ’
THE SUPERB PECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE \H?n'Sv S mn lEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
lIIL WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON * CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETII FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVE
Graduate in Dental Sui
and Prosthetics.
aq 3J
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without JPlates, by ineans of Pridyeiuork.
Gold and Other Stopping’s. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS. ,
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
now difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
Without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-03 King-st,, Sydney,
nearly opposite king - street arcade.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - .
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E - J - & ID. CURRAW,
TAILORS,
112 King*st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
CLRJ-NK
'
4*
V-
sPEciAili
j^Ttl
m
m
■E
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTIQp Tt> POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONTJS; viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of 1 policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in *5 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head .Office: 120 Pitt Street. Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts, "
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
CoLtd. of Lo :-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Diabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e(c.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting Hixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897. DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
ld° TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
yai>k« Poodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Blight. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban^pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug’ *
Coi)qo?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist. . •%.
C€i>t€i)Qial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite iWonopo’e Rothschilds.
4 M VaUa Ci at
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Begietered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for Trammieeum by Poet ae a Xempaper.
SATURDAY, MARCH 36, 1898.
Price, 6d.
VOL. 19.—N0. 945.
ISN’T HE LIKE HIS FATHER?
“LONDON, Monday.-An article is published in the TIMES to-day, commenting upon the work of the Australian Federal Convention The journal expresses
the opinion that Federation will immensely increase the dignity of Australian national life, and will practically create a new British power in the Pacific.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Hcdf-ycarly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin - Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclenowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclt and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn— will be
paid .for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus fStreel
<sc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. —A. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Houf.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <fe Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on fnterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The’ Bulletin to Queensland ivill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 1898.
The Man who Owns Victoria.
The Federal Convention has just finished its
draft Constitution, and the first voice of loud
dissent comes from Victoria. The Age, if
its utterances of last week are a reliable
guide, is against the proposed Constitution,
root and branch, and the Age, to a great
extent, runs its little corner of the continent.
David Syme wipes out old Ministries and
orders new ones. The long, wordy Shiels used
to slither round to his office for instructions.
The ukase that Speight was to go came from
the same building. So did the command
that the country should have no more of
Shambles Patterson and his Ministry of
weeds tottering in the wind. The order
that the Turner Government is to “go
it ” is issued from there also, and as all the
other commands have come to pass, the
chances are that this one will also, and that
Turner and co. will go it. And David
Syme, the old rich autocrat of Victoria, is
obviously thinking of issuing his order that
Victoria is to stand out of the Federation. If
he does the probabilities are that Victoria
will stand out, and that future generations
will curse their servile ancestors, and their
ancestors’ tin-god, Syme, with such a curse
as has not been known this generation.
* * * •
The four principal reasons why, according
to the great boss organ of Melbourne, Vic-
toria can't afford to adopt the proposed
Federal Constitution are—
1. The Victorian Railway Ruin.
2. The final denial of State Bounties.
3. The utter confusion wrought in the State finances.
4. The final voice and veto in money powers given to
the Senate.
In these respects the voice of the Daily
Syme js -raised to point out that Victoria has
been especially conspired against by the
other provinces, and that they are bent on
the ruin and downfall of that small angular
corner of the land. In which respect the
Age is very like the Little Cornstalk Party
in New South Wales, which holds that New
South Wales is to be ruined by a malignant
combination of the other States. It is also
very like Minister Throssell, of Westralia,
who laments that Federation on the system
proposed will lead to the utter blotting-out
of agricultural progress in Sandgroper Land.
And, later on, when the parochial parties in
Tasmania and South Australia have time to
assert themselves, and to decide that the
whole Federal movement is a conspiracy
against their little patch of dust, the Age
will be very like them also. Also, it is just
like Brisbane Telegraph, which has some-
how discovered that the whole purpose of
Federation is to somehow enable Sydney
and Melbourne co annex the Brisbane trade,
and make the City of Flies and Floods a
ruin.
• * * *'
The “railways ruin,” even according to
the Age itself, proves to be a very small
affair. Under the proposed Constitution it
is probable that New South Wales will be
allowed, under the “development” clause,
to give specially low rates to attract the
trade—mostly wool—of the outlying parts of
its own territory to Sydney. Victoria, on
the other hand, probably won’t be allowed
to quote special rates to attract the trade of
southern and western New South Wales to
Melbourne. It is reckoned that this will
mean a loss of £40,000 a year in railway
freights, and £160,000 a year in trade profits
at Melbourne— or £200,000 a year in all.
But the freights aforesaid are only gained by
carrying wool at from 38 to 66 per cent,
below the regular rates, and if the avail-
able evidence goes for anything the trans-
action is a dead loss. According to the
returns for 1895—the latest which the writer
has before him—for every £25 earned by
the Victorian railways £l5 went in work-
ing expenses. Therefore it would seem
that the freight which is carried at 40 per
cent, reduction just about pays expenses,
and the trade at 66 per cent, reduction is a
disaster. Anyhow, both this item and the
alleged £160,000 are mere speculation. Even
if there was a loss of £200,000 a year it
would only be a speck upon the aggregate
national receipts. The private incomes on
which income-tax is payable amount to some-
thing like £9,000,000 a year, and reckoning
the great multitude of small incomes as well,
the total probably reaches £20,000,000. The
£200,000 a year profit said to be made by
carrying Cornstalk wool at a heavy loss isn’t
much by comparison.
* « * *
The Constitution prohibits the States from
offering bounties in aid of local industries—
this right is reserved solely to the Federal
Government. Therefore, Victoria will stand
in exactly the same position as the other
provinces, and why it shouldn’t stand in the
same position as the other provinces no one
knows. The fact that separate States are
not allowed to give bounties without the
permission of the Federal Legislature is just
as much a grievance and a disaster as’the
fact that the county of Bogong or Tambo or
Benambra has never had the power to do so
without the permission of the State Legisla-
ture. As regards the “ confusion wrought in
the State finances,” no one really knows yet
whether they will be confused or not. It is
provided that the Commonwealth may retain
one-fourth of the Customs and Excise
revenue to cover the Federal expenditure,
and to make good losses on postal, telegraph
and other Federal services. The balance is
to be handed back to the States, so if the
Federal Government requires £2,000,000
Customs revenue a year to pay for its own
pomp and glory, and to cover posts, tele-
graphs, military and naval expenditure, cost
of mints, lighthouses, quarantine stations,
and dozens of other things, it will have to
provide £6,000,000 a year to divide among
the provinces. This is some kind of
security, at all events. The next security is
that the States will probably not be foolish
enough to elect Federal delegates who will
do things to ruin their finances any more
than they would elect local members of the
same deranged variety. There is, of course,
no guarantee that the representatives which
Victoria, S.A., Tasmania, and the other
provinces send to the National Legislature
won’t do things with the finances that will
leave these provinces insolvent and gener-
ally upside - down. There is also no
guarantee, and there never has been any,
that the representatives they send to their
local Legislatures will not act likewise, so
things will simply be as they were, and as
they always have been, and as they always
will be. The only remedy is to insert a
clause in the Constitution that no politician
shall be a darned fool-, and no way of en-
forcing such a clause has yet been discovered.
* * * *
The strangest feature in the case, however,
is that a Victorian—any kind of a Victorian
—should call on his province to stand out of
Federation because of the alleged “final”
veto of the Federal Senate over money bills.
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords
also has a veto over money bills, and if Vic-
toria doesn’t federate that part of the veto
over its cash which the Federal Senate would
hold will continue to be held by the 48 Rich
Landlords as heretofore. If the Federal
Senate refuses to give way over a money bill,
it may be squashed by the vote of the Lower
House at a joint sitting, so its veto isn’t
final. When the Victorian Upper House
absolutely refuses to give way over a money
bill the thing ends there ; there is no legal
process on earth which can compel it to shift
from that position. If Victoria stands out
of the Federation because the Federal Upper
House would have partial authority to
override the more popular Chamber on
money matters, then the alternative is to
remain wholly under an Upper House which
has entire authority to do the same thing,
and which has been doing it ever since Vic-
toria began.
* m * *
The cheapest and easiest of all bricks to
heave at the Federal Constitution is the
statement—which forms, practically, the
whole of the Age’s case— that, if Australia
federates, no one knows what may happen.
No one does know. Also, no one knows
what may happen if Australia doesn’t
federate, so the same argument applies either
way. The best feature about the Constitu-
tion is that it contains at least a reasonably
workable provision for its own amendment
when amendment is found necessary—as it
certainly will be. But the fact that amend-
ment will certainly be wanted is no reason
why the Draft Constitution should not be
accepted to begin with. If the provinces held
Conventions for 40,000 years, and then feder-
ated with all the light of 40,000 years hard
consideration brought to bear on the Constitu-
tion, experience would promptly show an
urgent necessity for amendment just the
same. Every provincial Constitution in
Australia has been desperately in want of
amendment since it started, and is still in
want of it. And, whatever may be wrong
with the Federal Constitution, it certainly
looks better than any provincial Constitution
now existing. The partial veto on money
matters proposed to be entrusted to the
Federal Upper House may be an evil, but,
as every Provincial Upper House has a
whole veto, and has always had it, this at
least makes things a little better than they
are. It is no doubt a grievance with each
province that it isn’t sure of having the
Federal capital within its borders, but, if
Federation is rejected on that account, each
province will still be left without the Federal
capital, for the sufficient reason that there
won’t be any. If the Federal inter-State
Commission prevents Victoria carrying
Riverina wool to Melbourne at ruinously low
rates, it, at least, can never alter the fact
that Melbourne is the nearest port, and that
the trade will always have a natural tendency
to go there. And the possibilities of finan-
cial disorganisation can never be either more
or less than they are now ; the Federal
legislators will disorganise the finances if the
people elect legislators of the disorganising
kind, and that is just what is the matter
with things now. But, in addition to these
negative virtues, the Federal Constitution
provides a good possibility of ultimately
making a uniform national railway system
under one management ; of consolidating
the public debts ; of making a nation with a
national spirit, a national political centre,
and a national system of defence ; so that it
promises in some respects to make things a
great deal better, while in others it can’t
make them any worse. And, if it provides
Victoria with a share in a political system
which isn’t wffiolly bossed by David Syme,
that may not be an unmixed calamity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Railways and Industries.
Last w'eek a new scrap of railway was opened
at Condobolin, and Young, of the N.S.W.
Dog-fearing Ministry, orated considerably
about the advantages of things in general under
the Joliyandfat regime :
At the end of 1897 there were 26391 miles of railway
under the control of the Commissioners. The total
capital expended in construction was 1 37,369,205, and the
total earnings per annum were £3,004.742. After all the
working expenses for the year had been paid there was a
balance of £1,413,524, a percentage of profit of £3 15s. lid.
They could borrow money now at a fraction over 3 per
cent. It was evident that the railways of the colony had
got beyond the non-productive stage. Nearly 40 millions
of money which had been expended by the people was
recouped by those who used and were benefited by the
lines.
Mr. J. H. Young addressed a large crowd from the
verandah of the Royal Hotel in the evening. Alderman
Tasker, the Mayor, was in the chair. He said that . . .
there were now more people employed in the many differ-
ent industries than ever before, and he believed that the
Government would come back after the election stronger
than ever.
The Bulletin respectfully asks Minister
Young to drop that old, stupid, stereotyped
lie about the paying condition of N.S.W. rail-
ways. It is a lie which every Ministry seems
to inherit from its predecessors, and it is time
it was exploded. The alleged “ profit ” on
N.S.W. railways, according to the Audi-
tor-General, who is the last court of
appeal in financial matters, is simply arrived
at by not allowing for a large number of ex-
penses, and anything could be made to show a
profit the same way. The Auditor-General’s
figures are only published up to 30th June,
1896, but that year is as fair a criterion as any
other. The Railway Commissioners and the
State statistician claimed that the railways
then yielded .£1,268,529 above working ex-
penses and thus paid .£3 Bs. lOd. per cent, on
their cost. The Auditor-General showed the
net revenue as only £1,154,703, or about
£3 2s. 9d. per cent, on cost—an awful discre-
pancy of £114,000. He showed the one year’s
deficit as being £321,690, and the accumulated
loss as £7,735,212. The N.S.W. railway
system is still a non-productive concern and
has never been otherwise. Also, the fact that
money can be borrowed now at 3 per cent,
doesn’t make any difference in the fact that
the money with which the railways were
built is borrowed at about 3| per cent.
The dismal fake about the productive con-
dition of the N.S.W. lines was formerly
only a harmless delusion. Now it is a public
disaster. One notable reason why the railways
are not to be put under Federal management
was the opposition of N.S.W., and a great part
of the N.S.W. opposition arose from the stupid
Ananias, which Minister Young still circulates,
„that the Cornstalk system is paying its way,
and therefore the province would lose heavily
by pooling its lines with those of adjacent pro-
vinces which don’t pay. The railway delusion
is thus a national question—the other dismal
whopper about more people being now employed
in industries than at any previous period is
purely local. A certain aspect of probability
is lent to this latter tale by the circum-
stance that a factory now includes* places
employing as few as four hands, whereas
the minimum used to be five, and thus a
great many places which were legally
“ factories ” in 1896 and afterwards were not
legally factories in 1895 or in any previous year,
and were not included among the industries
about which statistics are available. But the
State Statistician’s latest returns,,\vhen placed
on the old basis (ms shown on page 485 of the
Statistical Register) show 45,222 employes
in ’96 against 46,135 in ’9l, and 45,564 in ’B9.
Therefore, The Bulletin estimates Minister
Young as an ignorant person talking at large,
or else a rather unscrupulous individual who
doesn’t much care what he says so long as he
helps along the Calico Jimmy Government,
which supplies him with a billet.
The Melbourne Tramway Grind.
After a slow and gradual fashion the Victorian
authorities are holding an inquiry into the
Melbourne trams. Melbourne possesses a more
complete and efficient tram service than any
other Australian city, and its system is only
excelled by, at most, one or two cities in the
world. It is swift, marvellously cheap, and
spreads to almost every remote corner of the
city. And it is just beginning to dawn on the
local public that the cheapness is probably
gained by an awful grinding of human flesh and
bone. Up to a certain point low prices may be
secured simply by good management and
a clever application of machinery, but, when
everything has been done in this direction, and
more cheapness or bigger profits are still
wanted, then sweating has to be resorted to.;
There is nothing else to resort to. The inquiry
isn’t yet far advanced, but the evidence already
evoked is startling. One witness, who had
worked on cable-trams in the U.S., said that
the Melbourne Tramway Co. paid lower wages
for longer hours and harder grind than any
other tram co. that he knew of in the world.
Stories were told of men who worked 84 hours
a week for 355., with variations up to 100 hours
a week on special occasions. Conductors and
gripmen belong to no recognised trade,
and have no trades-union behind them,
and every attempt to form a union of
their own has resulted in the men who
were conspicuous in the matter being “not
wanted any longer.” The “ spotter ” appears
to be an institution of great weight in the Mel-
bourne tram service, and, as a “spotter” is
paid to discover wrong-doings on the part of
the employes, and the one who doesn’t discover
things is likely to be set down as a very bad
“ spotter,” and to lose his billet, there seems
some reason in the assertion of the men that the
co.’s hired spies discover a good many things
that do not happen. The Orange Lodge ele-
ment is also strong, as it is in every other
institutioninsnufflesomeMelbourne. Oneex-em-
ploy6 claims to have been told that he would
“ never get any good out of the service until he
joined a certain official’s lodge.” He refused to
join, and thereafter things were discovered
about him continuously till he was shunted
out. Another ex-employ 4, whom the manager
admitted to have a perfectly clean record,
summed up the tram-service generally as the
“ worst job ever created.” The whole story, so
far as it has been told, is a tale of tremendously
long hours, miserable pay, petty tyranny,
and the life of a cheap dog generally.
One feature of the case which appeals
to the public pocket is this : The trams
compete with the suburban State rail-
way system. By a process of awful grind
they save so much in expenses that they can
afford to carry passengers very cheaply. The
State has to give its employes decent hours and
decent wages, and at the same time it has to
keep its suburban fares down to the tram level
or lose all the business. Therefore, many of
the suburban railways don’t pay, and the
country has to make up the loss—of which loss
Sprigg’s bloated corporation is, to a consider-
able extent, the indirect cause.
♦
Concerning a <£lo Note.
A tALE of a now going around Sydney
is one of the many things which seem to call
for official explanation. The recipient—so
called because he didn’t get the money—was
laid up by an accident in Little Bay Hospital,
and afterwards in Rookwood Destitute Asy-
lum. He left nearly penniless, and dressed
only in a few rags. After his departure he
learned that a brother in Scotland had sent him
<£lo while at the asylum, and as the letter and
the money had never reached him he proceeded
to enquire. He continued inquiring, and hang-
ing about public offices, and asking explana-
tions from public officials, for many days',
and at last learned that the coin had been
officially intercepted, as explained in the follow-
ing letter: —
January 24, 1898.
Office of Director of Government Asylums, etc.
To
I have to inform you, in reference to your application of
the 11th inst., that in view of the fact that your main-
tenance cost to the Government exceeds the amount
(£10) forwarded by your brother, no refund can be made
to you. The sum due amounts to t 9 for treatment in
Little Bay Hospital, and £4 11s. for your maintenance in
Rookwood Asylum, you will therefore observe that you
are still indebted to the Government in the sum of e3los.
(Signed) E. HANSON, Acting Director.
This looks like one of the most bowelless acts
of routine going. Undoubtedly a man who
is in a position to pay for his maintenance in a
State institution should pay for it, but when a
sick man has only ,£lO between him and want
he can’t fairly be classed as a person who is in
a position to pay. Moreover, the money was
not strictly his ; it was some one else’s money,
and the sender certainly intended it to help his
brother out of a very tight place—not- to pay
the Government for his maintenance. In
fact, it was morally, if not legally, a
trust fund which the State has annexed-


And it would be interesting to know whether
the money was addressed to the asylum
officials, or whether it was addressed to the
patient and simply intercepted. Anyhow, it
appears that the patient wasn’t informed that
the money had arrived, and had been seized
upon to pay his keep ; it seems rather that
it was grabbed surreptitiously, and the ex-
planation was only supplied when the recipient
—so-called because he didn’t get the money—-
began to clamor horribly at the outer gate.
The ,£lO will no doubt help to reduce Treasurer
Reid’s next deficit—still this aggressive seizure
of a man’s little donation to bis poor sick
brother looks a dreadfully mean way of reduc-
ing a deficit.
Crank and Cat.
At Melb. City Court, lately, one Henry,
charged with utterly motiveless indecency in a
railway-carriage, was shown to have been twice
convicted before on similar charges, and to have
served two years, with a whipping, in ’93. The
P.M. said that the bench was satisfied to find
its judgment borne out by prisoner’s previous
character, and had no hesitation in imposing a
severe sentence. Accused would be gaoled for
two years, and receive 12 lashes. Mr. Kane
pointed out that accused was a man of
emaciated frame, who would not be able to
endure the cat, and that he must be, in any
ease, something of a lunatic ; whereupon the
bench loftily averred that it was “ the best
judge of that.” It was the law of the land, and
the “ magistrates were there to administer it.”
It would never, of course, occur to a lot of cow-
wilted jaypees, abjectly submissive to a wooden-
souled autocrat of a P.M., that the two previous
convictions of the gaunt and miserable Henry
for utterly purposeless indecency not only
furnished reasonable evidence of his insanity in
one direction, but demonstrated also the utter
incompetence of such punishment, as he was
now for the second time to undergo, to deal
with such an unnatural idiosyncracy as his. It
was long a fiction of the raw-meat advocate
that a man once flogged never returned to the
triangles, but when a half-demented weakling
like Henry will chance a second scarifying
merely for a momentary gratification of his dis-
torted sexuality, it is evident that the cat is as
much a failure as an ameliorator of dementia as
it is in its other alleged capacity as a
deterrent from crime. Modern civilisation
exclaims with horror against the good old
practice of flogging lunatics at the cart’s tail by
way of curing them, yet in the same breath it
orders many of its own cranks to be gaoled and
flayed, and then turned loose again to earn
more gaol and more cat by acts for which they
are apparently no more responsible than the
average jaypee is for having been born blatant
and bull-headed.
More “ Tattersall.”
The Bulletin will be glad to have the follow-
ing statement contradicted by the parties on
whom it reflects. After a certain horse had
won a big handicap, the people who drew it in
“ Tatt’s ” No. 1 sweep received a letter from a
man professing to write on behalf of a syndi-
cate of five who drew the winner in No. 2
sweep, which only half-filled. The writer
made an appeal to the No. 1 syndicators to pay
a share of £750, said to have been extracted
from the No. 2 quintette under these alleged
circumstances :
Reliable information was obtained on the evening
before the race that was to be scratched, and saved
for the handicap, owing' to the fact that the holder
in No. 1 sweep had not approached the owner. . . . See-
ing the danger, we at once sought the owner, but an
interview was only obtained by travelling to Sydney by
the 5 o’clock train on the morning of the race, and it was
only by laying him £750 to nil that a start was arranged.
. . . From this you can see that owing to the energetic
manner in which we worked, and by offering a
price that secured a start, you won £4500 clear,
which, had you been available to the owner, would
have been reduced one - third, as that is the
amount you would have had to lay to secure a run. Had
we not moved in the matter you would have divided a
few pounds of “ non-starters’ ” money instead of the nice
little plum you receive. These are the plain, ungarnished
facts of the case, which either owner or Mr. Adams of
Tattersall’s can confirm.
This letter, which is in The Bulletin’s pos-
session, professes to be an attempt by a
“ squeezed ” drawer of a winning ticket to get
a partial refund of the money squeezed out of
him from the holders of a more valuable ticket
who hadn’t been “available to the owner.” It
is well for the public to know the taxable
character of prizes in “Tatt.’s” sweeps.
In this case it is alleged that the oilier reason
why the horse in question wouldn’t start unless
the owner was laid a large sum to nothing was
that he had another horse in the race, and the
drawer of that horse had laid him a large sum
to nothing. Therefore —so it is alleged—the
writer of the letter had to lay a larger sum to
nothing to get a show. Thus things get back
to the old place—the whole trouble arises be-
cause “ Tattersall” draws his sweeps before the
race instead of on the day of the race. If they
were drawn on the day of the race the owner
of the horse couldn’t “approach” the drawer,
nor could the drawer of one horse “ approach ”
the owner, and thereby make it necessary for
the drawer of another horse in the same stable
to “approach” him still more. “Tatter-
sail’s” alleged great reason for drawing
sweeps before the race is to give winners a
chance to “ lay off.” But there is nothing in
his contract about the winner having a chance
to lay off. The contract simply is that the
winner shall get his money less 10 per cent.,
and, as the result of drawing the sweeps before
the day of the race, he very often doesn’t. Why
should “ Tattersall ” be so anxious to keep the
promise he doesn't make that the promise he
does make must be sacrificed to do it ?
Sacerdotal Savagery.
The refusal of Rookwood (Sydney) cemetery-
authorii ies to allow the interment of the homi-
cide Cusack in “ consecrated ” ground was
probably merely in accordance with standing
regulations. But that such regulations should,
in these days exist at all is evidence enough
that our “ advanced civilisation ” is-still bill a
tliin veneer upon the superstitious savagery of
primal man, as well as a proof that the wide
charity of Christ has practically nothing to do
with any of the Churches which masquerade
under His name. And, as for the man-
slayer, it is at once pitiable and ludicrous to
recollect that, whereas the professional and
deliberate taker of human life upon a gigantic
scale will be marshalled to his marble tomb
with pomp and circumstance and full priestly
rite, the—probably insane—doer of a solitary
frenzied act of bloodshed must not even—
as in Cusack’s case—be furtively hurried into
his dishonored hole within the ordinary hours
of burial. A miserably humiliating mind-
picture to him who has hopes of the intellectual
emancipation of mankind is that thrice-banned
corner of Rookwood cemetery in which lie the
murderer and the suicide, with between them
and hallowed ground is the no-man’s-land of
abject poverty the criminals we know of
fenced off from the criminals we don't know by
the unregarded bones of the pauper !
4
One other expedient for raising an 80,000 —or
higher—vote in favor of Federation in N.S.W.
at a period outside the general election is to
make the vote compulsory. A bill providing
for this should meet with no opposition from
those who say the country is against Federa-
tion. A compulsory vote will show clearly
where each party stands, and will render
nugatory the scheme which now makes 80,000
affirmative votes, without any regard to the
negative ones, a sine qua non. Compulsory
voting has been tried with success at several
epochs. Virginia (U.S.A.) fined non-voters for
many years. With 280,000, or thereabouts,
enrolled voters in N.S. Wales, a bill mulcting
in a reasonable fine all who neglect to east a
ballot on the Federation measure submitted
would elicit an answer as nearly national as can
be conceived.
4
“ Ponte ” discourses to The Bulletin on the
N.S.W. fish-question :
The only success of the trawling experiment lies in the
proof afforded that there are outside grounds capable
of being trawled. That it may be done profitably
is yet to be proved by experiment under practical
conditions—it cannot be shown by a gold-topped Govern-
ment steamer. Frank Farnell and his merry men
are still tickling Ocean’s depths with varying results.
Each dip is chronicled, and the capture carefully counted.
The number is recorded by the Executive officer in
Roman numerals in a brass-bound ledger, certified to by
the captain and initialled by the mate. The non-edible and
underweight fish are then hove overboard, leaving very
often more than enough for breakfast. Oil one memor-
able occasion several baskets were sent to Sydney
markets for sale, and the inspectors were instructed
not to prosecute where they w ere below' legal weight,
as the public wanted to buy small souvenirs of the ex-
periment. Frank went round later on to get his cheque
in order to refund to the Government the J6SOU granted,
and seemed surprised that there wasn’t more than
that amount. However, he has now’ undertaken to alter
everything, and put fish in the consumer s pan at 2d. a
lb. The fishermen average 35 per cent, of the retail price
at present —and starve. With the same proportion of 2d.,
what will they do? Still, it should be possible to place
fish before the public at a reasonable figure without
starving the men. Last week sea-mullet, averaging from
21b. to 31b. (first-class food, if cooked properly), were sold
at threepence a dozen, or ten pounds offish for a penny.
Later in the day, the same fish were hawked in the streets
aXfourpence and sixpence each. Under such circum-
stances I didn’t wonder, strolling along a fishing village
beach, to see bushels of mullet given to whomsoever
would take it. And yet the cry is raised that the fish
supply is inadequate—for where in Sydney can you buy
fish at less than sixpence per lb. ? A basket, of fish weighs
from 80 to 901 b.—in cleaning it loses 12J per cent.
“ Good ” fish can be bought all the year round at 10s. per
basket, and it costs 2s. for freight and charges—l2s. per
basket of 701 b. cleaned fish, for which the retailer
will get 35 shillings ! Shade of Moses ! What a profit !
The fisherman will jump at 10s. per basket (l£d.
per lb. !), for often they do not get ss. from
the Markets. Again, watch the guards and por-
ters play pitch and-toss with the baskets of fish,
and you will cease to wonder at the large percentage of
fish condemned. Why can’t the Railway Commissioners
put on refrigerating-cars on the fish-train? They pro-
mised years ago to have fish-trucks built —with tiers —-
but, so far, they are not. Fancy fish—the most perish-
able of all foods—piled basket on basket, with the slime
and blood and fly-filth oozing and dripping in a close,
unventilated car! It would decompose cast-iron ! If
Farnell wants to be canonised, let him resign command
of the Thetis and devise means of placing the fish in the
market in good condition, and find better methods of
distribution.
A significant Sydney dally paper item :
Members of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly are said
to be anything but pleased with the Constitution as em-
bodied in the final draft of the Bill. One of them stated
yesterday that all the Labor-party were opposed to the
scheme, as it was not sufficiently democratic, and that
fully three-fourths of the 125 representatives in the
Assembly were out of sympathy with it. The principal
objection is stated to be against the provision providing
for equal representation of the States in the Senate,
which, it is contended, will be fatal to the interests of
N.S.W. A meeting of members of Parliament has been
called for 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday next at Parliament
Buildings. Mr. Haynes, who is an active promoter of the
opposition to the measure, states that steps are to be
taken to point out to the electors the conservative char-
acter of the bill, and the evil which it is believed will
follow the acceptance of the measure. Mr. Haynes feels
confident that the 80,000 votes in favor of the Constitu-
tion Bill will not be obtained.
Of course three-fourths of the M’sL.A. are nob
pleased— The Bulletin pointed out in its issue
of 20th November, 1897, under the head-
ing of “ The 46 Iscariots,” that they would
not be pleased, and the reason why. When
the Federal Parliament starts, the biggest
men will go there. The small men will be left
behind with diminished power, little dignity,
possibly with reduced salaries and perquisites,
in a mere provincial legislature, and those who
know that they must needs be left behind curse
at Federation—quite naturally. The Bulletin
doesn’t for a moment believe that it is the equal
State representation in Lhe Federal Senate which
is the trouble. In the first place, the joint sitting
in a ease of deadlocks gives the Lower House
power, in case of serious disagreements, to sup-
press the Senate. In the second place, the
Federal Senate, even without that, promises to
be far more representative than the unreformed
N.S.W. Council, or the reformed Council
which Reid proposes to substitute for it. See-
ing that Haynes and co. haven’t done one
serious kick against Reid’s monstrously Tory
scheme for “reforming” the N.S.W. Upper
House till it is just as bad as before, or worse,
their plaint about the undemocratic character
of the proposed Federal Senate is a shriek of
comedy.
About the biggest “contempt of court” The
Bulletin knows of attaches frequently to
N.S.W. law itself or to the administration of
the law. What a howling absurdity it was, for
instance, that, in order to award the wife-
shooter, Holmes, what is considered the ade-
quate punishment of three months’ gaol
about as much as would attach to the
stealing of a very lean chicken —it
should have been necessary gravely to
convict him of attempted murder and solemnly
sentence him to be hanged by the neck until he
was dead ! Also, as an instance of trying to
make the wheels work the other way, what
about the delegation of John Norton’s criminal
libel-trial to Judge Backhouse —a man who
might have to rely for early promotion to the
Supreme Court bench upon a Ministry which
was virtually Norton’s prosecutor ? As unfair
to Backhouse as it was to Norton. Melb.
Age enlarges upon this latter point in a vitriolic
leading article —an article of the sort which
you never, by any chance, see in any Sydney
daily paper. A brand of shame upon
the Sydney daily press is that it is, and ever
has been, prepared, in time of political
hatreds or social panic, to unprotestingly
tolerate, and even to encourage and applaud,
the grossest actions on the part of the courts
and of high-placed personages who set the
courts in motion. Many instances of this will
readily suggest themselves to anyone with a
memory. It should gall N.S. VY. citizens, who
yearn to see the administration of justice above
suspicion, to find that the only daily-newspaper
thunderblasts against such outrages as the first
Dean trial and the appointment of Judge Back-
house to hear the Norton case, come from the
Melbourne morning papers.
♦
Two or three things are very conspicuous about
the Federal railway-rates squabble: The N. S. W.
Foreign-trade party is dead against the grant-
ing of bounties to aid any industry, yet it in-
sists on its right to grant a bounty to the back-
blocks wool-grower in the shape of a huge dis-
count off his railway freights. Said party
believes that trade should be allowed to flow
freely in its natural channels, and so on, but, if
the natural channel of the out-back wool-trade
is towards any port except Sydney, it will take
strong measures to prevent it going there.
And yet, by travelling with one foot on sea and
one foot on land, and trying to be consistent
and inconsistent at the same time, the Shoddy
party has all along failed in its purpose. It has
outraged its principles for years by granting
bounties, in the shape of ruinously-low
railway freights, to the far-out pastoralist
to force his wool to Sydney, with the result
that a lot of the wool goes to Melbourne
and Adelaide just the same, and N.S.W.
has lost about three-fourths of the far-
out wool-trade and has lost money on carrying
the other fourth. If it had outraged its prin-
ciples about an inch further by putting an
export duty of 3d. per lb. on wool crossing the
border overland it would have kept the trade,
and it could probably, by reason of the extra
traffic, have given the pastoralist the same
rates at a profit which it now gives him at a
loss. But, after banging its fiscal fetish hard
on one ear, the party lacked the courage to
wallop it on the other ear also. Yet if it had
aggressively gone the whole swine, its scheme
must have succeeded ; it is no good going only
half an apologetic swine under any circum-
stances.
New South Wales, owing to the increase from
50,000 to 80,000 of the minimum affirmative
vote required to carry Federation, is the pro-
vince where the National cause speins to have
the worst, or very nearly the worst, chance.
N.S. W. is the only province which has a general-
election on at the same time as the Federal
referendum. Therefore, the obvious way out
is to take the two votes together ; a general-
election, when public interest is at fever-heat
and the community is rolling up to the poll in
any case, is just the time when it would be pos-
sible to get 80,000 or 100.000 votes on the
Federal issue. Also, by taking tlie two votes
on the one day, the expense of a second election
would be saved. But I’rem'er Reid says re-
gretfully that he can’t take this obvious course
because he promised the Opposition that he
wouldn’t do so. This is a very touching epi-
sode, but, so far as can be discovered from
Hansard, Premier Reid didn't promise any-
thing of the kind. Certain members desired to
raise the minimum affirmative vote to 100,000,
and Reid said that, if it was raised to 100,000,
lie might feel called upon to take the Federal
poll along with the general-election so as to
have a chance of getting the required number
of suffrages. But he didn’t definitely promise
anywhere, so far as the writer can discover,
that if the minimum Federal vote was fixed at
80,000 he wouldn't have the two elections
together—the thing was only implied, at the
most. The spectacle of Premier Reid regret-
fully sacrificing Federation in order to keep
the promise that he never really made is a
very touching spectacle.
“In N.5.W.,” says ex-Premier Dibbs, “the
Federal Bill is dead.” And Dibbs ought to
know—he has himself been politically dead so
long that he should be a good judge of deadness.
It is a solemn affair, though, to see the political
corpses foregathering to decide a point like
this—the political skeletons sitting bleaching
on the fence, watching the live thing go by, and
telling each other that it is defunct. And it
sets one thinking of the last time Dibbs decided
that something was dead—it was Payment of
Members that time, and the alleged corpse rose
up and killed Dibbs. After all, it is just pos-
sible that the bones of ex-Republican D., as
they hang on the nail of neglect and rattle in
the cold wind of oblivion, may not be the best
possible authority on such a subject.
Open inquiries into the relations between
powerful organisations and their employes are
almost, without exception, farcical, when, so
far as the employes are concerned, they are
not tragical; and the current inquiry by a
Vic. select committee into the tramway men’s
grievances is not one of the exceptions. The
superlative of cool cheek was about reached
when tramway-boss Sprigg, who represents the
co., protested against any person discharged
from the service giving evidence—unless, in-
deed, F. Madden’s support of the contention
were not a little cooler. Anyhow, even sup-
posing the evidence could be gob, the com-
mittee is so frankly partisan that its re pork
will, in ordinary circumstances, be next to
valueless. Employers, in fact* ought to know
by now—and doubtless they do—that if they
want to justify their policy they can do it
most effectively and at the public expense by
goading some impulsive workmen’s representa-
tive into securing the appointment of a Royal
Commission or a select committee. By the way,
the steps that led to the appointment ofthe select
committee to enquire into the conditions of
labor in the Broken Hill mines have never yet
been disclosed, notwithstanding all the curiosity
that has been expressed.
Minister Young at Condobolin (N.S.W.)
Mr. Coghlan’s independent statistics' proved not only
that the number of manufactories had not decreased, but
that there had been an actual increase since the duties
were removed, both in the number of factories in opera-
tion and the number of persons employed. In the boot-
trade alone there were 20 more factories working- during
1896 than previously. (Applause.)
The Bulletin briefly replies that Minister Y.
is an ignorant and unscrupulous whatsisname
and a blatant thingumbob. The number of
boot-factories in N.S.W. is returned by Cogh-
lan as 68 in 1894, 66 in 1895, and 82 in 1896,
therefore, the increase, even on paper, isn’t 20,
or anything like it. Also, there is a footnote
to Coghlan’s table : “ For 1896 establishments
not using machinery have been accepted if em-
ploying not less than 4 hands ; prior to this
year the minimum was 5 hands.” In other
words, the apparent increase was 16 factories,
not 20, and it wasn’t a real increase ; the differ-
ence was simply that small factories which
existed for years previously were first included
in 1896. The 82 factories reckoned in 1896
employed 244 less hands than the 66 in 1895,
and the output w;t* 154,000 pairs fewer-.
Therefore, unless Minister Young has been
very badly reported, he is an even worse
thingumbob than this paper has already called
him.
N.S.W. Lands-Minister Carruthers thinks
it rough on a man who has had to look in at the
Insolvency Court that he should be barred from
political life. Said that he had even known a
Premier who had to invoke the aid of white-
wash. Downer, however, is of opinion that
until an insolvent gets his discharge he is a sort
of criminal in the eyes of the law. Then Reid
pointed out that there was nothing to bar a
criminal from a seat in the Commonwealth
Parliament, and a ray of sunshine illumined
some faces. Reid thought that if they were
too particular in this matter, it would be so
worked at elections that a man of eminence,
whose disappearance from public life was de :
sired, might be made insolvent as a political
rather than commercial necessity. However,
it was no go. Future candidates for Common-
wealth representation must have a clean sheet
of discharge.
Federal delegate M‘Millan at Melb. Parson
Edgar’s “ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ” : “ I
thank God I will not he alive when Socialism
becomes an accomplished fact.” And the daily
paper which reported the address announced in
another place that the State would undertake
to send to anybody the results of the V.R.C.
races for 9d. a message. Also, there were
references in the same issue to Lhe State’s con-
nection with butter-export, rabbit-destruction,
the inspection of tea, the export of fruit,
savings banks, railways, post-offices, the
school-paper, agricultural education, and a few
score other things. And still the M‘Millan
lives.
Presumably from a woman comes the sugges-
tion- (in Sydney Sunday Times) that female
co-respondents in divorce cases should be no
more exempt from punishment than male
offenders. It is the “other woman,” asserts
this daring innovator, who is nearly always at
the root of the evil, and who ought, failing the
finding of security for good behavior for 12
months, to be gaoled for not less than that
period. The law, however, in the case of
adultery, apparently makes tacit assumption
that the man is the prime offender ; and, in any
case, there is another much more important
respect in which what is sauce for the gander
is apparently not sauce for the goose. Prompt
prosecution for perjury mostly awaits the man
who deliberately swears to what the jury, by
its verdict, afterwards declares to be false,
but when is any attempt made to punish the
woman (and she isn’t scarce) who, upon oath)
deliberately tries to fasten upon a man a crime
which the jury subsequently says he has not
committed? The celebrated Baron Penne-
father’s long experience taught him that 80
per cent, of women’s charges of sexual offence
against men were false—a natural result of the
practical immunity enjoyed by the female per-
jurer.
For Launceston (Tas.) institutions Ben had
lots of praise, until he poked his inquisitive
nose into the local benevolent asylum and had
the concern explained by the management.
Then he appears to have passed a sarcastic
remark about the wonderful economy displayed
by the authorities, and forthwith the news-
papers stated that Ben Tillett had expressed
admiration of the institution :
Mr. Ben Tillett. —Among the places visited by Mr.
Tillett since his arrival in the city was the Benevolent
Asylum. The visitor was shown through the buildings
and over the grounds, and expressed admiration at their
management. When informed what the Government
grant was, he was surprised, and said that he thought
the board of managers looked after the inmates exceed-
ingly well, and thoroughly studied the art of economy.
A few chunks from Ben’s disclaimer :
I think the institution a shameful one, and discreditable
to Tasmania.
The greatest meanness imaginable—much below the
worst of our home workhouses. Wretched accommoda-
tion -asphalt floors for old men . . . is inhuman, cal-
lousness even to-madness . . . barrack and prison-like
conditions, the dress, absence of any comfort and separa-
tion from their wives in old age, is heartless . .
God-forsaken hole you put your old pioneers in. . . .
The men and their wives who had little or no risks of
health or life to run, are able to end their days in fatted
idleness, as a reward for land-grabbing, while these poor
old veterans are imprisoned, and their caretaker turned
into a gaoler.
. . . The ration is a disgrace to civilisation . . . the.
cost runs to less than 3s. per head, exclusive of official
salaries. Old England allows more than that rate in the
poorhouse for official attendance to each pauper.
I hope that the mean creatures of officialdom may never
have to seek the cold comfort of your benevolent (?)
house.
Tillett not being a Tasmanian prophet, but.
an aggressive British person, his vigorous re-
marks have disturbed the slumber of those who
dwell ’neath the shadows of the System,- And,
as no Britisher has ever done the like before,
Tasmania may be expected to smash the silken
bonds at any minute.


The Epitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1897.
(Preliminary Statement as conveyed by Cable).
ASSETS exceed ... ... ... ... ... £48,950,000
Increase in Assets during 1897 exceeds ... ... ... 3,750,000
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,000,000
Increase in Surplus during 1897 exceeds ... ... ... 1,000,000
ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds... ... ... ... 197,900,000
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 exceeds ... 7,250,000
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. :
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
SIMPLEST-MOST DURABLE-BEST.
Light
Sunning
Reui Home
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Parts and
Fittings for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W. Johnston & Co ,
746 G-eorge Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street Melbourne.
67 Queen Street Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Claudian.”
Lyceum “ A Terror of Paris.”
Tivoli. “ Jack the Giant-Killer.”
Town Hall Albani Concerts.
Rotal Standard “ The Green Lanes of Ireland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Gay Parisienne.”
Bwou “ The Tree of Knowledge.”
Royal “When London Sleeps.”
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Dramatic Co.
The above are the leading features of the
plot of “ Claudian,” the ancient Byzantine drama,
which is Wilson Barrett’s second effort at Her
Majesty’s. It is a very fine plot, which wouldn’t
drag so much if it were better worked out and
adorned with more incident; still, the general
effect is good, and the mounting is gorgeous in
the extreme. All the lavishness that the big stage
can well hold is spent upon it, and the pomp and
glitter of Claudian’s palace is something to be re-
garded with reverence. Wilson Barrett makes a
very brilliant Claudian in the early scenes, where
that wicked, bloated nobleman is bursting with
arrogance and scorn, and his angry scoff blows
the brown leaves rightover the border into Greece.
As a wicked nobleman with magnificent stout legs
he could hardly be improved upon. Later on he
is the repentant Roman who wants to do good but
dare not, because Holy Clement’s curse is upon
all his efforts, and he can’t even remonstrate with
a man for ill-using a horse without the animal
immediately bursting lengthways and perishing
in great agony. He is less satisfactory in
this character, yet, taking him all round,
Wilson Barrett is a fine elocutionary hero, and he
wears the brief white towel of the stage-Roman
with an imposing presence, and his big muscles
and his Caesar-like profile stand him in good
stead.
• * * •
Claudian, by the way, is a patrician of
incredible wealth, whose presence obscures the
landscape. Yet when this tremendous individual
goes on living for 100 years and grows no older,
the feat doesn’t seem to attract any attention. If
Salisbury had been premier of Britain for, say, 95
years and was as young as when he started, or if
Stoddart had been at the wicket for 24 months
straight ahead and had compiled 1,725,329 runs
without giving a chance, The Bulletin has an
impression that these men would be known, and
wouldn’t require to elaborately explain them-
selves. This item doesn’t matter so very much
among the general magnificence ; still it is a trifle
curious. The co. in general shows to better ad-
vantage in “ Claudian ” than in the “ Manxman.”
Miss Maud Jeffries looks beautiful in her
Roman drapery, and plays the part in a way
that goes straight to the soul of the audience.
Miss Lillah M'Carthy, who looks remarkably like
Miss Jeffries, does excellent work as the slave
girl who fetches an unreasonably high price in the
prologue. Horace Hodges shows forth as a
comedian of great ability, and Percyval, who in
the “Manxman ” looked like half of nothing that
was not feeling well, now looks rather like Li
Hung Chang instead. Also, there are elements of
really commendable wickedness about his Tetrarch
(it seems a tradition of Roman drama, by the way,
that the hopelessly wicked Roman shall wear
flowing robes, as witness Nero, Tigellinus and the
Tetrarch, while the Roman with possibilities of
good in him exhibits his legs cheerfully to the
cold blast of criticism). Also, Carter-Ed wards
(as Holy Clement), Clitherow and Miss Belmore
have various good points; and the sea, and the
palace, and the earthquake, and the ruins that
come after the earthquake constitute an immense
amount of glitter.
** * *
The new edition of “ Jack the Giant-
Killer ” was announced to start at Sydney Tivoli
on Tuesday, too late for notice in this issue. A
few well-chosen remarks about the same will ap-
pear next week,
** * *
“ The Terror of Paris ” is in good health
at Sydney Lyceum, and great multitudes go to
see him lead his benevolent existence with his un-
exploded bomb in his hand. Last week this
paper felt called upon to inquire how this kindly
anarchist, who never really blows anybody up
after all, ever came to be a Terror, but, no light
having since been thrown on the conundrum, it
gives it up. Anyhow, Miss Wheeler, dying
beautifully in the moonlight with her arms round
her anarchist’s neck, and with a general under-
standing that he will be a good Terror and try to
meet her in Heaven, is a very pretty picture, and
one which deserves support on its artistic merits
alone.
** * *
Nothing has happened at Sydney Opera
House since last week to throw any light on the
circumstances under which the very old man was
the very young man’s office-boy some ten years or
more before the drama opens. Still, if “Tracked
Down ’’serves to warn any intending villain of the
foolishness of hiring an aged and astute office-boy
who may bowl him out in after years, it won’t
have lived quite in vain. But the very bad man
at the Opera House is such a weak and ineffective
and utterly clumsy piece of infamy that he repels
sympathy. When he butchers the squatter and
recovers the incriminating pocket-knife a grey arm
with whiskers on it darts from behind a curtain
and snatches the property. Any prompt ruffian
would sprint after that arm at once and recover
the goods, but this futile assassin spends several
minutes in a long oration in which he asks nobody
in particular if this is a vision, or words to that
effect. Then he begins tosuspect the poor old body,
which is lying quietly in quite a different direction,
of having jumped at the pocket-book, and by the
time he does decide to bound gradually after the
intruder, that person—not having stopped to de-
liver any lengthy recitations —is naturally gone.
And the crude, raw foolishness of the bad man in
having his name on his revolver, and carefully
leaving it on the stomach of the deceased as evi-
dence, is something beyond expression. Even an
eighteenpenny tariff doesn’t justify the manage-
ment in having such a person on the premises.
** * *
The second series of Albani concerts com-
mences at Sydney Town Hall next Wednesday
(30th).
** * *
Harmston’s Circus, which is due at Sydney
next Saturday, is winding up its Brisbane season
with a huge benefit to the hospitals and otl er
charities. When the horse and tiger and the
fragrant lion do exert themselves in the cause of
charity, the results are generally good; and the
big charity ben. is a fine advertisement anyhow.
#* * *
If there be any idea of producing Albani
in Italian opera manager Williamson had better
pause and reflect. Melbourne, for instance, is
already disposed to remember that the last operatic
company imported by Simonsen, and headed by
Signora Cuttica, was vastly superior, even for
concert purposes, to the Albani combination.
Cutfcica’s beautiful voice let itself go for a shilling
at Melb. Exhibition building—the cheapest
musical entertainment ever offered in the city.
The “star” was supported by her husband (a
delightful tenor when in form), a couple of power-
ful basso singers, and, likewise, two baritones, one
of whom, Sisco (now deceased), had a more
imposing voice and appearance than Pauli. And
these people were, ail of them, accomplished
operatic artists. Their performance of “ Faust ”
at the Princess’s, after Simonsen’s season had
failed, was a treat treasured in the memory of
Melbourne’s musical public.
** * *
Arthur Chanter, who was one of Marshall
Hall’s first pupils at Melb. Conservatorium, and
has acquired a splendid musical audacity from
that fervent professor, intends to take a farewell
benefit-concert at the Athenaeum Hail, Melb.,
April 4th. Arthur Chanter’s idea is to set Europe
ablaze, and reduce Gilbert and Sullivan to ashes,
in a manner of speaking. He has composed
numerous songs and light operas—and, perhaps,
an oratorio or two— also, he is his own librettist
and ballad writer. Furthermore, he sings in pub-
lic on slight provocation. Every ambitious all-
round young man deserves a fair chance to get
along, and, if the projected benefit should succeed
in getting Chanter along to London, he will find
the capital of Great Britain a promising field for
his enterprise. Several specimens of his work
will be played, warbled, and printed on the pro-
gramme at the concert next Monday week.
** * *
“A Marriage of Convenience”—most de-
lightful of naughty comedies —continues to unfold
its gilt-edged tale at Melbourne Bijou, and gets
about half the applause it deserves from audiences
that ought to be bigger. Sydney Grundy’s dia-
logue improves on acquaintance, likewise Dumas’s
airy situations, and the dresses, stage-setting, and
—to some extent—the acting. Miss Edith Morley,
particularly, has gained confidence and warmth
since her first appearance. She was little more
than an attractive young bride at the start,
whereas now she begins to shine as an
artless coquette, the turn of her head
being calculated to knock out the strongest
male resolution in one round. Charles Thursby
does not improve his handsome bridegroom per-
formance by raising his voice a tone or two, but
the writer is given to understand that the young
man’s “pair of soft-speaking eyes” place him
above criticism. The serio-comic Chevalier is
satisfactory in everything bar the fit of his coat,
and Charles Cartwright has added some artistic
touches to his family portrait. Cartwright’s
versatility takes full advantage of the double-bill
opportunity. As the old-fashioned General in
“A Marriage of Convenience” he is a strik-
ing contrast to the flippant reprobate in
“ Dream Faces,” now played as a curtain-
raiser instead of an afterpiece. He realises
a quite different cut of reprobate to the
one that Titheradge of yore presented to Bijou
audiences, and his interview with Miss Beatrice
Lamb saves the stagey little piece from failure.
The great fault of “ Dream Faces ” is a strange
child of 20, which unreal character is played by
Miss Noni Rickards on little Cissie Denver lines.
Australia has lost the one girl, Ethel Haydon,
who might have impersonated an artless young
thing of marriageable age.
** * *
“ The Gay Parisienne ” started a second
innings at the Princess’s on Saturday night. “ The
Parisienne ” is rather less popular in Melbourne
than “The Maid,” but seeing that the “ Cocky-
doodledoo ” can only be sung for a limited
number of nights, and the cast of the
alleged musical comedy is partly new busi-
ness is likely to remain brisk at the Firm’s
headquarters until “ Babes in the Wood” takes
up the running. Lauri successfully replaces Cole-
man as the husband who flees from home in kilts ;
Howard Vernon is a more festive Major than his
predecessor ; Mrs. Bryer makes an appalling Mrs.
Honeycomb, and Miss Carrie Moore warbles the
tiresome ballad of Mary Jane’s top note in four
verses. “ The Parisienne,’’ under these altered
conditions, is quite as lively and disconnected as
ever. Miss Ada Reeve plays the name-part with
undiminished spiceness, and the fury of Bert
Gilbert’s humor has not abated. The cleverest
co. on earth couldn’t make “The Gay Parisienne”
appear a brilliant entertainment because it isn’t
built that way, but in the character of a variety
show it is very praiseworthy. The most popular
“ turn ” is supplied by Albert Whelan, who
repeats several of his cleyer imitations.
** * *
Grattan Riggs, at Melb. Royal, is now
(D.V.) filling in the last two nights of a pretty-
lucrative season with “ The Irish Detective.” At
time of writing, he was engaged upon “ Shin
Fane,” a drama that appears to have been blown
together on behalf of the Riggs aforesaid. There
is a lovely long-haired villain in “ Shin Fane,”
also an agonised father, and a sort of heroine, and
a faithful Molly, and numerous people who drop
into the plot without offering any apology
for the intrusion. Grattan Riggs loosens his
connection with the narrative as time goes on.
When the villian is ultimately arrested by a plump
sea captain, on a charge of oceanic arson, the
principal character happens to be disguised as the
landlady of a hash-house, where the boarders arise
en masse at the sound of the dinner bell, and fly
for the vittles like birds of prey. Riggs in the
hash-house, and other places, is a melodrama
beyond all understanding. You merely take the
things as they come, and laugh according to your
lights—and liver.
* * *
“When London Sleeps,” described as a
raging success, will rage at Melb. Royal on
Saturday night. Much scenery has been made
ready for this exciting drama, and Melbourne
is just now full of lurid handbills depicting the
cremation of a yellow-haired lady (in her night-
gown) on the altar of an Indian god.
** * *
At the Opera House they have returned to
the old, original form of Rickards’ entertainment,
with every indication of the 0.0. success. The
programme on Saturday included the Three
Hegelmanns, John Coleman, Austin Rudd, Whit-
burn, Frank Yorke, Michael Nolan, a new first-
part, and Philip Newbury. Anyone who can find
fault with the quality of this variety-show, at
prices ranging from sixpence to half-a-crown, is at
liberty to stop away. At the Alexandra a struggl-
ing management blesses the night when it let
loose “ The Kelly Gang ” upon a crowded house.
“The Kelly Gang ” has brought about a state of
affluence at the Haleck, and Dan Barry threatens
to stage his next nine-act tragedy regardless of
expense.
** * *
Another Albani concert is due at the Town
Hall on Saturday next (2Gth), after which Miss
Elsie Hall will, it is understood, appear again in
the municipal edifice. The gifted young pianiste
gave a first concert there last Saturday, when a
large audience expressed its admiration in more
than the usual manner. Miss Hall is a fine per-
former, with a lack of savdir faire quite extra-
ordinary in a professional musician. She was so
bewildered by her “ floral tributes ” on Saturday
night that her nose began to bleed upon the piano,
and W. J. Turner had to come to her assistance
with a large bundle of pocket-handkerchiefs.
Meanwhile, Lady Brassey had sent the Govt.-
House door-key to be applied to the artist’s back
if necessary.
*» * *
Max Nordau promises that ere many
generations of mankind come and go all the
frauds, and loafers, and diseased members of
society will have been wiped off the face of the
earth. Which is comforting news for the news-
paper reader who suffers from musical critic.
This peacock ass struts about on his dungheap
offensively enough at ordinary times, but when a
star like Albani comes this way he turns on an
extra tap of balderdash. When the musical
critic is wound up by an Albani or a Melba,
he lets us know that we are even as pigs
listening to the lute of Orpheus. And when we
howl with joy because an honest old ballad hits us
right through the breast-bone, the musical critio
curls his superior upper lip and insinuates to the
folk—without whom the scribe couldn’t live—that
they are only necessary to art in that they pay
for it.
*# * *
Be Melba’s rumored intention of a trip
down under—by the way, why not “ downder ? ”
the British Australasian prophesies for her in
that case the greatest ovation that has ever been
extended to any person—prince, professional, or
politician—by the enthusiastic Australians. “ The
countless instances,” it is added, “of generous
encouragement extended by this illustrious singer
to all her compatriots, and the magnificence of her
artistic triumphs, have made Nellie Melba the
idol of Australia. To have given the world a
great prima donna is a piece of fortune of which
Australians are naturally proud, and the romantic
circumstances under which this young singer
entered the profession have always added a special
charm to her success. As the proposed Australian
visit is more a matter of sentiment than business,
it is Madame Melba’s intention to have the sup-
port of the finest quartette in England—an
entirely unnecessary extravagance.”
*# * *
In view of the unqualified eulogies which
have been so long lavished on Melba in the Eng-
lish and Australian press, The Bulletin, which
likes to look at things when they are stood on
their heads, thinks it well to print—strictly with-
out prejudice—the gist of a batch of New York
press opinions which some nialioious and blas-
phemous p' rson has taken the trouble to collate
and forward.
In “ Aida,” according to N.Y. Times, “ Madame Melba
attempted a part utterly unsuited to her voice, style, and
temperament. . . . She shows poor judgment in attempt-
ing supremely dramatic parts. . . . She did not achieve
an artistic success, and she even phrased badly at times.”
“ It would be idle to forget,” says N.Y. Daily Tribune,
“ as Madame Melba and her friends appear to have done,
that it is better to do well the things that lie easy and
naturally within the bounds of possibility than to strive
for other things whose attainment is dubious. The
earnestness and ambition of the artist are .... almost
pathetically admirable; but her wisdom is doubtful. She
sang without sparing herself last night, and in the last act
her voice sounded delicious, even though she failed to
infuse into her singing any of the real dramatic spirit
which the part and composer call for.”
Of her Rosina, in “ II Barbiere,” the same paper
says:—
“ Of reverence for the text there was not a suspicion,
and the brilliance with which Madame Melba rendered
her interpolated numbers did not mark her performance
in Rossini’s music. She made an amiable effort, both in
singing and in acting, but the result was sadly lacking in
character. Nevertheless, it was most comforting again
to hear her voice in music to which it is adapted.”
Of the same performance, says the N.Y. Evening
Post :
“ Although she sang the part of Rosina with consider-
able brilliancy, yet neither in beauty of tone nor spon-
taneity and fluency of execution could she convince a
critical listener for a moment that Patti has found a
successor. The part of Rosina requires also much grace-
ful and arch acting, but Mme. Melba’s actions sometimes
suggested the Australian corroboree rather lhan a Spanish
drawing-room. Her song interpolations were in no better
taste than Patti’s used to be ; but she played her own
accompaniment on the piano.”
Of the “ Ai'da ” rendering again, the Post says :
“ Mme. Melba is showing a laudable disposition to
enlarge her repertory. Unhappily, in doing so, she has
to swim against the tide of musical taste . . . the current
at present runs so strongly toward the dramatic grand
style that there is nothing for her to do but to try and
be dramatic, too. In this she will never succeed, as her
effort to impersonate Aida last evening once more
proved. She worked hard to make a success, but with-
out avail. The nature of her voice as well as her tem-
perament are against her. She sang sweetly, in several
places with some intenseness, but never with true
dramatic feeling; nor is her voice big enough for a
dramatic climax with full orchestra. But the greatest
obstacle to her success as a dramatic singer is her in-
ability to act or express emotion facially. Her make-up
was extraordinary, her tightly-laced bodice being posi-
tively ludicrous in view of the fact that she is supposed
to impersonate an Ethiopian slave. She has only three
or four poses and gestures, and her repertory of facial
expressions consists mainly in the raising and lowering of
her eyebrows, which does duty not only for surprise,
anger, distress, but for a dozen other emotions that are
not physiognomieally related.”
The old mistake —not Laying to Your Book 1
It is in old Byzantium, 1000 years ago,
That Claudian, in his palace, lives a life of sin
and woe ;
There he buys a lady offered in the market-place
for sale,
But she flies to Holy Clement in his cavern down
a vale.
And that aged bearded hermit is slain in her
defence,
And he loudly curses Claudian ere his soul is
hurried hence;
And bids him keep on living while the ages in
their flow
Go flitting o’er Byzantium 1000 years ago.
Then ages pass, and Caesars, like shadows drifting
slow,
Pass o’er the page of history, in Byzantium, long
ago;
But Claudian, the immortal, sees these Caesars
rise and fall
And holds the pleasant billet of Prefect to them
all.
He tries to be a good and moral Roman in his
time,
But a blight is on his efforts, and his path is
stained with crime.
And his soul-wail goeth forth afar on all the winds
that blow
Brown paper through Byzantium 1000 years ago.
He swears off wine and wassail; he forgives his
bitterest foe ;
He walks a chalk-line in Byzantium 1000 years
ago ;
His soul is full of kindness, so he helps the sick
and old,
But they drop down dead immediately they touch
his tainted gold,
Or their little children perish, or their parents
fade and die,
Or their relatives in general peg out in agony,
And in some cemetery, whose address we do not
know,
They are buried in Byzantium 1000 years ago.
The girl he loves goes blind and sadly wanders to
and fro,
A lost maid in Byzantium 1000 years ago ;
So they share the curse—until, one starry night
beside the sea,
Claudian’s palace drops like thunder, and its walls
of porphryry
Are split around like fragments of some jerry
tenement,
And the city of the Constantines is all asunder
rent.
Then the curse is somehow lifted, and, with music
sad and low,
Claudian dies, much disrespected in Byzantium,
long ago.
At Poverty Point .
Veteran Buzzi, who came to Melb. with Simonsen’s first
opera co. and remained there as a teacher of singing for
10 years, is returning to his native Italy this week. The
palpable fault in Buzzi’s tutoring was his foreign pronun-
ciation of such words as “love,” which became “ loaf” in
the mouths of his pupils. He was popular among the
Melb. girls, but somehow never had the luck to get his
name associated with a really promising voice.
Miss Fanny Wentworth has engaged Napoleon-Boffard,
the French tenor, to support her drawing-room entertain-
ment around Maoriland. But The Bulletin expects to
hear of Nap.-Bof. entering a violent protest atrainst Miss
W.’s rendering of “ I Dreamt that I Dwelt ” in ze French
mannare.
Maggie Moore and co. have done great business at
Ballarat and Bendigo (turning money away), and are now
about to ensnare the golden boodle in Adelaide.
The Firm’s production of “The Scarlet Feather,” in
London, appears to have been somewhat “ messed about ”
in the interests of Nellie Stewart. The low comedian,
Seabrooke, was deprived of his “ fat,” Florence Young,
the best voice in the co., had only four lines of solo to
sing— nobod.y save Nellie Stewart got a chance to shine.
And Nellie, it would seem, didn’t shine overmuch.
Calcutta papers report bocmsome business for Carl
Hertz, at the Theatre Royal, where he was producing
eggs and things from his hat eight times a week, when
the mail left. Some of the laudatory notices contain
internal evidence of having been compiled by Edwin
Geach, but the genuineness of the wizard’s success is cer-
tain, all the same. At latest date, he had engaged the
old Australian pusher, Harry Lyons, as advance-agent
for the show. Lvons seems to have earned quite a mas-
cotte reputation in India.
Durward Lely, the Much-Travelled Smythe’s new musi-
cal star, opens’ in Dunedin, and, after doing Maoriland,
is due in Australia about May. Lely is Scotch, hence
the policy of beginning the tour in the haggis-strewn
wilds of Otago. His name was originally Leslie—at least,
The Bulletin dimly remembers having heard so, or else
it dreamt that it heard it; and it vaguely speculates that
possibly Durward is really Donald disguised. Anyhow,
Lely brings a good reputation out with him, and, with
Smythe’s luck behind him, he should do well.
The McMahon firm runs Easter shows at Sydney, New-
castle and Bendigo, and is developing into a cosmopolitan
affair. It has 20 new, or comparatively new, English plays
yet to produce, and The Bulletin bets, in a regretful sort
of fashion, that Maud Williamson will “ fall ” in every
one of them, and that. Diver will flatly refuse to make her
an honest woman in the whole twenty. The “ Terror ”is
almost the only play since the season began in which
Diver hasn’t explained that he will see Miss Williamson’s
broken heart dashed first.
Why should an actor who has “fallen out” with his
wife delight in making a hysterical display of his domestic
trouble ? In such cases, the most admirable art is that
which conceals heart.


R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
. . . British V«staS.
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
Aus. ):
Reps, j
BLEACHING POWDER, 36°/o.
CAUSTIC, CARBONATE SODA, BORAX,
LITHARGE, CHLORATE POTASH, BONE ASH,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Mining: Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 PUt-st., Sydney; 1U Currie-st., Adel. ; Quecn-st., Brifl).
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
“Tb€ R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison JSz Attwood, Sole Proprietors
JJ
SIR JOHN
POWER’S
Whiskey.
Simpson’s Sulkies
No Horse-and-Cart Motion!
The Best of Stuff well put together.
You have never seen one broken down.
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
Newtown, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Victorian Government has devised a scheme
for spending £2,500,000 of borrowed money on more or
less reproductive public works, so Syme’s order that
Turner and co. are to have a vigorous progressive policy
has evidently had its effect. The best-looking item in the
list of works is £BOO,OOO for a permanent water-supply in
the mallee country. But if that money is wisely expended
it will add a lot more than £BOO,OOO to the selling value of
the land thereabouts, so the cost ought to be repaid out
of the land receipts. To add such an item to the perma-
nent debt of the province is pure swindle.
The W.A. revenue for February (,£238,967)
shows a dismal fall of £87,274 as compared with the re-
ceipts for February, 1897. For the eight months of the
financial year that are gone the expenditure is ahead of
the revenue by £868,774, which is a truly awful-looking
shortage—far worse, in proportion to the size of things,
than that even of N.S.W. The great trouble in fixing up
a workable scheme of Federal finance was to make proper
allowance for the abnormal customs revenue of Westralia,
but the W.A. customs returns are dropping so heavily
that by the time the Commonwealth really gets started
(if it does start) they may only stand on the same level as
those of Tasmania. At latest returns the Westralian debt
was about £4B 10s. per head, so that, though the popula-
tion has trebled since ’9l, the debt has increased so much
faster than population that the liability per head has risen
from £3O to the above-mentioned figure.
• * * *
During the 12 months ended 31st Dec., 1897,
the Westralian Govt, spent £392,000 more than it re-
ceived. The total ordinary revenue was £2,843,775, and
the loan expenditure was £2,609,669. Therefore, W.A.
Govt, borrowed between £l6 and £l7 per head to keep
the boom going (a similar loan expenditure in Victoria
would have been £20,000,000 for the year), and even with
that the plaint about depression and want of work was
loud and lamentable. Also, it now depends almost as
much on loans as on ordinary revenue. There are signs
of great trouble ahead in Westralia.
• • * » •
The Norwich Union Insurance Co. of England
has arranged (subject to the consent of the shareholders,
which is, presumably, only a matter of form, and not very
much even of that) to take over the South Australian Fire
Insurance Co. bodily. S.A. has now only one bank of its
own, and one fire office —the one which is about to be
blotted out. Ten years ago it had four prosperous-look-
ing fire offices and two banks of its own. If the deal
comes off, this will make four Australian fire-insurance
co’s. swallowed up by English concerns in three months,
and, at the present rate of progress, it looks as if Tas-
mania and Maoriland will soon be the only provinces
where the insurance business isn’t wholly in British hands.
It should be worth doing something, by dumping a big
absentee-tax on the foreign offices, or by starting a
State fire-insurance department on the compulsory
principle, or otherwise, to preserve this dying industry.
During the last two years, though the Australian offices
held barely half the business, and though losses were
heavy and premiums unusually low, the balance-
sheets available up to January last showed £60,000
a year profit out of the insurance business alone, quite
irrespective of interest earned by the investment of the
companies’ capital and reserves. If the whole business
was held by local offices they would probably make double
that amount. And, in any case, several of the provinces
struggle very hard to protect local industries which yield
a far smaller profit than this ; £60,000 a year is equal to
£2,000,000 in immediate cash, and an industry which,
even in bad times, is worth £2,000,000 amounts to some-
thing.
The South Australian insurance Co. is a very
respectable concern with £62,500 paid-up capital, and
(until the recent big fire) £69,000 of reserves. It pays
steady dividends of 10 per cent., and though it was
struck heavily by the great Melbourne fire, a loss of
£17,000 or so seems a very insufficient reason for this
hurried giving up of the ghost.
* * * •
The New York Life Insurance Co. shows a very
prosperous state of things in its report for 1897. The
premium income for the year is £6,530,928 ; and the total
income, including interest, rents and consideration for
annuities, is £8,599,400. During the year £2,876,983 was
added to the funds, which now stand at £41,295,152. Ex-
penses are a shade over 20 per cent, of income, which is
certainly high, though the very large new business done
partly accounts for this. The really notable feature of
the New York Life, however, is not its abnormal size but
the vast amount of precaution taken to guarantee its
absolute safety and solidity. Its accounts, like those of
all American co.’s, are certified by the State Auditor,
who reports that it has £6,800,000 of good assets over
and above all liabilities. In addition to this, it publishes
annually a list of all its securities, with the value set
against'each, the exact location of every item of property
and the price set against it in the books, and the
particulars of every mortgaged property with the sum
advanced in each case. And, as it would be practicaffy
impossible to inflate the value of any one of its securities
without some of its multitudinous policy-holders being
able to spot the circumstance, this is an additional
security of the greatest value. The Bulletin would very
much like to know how some Australian and a whole lot
of British offices would get through a State audit and
State valuation, and what a complete list of their secu-
rities would look like.
The New York Life now bases all its estimates
on the assumption that its accumulated pile will only
bring in 3 per cent, interest in future. The Liverpool and
London and Globe does the same, so far as concerns the
greater part of its business at all events, but otherwise
the New York Life stands alone in this respect among
offices doing business in Australia. The 3 per cent,
estimate means a vast amount of extra security. A life
office is under agreement to pay certain sums to its
policy-holders at dates which can be very accurately
averaged by the tables of mortality. And the test of its
solvency is that the cash on hand, with future premiums
and the interest which the office may reasonably expect
to earn, should make a sufficient fund to cover the
amounts payable when they fall due. If an office pos
sesses any cash at all, it can always make itself solvent
on paper by assuming that the said cash will accumulate
in future at a big enough rate of interest. The lower the
rate of interest assumed in the calculations, therefore, the
greater the margin of security. The New York Life
absorbs £3,332,000 of its surplus by reducing its assumed
interest to 3 per cent., but even this leaves it with
£3,534,000 above all liabilities, which is certainly a large
enough rim for all purposes.
In the happy-go-lucky land of Australia there
is no legally-fixed standard of solvency. A co. may esti-
mate future interest at anything it pleases. It may also
estimate the amount of its present liabilities at anything
it pleases, if it hires a complaisant actuary. It can also
include anything it likes as assets ; it may even include
the office cat, and call it a mortgage, and put any value it
likes against the cat, provided it hires the right kind of
auditor. Considering some of the very remarkable
assurance concerns which are beginning to arise under
this very remarkable system, the American idea of State
supervision must needs be adopted here, sooner or later.
• • » *
Concerning a par. in last week’s issue, some
friends of the late Mr. J. P. Garvan desire to have it
stated that his management of the City Mutual ended
about 10 years ago. The Bulletin was quite aware of
this fact, and had no intention of implying anything to
the contrary.
* • » *
W.A. : It would probably pay you better in the
end to drop your insurance and re-assure with the
A.M.P. Society. Your co. does pay bonuses, but they
are very small by comparison.
• * * •
Some of the joys of owning bank shares in Aus-
tralia. Last week’s quotations :
Paid up to Price.
A.J.S £7 10s. ... 6s.
City of Sydney .... £8 ... £3los.
Commercial of A.
(preference) £lO .. £3l9s.
(ordinary) £3 10s. ... About nil.
Colonial (preference) £9 15s. ... £1 16s.
~ (ordinary) £5 ss. .. About nil.
Koyal (Melb) .. .. £1 7s. 3d. _
Q.N.B £3 ... About ml.
North Q. .. .. £4 .. 15s-
* * • *
About the most confiding insolvent on earth
appeared in Melb. bankruptcy court, the other day, to ask
for his discharge. He said that he and Mrs. Taylor, wife of
the once-famous boom-banker, were joint owners of a
certain property. At that time he had an overdraft of
£6OOO at the Land Credit Bank. In 1885 Taylor, he al-
leges, informed him that the property had been sold for
£17,000 and that his share of the money would be paid
into the bank. He therefore signed the required docu-
ments, and for six years he took it for granted in a bliss-
ful sort of way that the money had been paid and his
overdraft duly squared up. Then he casually discovered
that the document he signed without looking at it was a
transfer of his share of the property to his partner for
£2518 : also that the property was not sold till 1890 and
then it fetched £27,000 instead of £17,000 ; and that his
overdraft was still due ; and, as Taylor is now in gaol, and
Mrs. Taylor is supposed to be in America, and the money
is quite untraceable, the only thing to do was to go
broke. The same day another man applied for his
discharge in the same court, and his trouble also was that
he habitually signed documents without looking at them,
to oblige a friend he had known from childhood, which
documents proved to be mortgages for £l2OO and other
things Tiie Bulletin begins to have an idea that no
transfer or mortgage should hold good unless signed
before a public functionary, who attests that he got each
party separately in a room, and explained to him exactly
what he was making himself liable for, and that the said
party was sober and wide awake and said he understood
all about it. And if the party is a woman the matter
ouo-ht to be explained to her three times, and if the
functionary has any doubts about her comprehension he
should have authority to have her head shampooed to
brighten up her intellect.
. * * *
One matter about which The Bulletin has
complained a great deal and for a long time is that audi-
tors’ certificate which says that the balance-sheet is cor-
rect “ according to the books.” The absolute worthless-
ness of that statement is too conspicuous to require com-
ment ; it simply declares that if the books are right the
balance-sheet is right, and if the books are a hopeless
fraud, intended to disguise the fact that the concern is
utterly bankrupt, then the balance-sheet is ditto. The
following are some of the Australasian institutions which
publish this supremely useless variety of auditors’ certifi-
cate : Queensland National Bank ; Bank of N.Q. ; . E.S.
and A Bank ; A. J.S. ; London Bank of Australia ; Bank
of Australasia ; and the Union. The Victorian banks are
now required to publish a certificate which says in so
many words that things are, or are not, correct, so they
are out of the above category ; a few N.S.W. banks have
also kept out of it voluntarily. And the above lot would do
well to follow their example.
• * • *
A question about the identity of Stacy was an
oasis in the dry bankruptcy case of Cyprian Stanton,
late manager of the City Bank of Sydney. A good part of
Stanton’s disaster consisted of ten cheques—seven of
them for over £lOO each—payable to “self, but alleged
to be loans to Stacy. A good part of the assets consisted
of £9BO worth of Stacy’s cheques (eight months old and ap-
parently unpresented) on the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia Perth. Therefore, the Insolvency Court "naturally
wanted to find Stacy. The insolvent had no letters from
Stacy, and the only address he knew of was G.P.0.,
Brisbane.” Stacy was often in Sydney, and, when there,
stayed somewhere in Newtown, address not known. The
insolvent simply wrote to him at the G.P.O. Couldn t say
how he first caine to know Stacy. Didn’t know anyone
else in Sydney who knew him. Didn t know any-
one in Westralia who knew him, though Stacy
had mining properties there, and his cheques
were payable there. Had no copies of his letters
to Stacy. Hadn’t heard from him for six months. Didn t
know where he was now. Stacy had never had an office
in Sydney, and he (insolvent) didn’t really know how he
could prove Stacy’s existence, or anything else about him.
So the painful subject dropped, and the hazy man, who
apparently never had an address and couldn t be identified
bv anybody, is still remembered only by his signature on
those two unpaid cheques. The present writer is darned
glad he never lent any money to Stacy, anyhow—not be-
cause he would have any fear about repayment, but
because the beastly reticence of a man whose only address
is “ G.P.0.” would hurt his feelings.
* * * *
Much to the disgust of the reporters, the half-
yearly meeting of Mutual Store Ltd. (Melb.) last week
passed over without either a row or the usual adjourn-
ment for irate speakers to recover breath enough to con-
tinue yelling at one another. The reporters hope, how-
ever, to be overloaded with good copy when Anthony
Hordern gets started in the city, and Foy and Gibson s
branch in Prahran gets into working order.
A certain bank, which is owed over -£70,000
(only partially secured) by a trading- co., has, for the last
two years, been holding in bond £60,000 of goods con-
signed to the co., but which the bank has paid for. As a
result, the bank has not only been out of interest all that
time, but must have largely increased the cost ot the
goods by having to pay storage. These charges have, as
a matter of fact, increased the co.’s liability to the bank
quite £lO,OOO. At last the bank has awakened to the lacq
that merchandise is only worth what it will sell for, and
that a trading co. must have something to sell, so the
bank released the whole of the goods, and the co. s credit
has been galvanised.
* • • 9
The story goes that Sydney’s big universal pro-
vider really is about to invade Melbourne, having bought
a large business frontage in Brunswick-st., Fitzroy. nut
tackling established Melbourne rivals is not like a battle
with Sydney minnows. In Smellbourne the big guns in
the line have not learnt their business in Australia, but
have transplanted British and Yankee methods and
adapted them to Australian requirements. However, the
public will be the gainers no matter which firm floats or
fails.
* * • *
Stated in Adelaide that Harrold Bros’, estate
will only pay about Is. in the £, when law-costs are
cleared.
• • • *
N.S.W. Govt. Savings Bank officials have now
received absolute instructions always to refuse cheques
tendered by depositors, so that people only having
accounts in the Govt, institution have the utmost aitn-
culty in getting rid of “crossed” cheques. As there is
no conceivable way of defrauding the savings bank with
worthless paper, this seems to be simply a very stupid,
and unnecessary regulation.
* * * *
Grenfell (N.S.W.) sends along the first cheering
item that has come from that former home of big mining
operations for a long time. Tributors in the Young
O’Brien have struck the reef 4ft. thick and carrying fine
gold, with a shoot a foot thick that will go 4or soz. This
at the 200 ft. level in dry country. There seems no doubt
as to their being “on it” this time. Ninety tons are on
the surface, which will stand handling and inspection.
Local facilities for dealing with it are very one-horse. One
battery, in the hands of the Cyanide co., doesnt crush
outside stuff. The other hung up indefinitely, while
owner finds a mislaid spanner or goes kangaroo-shooting.
Old workings of mine unsatisfactory, and machinery very
primitive. No water making, however, where work is
now going on, and very little at the 250 ft.
* » * *
More big things said of Booth’s United mine,
Coolac, N.S.W., for which a 40-head mill is going up.
The chairman of the co. cables from London : ‘‘l have
sold mine. English co. will be registered in 17 days.
Capital, £240,000; working capital subscribed, £lO,OOO,
and £lO,OOO worth shares reserved. Vendors receive
130,000 fully-paid shares and £60,000 cash, payable (and
here conies the rub)-“£5000 from first proceeds gold,
balance payable 50 per cent, gross yields.” Analysed,
and what does it all really amount to ? That for under-
taking to find £lO,OOO, or, rather, subscribing for it, the
promoters get 100,000 shares, leaving 10,000 for further
issue, if more money is wanted, or, rather, can be got,
which entirely depends on the condition of the mine at
the time the coin is required. That is really underwriting
£1 shares at 2s. each. All the cash must come from the
gold The first £5OOO worth the vendors take, and half
afterwards ; but suppose the time comes when the mine,
so handicapped, won’t pay to work ; will the promoters
put up the money to supply the deficiency, or will the
vendors be again approached ? The writer has been there
himself ; and will supply the answer on easy terms. Why
go to London at all to place the mine under such a dead-
weight of capital as £240,000 with such conditions ?
Whatever its crushings, it is, in some respects, already
crushed.
* * * *
One Interested : “ As usual in N.S.W., where
most mining things are done upside-down, the new co.
formed to take over the old Chesney mine at Cobar is
made the victim, and has to pay the penalty, of the partial
exemptions with which it had nothing to do. It has been
allowed one month to find room for some 60 men, and
meanwhile has to employ 20, though incorporation is not
complete, and the meeting* of the old co. to ratify the
contract has just been held. It has been advised and
correctly advised —that it is impossible to find remunera-
tive work for so many men before the new system for the
working of the mine has even been designed, and more
than one capable mining man has declared that even the
work being done by the 20 men is so much wasted money.
Nevertheless, the Warden has declared otherwise, while
quite a number of * wild cat ’ leases floated in the Peak
boom are allowed to remain idle month after month. The
reply that the Chesney has already spent over £30,000 on
the leases—by far the most spent on mining work on any
Cobar mine outside the Great Cobar—and, therefore,
should be made to spend as much more, would be in keep-
ing with the incomprehensibility of the whole business.”
* * * *
“ L. 8.” is informed that the writer did not ask
why the Illawarra Smelting-works “ were not located at
Sydnev,” but he asked why they were not put “some-
where" on the deep waters of Port Jackson.” Works of a
more objectionable nature can be found on these fore-
shores, and room could easily have been found for smelt-
ing-works, and no protest made. The 2s. 9d. tonnage-rate
from Darling Harbor to the works means the same
rate for many thousand tons of flux as well as. ore, and a
much higher rate for the return of bullion, in re which
“ L. 8.” is silent. “ The Illawarra works would have been
completed by the same people but for the action of the
Govt, in bringing on the Mt. Kembla bill. That will do
for the writer’s case. He begs again to assert that the
fixino- of the site of these works at Dapto «os a gigantic
mistake, which the co. has already discovered, even
though it has not officially admitted the fact. There are
SO me° people who would even regard it as “ fatuous ”to
accept the testimony of men who are in a measure
responsible for these works, but quite right and proper to
take the assurance “that the selection was a wise one
from persons who were largely interested in the sale of a
site, through the disabilities of which the smelting-works
now occupying it will be for ever handicapped.
* * • *
“ Nothing cheaper or better to buy now than
Girilambone shares,” declares the Sabbath tipster, and, as
in innumerable other cases, the same tip was given when
the shares were three times the present price (then the
song was that they were soon going to £5). The Bulletin
trusts that some of the Sydney brokers will get killed in
the rush for Girilambones. A few Sydney brokers would
not be missed. Sudden death would put the poor wretches
out of their misery.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 seems to have at last got
its new milling plant to run about as smoothly as can be
expected of any of these jiggers ; and for the second week
in March 564 tons concentrates were got from 2381 tons of
ore. The product runs to 30oz. silver, 64 per cent. lead,
with 8.81 per cent, zinc per ton. This is a record. But
underground, though the reserves are big, developments
have not been proportionate.
* » * *
The all-English-owned Broken Hill Consols has
followed up a rich but very patchy and small lode forma-
tion by striking a silver slug weighing 1721 b, and assaying
70 per cent, fine silver. This Consols mine is at the bot-
tom of a flat three miles or so from the Broken Hill mines ;
and, though no connection between the two has been
traced, there is little doubt that the Consols patches have
been leached out from the parent lode. It was much the
same along the Comstock, where semi-detached bodies
were found hundreds of feet away from the main “ chim-
neys.” The Consols, by the way, has given at least two
minerals new to science.
• * • •
The copper production of the Great Cobar mine
is now averaging over 70 tons a week ; that, in round
figures is worth £3,500. Another £lOOO at least may be
added for gold, and the total, £4500, may reasonably be
divided—one £2250 carrying the whole cost of working,
including royalty to the old co, and the other moiety
divided amongst the lucky tributors. Thus five men
make among them £125,000 a year or so on an original
investment of, it would appear, much under £lO,OOO. A
third blast furnace is at work, a fourth is to be put m,
and another erected at the tributors’ refining furnaces
at Lithgow, to treat slag. Ye gods !
* * * *
“ Wingen ” Abbott—the erstwhile capitalistic
pen-wielder, breaks out in the daily press in favor of the
Newcastle coal-miners, who demand that all coal-skips
shall be weighed. And yet, so far, no one has heard of
W.E. A. being a general-election candidate.
* * » •
That mighty organisation, the London and
Globe, is now fixing up a subsidiary co. to take over that
awful list of alleged mines with which it has, in one way
and another, been burdened—such as Hannan’s Golden
Group, Golden Treasure, Golden Dream, and others bear-
ing names equally satirical. Capital, £1,500,000, of which
a modest million will be absorbed in purchase-money and
the balance for working-capital. The new co. will take a
big interest in the British-American co. promoted by the
L. and G. last year, and that appears to be about all the
consolation it will have.
• * * *
The W.A. Mines Minister says the Govt, has
not the slightest intention to remove the alluvial regula-
tion restricting workings to 10ft. from the surface. “ They
had taken up a position from which they saw no reason to
depart. The Govt, was open to receive any suggestion
for the solution of the difficulty, but so far nothing prac-
tical had been submitted.” Of course not. The W.A.
Govt, is badly addicted to tying itself and the province
into a knot and then asking to be untied. In the face of
innumerable warnings they allowed the dual title to
creep into the new Mining Act. At that particular time
the principle was causing little trouble, and it might have
been done away with without much injury, but that it
would sooner or later cause trouble was well known.
However, the absurd regulation has been declared only a
temporary expedient till Parliament has dealt with the
subject. Obviously a dual title for the same land is im-
practicable, and the question for W.A. Parliament to
determine is how to remove this anomaly from the Mining
Act with the least amount of injury to persons with
divided interests. The density of the law on the subject
of alluvial was instanced at Bulong some weeks ago, when
a party of diggers claimed that the formation struck at
130 ft. was alluvial, and demanded to take advantage of
the reefing lessees’ shaft and level in working it.
* » * *
The last crushing heard of from the Empress of
Coolgardie—so tons for 4oz. Inasmuch as many persons
and papers are very fond of blaming the writer for not
observing the richness of the Great Boulder when it
looked quite as ugly a surface show as the Empress, he
again begs to remind the Monarch of Managers —Zeb.
Lane—that in his report he foreshadowed a bigger future
for the Empress than for the Boulder. And where is that
future V
* * * *
Having been much abused for saying the Tor-
nado mine, W.A., was over-capitalised, Menzies Miner
rejoices over the co.’s first and final div. The liquidator
has so accurately worked out the fractions as to make it a
23rd part of a penny per share. A man with 1000 would
receive 3s. 7d. !
* » » *
Clarke & Co.’s March circular contains an article
on the Norseman goldfield by “ Uitlander,” late of Melb.
Argus. He declares that, of all W.A. fields, it has been
the most fortunate, and that bad management, insuffi-
ciency of capital—same old wheeze—and difficulty of
access, have been the chief hindrances. Though in many
cases a better state of things rules to-day, the mistakes of
the early times have proved fatal to the prospects of
several properties. Much of the capital obtained was
grossly misapplied. Last year brought forth its surprises
and disappointments. While progress has been slow, it
has been sure. It would be vain to look forward to out-
puts going up by leaps and bounds, but certain of the
co’s should materially increase their returns, while new
batteries will be started on the Break-o’-Day line, and
possibly elsewhere. He says not a word for or against a
railway from Esperance.
A marvellously rich find of telluride is reported
to have been made in the Australia, one of the Associated
mines at Hannan’s. “ Pieces were broken off weighing
lcwt., containing 45 per cent, gold.” The telluride vein
in one sentence is described as 2ft. thick, and in the next
we have it that the whole of the bottom of the winze is in
telluride ore. And yet the shares only moved two or
three shillings. Marvellous 1
*m * •
Queensland Menzies, W.A., output to date —
4422 tons for 17,5660 z., or just under 4oz. per ton. This,
says one paper, is a record which no W.A. mine outside
of Hannan’s can touch. It has paid a number of divs.,
and the shares are still lower than before it paid any.
Efforts have been made to sell the mine to Bull promoters,
but, in the present state of the market, Bull only
buys at such terms as would make the present co. a
fool to part. It is a quartz-mine, and, like nearly every
other in the country, the gold chutes are short. They are,
however, very rich. With short chutes it is hard to
approximate the life of a mine, and now that lying is at a
discount and truth at a premium, the show has to be
worked for all it is worth, like those of Charters Towers,
Gympie, Bendigo, &c.
* * • *
Announced that the management of the General
Gordon, W.A., has been removed to Adelaide. The time
seems to have arrived when some London mining journals
think something nasty might be said of this mine with
safety. It is only when the money has all gone that the
average mining journal wades in. And who is going to
apologise for the many nice things published concerning
this frightful “ cat ” ?
* • * *
Mr. Cuthbertson, “the fine figure of a man,”
who has gone to Klondyke with much Sydney daily-paper
marmalade re his Australian exploits, was leader of an
expedition of' Johnnies who came from London to Wes-
tralia about four years ago. They had an enormous
amount of baggage, a great many rifles and other shoot-
ing-irons, with about a ton of ammunition. Their tents
were lined with green baize, and their general outfit
pai-alysed the province as the most humorous thing that
had come in. Also, they bought hundreds of pounds’
worth of new stuff at Perth, including “ bathing-suits for
Lake Austin.” The expedition moved out of Geraldton
at the rate of nearly a mile a day, and, for the sake of
velocity, it had to throw off a lot of dead weight by means
of an auction sale.
* * • *
The story goes that the old s.s. Dupleix, alias
Jubilee, is to be fitted out for Klondyke under yet another
name. Most people would like her best as the Jubilee.
* * * *
Estimated Towers dividends for March will
reach £40,000 : Brilliant and St. George, Is. ; Day Dawn
Block, 9d. ; Queen Cross, 6d. ; and others already declared
since the Ist.
* * * *
Ravenswood (Q.) is being re-exploited. A new
co., the Lancashire Lass, has apparently a fair thing, two
trial crushings of 60 tons going 6oz. and over per ton.
For some hidden reason they are going to coax in J. Bull.


\U
ORIENT ' —
' ~ -s CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. /
SYDNEY.
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. EIRE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MQUNTCASTLE St SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Society
[?]tester
COCNA[?]
THE TROUBLES OF A NEW-CHUM.—"DRAFTING.”
S. M. Herald advt.
CjT. MATTHEW’S CHURCH, ALBURY.
0
A CURATE, if possible young and unmarried, re-
quired for Alburv from first Sunday in April ; town
and country work. Choral Services in parish church.
Hospital, Religious Instruction in Schools, Visiting,
C.E.T.S., and other parish organisations, &c. Stipend
equal to about £l6O p.a.
Address, Rev. Canon SPENCER, Albury.
It would surely have to be a very young and very
unmarried curate who, for =£3 a week, would at-
tempt to run parish church, C.E.T.S., Dorcas
Society, mothers’ meetings, the annual bazaar,
and all the rest of the saintly shows—risk his
health in hospital-visiting, swill afternoon tabby
tea, and deprive himself of every recreation that
could possibly interest a man. But on second
thoughts the natural and habitual interest of the
Dear Girls might compensate for everything. A
young and unmarried curate is the only Australian
allowed to spoon ninety-five nice maiden, at once.
That inconsequent aboriginal animal called
Woman continues to conduct herself m a manner
defying common sense. At Capella (C.Q.), the
other day, one of her species, enraged at the al-
leged infidelity of the man she was living with,
poured kerosene over her dress, lit herself, and
straightway departed to the faithful grave by a
route of great agony.
She filled with kerosene a little bottle holding about a
couple of inches ; then she let it drip down on her dress
in front; then she took a letter in her hand and got four
matches, and stood at the front door awhile ; then went
outside the door, shook hands with her child, kissed it,
and said “ Good-bye.” She then kissed witness, and said
“Good-bye.” She put her hand half-way down her
skirt, and as she was about to apply the match, witness
said “Look out, Mrs., you’ll burn your clothes.” She
then replied, “It’s all his fault, he is only to blame.”
She then touched her clothes with the match, and
Will it not be spoiling Woman to try and turn
her into a rational creature by way of the suffrage ?
Is she not infinitely more artistic as she is ?
* * Sc
Mrs. Brownlow, of the Wesleyan Foreign
Mission, tells Melbourne that there is a Social
Purity Society amongst the natives of Dobu in
Papua, and that the native girls are most earnest
and devoted in the Cause. How too awfully con-
soling ! Think of the Papuan damsel, attired in
two moral tracts and a nose-ring, out on the war-
path with her little auger, and with an inflamed
eye open for evidences of the lack of the new
mission-made morality amongst the blackest sheep
of the black flock. A Social Purity Society in
Papua—think of it! Yesterday the natives were
naked and unashamed; to-night they fox each
other under the trees. After all, the missionary
is very like the Australian rabbit-inspector who
provides for his future by carefully breeding bun-
nies. The former creates the sins he professes to
cure, and hangs on to Mrs. Grundy’s apron-strings
wherever he goes.
• * » «
Uni dor M • “ Tto nmifar j. .t • ,
, '~ o V* a^ > j ‘ writer begins to think
that the. bydney snob is a very large and gross
animal indeed. Recently he had occasion to
change his quarters, and an advertisement was
inserted in a Friday issue of S.M. Herald read-
ing ‘ Young man requires,’ &c. The results were
merely a few unsatisfactory replies. Cogitating
upon this, the advt. was re inserted on same day
of following week with the word ‘man’ omitted
in favor of ‘ gentleman.’ This was the only altera-
tion. Nearly 90 answers resulted this time,
* * * »
The Wpcilevan tvtaiu
Gonfeience at Melbourne,
rvuiu, -"'u i P el,bate cl e r ffy-
Colbn g w ood, with its 20,000 inhabitants, couldn’t
.he'confelS’Zio”' .S'ESSTdI
I* W
the old shepherds for the young ones. Y
She was a
servant - girl,
and devout;
but she loved
and wed a
policeman
who was of
another faith
—at a regis-
try-office, too.
Her spiritual
adviser took
her to task on
doctr i n a 1
grounds, but
got no satis-
faction. She
was too much
for him on
every point ;
so at last he
asked impa-
tien t 1 y :
“What did
you marry
this fellow
for, anyhow?”
“Faith, fath-
er, because he
was a rale
man.” The
cleric saw his
o p e n i n g.
“ And how
oou 1 d you
know he was
a real man
before you
married him,
I’d like to
k n o w ? ”
“ Faith and
sure, your re-
verence, he’d
never have
passed the
polis - docthor
if he wasn’t.”
A level-head-
ed woman.
* *
Parsons’
daughters
seem to run
naturally to
nurses —it is
genteel, you
know, and is
full of possi-
bilities and
this accounts for the remarkable interest which
ence, manifested in the local hospital squabble.
r 1
* * * *
G.B. : Rabbi Abrahams (Melb.) in the
Age says that the Jews do not object to inter-
marriage with Christians. He is at pains to
point out that the Rothschilds and other gilded
daughters of the Lord’s Chosen have married any
amount of betitled Christian swells. Which is ail
true, and proves that Abraham’s further conten-
tion that the Jews are loyal to their religion is
rubbish. The Jews, as Heine points out, have no
religion of the soul. It has its origin in the spine,
The Jew is a materialist—always was, and always
will be. And so his religion, and law, and dogma
may go hang when material advantages come
along. Baron Hirsch, standing in his salon to
receive his titled guests, said to his nephew, ‘All
these people will some day be our relations, or
our servants.’ The Jew is very patient. He
accommodates himself to his environment. And
he comes out on top.”
Dear B.—l support “Q.” re criminal
physiognomy. The criminal is no uglier
than the “strong,” gritty man in lawful
paths ; in fact, there’s a vast resemblance.
It’s a case of extremes meeting. In the
first place, the criminal is mostly made
after birth, and it’s the pick of the cradles
(big-jawed, full-blooded men) who run to
extremes either way; hence the likeness.
The plain, small-jawed, uninteresting law-
abider and the petty larcenist bear a family
resemblance also. The only difference,
generally speaking, is that one is too fright-
ened to steal and the other is too lazy to
work.—O.P.
» * * *
Noticeable that the Chow mar-
ried to or living with a white woman
nearly always dresses his youngsters
Chinese fashion. One would think
the lady would perceive the ad-
vantage of dressing them in
European style. But perhaps
John is boss.
* * 4c
Still another Maoriland doc-
tor is in trouble, the girl who
“fell,” and who asked him to per-
form the usual operation, having given
him away on her death-bed. Consider-
ing the absolute certainty that the girl
will give him away if things go wrong,
it might be safer if the medico
slaughtered her on her first visit and
buried her in the cellar.
* * * »
The tough colour - question a
backblock N.S.W. township lately
raised, by objecting to aboriginal child-
ren at the local State school, was raised
by Captain Neitenstein with regard to the
Sobraon many years ago. Then Neitenstein suc-
cessfully resisted the authorities when they en-
deavored to force convicted aboriginal boys on
board his training ship.
• * » *
There must be great depression in the
footpad branch of the thieving profession in Melb.
just now. The other evening two men waylaid a
N. Melb. citizen, and, after half-murdering him,
robbed him of a black bag he had been carrying.'
Shortly afterwards they went into a shop and
asked the proprietor to let them have two cooked
rabbits on the security of the bag. He gave them
the rabbits and sixpence, which they promptly
spent in beer. On the credit side of the trans-
action appear two cooked rabbits and two long-
beers ; on the debit side—probably two years in
Pentridge fpr each rabbit and a year for each
drink.
SHE COULD EMBRACE THEM ALL.
MRS. NEWWED (to very stout “wash lady ” who has caled for orders): “ So I see by
your bonnet you belong to the Army? ”
“Yes, mem; we praises the Lord and loves the General , but we ’opes as ’ow we’ll get all
the washin’.”
Frank A. Nankivell, who sojourned for
frf m Japan h ‘ s / ’ f
proceeding to Murka, gives a pretty bad account
of Kerristian mission work in the Mikado’s
country. The first thing that struck him on
arriving at Nagasaki was a palatial structure on
the Bluff, built by the local missionaries for the
accommodation of their blessed selves, with money
raised by the Methodist Episcopal Church of
America. The real purpose of this huge sub-
scription was a mission house; the actual result
was a missionary club (for lioth sexes), where the
Board’s anointed live like fighting cocks, whilst
dispensing the Word in a shabby little place hard
by. During the three hottest summer months
they enjoy a high old time in the mountains, along
with a handful of pupils. Lady missionaries
make no pretence of unworldiness. One of them
went into violent raptures over some unset pearls
which Mrs. Nankivell incautiously showed her.
They were such sweet loves of pearls that the
Kerristian spinster borrowed them to show to a
friend, and none of the precious articles came
THE FAMILY SECRET.
KURZE (who has confided the important secret to his
son): “ You go doll every ding I tole to you
to oder peoplcs-and now it dravels all roun-
de tam country.”
MICHAEL : “ Well, I’m not to blame fur that— I
tole ’em not to dell anybody else.”
back again. The borrower, after a long silence
and much impolite letter-writing on N'ankiveil’s
part, sent word that she was preaching the
Terewth in a distant town and had lost the
pearls. Nanki veil’s story reminds The Bul-
letin that a taste for jewellery and other vani-
ties soon become implanted in Jap converts—girl
converts, anyhow—who are taught drawing and
music, in addition to the ordinary “ plain ” edu-
DEAD BEFORE ITS TIME.
THE JUBILEE KANGAROO.
A LETTER FROM PRINCESS HELENA.
—Age Headlines.
They caught her on the ranges near the fields of Ballarat*
A socialistic savage, Austral-bred,
And they set themselves to train her to a good aristocrat
And a credit to the toney troop she led.
But it always was a source of secret trouble to Adair
That she wasn’t half as swagger as the Mounted Rifles
were.
They fSted her and feasted her, and paragraphed her well,
Around the town with lords and earls she rode ;
The Adair and she got chummy with the royal English
swells
And within the Windsor Palace she abode.
But she didn’t thrive with princes and the caste of Yere
de Vere,
For she wasn’t half as haw-haw as the Mounted Rifles
were.
So her eyes grew dim and glassy and her tail began to
lag,
And her somersaults grew weaker day by day,
Till at last upon her vitals the death-angel got a drag,
And while an empress wept she passed away.
And her soul, released from bondage, through 12,000
miles of air
Fled back to lowly Ballarat and Corporal Adair.
But the Duchess -Dressed the button till her secretary
came,
Thro’ whom Aaair was duly localised ;
And she sent a touching letter (in the secretary’s name),
Which has since been very richly advertised.
And Daisy’s soul is now a link which binds the Throne
and Heir
To the loyal Mounted Rifles and their Corporal Adair.
WEDDING HYMN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cold May gives place to rainy June,
And priests eomplot with nurses ;
Dull shades will mar Love’s frescoes soon,
Harsh notes will spoil his dainty tune,
Dead echoes haunt his verses.
Ah me, the times are fit for rhymes
With melancholy threaded,
The Muses moan in monotone,
For Mary’s to be wedded !
Had Love not played his cards so ill,
Fate’s footsteps would have faltered,
And then the light no years could kill
Had reigned in Grecian glory still,
Undying and unaltered.
Men’s modem lives are full of wives ;
Why could not one have tarried ?
Astarte weeps where Sappho sleeps —
For Mary’s to be married!
Vio.
THE PAGAN.


tfjjAvE You
ForCOTTEH
I p Hi i
I
A-
i®
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
■o OSE’S CELEBRATED
JSYB IOTIOZXT
STANDS A f.ONE
tot ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies; Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney, f# - Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
3for Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms oil Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, aland.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, AlmomlsyStnnmnto-Hafnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and lUillett).
CATANZARO LIQUORICE.
Wholesale Only
from
- v- *v *•«* •
HY. MARKWALD
11 Pitt-st ,
SYDNEY
178 Williani-st.,
MELBOURNE..;
H (Junie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
cation which ordinary, plain, unconverted Japs,
don’t get. The musical training is useful in an
unlooked-for direction. Girls from the mission-
school, it is said, drift naturally to wholesale
hpuses of ill-fame—Japan is very advanced in
bagnios—and there the little fallen Yum-Yums
attempt to enliven proceedings by playing and
sinking such excellent.songs as “We will gather
at the river.” They entertain their sinful visitors
w.ith the only songs they have learned at school,
and if “Golden hair was hanging down her back”
were included in the curriculum it would supply a
long-felt want. Many, dissolute globe-trotters
have been heard to complain that their early
reverence for “Abide with me” was shattered
when they heard Yum-Yum render it, to her own
pianoforte.accompaniment, in a pagan temple of
improprieties.
* * * *
Breweries seem to be a favorite form of
surreptitious investment among the unco’ guid of
holy Adelaide. The Cold-tea brother who is now
in parts unknown, when confronted with a hulk-
ing deficiency in his secretarial accounts, handed
over a brewery to the horrified trustees ; and, a
few years back, an ex-Wesleyan parson, who left
the church to carry on share-dealing on Godly
lines, was, when he came to grief, found to have
been chief shareholder in a suburban beer-factory.
Still another large brewery-shareholder in that
city a little while ago startled the travellers in a
railway sleeping-car by publicly going upon his
knees before he turned in, and praying long and,
by all appearances, with great fervor. Beware of
the man who prays publicly !
Talking of things to drink. Australian brandy
we know all about; where does the Australian
whisky go to? Who sells it, and under what
label is it put out? There is far more whisky
than brandy distilled in Australia, yet who ever
heard of Australian whisky in a public-house ?
* * * *
No wonder setter-carriers, &c., occasion-
ally annex postal-notes. One such, prosecuted at
Brighton (Melb.) police-court, March 11, was
shown to have been in the P.O. seven years, and,
though nearly 30, was paid the princely wage of
235. per week. But “ there is no dissatisfaction
in the service,” says Minister Duffy.
Dr. ON LEE , Sydney's Chinese Doctor.
Photo., Stewart & Co., Melbourne.
When Alderman John Norton set out to
liven things up in Sydney City Council, he
couldn’t have hit upon a more-promising buck-up
than the City-organist. The camelopardian Wie-
gand was right on the job at £very question, and
the emphatic “ Jamais! ” with which he repu-
diated every suggestion of his being actuated by
the slightest regard for any interests save those of
Auguste Wiegand was positively refreshing in
these days of bogus altruism. Not a whit more
reticent, either, was the ingenuous A. W. about his
opinion of his own musical merits. Save himself,
he was reported as saying, there are no good
organists in Australia, but this, he now asserts,
was a misapprehension, due to his “no spek Eng-
lees mooch.” What he intended to convey, he
explains, was not any absolute estimate of the
merits of the local “grinders,” but merely that
none of them are in the same street with such top-
nofchers as Best, Guilmant, Stainer, and—pre-
sumably— Wiegand. But the good old “no
savee!” device will hardly convince the public
that in thus —even, as he makes out, indirectly—
reflecting on the musical reputations of other
able players, Mons. Wiegand has not been really
reflecting on his own. All the same, how-
ever, the Belgian gentleman differs only from
the ordinary long-haired man of music in that he
isn’t afraid to say straight-out about himself what
the other fellow only thinks about himself. But,
then, Wiegand wears his hair short 1
Dear Bulletin. —Evident that the enquiry into
the Sydney city organist’s position was born of
the falling-off in receipts at the organ-recitals.
The reason is not far to seek. Organist Wiegand’s
gavottes, operatic transcriptions, &e., and even his
storm-effects are palling upon the public. The
council must do as other caterers for public
amusement do—introduce novelties if they wish
to make money out of the recitals. A few sug-
gestions. A number of shower-baths to be fixed
up in the Town Hall ceiling so that the organist,
by drawing a stop, can turn them all full on at
the proper moment. A quantity of stage-light-
ning to be procured. A canvas-scene represent-
ing a huge ark to be erected in front of the organ.
The city-organist, got up as the patriarch Noah, to
perform a fantasia, invented by Clement Wragge
and transcribed for the organ (by Wiegand) to be
called “ The Deluge.” It would add much to the
effect if the aldermen marched in two by two, to
represent the animals and creeping things enter-
ing the ark. Another matter. If the city council
has given Wiegand the opportunity of expressing
his opinion upon local organists, it has also given
certain local organists the opportunity of express-
ing their opinions upon Wiegand ; and as it is
only fair that the reverse of the medal should be
thus shown, I beg to suggest that a committee of
local organists be formed and given power to
, examine the aldermen as to their private and
candid opinions of each other both as men and as
administrators of civic affairs. Such opinions
would form interesting reading to the ratepayers.
— J. A. Delany.
* • • •
What could it have been? (Overheard.)
Ikey, seated on the verandah, addressing his
family around him, “ I dink it was a Christian
act! ”
“In Auckland, M.L.,” writes a
full-flavored liar to The Bulletin,
“ the helplessly-drunken man is so nu-
merous that the police will arrest only
those of him who lie across the pave-
ment, establishing an obstaclefor short-
sighted old ladies with heavy parcels
to fall over. The drunk who carefully
lays his incapacitated carcase parallel
with the street rests unmolested by the
weary ‘trap.’”
E.K. : That’s a touching story
of the Victorian engine-driver seeing,
too late, the doomed, smiling child up
on the line. I know another one, but
not so touching. Two train-men, cros-
sing a closed road over a railway-line,
found a man spread across the rails.
He was dead—drunk. The last train
was just due. They lifted the body
gently, carried it to a place of safety,
and revived it. Its first words were :
“You pair of damned thieves! Where’s
my hat ? ” Then the train-men re-
treated : and the drunk followed,
swearing he would have their blood or
his hat. The men say that the look
upon that man’s face will haunt them
till they snuff out.
* * »
A Southern suburban jeweller
grumbles that the wife of a certain
Important Personage shows too much
consideration for the feelings of com-
mon shopkeepers. The other week he
took quite half -a - crown’s - worth of
trouble in repairing a trinket for the
lady in question, who wouldn’t think
of insulting him, she said, with an
offer of payment for a “ little job like
that.” If she had thought of insult-
ing him, the poor man would have
swallowed the affront thankfully.
At Sale (Yic.) assizes “a respectable-
looking young man ” pleaded guilty to stealing
two letters from the Foster P.O. Accused said
he had been nine years in the service and ranked
as a telegraph-messenger, though he acted as an
operator and had handled much money in connec-
tion with the P.O. Savings Bank. His salary
was £o per month, and he had applied to be re-
moved to a place where living was cheaper ; he
paid 18s. 6d. a week for his board, and sent 10s. a
month to his mother, which left him about 2s. a
week wherewith to clothe and enjoy himself. Then
he fell and got 18 months’ without the option of
the First Offenders’ Act, Justice Hood stating
that it was necessary to come down on him heavily
to prevent others “ falling.” How can a man be
honest on starvation wages and with hundreds of
pounds passing through his hands ?
* * • *
Yic. Customs-department is just now suffer-
ing from the ill effects of a consignment of bad
salmon. The shipment was arrested on suspicion,
and the few tins that were subjected to examina-
tion made the establishment unapproachable for
many days. The department’s difficulty lies in
the fact that it cannot allow the fish to go into
consumption, and it cannot condemn it without
proving every tin to be bad, and it can’t prove
every tin to be bad without opening thousands
and thousands of them, and it can’t open these
tins because the resulting smell would blight even
Smellbourne, and spread disease and death
throughout the land. An attempt has been made
to sell the salmon by auction, but no one wanted
that vast accumulation of decayed fish, and there
seems nothing left for the customs but to re-label
the stuff and sell it to the Chinese population as a
new perfume.
A tale of a
persecuted girl
comes from
Maoriland. She
was engaged to
a clerk but the
marriage was
postponed for
want of suffi-
cient salary,
and in the in-
terval of wait-
ing extraordin-
ary things began
to happen.
Notices of her
marriage, of the
birth of a child
and of her death
were inserted in
the local papers.
Letters poured
in accusing her
of dreadful sins,
and threatening
violence; and at
last one evening
wild screams in
the kitchen
brought the
family out at a
run, to find their
daughter dren-
ched with soapsuds,
and with her hair
cut off. According
to her own report,
a person, who is
still at large, had
emptied the liquid
over her, then
streamed, round the
kitchen draggingher
behind him, and had
finally cut off hex
tresses and departed.
He left no footmarks,
and no one saw him
.escaping down the road.
Also, the writing in the
abusive letters is said to be very JUce that
of the persecuted heroine herself. Any-
how, a girl with very little on her head
except a dark suspicion is still waiting
till circumstances allow of her marriage.
Advts. following each other in a recent
Melb. Age :
T F fated sundered for ever, in life, in death, I shall
-*- never, never cease to love thee. Had we wings
like doves, could not be parted there.
TF Ada Bull does not correspond with her husband,
-*- John Edward Bull, within 14 days from this date,
he intends to marry again. J. E. Bull.
How cold, hard, business-like reality knocks the
flowery stuffing out of Romance ?
•»* * •
Sydney Daily Telegraph's new young
man, laboriously working up the agony over the
Rook wood ease :
DISCOVERY OF THE CRIME.
Two men on the front verandah, waiting for their
orders, sat talking in light-hearted tones of what the
day’s work was to be. They were grave-diggers.
The increasing struggle among the daily press to
write up to the standard of the “ Dead wood Dick ”
novelette makes all other professions seem joyous
and laughter-crowned. The light-hearted grave-
digger ! The gay, spontaneous, volatile child of
nature ! Discussing the prospective day’s work —
trifling airily with suggestions of many stiffs, to
come, and exchanging badinage on differing
methods of ramming ’em down.
* * * *
How the Kelly case has scared the Sydney
dailies ! From an E. News report of the Rook-
wood murder :
The woman was quite conscious, and said that the
murder had been committed by , a
married man, residing at the corner of Victor and Vic-
toria streets, Rookwood. , she said, was em-
ployed at the cemetery until lately, but was discharged
on Tuesday. It is said, however, that his discharge was
not altogether the reason for h ; s rash act. There was a
question of jealousy. —, it is said, knew Mrs.
King before she was married; in fact, Mrs. King used to
live with Mr. and Mrs. at one time in Melbourne.
But even with this scrupulous sub-editing the
News didn’t know enough to crawl out of the
wet. If mention of Martin Cusack’s name would
have constituted a libel, any reference to his place
of residence might also be taken as a legal trans-
gression.
ISAACLY SO!
“You’re down late this morning, Isaac.”
“Yes; I tink I slept-over myself.”
* * * *
FT, ; “ The most common fallacy is that
people will not subscribe money for religion. Fact
is they are only too ready, when they have an
idea that the cash is for something tangible—not
merely to provide more baby-linen for the teeming
wife of the parson. Take the India and China
Mission, head-quarters in Melb. A month or two
ago they sent away 30 young people—a good
majority ladies. Now the funds are heaped up so
again that the mission calls for volunteers. The
strange thing is that nobody is asked for money.
No bazaar canoodles. Only the prayer-wheel is
trundled, a la Muller, of the Bristol Orphanages.
The money comes in big gulps, chunks, like ‘ One
hundred pounds in thanksgiving for the birth of
a daughter.’ Fact.”
* * * *
Litigants concerned in a District-court case
to have been held in a N.Q. town recently were
put to much trouble and expense through the non-
arrival from Brisbane of the Judge who was to
preside over it—reason being that, after boarding
the steamer, his Honor objected to the fact that
she carried a few stud-rams on the forecastle. If
the sheep were not shifted, the functionary
said, he wouldn’t sail in the vessel. And they
weren’t, and he didn’t, and people up North are
wondering how much more of this sort of thing
the camel’s back will stand.
* • * •
A testimonial from one M‘Shane, handed
uptoN.S.W. Judge Docker one day last week,
bore witness that M‘Shanehad known the accused
for many years as a steady, respectable young
man.” The accused was aged 16.
• * • »
Dear Bulletin. —There is a cottage-hospi-
tal in my little town, governed by a board
composed largely of local storekeepers. The
chairman is the contractor for the supply of
groceries, bread, &c. ;'the secretary, who, in addi-
tion to a salary, is entitled to a percentage of the
money he collects, is also a governor and
contractor for the supply of drapery.
Other people are allowed to tender for
these supplies if they think it worth
while. The nurse can send back to
the contractor any inferior articles
supplied if she thinks it worth
while. I never heard of the go-
vernors accepting any tenders ex-
cept their own; I suppose they
reluctantly rejected the others
as informal. Also, I never
heard of the nurse sending
anything back. The annual
meeting was held recently,
and five governors were elec-
ted for the ensuing year. The
chairman stood at the door,
and decided off-hand whether
the people who wanted to
come in were really sub-
scribers or not. One man
'was ejected on the ground that he had only
for the erection of the new wing—
he wasn’t a subscriber to the whole hospital, but
only to a part of it. That chairman was re-elected
—a man who had such a gift for picking the voters
could hardly help being re-elected. This hospital
receives Government aid on the £ for £ principle.
—Down South.
* * * *
Dear B.—ls it so certain, when muti-
lated bodies are found on railway and tram-lines,
that they have been killed in situ ? May not some
of them have been murdered before they reach the
lines? —E.M.. c “
AT THE POST-OFFICE.
The blazing street was all aglow ;
A crowd, three-parts cremated,
Stood clustered round the G.P.0.,
And girls predominated.
I sought the reason of the rush
Of skirts and hats and veils,
One answered with a dainty blush—
“ We’re waiting for the males !”
W.H.O.
TWO FANDEMS
FOR THE BULLETIN
Jack in front and Jill behind
On a tandem paced the wind,
Paced it all the afternoon
Homeward spun ’neatb rising moon.
“ Hope you liked the outing, dear ? ”
Jack inquired in tones of cheer ;
Then lie staged in wild surprise
Tears stood in his sweetheart’s eyes!
“Yes, ’tilths lovely all the way.
Quite a scrumptious holiday .
But the finish makes me mad,
Spoilt it all—it was too bad I ” j
•• Why. yourself you chose the pace
Jack exclaimed, with puzzled face ;
But sfle flung aside her hat,
Sobbed, and kicked a passing cat.
Then, between her sobs, said Jill,
“ Everything was grand until
Helen's tandem passed ns by,
And 1 caught her scornful eye.
*•'Tis her boast that men l are toys.
That she ne’er runs after boys ,
That the girl \vlift'd make a stir
Lets the boys run after her.
So her scorn I quick divined—
You in front and 1 behind ’
While she flew the tramway track
With her boy behind her back
H.C.C.
REVISED.
I stood behind the circle row
Where powdered ladies, very human,
Their arms, and necks, and bosoms show,
And think : “ ’Tis true if rendered so :
‘The apparel oft proclaims the woman.’”
S.S.


m
m
SN
□3
WHEN
A BOOT
FITS
it wears
better than
when it doesn’t.
When a Boot fits,
ft there is no unneces-
'• sary strain on any one
j part. The Natural Shape
‘ of the Foot is provided for.
Every pair of CALLAGHAN
BOOTS is made to stand the
severest strain and the severest
weather. Our stock is so varied that
we can guarantee to comfortably fit any
feet which bring the owner to us, and will
send sizes on approval to others.
We want to double the number of our
Customers before January, 1899.
Ladies' Tan Autumn Boots, 15/6, 17/6,19/6, 25/-
Ladies’ Tan Autumn Shoes, 10/6, 13/6,16/6,18/6
Men's Tan Autumn Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-,. 28/6
Men’s Tan Autumn Shoes, 15/6, 18/6, 23/6
CALLAGHAN 8c SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 40.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “ Travellers*
Gazette” and ‘‘Sailing List’* to
THOS. COOK & SON.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 23, 1898.
Mi Deak Myee—
The Ladies’ Club clashed tea-cups last week for
the first time this season. The hostess was Mrs.
Kearney, owner and promoter of the Jubilee Ode
that found its way to Windsor, despite Baron
Carington’s graceless refusal to swell the
cwts. of loyal tributes from Victoria’s adoring
poets and artists. A wintry-looking afternoon
would have lent a touch of sombreness to the
Salon suite, if the floral and other decorations had
not bethought themselves to cheerfully repeat the
ode in blue-and-red chiffon and red roses. The
sombreness was not lifted much by the dressing,
which struck one big black note, for the most part.
Why do women rush into black frocks whenever
the sun goes under a cloud, and miss their only
chance to blend a little crimson or orange into the
faded landscape ?
The crush in the little tea-room was hot and
strong, and the search for new premises has not
begun too soon. Visitors poured in through the
afternoon and were treated lavishly to singing
and pianoforte playing. Miss Edward Deane,
Mrs. Edwards, and Mrs. Kingsmill-Shaw carolled
amiably at intervals. The hostess, at the special
request of her guests, recited two touching poems,
“ Rock me to sleep, mother, rock me to sleep,”
and “Told in the Work-’us,” by “ Billy’s Rose ”
Sims. Which recalls that no Sydney woman has
yet shown herself sufficiently emancipated to
declaim Sims’ “ Ostler Joe ” in public. The
gathering included many well-known leaders of
cults and chiffons, the cults winning by a neck.
The title, Victoria Salon, has gone a little rusty
of late. “Ladies’ Club” is the handle by which
the nettle is most often grasped. But perils lurk
in the seeming simplicity of the latter label. As
a high-class Englishwoman pointed out to her
sister-clubbers, the other day, a ladies’ club is
exposed to the same dark danger that damages a
man’s. Whenever a mercurial male has a tur-
quoise tale to tell he exonerates himself by saying
that he “heard it at the club.” If women once
begin to talk scandal and give the name of their
club, not necessarily for publication but merely as
a token of good faith —I forget what the nice,
clean Englishwoman said was to happen then, but
it’s something worth avoiding, even if you are
only the one scandalized.
Florence Schmidt, the urilliant native-born
Queensland soprano, whose auricomous tresses
join with Arny Sherwin’s in loudly proclaiming
the arrival of the copper-boom, has been hard at
work since her last concert in Sydney. The out-
come of her work is a concert-tour round her
native Bananaland, which took her off by boat
last Tuesday, and will keep her away from Sydney
till the end of May. With a pluck—ginger for
pluck—worthy of so good a cause, she has
arranged the whole of this trip herself, is her own
manager all over the country, and has no . one to
back her up anywhere. If successful in Queens-
land she will leave Sydney for Europe before the
end of the year. There are rumors of a benefit
for her later on, and she deserves one, if only for
making a name without a patron’s hall-mark.
Apart from the beauty of her voice, Miss Schmidt
has made herself celebrated in Sydney by cour-
teously but definitely declining to sing even ’* one
little song to please me ” when off her concert-
platform.
Much criticism, chiefly feminine, follows such a
oourse as naturally as a cat follows a mutton-pie-
man. But who would ask an artist for a picture,
or an author for a book, “just to please me”?
The clamorers for free songs support themselves
under the assertion that it’s no effort for a singer
to sing, forgetting that songs, though fleeting, are
as marketable artistic wares as poems or pictures
—aye, more marketable. The fact is, that when
an artist has once put herself and her work
on .the exchanges, the public would show better
taste in asking her for her brooches, or her boots,
than for her singing.
In “The Manxman,” Maud Jeffries walked
about her native island with a swagger and a roll
that would have graced a good old salt after a
three months’ voyage and no shipwreck. All her
weight was cast heavily on to one small foot; then
a lurch and a heave-to, and a slow and solemn
bringing of it round to the other foot. That fas-
cinated me even in the face of the most adorable
old Methodee ever let loose from a den of saints and
humbugs. I couldn’t make up my mind whether
the roll, and the heavy awkwardness of gait, in
action and repose, were specially invented by Miss
Jeffries for the part of the rustic Kirry ; and held
over judgment till I saw “Claudian.” But in
“ Claudian ” the roll was almost a baby-rocking.
Not even blindness, that keeps most people still,
could induce Almida to trust her weight to two
feet at once.
Miss Jeffries shows her beauty to more advan-
tage as Almida. than as Kirry Kate. The
long dark hair frames her charming face more
suitably than Kirry’s falling knob, and the wreath
of vine-leaves is more fetching than the rustic
sun-bonnet. In the prologue, where she is only
Serena, pale-blue draperies testify to the fact that
dark-haired women should wear blue, if their eyes
are anything approaching cerulean. (The pro-
gramme, by the way, asserts that Miss M‘Carthy
does Serena, but I decline to credit the statement.
If one lady could look so like another jlady with-
out being the other lady, then neither lady can
possibly know which lady she is). Later on,
when the drama begins, and she is Serena Almida,
a classic robe, that blends becomingly primrose
and marigold yellows, makes a bright adjunct to
the betrothal scene. After her blindness she ,
wears grey, of course. All blind stage-ladies do.
But it is a mistake, for such unanimity of color
makes you feel that they can see a little out of one
eye. Pretty Daisy Belmore is a well-dressed
incongruity beside her dirty little Belos. As for
the slaves—well, I’ve always had a weakness for
slaves, but the only one among these who was
dressed according to her station was the girl
in a pair of striped window-curtains with the
fringe cut off and sewn on again for trimming.
The males were all extinguished in the light of the
great, high, awful Claudian and the curse that
follows him about like a valet. Indeed, the whole
play seemed to me like one big elocution made to
give W.B. a show. I came home happy, though,
after I had seen that the Philip of the “ Manx-
man ” is punished for the melancholy spectacle he
made of himself in that stage of life by being
transmigrated into a Chinese Jap. in this one.
A cheerfully-crowded house watched Monday’s
performance, but the d.c. shuffled uneasily under
the glances of a lady in the first row, with a life-
sized octopus standing upright on her golden hair.
The creature was feeding on a white sea-weed that
might have been lilies-of-the-valley if you got near
enough. Latest reports on hair-dressing don’t
mention the octopus, but we must set a few
fashions of our own. Hair crimped all over is
still de rigueur, and the dressing is of such arca-
dian simplicity that you have only to pin your
hair to the top of your head and put your hat on.
Nothing shows but the crimps. As for the hats
themselves, everything is to be velvet, and every-
thing is to be small. Toques will be run to death
this winter—they can be so easily imitated with a
snippet of velvet and a feather from the old wliitB
hen—but they are to be worn until they die, and
brilliant blues and crimsons are the leading colors.
For once Russia has a say in the world’s dressing,
and the moujik reigns supreme this season. The
orthodox coat and skirt gives way at last to a
Russian bodice that pouches back and front, and
is belted any way you like. It is a little terrify-
ing to wonder what we’ll wear when Germany
takes the lead.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Albani recently wrote to Melbourne’s chari-
table widow-in-chief expressing a desire to visit
the local Women’s Hospital. The committee
duly arranged that the artist, with one or two
other ‘ tony ’ people, should be greeted with after-
noon tea and a beautiful basket of flowers, doubt-
less in anticipation of the song to come. But
somehow the diva, after shedding a sympathetic
smile on the patients, most of whom are too poor
to attend concerts at any time, failed to take a
hint that her warble would be thankfully received.
Antoinette Sterling, of yore, erred in the other
direction. When Antoinette visited hospitals she
was apt to sing until the sufferers felt worse instead
of better.
“ There was a murmur that Albani was going
to sing at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. Straightway
a religious boom set in. No church but St. Pat.’s
was high enough for fashionable Melb. on that
particular Sunday. The verger was ecstatic, as
wave after wave of the Very Nicest swept down
the aisle. Probably he imagined the heretics were
at last seeing the error of their ways. But no
Albani sang ! Even the dulcet tones of Arch-
bishop Carr compensated not for the disappoint-
ment.
“ Social Melbourne is very eager to know whom
Uncle Tom will bring back with him as aides-de-
camp. Long Dicky Neville talks of staying on,
but is not iu himself sufficient to make “a staff.”
Brassey should get certificates of moral character
with his next batch of aides, and have them war-
ranted (by at least a bishop) to keep going in good
order under the temptations of Government
House life. The average vice-regal aide, like the
cynic in the comedy, seems to be able to resist
everything but temptation.
“ A certain bride’s and bridegroom’s ears must
have tingled the whole of last week, for they were
the sole topic of tea-table tattle, and, of course,
everybody knew all about everything to the most
private details. It was related how he had been
trying to wriggle out of it, and had even written,
a few weeks ago, asking the lady to release him,
but without avail. Another rumor had it that
the lady was the struggler who pined for freedom,
because she had a better catch in view. Anyhow,
everybody was quite certain one was an unwilling
victim, so they rushed to see the sacrifice, and
watched every detail of it with great gusto, as the
dear creatures do, for, despite the veneer of
civilisation, there is still the dash of cruelty in
their natures which caused them in old times to
enjoy a gladiatorial combat or witch-burning.
“ Cricket has not been the only pastime the
English cricketers have enjoyed out here. Several
of the team have been keen in their pursuit of
easier game. One at least takes home a legal
partner, and the captain drops hints that he may
take a little jaunt out here a few months hence on
particular and purely private business connected
with a lady, and will not return alone. Now the
firls are agog to find out who the charmer is, for
toddy knows how to hold his tongue, and will
.not gratify curiosity and reveal her name. The
best - informed waver between two, and are
busily trying to ferret out whether it is that fetch-
ing Sydney girl, or a smart Melbourne widow.
One of the younger amateurs can quite hold his
own with the fair sex, but does not seem to have
been positively snared, and at least two of the
professionals are quite Lotharios with the ladies.
If they are not hooked, one by a Melb. girl, the
other by one from a sister capital, it is not for
want of attentions on the players’ parts.
“English cricketer Maclaren’s wedding was
simply a shindy, quite appropriate on St. Patrick’s
Day. Being a half-holiday, every little factory-
girl was able to get away, and I think nearly
everyone started out for Christ Church, for
a rumor was persistently circulated that
Ranji was going to appear as best-man in
full Indian dress, and great was the desire to see
him so arrayed. Every approach to the church
was blocked an hour before the time, and Maclaren
and his best-man had the pleasure of running the
gauntlet amid perfectly audible remarks such as
‘Poor chap, he looks pretty miserable,’or ‘Ain’t
he a toff!’ Disappointment spread when it was
seen that no bediamonded Oriental was with him,
but still they hoped and quite persuaded them-
selves that the fair-moustachioed swell was only a
chance friend, and that the best-man had yet to
come. Every door was kept doubly locked, but
the crowd rushed from one to the other, impo-
tently beating a tattoo upon them and demanding
admission. Then the guests’ carriages began to ar-
rive and to try and force a way through the crowd.
Presently some extra-shiny chimney-pots were
seen slowly making their way through the throng,
and the cricketers burst into view. There was a
gasp of disappointment when it was seen that
Ranji was not gorgeous in Eastern garb, but was
arrayed in the solemn glory of immaculate frock-
coat and topper. The bride, with her pretty little
attendants, drove up and was admitted at the big
door, then the crowd managed to get in, and the
interior was chaos, so much so that the clergyman
(he had been carried right off his legs during one
of the early meles) had to expostulate in the
midst of the ceremony and ask them to stand
down from the seats —and none too soon, for many
showed a decided disposition to mount even
higher, and pulled monkey-faces at the parson
when he ventured to reprove them. The bridal
dress was handsome and voluminous, and the
bridegroom was pale and nervous-looking, even
under his tan. A decidedly lengthy choral
service tied them up securely, then they es-
sayed the journey down the crowded church.
Outside once more the same scramble and push
were repeated. The cricketers thought to escape
by going out through the vestry to the side-street,
and their manccuvre would have succeeded but
that their wagonette, blocked by the crowd in
Toorak-road, was literally mobbed by numbers of
sweet young things who drove them back to the
vestry, where they waited until the vehicle could
be freed. Meanwhile, the professionals, who were
in the church, got away almost unnoticed. Ap-
parently not honored by an invite to the house,
they were not rigged out in tell-tale frock-coat
and tile, but bravely sported their straws with
the team’s colors and big St. Patrick’s badges.
“ Girls pretty and plain, old and young, from
Toorak as well as Collingwood, swarmed to that
wedding. For once a bride and her following
played second-fiddle, though the childish “maids”
made a bold bid for notice with their floral bats,
Lancastrian roses, and English cricket-badges
enamelled on presentation bangles. Petticoated
critics merely glanced at the heroine of the hour
to disparage her looks after the amiable habit of
the sex, and lavish gratuitous pity on the ‘poor’
26-year-old bridegroom who, judging by appear-
ances, had hastened to his wedding as short-
tempered as usual. On the other hand, Ranji,
beautiful as a bronze butterfly, flashed his ivories
good-humoredly throughout even when she-
worshippers, pressing close enough to detect his
pock-pits, audibly lamented his consequent ‘coarse-
ness’ of skin. His cab-companions were Stoddart,
Mason, and Druce. The English captain had not
treated himself to a new suit for the occasion.
People say (this is another version) that he himself
is to wed wealthy wicketkeeper Phillipson’s sister
as soon as he gets ’Ome, so p’r’aps he shrinks from
full-dress rehearsals. Gay young Druce ‘ had ’em
all on,’ and looked as blooming as a rain-washed
rose.
.“ As soon as the crowded-out bridal party had
struggled out to their carriages, the enthusiastic
scrowgers tore down the floral cricket-symbols used
to decorate the church. After 10 minutes of
steady demolition, the bats and balls and wickets
were carried away in little bits, and the scene of
vegetable wreckage was truly awful. For months
to come the bedroom mantelpiecein scoresof homes
will bear a treasured little faded flower as a
momento of the cricket wedding. An event of
that sort is Life to suburban girls. The
bride’s mother, Mrs. R. Power, was striped in
black and white, and several other matrons showed
the same colors. The superstition against black
at weddings is dead. A dashing young matron
in a velvet tail-coat and cocked hat made a fancy-
dress impression. Frocks were numerous in grey
—a devastating tint to sallow girls. It was a
silver wedding, as far as the presents could make
it so.
“ At the Maclaren marriage, Baronet Clarke’s
youngest sister was one of the child bridesmaids.
Miss Clarke, in the becoming blend of mauve and
grey provided for the Macdonald-Greene nup-
tials, sat outside in a carriage rather than face the
crush. As usual, the Brasseys sent along their
photographs, framed ‘for this occasion only.’ In
the gift line, Kumar Shri Ranjitsinhji came out
strong with a solid silver salver and coffee-service.
“Lent must be quite out of fashion, for, just
now, the Nicest are marrying and giving in mar-
riage like wildfire. At a recent extremely high-
class function of the kind, the bride wore the
gorgeous Court dress in which she looks forward
to being ‘ presented ’ when she gets to London.
Lady Brassey is said to have lent her own ‘ draw-
ing-room ’ rig-out as a model, and the result will
no doubt impress Y.R.I. properly when the time
comes—though, as a wedding-garment, it was only
glittersome, theatrical and pompous.
“‘Cricket-girls ’ see n as if they could neither
forget nor forgive the matrimonial capture of a
famous batsman. Numberless unkind explana-
tions are given of the hero’s undoing, but the
popular version has it that long ago, when her
cricketer first made her the subject of love’s
golden dream, the bride of nowadays was a very
thickly-gilt heiress, and in those days, so runs the
legend, an unfeeling parent forbade the match.
As for marriages in Lent, some people point to
the high-life tragedy of t’other week as an awful
warning. The bridegroom, parson, guests, etc.,
you remember, were gathered in Toorak church
waiting for the tardy bridal party, when word
came that the bride’s young brother had accident-
ally shot himself in the head. Everything was
put off for the moment. Report says, however,
that the ceremony was privately celebrated that
evening, and you can’t wonder, considering that
it’s nearly a year since the unlucky young things
began trying to get married —to be prevented,
first, by her sister’s death, then by a parent’s ill-
ness, and now by this boy’s fatal accident.
“ Elsie Hall played on her piano at the Town
Hall on Saturday night, before an audience so
chatterless and well-behaved that it probably
holds a good place for a world's record in that
respect. It was so still that it reminded me of a
Quakers’ meeting and ‘ the uncommunicating
muteness of fishes.’ And it didn’t demand a
second help of every dish offered it, but discrimi-
nated, knowing that a girl who has just worked
her passage through a Bach fugue must require a
short interval for rest and refreshment before she
tackles her next number. Elsie Hall treats the
last century music-writers in a spirit that makes
?ou want to curtsey and say, ‘I protest, madam,
am vastly obleeged for your fine performance.’
She isn’t at all a worshipper of ThortheHammerer,
or a follower of the cataclysmic modern key-crashing
school. Even Liszt, as she plays him, sounds
quite sane. Benno Scherek, whose hair fluffs out
like a German silver halo round his brow, helped
Miss Hall at a second piano in a concerted piece,
and their ‘ touches ’ agreed wonderfully. Ida
Osborne sang in a white-and-emerald St. Patrick’s
night frock ; and Gertrude Summerhayes fiddled
satisfactorily, also in white —which virgin tint was
worn by all the ladies performing. W. J. Turner
suggestively gave a slumber-song as an organ solo,
but the organ was quite wakeful. Signor Rebot-
taro’s son, a slim Italian youth, made a good
second to baritone Pauli in one of the new arrival’s
favorite numbers. Govt. House and the Mayor
and Mayoress made one party of it in the front
row.
“The Govt. House party came late, but the
offenders are leaving us on Tuesday (22nd), so it
won’t happen again in a hurry. The leading lady
of the group wore black, and almost atoned by
her animation for the lethargy of her lord. Poor
old thing ! he seemed suffering from his wonted
evening complaint, palpably pining for ‘ beddy-
bye ! ’ The most sensible thing for him to do
aboardship would be to roll himself up like a
dormouse and have his sleep out. But, of course,
he won’t. By the time this is printed, he’ll most
likely be helping to navigate the Ormuz to
Albany, and fussing like a cat on hot bricks.
At the concert he was only seen to smile twice.
First of all, when the excited young pianiste’s
nose began to bleed and her ma kept sooling
manager Turner on to the platform with relays of
handkerchiefs for her afflicted child. The per-
former stuck pluckily to her post until the clouds
rolled by. Scherek was at the other piano, and
perhaps his matter-of-fact German method of
beaming benevolently through his pince-nez upon
the progress of so minor a malady, had a soothing
effect. His placid demeanor recalled a Teutonio
teacher who said to his pupil when her hair came
down at lesson : * What is it if a lady’s hairs falls
down? Now, if a lady’s hairs falls off, it might
be somedings ! ’
“ At the Austral Salon convention on Thursday
evening last an extra frill was tacked to the pro-
ceedings as the occasion was the annual meeting
(they hold them once a month). So the minutes
were a programmed item, printed in large caps.
Lady Berry was in the chair in black silk, and it
was a cheerful gathering with Elsie Hall turned
on at the piano and some musical etceteras. A
bright spot in the evening’s proceedings was a
playlet, ‘Cornered, a.d. 1998,’ by Evelyn Gough,
performed by the authoress and a young
Bracy. This trifle is No. 3 of Mrs. Gough’s
efforts, all of which have been ‘ tried on
the dog ’at the Salon most successfully. The
lady has some original ideas, which ought to
work up well in the form of a drama.
Her first was a lively skit on the Brudenell-Bruce
damsel and the other girl who wanted to be
sailors. Her women-characters wore nautical
togs, and the dialogue was briny and breezy.
‘ Cornered ’ deals with the next century notions :
marriage is off, a social contract its substitute,
and suicide under certain conditions legal. The
hero and the heroine proceed to shuffle off this
mortal coil under the Act, but ultimately don’t.
Marriage and suicide aren’t remarkably farcical
topics, but Evelyn Gough’s little play rattled the
old bones to lively tunes. She wastes these clever
trifles on futile amateur shows. Isn’t there any
money in them as curtain-raisers ?
“‘Commencement Day’ gave the undergrads,
their yearly chance of being ‘as funny as they
can' without fear of retaliation. They worked
hard on Saturday to make the most of their
precious opportunity. Special credit is due to
‘ the Precentor,’ a hardy, vivacious person, for his
gallant efforts to broach the hidden fount of
laughter by means of a human shin-bone, festooned
with ribbons—not forgetting, of course, the jaw-
bone of an ass. Chancellor Madden was highly
impressive in his official array. The solemnity of
the black-and-gold magnificence counteracted to
a T the comic touch imparted to his every-day
aspect by a cut-away nose and funny little
curls, brushed up at the back to cover
his baldness, like ‘ pretty cocky’s ’ comb.
As usual on ‘Commencement Day,’ people took
pleasure in pointing out the plainness of girl-
graduates. For one thing, most of the damsels
are aware that hard, black trenchers are not be-
coming to their pale cheeks and unfrizzed hair, so
they stand about bareheaded in quadrangles and
places, while blazing sunshine shows up every
little freckle and crowsfoot. Florence Stillwell,
mathematical exhibitioner at last matriculation,
is the prettiest of this year’s fresh women. In her
case, gown and trencher make a becoming setting
for peachy cheeks, deep-blue eyes, and wavy
brown hair, but, to make assurance doubly sure,
she ties a rose-colored ribbon coquettishly round
her neck.
“ When Miss Greene married Baronet Clarke’s
brother-in-law, the Brasseys, as usual, cheerfully
contributed portraits of themselves and small
child to the gift-show. In olden times, the bride
was complimented by Gov. Hopetoun on her
effective dressing. Afterwards she turned her
talents to financial account, but her own wedding-
gown, exquisitely embroidered by hand in pearl
and silver, surpassed all previous triumphs.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £4- 4 s -
Catalogues Free.
■■
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE ZtsT-E'W SECIPMEITTS
—OP—
FOSTEB’S ALE
JUST ARRIVED BY STEAMER.
IN SPLENDID CONDITION . .
. . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Of the 700 R.C. nuns in Australia over 600
are natives of the country.
Sydney has a constable named Jugwell.
Evidently a born policeman.
Daniel Kenna, of Bathurst, who died last
week in his 102nd year, was the oldest N.S. Wales
J .P.
“ A disgrace to the Empire ! ” is how one
irate aristocrat sums up a certain Australian
Governor.
Stoddart in Melbourne : “ I have lived for
nothing but cricket. It has been my chief object
m life.” A. 11 play and no work makes Jack a dull
man.
Rumored that one of the first acts of the
next session of Q. Parliament will be the introduc-
tion of a bill to prevent the Governor from reck-
lessly squandering his bawbees.
A brother of A. J. Thynne, who slips out
of the topsy-turvey Q. Ministry, is deputy boss of
the Royal Irish Constabulary and runs a despotic
little court of his own in Dublin.
On the Sawbath previous to his “'dis-
appearance ” the embezzling official of a South
Australian cold-tea order preached twice and con-
ducted an afternoon service for children.
According to astronomer Russell, we may
soon expect another attack of that disturbance
called “ Ranji. Bragge ” —er —that is, Wragge,
which is working down from the North.
“SHE KNEW A THING OR TWO.”
A veteran N.S.W. pressman, Mr. Wm.
Hanson, last week entered bis 82nd year. In ’53
Mr. Hanson arrived in Sydney and became Govt.
Printer. In ’59 he left the position, and joined
surly, burly ” Sam Bennett in resuscitating the
Empire, which had died in the hands of Parkes.
In '67 he left Mr. Bennett sole proprietor, and em-
ployed his time in compiling statistical works for
various publishing firms.
S.A. Chief Justice Way had the temerity
to initiate a Marcus Clarke memorial fund right in
the teeth of a movement for a Clem Hill testi-
monial. The latter boomed, and the former
promptly fizzled. Clem. Hill’s cricket deeds are
familiar to everyone in S.A., whereas Marcus
Clarke didn’t even run a street-tote, and there is
considerable doubt in the minds of most people if
such a person ever existed.
Cabled obit., Dr. Quain. He attended
Disraeli at the last when the other regular medi-
cos would not, because Dizzy refused to part with
a so-called homoeopathic quack, one Kidd. This
Kidd, with a dose of which he claimed to alone
possess the secret, wired Disraeli up to his last
great speech, in the Lords, on Afghanistan. A
reminder of Dr. Jenkins, with his pills of Para-
dise which put artificial life into the Due de
Mora in Daudet’s “Le Nabab.”
A large-bearded person who might have
been a prosperous cockie charged into Cole’s in
Melbourne one night last week, looking like a man
wno had travelled far under pressure of unwonted
excitement, and asked for a copy of “ The Man
from Snowy River.” Having been given the
book, he ran anxiously through it till he found
something that made him swell with large emo-
tions. That s all right, ’he said, handing over
the coin. “ I’m Kiley of Kiley’s Run ! ”
Curious that Australia, always ready to
give native musical talent a handsome monetary
send-off to England, is supremely neglectful of its
native artists. Minns, Streeton, Spence and
others were allowed, so far as the general public
is concerned, like shadows to depart, with no more
financial assistance than the trifle produced by
art-unions or clearance-sales of their own works.
Does Australia prefer music to painting, or is it
that singers are better “ pushers” than painters ?
The chief qualification for parsonhood is
an utter lack of humor. After a soulful address
on the Papuan mission-field, at Adelaide, the com-
fortable Bishop Stone-Wigg suddenly produced
from his coat-tails, anci held aloft, as he referred
to the Sacredness of the wurruk—oh, the bathos
of it!—-a small baking-powder tin with a slot in
the top ! A collection-box for pennies ! Shade
of Judge Gibson, that a baking-powder tin should
be used for anything but giving a man three years’
hard !
A word for phrenology— or an unusually
good and daring guess. A few years ago a travel-
og bump-reader, “showing” in the country dis-
tricts of S.A., had for one subject a “leading
townsman”—a councillor and local preacher ami
prominent lodge man. The bump-reader horrified
the audience by remarking that his subject was a
great hypocrite, although probably he was trying
to overcome the disposition. , The “ subject ” was
the teetotal light whose remarkable defalcations
have given people something to talk of for a month
past.
John Gale’s Record office, at Captain's
Flat, was lately burnt. John has spent nearly 50
years in N.S.W. journalism, varied with parsoni-
cal recreations. He published a little volume—a
very little one—of verse before he left England,
and lost all count of it, probably desiring to
forget it. But after years in Australia his sin
found him out. Some passenger in the ill-fated
Dunbar carried a copy which was found washed
up on the rocks. This saltwater evidence of his
youthful offence reached Gale’s hands, and, despite
the memories it awakens, is preserved by him as a
treasure.
A certain missing Rechabite secretary had
a keen sense of humor. His deficiency (caused
by wild-cat mines) amounted to <£2ooo odd, and
the only assets bequeathed to the society by the
missing psalm-grinder are certain furniture and
a brewery in full going. The society is now
confronted with the problem of whether to dis-
pose of the accursed business at a loss on the eve
of the winter, or accept the missing saint’s advice
and nurse the property until next summer when
the Great Public Thirst comes along. The Recha-
bites, however, now have a splendid chance, by
unanimously going on the drunk at their own
brewery, of paying off the local-preacher’s deficit.
Kernel Lassettah is going to resign com-
mand of N.S.W. Mounted Rifles. Bulletin is
tired of hearing of the Kernel, by cable and other-
wise—the Kernel’s horses, the Kernel’s visits to
Dukes, his dinings-out with the magnates of the
earth, the Kernel’s opinions and all the rest. It
was lately printed that the Kernel was going into
N.S.W. Assembly; now it is set forth that the
Kernel’s ironmongery and sugar business has
grown so big that to attend to it he is forced to
resign his command in the N.S.W. army. This
is good news ; the Kernel will now not seek a seat
in Parliament; he will stick close to the grocery,
instead of devoting the fag-end of his great in-
tellect to nation-building.
Commissioner Cody (Melb. Board of
Works) —a jintleman wid a mellifluous brogue—is
not “ agin the Government.” Said Government,
by the way, has been good to the Cody family.
Cody occasionally gives chairman Fitz Gibbon a
grease-bath. Fitz recently entertained Gov.
Brassey and a crowd of sycophants on a visit to
Yan Yean reservoir, and, as a quid pro quo, the
Board inscribed a vote of thanks to Fitz on
its minutes. Cody, enthusiastically supporting
this, said “ a jineral impression exists that these
intertainmonts are provided at the Board’s ex-
pense, but A till ye this Board spinds no money
foolishly— it is the chairman ! ” And not till the
snigger became general and he caught Fitz’s bale-
ful glare did it dawn upon Cody that something
had come loose.
Lambert Dobson, Chief Justice of Tas-
mania, who died last week, was chiefly remarkable
for the fact that he never, in the 28 years he spent
on the bench, had a judgment reversed on appeal.
Few people remember now that Dobson was once
an active politician—as active as politicians are in
Tasmania.. He was Attorney-General in four
Ministries —those of Weston, Chapman, Richard
Dry, and Wilson. Tasmanian politics were so
very obscure 30 to 40 years ago that hardly a soul
now living in Australia knows that there ever was
a Premier Dry. His Cabinet consisted of himself
and Dobson and another man, and, v hen Dry
dropped out, Dobson and the other man ran things
by themselves for a few days. The late C. J. was
leader of the Dobson clan, which pretty well runs
Van Dobson Land in one way and another.
The secret of Vic. Attorney - General
Isaacs’ success is his intense application to the
matter in hand. He makes a point of mastering
every subject he deals with. Thus, he is a first-
class shorthand writer, so good that a judgment
or a speech reported by him can be transcribed—
and has been, more than once—by other Pitman
writers. In the same way he has made himself a
fine French and German scholar, and a facile pen-
and-ink draughtsman. In the midst of an impor-
tant crisis, in which he was a central figure, some
few years ago, a visitor to his house on public
business was greeted on entering with dismal
wails from a back room. It was Isaacs practising
violin exercises. He had just started—at the age
of nearly 40 !—learning the most difficult of
instruments, and is now an efficient player.
PAID IN KIND.
HIS TAILOR : “ Ha! see you've been
out to the races."
“ Yes.”
HIS TAILOR : “ Done in your little bit, I s’pose? ”
“ Yes; well, I’ve done in YOUR little bit, anyway! ”
Tablegram : “Lord Salisbury is ill through
over-eating.” Truthful James comp, only leaves
out an 11.
The weatherboard house in Parramatta in
which the late N.S.W. Chief-Justice Martin was
born was visited lately by a number of admirers,
who endeavored to stand thelocal population on end
in an attitude of worship. The idea was to erect
a statue in the place, or otherwise make it a shrine
at which pilgrims might do their devotions on the
doorstep. But Australia doesn’t shrine with any
cordiality, somehow.
INFANTILE.
“ Mother , do the little birds fly away to heaven when they die? We never
find their dead bodies.”
There lately died in an Australian lunatic
asylum a once-prominent politician who dearly
loved his little joke. He once invited the Premier
of his province to “meet a few friends” at a
private dinner. The Premier was first on the
scene, and imagine his dismay when, one by one,
were ushered in most of the men he had bitter'y
quarrelled with during his stormy career ! That
was the quietest dinner on record ; there were no
jokes, most of the guests spent the time in glaring
at their Premier-enemy ; but the host — he reckoned
those the best two hours he had ever spent.
Dr. On Lee, whose counterfeit present-
ment appears in this issue, is an exceedingly
wealthy Chinese, who has lived in Australia for
40 years. Some years ago he was created a man-
darin by the Chinese Govt, as a recognition of
servicesrendered to his compatriots in Sydney. He
is no w en route for the Flowery Land commissioned
by his fellow countrymen to urge on the Chinese
authorities the necessity of appointing a Chinese
Consul-General for Australia ; and it is an open
secret that Quong Tart will be recommended for
the post. Dr. On Lee is married to a European
lady, and his daughters are the belles of the
Anglo-Chinese community in Sydney.
An old woman died the other day in Vic-
toria—one of three sisters who were raffled by
their mother in 1853. The speculative parent kept
a hotel in Bourke-street West, much frequented by
the swells of the period. Her three girls were
young, and good to look upon, and she “ put them
up” for distribution by art —not heart —union
among 25 members at £5O a ticket. One was won
by Tiger Nelson, who fought well in Maoriland.
Young Hotham secured another. The third fell
to a merchant, who is still living—a most honored
and wealthy member of society. This last was the
woman who recently died. **
Purtell, the poet who shares the honor of
Melb.’s laureateship with Sewer-Board Bard Fitz-
Gibbon, touches a responsive chord in the heart of
the democracy with a set of verses on the recent
tote-raids. Says Purtell:
The so-called clubs are all allowed
To gamble night and day,
And filthy Chows in Little Bourke
The game of fan-tan play.
But Wren, who runs an honest tote
Without a hitch or flaw,
Is crushed and persecuted by
A rotten, shameless law.
Purtell concludes with—
Special Notice.—Songs, poems or acrostics written on
any subject on reasonable terms. Poems respecting
death a speciality.
It was the same bard who once warned the public
to beware of unscrupulous poets who were passing
off their own work as his. “ Ask for Purtell
and see that you get him. None genuine without
the name blown in the bottle.” Who says there
are no humorists in Australia ?
G. H. Reid has already controlled the
appointment to office of nearly one-half N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench. The question whether or
not a practising and struggling barrister should
be endowed with this far-reaching patronage is
well worth consideration.
Fifteen years ago Dr. Cani was consecrated
the first R.C. Bishop of Rockhampton. Within
that period Bishop Cani, the Bishop who nomi-
nated him (Quinn, of Brisbane), and the Arch-
bishop who consecrated him (Vaughan) in St.
Mary’s, Sydney, have all died.
Premier Re i d’s
father was a Presby-
terian minister, and
used to live in Cum-
berland - street, Syd-
ney. He was a strong
advocate of total ab-
stinence, but had
sense for all that. A
poor devil of a re-
porter, who had “got
on the tear ”• and
wanted to be good
and rise in the world,
went to the old man
and asked him to ad-
minister the pledge.
Reid looked hard at
him. “ Have ye ony
money, boy ? ” he
asked. The scribe
shook his head dole-
fully—he was an Em-
pire man, and it was
Monday. “ A-weel,”
said the good minis-
ter, ‘ ‘ here’s half -a-
croon. Noo, ye’ll gie
me your word, as an
honest mon, that ye’ll
spend it as I direct.
Tak’ ane whusky
every three hoors. un-
til it’s a’ spent. And
to-morrow come back
and we’ll see aboot
yeer reclamation.”
The reporter followed
instructions as to
spending the coin.
But he never went
back. He didn’t need
to, for he felt good.
W illiam Peterson
(wholesale grocer),
who died recently,
will be found to be
about the wealthiest
merchant in Melb.
He and Softgoods
Sargood are partners
in station properties,
and both have been
phenomenally lucky.
W.P. had the reputation of being very “ near,”
but the writer knows that he used to give as “A
Friend” thousands away yearly in charity, and
no deserving case ever came to him that., did not
get substanti ally helped.
The only cute defaulter in S.A. nistory
was Crooks, the famous bank-manager, who left
behind him original Broken Hills. Had the
liquidators held on to the shares they would have
eventually landed a colossal profit on the trans-
action.
Gov, Hampden has had sport lately with
sharks at Chowder Bay. That is to say, a shark
was firmly noosed in ropes, and Gov. Hampden
stuck a lance into it—which was about as sportive
as shooting a firmly-tethered tiger. But some
Sydney sharks have been vainly hoping fo r quite
a time to return the compliment.
Dear Bulletin. —Canany Bulletin reader
tell me what became of Frederick Vern, who was
third in command at the Eureka Stockade? When
last I saw him, he was driving an engine for a
sluicing co. on the bank of the Macquarie River,
about a mile above the Mookerawa Junction.
That was in ’64.— Trotter Bethune, 16/3/98.
Sammy Beddome, first-appointed Adelaide
P.M. in 1857, and retired in ’92, still does Ade-
laide Block. His immediate successor, Pater,
died three years ago. Turning up an old file
awhile ago the writer came across protests against
his appointment in '57 because he was originally a
layman. But he turned out a model magistrate.
The son of a N.S.W. country magistrate,
famous for his rough and ready way of settling
cases, got mixed up in an affiliation matter, and the
townspeople rolled up to see the fun. Plaintiff
brought evidence which made things look bad for
defendant—who, however, denied everything, and
brought three of his mates to swear to certain
facts. The old man played the sphinx right to
the end, when he paralysed everybody with the
decision that defendant and his three witnesses
should contribute each half-a-crown a week
towards the maintenance of the cause of action.
Leopold Fane de Salis, on account of
whose serious illness a bankruptcy case was
recently adjourned, once, and once only, distin-
guished himself in N.S.W. Leg. Council as a
stubborn and aggressi ve law-reformer. He brought
in a motion for leave to introduce a Bill for the
removal of rape from the list of offences,
and supported it with a warmth and earnestness
which made old associates stare. What was
known as the Sod vails outrage then agitated the
public mind. Public meetings were being held
all over the country on behalf .of the two lads
lying under sentence of death, but the Judge was
obdurate, and the Executive stood behind the
Judge, The present Chief Justice, who was then
a barrister and had a seat in the Leg. Council,
attacked De Salis and succeeded in kicking his
motion out of the House. And the offence is
still capital in N.S.W.


“ THREE GOOD THIKTGrS ”
. . Madh in England.
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s pm “ Yines'cir
"68 PRIZE MEDALS."
Holbrook s 53,1100 has been awarded more Pi*i,26 Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES !
Holbrook's Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT' VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS B tq E nn?§2SL? HE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST
INJURIOUS.
TROUBLE AHEAD.
Reported that stocks of Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes are running short, due to an unprece-
dented demand.*
Rheumatism of the Heart.
IT IS FATAL.
SHARP SHOOTING PAINS THROUGH THE BODY
ARE THE FIRST SYMPTOMS.
THE END THEREOF rs DEATH.
Probably there never was a case of rheumatism
that was violent enough at its beginning to cause
death ; but, like a flame fanned by the wind, each
week and month increases its hold upon the
sufferer until it reaches a vital point, like the
heart or the kidneys.
The unfailing treatment, by using Warner’s
Safe Cure, will positively cure the worst cases of
rheumatism. It purifies the blood by inciting the
liver and kidneys to a healthy normal action.
The following testimony proves this statement.
“Having been a martyr to acute rheumatism
for many years ; after having tried all the acknow-
ledged remedies without relief, I was persuaded
by one of my employes to try Warner’s Safe
Cure. The second bottle added considerably to
my comfort and relief. Under such satisfactory
results I was induced to continue using this
miraculous mixture, and after using the fourth
bottle I felt a new man ; and, although this oc-
curred several years ago, I can now conscientiously
assert that since using Warner’s Safe Cure I have
not felt the slightest twinge of that dreaded com-
plaint, and, in fact, have never taken medicine of
any sort since, and have been in a perfect state of
health ever since. I have recommended Warner’s
Safe Cure to many sufferers since my own marvel-
lous cure for indigestion, dyspepsia, and other
internal complaints, and in all oases I have been
heartily thanked for suggesting so simple, inex-
pensive and efficacious a remedy.— W. J. Kablb,
Flashes Office.
(Late of Lily vale Station, Taroom.)
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSEW ER.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
We were coming down Lolwortli Range to
a big sheep-station after the wet season in ’72 —
bemg on a protracted bit of prospecting with a
small dray and three horses. The shafter was one
ot the best breeching horses in the district, but on
account of the steepness of the track we hitched a
° n behind. Th e grass was high and green,
nut the flying insects didn’t trouble us much till
alter turning the first bend down the range ; and
as we came down they got thicker still till at last
horses, dray, and log were slipping down the hill
at a terrific pace on the bodies of those infernal
insects. We could do nothing but curse, for the
clouds of grasshoppers had us completely blind,
but by good luck the track rose a bit to go over a
knob two miles further down, and there we found
the dray capsized and the horses with their hind-
quarters turned to the travelling cloud of hoppers.
We got to the station at last and told the boss,
but he reckoned we did not have them as bad as
he had, for they had kept hitting the wires in the
fences till at last 30,000 sheep had climbed over
their dead carcases into the open country.
* » * •
Re the ferocity of the Australian native
bear. A 6-foot, 16-stone navvy, who was once
accused at a N.S. W. police-court of discharging
firearms on Sunday, pleaded that he had been
forced to fire at the bear in self-defence. The
magistrate, gave him “the rising,” and immedi-
ately did rise to get outside and smile.
* * *
He was travelling ror a grog firm, and
noticed that always, as soon as he entered this
particular country pub., the landlord would go
outside and pull a certain wire of an uncertain
wire fence close by. Two minutes afterwards the
village blacksmith, his four men, and all the
friends they could get hold of en route used to
walk into the shop, and then —the drummer had
to shout all round ! One day, however, when the
landlord was sneaking out as usual, the drummer
stopped him. “Don’t trouble, landlord —I’ve
rung the bell myself. They’ll all be here pre-
sently ” And so they were.
* * • *
A.P.: “Re Australian record-starve (water
obtainable). Some years ago, a man left a W.A.
station one morning en route to Onslow, and, 19
days afterwards, he was found in an almost dry
well, nine miles from his starting-point. His
swag, lying on the surface, contained all the
rations he had when he left the station, and there
was no camp within miles at which he could have
eaten after starting. I saw him on the way to
hospital— mad, and badly hurt by his fall—but he
completely recovered in mind and body.”
* * * *
He was looking for work, he said, but he
bad been camped under the wire fence opposite
FASHION’S VICTIMS.
“Is it hot enough for you?" said the acknowledged King of Klugkchuch, wiping his brow
with a wisp of “[?]” or native oakum .
“It's too hot for anything,” said the belle of the isle, making a little moue at him from
behind her fan: “and I do wish one could live somewhere where one did not have to wear so
many clothes !”
the pub. for ten days, and he earned his beer by
imparting general Australian information to any-
one who was anxious to learn. The worst country
he was ever in for white ants was “ over Adelaide
way,” about 600 miles north. “The inseeks
chewed up a chock-an’-log fence as soon as it was
erected, an after the boss hed lost a small fortune
with wooden fencin’ he thought he’d give stone-
walls a trial. So we run up arfermile ’r so of
rubble wall. But, bless yer! that was eat up,
too.” “What,” asked a young man in a straw
hat—a coach passenger—“ d’ye mean to.say the
ants ate the stone fences?” “Oh, no, that was
the emus! ”
* * » ♦
A Burrumbeet land-owner had a favorite
black-boy, and on one occasion when he was to un-
dergo a dental operation at Ballarat took Tommy
along. The colored brother sat out the perfor-
mance in a condition of blank amazement. Ho
saw the boss chaired, witnessed the process of
syringing and lancing, and saw the final haul, and
the resulting bloodshed, and sat back with gaping
mouth and staring eyes. But when the squatter
took out his purse, and actually paid for the
wrongs that he had endured at the hands of the
stump-extractor, Tommy could not longer contain
himself. “My word ! ” he gasped, “my word !
Big one drunk you pay ten shilla that pfeller
smasha jaw. Gib it tsickpen mine break your
plurry head 1 ”
* * * »
Alia; “In a Northern river town I
recently saw a lank bushman riding a half-broken
filly up the street when the blare of brass from a
travelling show set the animal performing, and,
after some wonderful gymnastics, she got through
the girths and threw the rider heavily on to the
metalled road. After a long interval of oblivion,
he languidly opened his eyes and remarked,
“Well, I rode the blanky saddle to the ground,
anyhow ! ”
* * * •
A gruesome story of endurance at North
Yanko, N.S.W. the other day; A teamster aged 66,
when crossing a bridge with a 3-ton laden waggon
was putting the “ break on ” when a horse
stamped on his foot, and caused him to fall. The
front wheel ran over him, catching by the leg and
passing upwards over his body ; and the hind
wheel followed over arm and shoulders. When
assistance arrived, the poor fellow was, by his own
direction (!) literally tied together to fit for trans-
port to the hospital. The broken leg was laid
over the sound one and bound to it; the smashed
arm was stretched over his breast and lashed
there. “ Now then,” said the game old
warrior, “ put me into the cart, and I’ll ride
pretty easy.” At the hospital it was found that
thigh was broken in two places, one arm smashed
into pulp, a shoulder utterly crushed, pelvis bone
broken, flesh on the thigh and leg frightfully
mangled—to say nothing of terrible internal in-
juries 1 The old man never uttered a groan, and
FOUR ABORIGINAL PARSONS
Whose Prayers for Rain have been Blessed Exceedingly.
Selah !
though recovery was hopeless, he was kept alive
and conscious by stimulants for over two days.
Before dying, the old man, who had no friends,
left his team of horses to Naraudera hospital.
* » * *
“Tomahawk : ” —I don’t remember ever
seeing a jackass in company with a snake; but
about three years ago, during a dry spell, while
assisting to muster on a Clarence River cattle-run
I noticed a number of jacks fluttering about the
edge of an almost dry swamp, and when I went
over to investigate I found two jackasses vainly
endeavoring to swallow a small eel, one having the
head down and the other the tail, with about 6in.
of eel intervening. Three or four jackasses were
laughing fit to split at the tug-of-war, and occasion-
ally one would seize the eel by the middle and try
to get him “on his own.” Then would come a
general scrimmage from which, however, the two
principals would always emerge in full possession
of the prize. None of the birds noticed my pre-
sence until I turned away to rejoin the cattle,
when the spectators flew away and left the con-
testants at it as hard as ever.
* * * *
“Adventures of an Australian shearer.”
A N.S.W. shearer, swag-mate, by the way, of
Henry Lawson, left Sydney in ’95 as working
passenger on a N. German Lloyd steamer for Lon-
don en route to Lane’s Rue Australia. From
London he worked his passage to Montevideo on
an American sailing ship. ' Yellow fever was
raging at that port when the vessel arrived, and,
sailors being scarce, the Yankee skipper refused
to pay anyone off or let them go ashore. Being
chartered for New York the shearer was compelled
to travel away again from his land of hope, beans
and alleged brotherhood. On the voyage to
N. York dissatisfaction became rife amongst the
crew, and capstan bars, marlin spikes and belay-
ing pins were freely used on the sailors by the
“ old man ” and his officers. One day the second
mate had downed a Norwegian A.B. and was
hammering him unmercifully with a cap-
stan bar. This was too much for the man
from the Paroo and Warrego. Pulling out
a revolver he ordered the mate to “ stop or
become a dead man.” The officer heeded him
not, and was found dead—shot through the head
—when the smoke had cleared away. The shearer
was put into irons, and given over to the authori-
ties on arrival at New York. Was charged and
tried for wilful murder, but a grand jury found
“justifiable homicide.” Once more the knight of
the blade tried to find a way to Lane’s “Paradise
Lost.” Unable to obtain a boat for South
America, and shortness of funds forbidding to
wait, he took first chance and shipped—now as
ordinary seaman—for Glasgow, in hope of securing
a berth there for Buenos Ayres. But in Glasgow
Fate stepped in, in the shape of a bonnie Scotch
lassie. He chucked up Lane, Paraguay, brother-
hood, vessels, revolvers, and grand juries, and
married the girl and settled down right there in
Glasgow.
» » * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Can you tell me why it is
that, among bush smokers, when one asks another
for a match to light his pipe, the lender almost in-
variably shakes the box, and the borrower, on
returning it, does precisely the same ? Is it merely
to attract the other’s attention, or is it to prove
conclusively that the box has not been emptied of
contents either before lending by the one or after
borrowing by the other; or is ita religious function
of some kind, or a mere courtesy ? It seems to be
an unwritten law among bush smokers that the
box must be shaken by both parties. I have not
noticed it among town dwellers.— Vestas.
* » * *
A sturdy old prospector and digger died
the other day at Eidsvold (Q.). When compelled
by pneumonia to take refuge in hospital, the old
hatter asked the doctor how long he had to live.
Oh, a few days at most, I fear,” was the answer.
“ Bet you a bottle of brandy, doctor, I last a fort-
night.” To please the old chap the doctor took
up the wager. Next morning, however, the medi-
cine man found his patient in a quandary : “ But
look here, doctor—who’s going to pay you if I
lose ? ” Question remained unsettled, for the old
fellow did lose.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Re the David Carnegie
extract in a recent issue, it is quite customary
to use the natives as described for the purpose
of finding water; and it may further interest you
to know that in order to help a nigger’s decision
as to whether or not he will lead you to the water, a
teaspoonful of table-salt, administered at intervals,
is an invaluable specific. I never knew of a black-
fellow taking “ a day or two to make up his
mind ” when such treatment had been judiciously
applied.—S.
Dear Bulletin.—l send you
photos, of four aboriginal rain-makers
of Farina, S.A. (408 miles N. of Ade-
laide), for comparison with your
white-chokered imported ditto; and
I hereby back my black-skins against
your black-coats for a stake of .£5
apiece, either Graeco-Roman supplica-
tion or catch-rain-as-catch-can —the
best of three showers to declare tho
winner. For your information, I beg
to state that the rain-maker to the left
of the picture is Rev. Billy (Angli-
can), and then follow in order Rev.
Bobby (Presbyterian), Rev. Tommy
(Hardshell), and Rev. Warrick (Pe-
culiar People). You will observe that
my clergy are ranged in order of prece-
dence as maintained at local Govt.
House banquets (at which there is
never any Melb. complaint of lack of
grub)— the parson with the tallestrain-
conductor in the lead. About the be-
ginning of last month these rev. gentle-
men led a rain-making corroboree
which lasted five nights, and brought
down nearly l|in. of liquid. Rev.
Billy then came to me and said:
“ You see, one been make urn rain,
but not nuff yet. Make urn more
bimeby— this one no corroboree; this
all same white pfeller parson pray
longa rain—only black-pfeller make
um best.” After the rain cleared off
they had another go-in for about a
week, resulting in nearly ljin. more,
on the night of Feb. 24th. Then the rainmakers
(after securing the best downfall in this part for
over three years) bade ns good-bye with mutual
felicitations.— Bing y-Bingy, Farina, S.A., March
7, 1898.
* * » •
Cheerful fragment from “our Western
correspondent ” :
Jimmy Brown was brought in last week suftering from
beri-beri, since which he has been on the spree, winding
up with delirium tremens. Yesterday he cut his throat,
fortunately missing the jugular. He will, of course, have
to appear before the P.M. He made a similar attempt at
Rockwood last year. He does not appear to be a success
ns a throat-cutter.”
OF A BIRDLIKE SOPRANO.
GINGER : “By gosh , Stumpy, I'll bet SHE can
sing — why, she’s got legs like a canary !”
“ L.M.” to The Bulletin
Isn’t it time you gave the “ cheap” Chow, Jap., and
Kanaka a rest, and turned your attention to the white
crawler who takes work at a price that no yellowskin
would look at? In my district (Northern N.S.W.) an
alleged white man recently contracted to erect a number
of miles of fencing at £l2 per mile—station simply to
find team and wire on the line. The contractor has to
draw the timber—about two miles. Posts, if of split pine,
to be 9 x sin. ; if of box or coolibah, 6in., at the small end.
Every 20th post to be a “strainer," box or coolibah, and
llin. at small end. Posts to be sawn off. Running posts
to be 2ft. in the ground—strainers, 3; all 6 wires to be
put in and well strained, and each bend in fence to be
“ double stayed ”; posts to be 10ft. apart, centre to
centre ; all pine and “ strainers” to be barked. Now, let
any practical fencer ppt this into figures, and I’ll bet
“tucker only” is the answer—and mean “tucker” at
that. Contracts at £l2 10s. are now common about here,
but making it “ even money ”is the last straw. And yet
the white man finds time to talk about the Chinaman 1


“ SURPLUS.”
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate.
The natural tendency of distribution is to diminish
the surplus for the moment; but in the case of a
prosperous company, the-decrease is speedily more
than covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withho’ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. Of course it
is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible cireuKVetances ; and,
when that course is followed, injustice to present
participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was ,£6,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance—of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
24 millions sterling I This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
thiscourse, the Mutual Life of New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as “ the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,”“ the Co. which does the most
good ? ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excess of
any possible needs of the generations to come,*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LT
filth
M
She was a Poster-Maiden,
With a wonderful Poster hat,
I was a — well , no matter,
We need not go into that.
I qi'tstioned the Poster-Maiden,
As Poster-people do,
“ Why do the Poster Races
No longer interest you?”
II Because,” said the Poster-
Maiden,
11 The dollars are just a gift —
Simply a gift for Walne —
You know he rides a ‘ Swift!
II
CYCLES
(Fitted with Dunlop Tyrea).
In connection with these easy-running machines, we have just issued a daintily
got-up brochure, fully illustrated, entitled “Cycling for Ladies,” containing some
very useful hints for beginners, and for those who are anxious to look as smart
as possible when wheeling. A really good hint given and received at the right
time often decides the all-important question of whether a lady looks awkward or
elegant when cycling. For those interested in cycling from the racing standpoint,
we have also issued a little souvenir booklet, containing an account of the dis-
tinguished
Stvyz
11
rider, C. F. Barden, whose appearance ALONE on the scratch mark of the Austral
Wheel Race made the Swift the cynosure of all eyes. This Xmas season we are
sending to all our old customers an entertaining Xmas story, entitled “ Xmas in
Australia,” illustrated by our own special artist. Should any of these esteemed
patrons be accidentally omitted from our list—which is a very long one—a post-
card to any of our depots will command instant attention.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rundle-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers.
Warrnambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
8.J.5.: Have read your essay, and you may
consider yourself fined 3s. 6d A.P. (Vic.) : Astonishing
you shouldn’t see that if we printed verses because
“ writer supports a brother suffering from paralysis ” this
paper would soon have paralysis too. And, alas !it has
no brother to fall back upon Frank B. (Q.): Thanks....
G.H.C. (Vio.): Poem trickles as feebly as the sand in a
year-glass R.W.C. :An Awful Rhymer takes an unfair
advantage over his tribe by being his own printer. The
hired foreign comp, is a great literary preservative
Penlyria: Flat as the office table .... She-oak: Letter
posted J.M. : Lie insufficiently ornamental. Kindly
send well-lacquered lies of Renaissance architecture with
a Wagner leit-motif in the off foreground ..R.A.F. :
Pessimist quatrains hardly up. Also, “ palm ”is a far-
away rhyme to “damn.” Also, stick your address on
copy F.C. : Little in woman qUip Withered Gum :
Not up ..Grip: Sydney Truth (6/3/’9B) makes “the
mile-stone of God grind slowly” for a change. But John
Norton doesn’t care as long as he plays his trump cards
right .J.H.T. (S.A.): Thanks T.D.G. : May use
K. (N.Q.): Many thanks F.T. (Vic.): Please join an
expedition to the South Pole, and stay there. . ..Vestas :
Rhyme burnt outside and sodden in the middle
Alia: Hot-spud-dodge ancient. Other items may use.
Spokeshave : Iberia and Australasian, March, ’B5 ;
Austral sunk in ’B2 R.L.W.: “Seven” too slight
Jezebel: Stereotyped remorse-yarn David G. : Sur-
prise-stories need cunninger manipulation ; you give the
thing away from the first Clarice : Crude and awk
ward. C. : No use for simple stov.3h in the eye
Kate: Despite tolerably light touch, humor, on the
whole, labored and unconvincing .... J.F.D. : Idea good,
handling ineffective Shaw G.: Ingenious horror, but
yarn otherwise no merit Raba W.: Dullness relieved
with d ns ... Sphingos : Sorry neither up. “Episode”
promises better work from you. ... John M‘K. : Both
show very prentice-hand, with faint glimmer of humor.
The Bishop : Repetition of a story already'printed
Rock-cod : It sounds too unlucky, even in a column of
bush lies H.P. : The explanation was that Ned Kelly'
was fey T , as the Scotch call it —prophetic at the approach
of death, seeond-sighty. Judge Barry died a fortnight
after Ned was hanged Artist: Too wooden .... C.: Yes,
why do the police raid tote-shops and run-in every casual
bookie found betting in Bourke-street, while the Chinese
lottery-shops and gambling-dens are allowed to gamble
away peacefully and openly every day, Sundays included?
A B.M. : Unwise to emphasise imprecation by illus-
tration P. : Mortimer Franklyn would never, under
any circs., have made a success of his newspaper—no, not
if he had had a million of his own money. He had the
soul of a barber Jiff : Will reprint ... EH. : Too un-
important for a sketch D..C.M.: Ancient histpry.
F.C. (Gosford): Unavailable Barkis : We are willing.
Gordon F. K. : Yes, your verses are good enough for
insertion in The Bulletin; at least, they were good
enough when they appeared in it, years ago—but it wasn’t
your talented self who wrote them on that occasion.
People who write copper-plate hands never originate
printable verses—and they rarely have enough sense to
even steal intelligently G.A.W.: Yes—on Bristol board,
in Indian ink The Whaler: “The cat had kittens."
Well, did you expect it to have wheelbarrows? Casey:
Cork leg yarn as old as Mahershalalhash’oaz ... Gurney :
The soliloquy of the “Chow gouger” when he wakes up
in the morning is altogether too gory ... E.B. : Awful
De Queer: Some used Outcast: Items to hand
5.0’8.: Some usable. Unvirtuous incident not new
Gisi: Not bad H.O. : Moderately well written, but no
novelty or force Kati-Kati: Some may do; humor of
others too much like humping bricks up a ladder M.
Norris: “ Pilot ” ghastly, but good. Reference in “A.C.”
probably to some other yarn Widgee: Promises better
work when more experience Zeph. : Very near the
mark Endymion : Heavy and wordy D. Guerre :
Not bite enough Laura G. : Tyro-ish style J.J.P. :
Can’t say at present; mountain'of matter in hand
“ Romance," will consider Charley : “ Iff this mungral
rant is worth anything.” Not even a curse ! Corn-
husks: In the scales A.F.D. (E.): Sorry can make no
proposal on the subject A.J.B. : Advertise in Sydney
D.T.’s dog-column. F.M. : The bath controversy is
Tired Battler: Right A.D.B. :It goes; send ad-
dress, and more like it Toby : One in ; others dubious.
. ..Philos : Not quite up. . .Bush Poet: O, you are, you are I
The way of transgressors is hard in con-
sideration of the enormous traffic.
Warnambool (Vic.) badly wants Govern-
ment to let it stick to the sin. B.L. gun lent it for
local exhibition purposes. In view of the present
war-soare, the harmless necessary spud, it is
pointed out, is hardly the missile with which to
repel foreign attack.
U.S. output of coal in 1860 was only
16,000,000 tons, as against Britain’s 86,000,000,
but in ’96 the U.S. output was 170,000,000 tons, as
against Britain’s 195,000,000. In 1860, U.S. iron
production was little more than 20 percent, of the
British ;in 1895 it was 25 per cent, greater. The
recently-opened-up geological formation in Ken-
tucky and Tennessee contains a limitless supply of
iron ore and coal, from which it is anticipated
that the finest steel products can be placed upon
the markets of the world at prices with which no
other nation can hope to compete.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years jiast,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
At Carlton (Melb.) police-court, recently,
a large and perfectly sound policeman charged a
small man with assault and other things. The
small man claimed to be the assaulted party, and
produced as evidence a closed and blackened eye,
an enormously swollen face, a wrecked nose, and
a shirt-front covered with blood. The Bench
looked at the human ruin before it, and then ap-
parently it decided that his awful condition was
proof positive that he had assaulted a policeman,
and he got three months without the option.
In Prussia, in the 70 years 1826-96, there
were three cases of five children at a birth —five
boys, four boys and one girl, and three boys and
two girls. In same period, there occurred 106
cases of four at a birth—l 2 times four boys, 20
times four girls, and 32 cases of two of each sex.
Triplets came home 7733 times ; twins, 696,831
times.
A VETERAN CRICKETER. —“ CHARLIE
LAWRENCE.
In Melb. city court. Magistrate Panton,
cross-examining witness : “ Now, sir, do you, on
your solemn oath, declare that this is not your
handwriting?” Witness: “Indeed I do, sir.”
Panton : “ Does it not resemble your hand-
writing ? ” Witness : “ Yes, sir, I think it don’t.”
Panton: “ Now, sir, I will have the truth;
answer me instanter. How do you know ” —(each
word well emphasised for effect)—“ How do you
know that this does not resemble your hand-
writing?” Witness (also very slowly): “Be-
cause, sir, I cannot write.” Collapse of beak.
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN&CAMERON’S(Ltd.) RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waver ley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.


dg
fl ■■■ll
Irtßlii*
nj.W, Q.fU rt.U
Wte free fo op ia^d-Boiler
|o eltcy' •
Here
■*» tjhd -— \
, r\t, A
' I
iu l°r
' c[ 6 K ctocfoi-J O.I'C
<C7'"7<; f« prescribe
frit W s
-ft 7
LONDON, Friday.—The great benefit per-
formance in aid of Miss Nellie Farreu. the
popular burlestiue: actress, was held iu
Drury Lane Theatre last night
The benefit realised over fbOOO, and
Hi rough a guarantee given by the great
banking firm of Rothschilds, Miss Farreu
secures a yearly income of £2lU>.
Old §°ols are
all <d<Z°-d get.
C f %>*
J r r \ ”»/ (f
**■ '*/ /
%
'V *
% * %
Dor Xitpiccuy (^VV
eJ tijai •■ f>u.J‘ s tiriK'n .
hfcJer <sfeci«Uy Ipa-ys)
lVo,fe? [ . 1 •■•
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


fY/Te.-fys* PrtV-fn /nd Jiva* refused
fc*no7Ae/- Settee *dhees%edfc
/s« # John . dnc7' ih e address ft**’™ «_
uroyrtcins hcn'id f Jon.'n.
s - vAe^
}atd Sady'
rtee/ts >n i/it
? a
The departmental expla-
nation of this is that the Post Office regula-
tions expressly forbid the delivery
of a husband’9 registered letters ti
the wife. The carrier is required,
after taking the letter to the ad-
dress three times without being able to hand
it to the addressee, to leave a card stating
that the letter awaits delivery at the post
office.
/ &ili
Is fin
® 3 S S ', s
' •? I ifs §ff / ‘
.3 !
ft* • * CJJ cj O _
§J§3iX% '
8 -
_ 00..
SfVfo?. :
[2 a .3 w a
a. "5 6 00 & . >■
-a • ■§ * .**
5 SU f . :
/ /]/s jbroh&kly' y/ie-
\Act(A-o.U&^J'S y /de~°-
of- /iotas ctz-u rc Aci fsls sA**M
fe '' ~t i-e cl t e <rL '
IF SCENE IN THE FEDERAL
CONVENTION.
,i[R WILLTAM ZEAI. AND MR RTSXD,
ii,. an angry altercatiovj!
Some time agp the Customs authorities
stopped a Chinese passenger
But it has been; j
ascertained that the rejected immigrant
transhipped at Sydney to a steamer pro-'
ceeding to Tasmania, and no doubt, having
once got into Tasmania, he will make his
way to Victoria under the’ tonnage regula-
tions. Steps ape being taken to prevent a
repetition of this evasion of the law, the
Sydney authorities having been asked “not
to permit such Chinamen to be transhipped
in future/'
ftf-'
Jb^/
?r;v'
,
Co*
i
I *■
17 £
i/i
i/s
SS £
o
/%> *
e t ~/ /i e e /v a ?-» P 77 eb A / b-te s
~7?& /' /• ~2> r $ /-/-#
13i4_/~ istd^ -n o
ft/cA 7/ie. b*icAe./~ t
o 1
CITY COUNCIL COAL CONTRACT. KOIIUMBI TUIA, Monday.
Tlie Mayor said hp did not think the! There has been considerable comment
council had anv point to consider, except! here to-day respecting the acceptance
the interest of the ratepayers of the city the City Council of the Adelaide Steamship
Companv s lender for 5000 tons ot screened
Newcastle coal at 14*. 2d. per ton,
against the •Tunibunnn Company’s tender of
Jis. 3]d
J^oW>-! r, 4 £
1o
7 J &
Wit-'
c f-fh^ e '
• E.-y' / <r's
" ' y?t/c d^^///e-."
se£ hour cLeVote.cC" 9^ 9 to < ri?e<- e * t s t
V't/e Sa-Sed o- tArAole. Y A/-ez h<* pence. fol~
on YAi's n s<*■£■ /'to
y, \ x X Wr s
y >ip» _.^
' WSk* 5
MI y/i*-'
g/ 1 -*ajpf"
m, r P,J S
’ C‘ l 'f s t. f^f
MELBOURNIANA.


ROSPBCTUS of tile
Pikedale Proprietary Copper and Silver Mining* Company,
... . _. isro Liability.
To he Registered as a No-Liability Company under the Companies Act.
CAPITAL - - - £120,000, in 120,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
60,000 Shares are offered for Subscription at 2s. on application and 2s. on allotment, and calls, if required, not to exceed 3d. per share per month.
The whole of the Subscribed Money to go to the credit of the Company, less flotation expenses.
60,000 Fully Paid-up Shares to be issued to the Vendors in full payment of the Property.
Son. JOHN ARCHIBALD, M.L.0., Warwick.
A. W. WHITTARD, Esq., Stanthorpe.
Provisional Directors
G. M. KIRK, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
H. BRACKER, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
FT. L. WHITE, Esq., Belltrees Station, Scone.
H. BENJAMIN, Esq., J.P., Warwick.
Bankers :
THE. BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND, LIMITED.
Brokers :
THE MEMBERS OF THE BRISBANE STOCK EXCHANGE.
Secretary (pro. tern.) z
HUBERT HARRIS, 33 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
fPHE Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring all the right, title, and estate of the Vendors (The
Pikedale Copper, Gold, and Silver Mining Company) in portions No. 802 W. and 803 W. (each containing 80 acres,
making in all 160 acres), County of Bentinck, Parish of Stanthorpe, held by registered lease under the provisions of
“ The Real Property Acts of 1861 and 1877," from Frederick Robert White, the registered proprietor thereof, and
which lease is for the term of 21 years from the 30th day of October, 1896, and gives the lessee a right of renewal for
a further period of 10 years, together with all shafts, buildings, tools, &e., thereon. The principal conditions of the
lease are :—That Mr. White is to receive, by way of rent or royalty, one-quarter of the net profits of working the
properties comprised in the said lease, but which rent or royalty is to be reduced to one-sixth on the expenditure of
a sum, within three years, of £40,000 on the properties comprised in the said lease, which reduction is to have
relation back to the commencement of the lease. The agreement for sale provides (inter alia ) that the Vendors shall
obtain, if this Company should require it, an independent lease of the said portions from the registered proprietor,
containing similar covenants with such modifications as are applicable in respect to the difference in the property
comprised or to be comprised in the existing and new lease respectively.
The following documents can be inspected at the offices of the Secretary pro. tem. :—l._ Agreement dated the
Ist day of March, made between the said Vendors and Hubert Harris for and on behalf of this Company, being the
agreement for sale by the said Vendors; 2. Lease above referred to; 3. Proposed Memorandum and Articles of
The Mine has been actively at work for the last 12 months, a number of shafts sunk on the line of lode exposing
very large bodies of ore of very high values. A reverberatory furnace has also been erected, and about £3OOO worth
of matte shipped to London ; but it was found that the reverberatory furnace, although smelting the ore, did not
give satisfaction, as it did not treat anything like the quanity that was expected, is old-fashioned, got continually out
of order, and lost a large percentage of metal in the slags. The Management have therefore decided to raise larger
capital, so as to acquire the latest kind of furnaces and machinery. . . . .
Appended are the reports of Mr. G. H. Irvine, Metallurgist, of Brisbane, the Mining Commissioner, and Mr. W.
G. Rodda, the Managing Director. Also list of all assays of ore and matte made by Mr. Robert Mar (late Govern-
ment Analyst). As, however, the mine is situated only 20 miles from the Stanthorpe Railway Station, and only one
day’s journey from Brisbane, it can easily be inspected by anyone desirous of doing so.
The new Company to take over the two blocks as before mentioned, with all buildings, tools, machinery, &0., ana
all liabilities, which will probably amount to £5OO, but will certainly not exceed £lOOO.
At any future time the property can be subdivided into four blocks of 40 acres each, and formed into four
separate companies, as 40 acres with the large quantities of ore contained therein is quite large enough for any one
company to work. . .
As the present proprietors intend to take up a good nnmber of the Contributing Shares, early application is
necessary. The allotment will be made according to priority of application. . . . .
The Provisional Directors reserve the right to declare the Company floated when in their opinion a sufficient
number of shares have been applied for. _
Should the Company not be floated the application money will be returned in full.
Report of 4th February, 1898, by G. H. Irvine, Esq. (late Manager Mt. Morgan G.M. Co.) :
The Directors, The Pikedale Copper, G., and S. Co., Ltd., City.
Acting under your instructions, I visited and inspected your copper and silver property (freehold) situated on
Pikedale Station, 21 miles W.S.W. from Stanthorpe.
The lode, which runs N.N.W., with a slight dip to the W., has been exposed for a distance of fully a quarter of a
mile by shafts and costeens. These have proved the width of the lode to vary from 2ft. to 7ft., carrying good copper
and silver contents. , „
Shaft C has been sunk at the extreme south, Shaft B 60ft. N. on the course of the lode, and Shaft A 92ft.
have been sunk to a depth of 20,15, and 38ft. respectively, with an average width of 7ft., and from which
good ore was obtained, averaging 8 per cent, copper and 30oz. silver per ton.
No. 1 is 85ft. N. of A., and has been sunk to a depth of 52ft. The ore body between walls has varied from
5 to 10ft. wide. , ... „
From 36ft. down a level S. was put in 38ft. and sloped to surface. At the same level N. was connected with No. 2
Shaft (56ft.), and stoped to surface.
From these stopes a large quantity of good ore has been obtained, varying from 2 per cent, copper and 20oz. of
silver to 13 per cent, copper and 90oz. silver, the average being 7 per cent, copper and 350 z. silver per ton.
On the face of the 52ft. level, going S., there is a fine chute of ore 4ft. 6in. wide, averaging 7 per cent, copper and
30oz. silver per ton. .
On the N. end of this level the formation is fully 10ft. wide, carrying a chute of fair ore 3ft. wide, varying from
2’7 ppr cent, oopper and 14oz. silver to s’B per cent, copper and 420 z silver.
No. 2 Shaft is 56ft. N. of No. 1, and is sunk to a depth of 80ft., and averages 3ft. to 9ft. in width between the
walls. The quality of the ore during the sink varied from 2 per cent, copper and 17oz. silver to 7'3 per cent, copper
and 60oz. silver per ton.
At the opening of drives N. and S. there is a good chute of ore, averaging 6 per cent, copper and 450 z.
silver, although the present faces, which are in 20ft. and 18ft. respectively, do not look so well, but will probahly
improve on driving. In the S., the ore body measures 3ft. 6in., averaging 3.4 per cent, copper and 12oz. silver.
No. 5 Shaft is sunk in disturbed country, about 900 ft. N. from No. 2. The reason of this disturbance is a
fault takes place in the proximity’ of No. 4 Shaft, and has thrown the lode about a chain to the west.
The shaft (No. 5) has been sunk 52ft., carrying good ore, varying from 1J per cent, copper and lOoz. silver
to 16 per cent, copper and 118 oz. silver. . .
At 27ft. down, a drive has been put in S. 40ft., and crosscuts E. and W. 14ft. and 16ft. respectively, without
meeting the walls. These have exposed a large body of gossany ore, averaging about 4 per cent, copper and 16oz.
Smelting and Fluxes. —The character of the ore at present exposed docs not lead me to expect that any
difficulty will be met with in producing a good matte. In fact, your ores are nearly self-fluxing, with the excep-
tion of a small addition of limestone, which you have already at hand in quantity.
At the same time, before considering and deciding the most economic mode of treatment, I would strongly
advocate sinking to a further depth of 100 ft. from the bottom of No. 2 Shaft and putting in the necessary drives,
to prove the quantity and nature of your ore at that depth.
In reviewing the state of affairs regarding the Pikedale Copper and Silver property, the good grade ore,
and their occurrence in considerable quantities, so far as oan be judged from the present workings, I am of
opinion that it warrants the further expenditure of a considerable sum for development as suggested. When this has
been accomplished, and the nature and body of ore exposed at this depth, it will be then time enough for you to
consider the best and most economic means for the treatment of same.
Mining Commissioner’s Report.
PIKEDALE SILVER MINE.
In my last report I referred to this mine as just opened and in its infancy, but since then it has been considerably
developed, and the mineral is similar to that found at the Silver Spur. It is known as the Pikedale Copper, Gold,
and Silver Mining Company, and is a freehold on the Pikedale Station, 20 miles from Stanthorpe. Active work was
commenced on the property just twelve months ago, and various shafts, five in number, have been sunk, varying in
depth from 40 to 100 feet. 'On the lode the two extreme shafts are a quarter of a mile apart. The ore exposed vanes
in width from sft. to 10ft., and averages 320 z. of silver per ton, and copper 6.72 per cent. A reverberatory furnace
was erected to experiment on the ore, but was not found to be successful, and the Company now contemplate
increasing the capital in order to more fully develop the mine, further experiment on the ore treatment, and obtain
the best metallurgical advice thereon before deciding on any particular method of treatment. Meanwhile, the work
is stopped, pending the completion of the newly-proposed financial arrangements. I may mention that something like
850 tons of ore has been put through the furnace, and 100 tons of matte obtained of an estimated value of £4 2s. 6d. on
the ton of ore. This is considered very satisfactory, especially when the mechanical troubles are taken into considera-
tion, with respect to the constant stopping of the smelting for repairs owing to defective bricks, and then again the
estimated loss in calcining before smelting is calculated at 20 per cent. This loss will be obviated should the ore be
found amenable to the Pyritie Smelting process, such as is used at the Mount Lyell Mine in Tasmania, and so far as
the experiments have gone they tend to prove that the above process will be adopted.
Manager's Report of July 19th, 1897 .
Summary of work done from the commencement (January last) to date.
Oosteening work was carried on for the first two or three weeks, which exposed the lode in various places along
the surface line, varying from two feet to seven feet wide for a quarter of a mile in length. Although we have a length
of fully one mile on the reef, operations have been necessarily confined to one fourth of this length, because of the
short time we have been working, besides it being advisable to concentrate the labor o order to get some stoping
ground open ; but I have no doubt, judging from the strong character of the lode, but what the ore will live through-
out the whole length. The most southern shaft (known as B shaft) is in about the centre of the property (comprising
160 acres), and is fully a quarter of a mile distant from the most northern shaft (No. 5), which is now down over 40ft.
There are intervening shafts down on the lode from 50 to 70ft. deep, and although the lode on the stirfaoe was only
three feet thick in places, yet the deeper we sink the wider the ore becomes.
B shaft is 16ft. deep ; lode 7ft. wide, of good value. No. 1 shaft which is two chains, Nof B shaft is down over
50ft., and carries 10ft. of clean ore in the bottom, and still widening; the first stope we took out over the 50ft.
averaged fully 10ft. wide. . „ .... , .. , .
No. 2 shaft 90ft., north of No. 1, is down 70ft., and has averaged from 3ft. in width to 9ft., the present width in
the bottom being Bft. between walls. These two shafts are still being sunk by two shifts of men and horse whip.
No. 6 shaft, at the north end of workings, we are sinking in the lode without any walls ; the ore body must, be of
immense width here, as at the 27ft. depth (sulphide level) a drive was put in South about 40ft., and crosscuts E. and
W. put in for 14ft. and 16ft. each, without meeting any walls. I am convinced there are vast deposits of ore at this
end of the mine, therefore stopped prospecting at the Shallow level and resumed sinking the shaft, which is now
down 40 feet; am still sinking. You will notice that at the'.27ft. level we have gone through ore 30ft. wide (all oxide)
without meeting eitherwall, the material assaying in bulk 16ozs. silver per ton, a little gold, and 4.0 per cent, of cop-
per. In the shaft the ore is sulphides, and is improving in value as sunk upon. The assays varying from the 27ft.
level to the 40ft., from 27 to 31oz. silver and 5.0 per cent, to 7.0 per cent, copper ; nothing like a wall has been seen in
this shaft since the 20ft. depth was passed, one wall going E. and the other W.
All the ore raised and exposed at the Southern portion of our workings (includes B, A, and Nos. 1 and 2 shafts)
are sulphides (even to the surface), and will average in width nine feet (with every appearance of still further widen-
ing as depth is attained), the value in bulk being over 30oz. silver per ton, a little gold, and 6 per cent, to 7 per cent.
CO,) *Good work is now being done with the reverberatory furnace, but I would like to draw your attent ion to the fact
“ that the plant is not near large enough to deal with the immense quantities of ore contained in the mine,” and I
would earnestly advise you to take the necessary steps to increase the capital of the Company, so that the mine
development may be pushed ahead and sufficient and suitable furnaces erected as such a mine as this assuredly
" ""a”present we are smelting about 70 tons per week, including fluxes, but arrangements should be made to deal
with ot least ten times this quantity.
Please find assaver’s list of mine and furnace work assays, from which you will gain some idea of the great value
of the mine I may mention that the mine samples are always taken in bulk.
Fluxhs.—We have plenty of caldte in the mine for this purpose, and the small quantity of iron that is required
we cart from a big ironstone lode seven miles distant.
W. G. RODDA.
Assay of Mattes from the Pikedale Copper, Gold, and Silver Mining Company.
General Matte, June 8, 1897-Silver, 138 oz. 6dwt. 20gr.; Copper, 42.0 per cent.
Matte Seconds, June B—Silver,8 —Silver, 540 z. lldwt. lgr. ; Copper, 14.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 9—Silver, 1420 z. 14dwt. sgr. ; Copper, 26.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 10—Gold, 6dwt. 12gr. ; Silver, 119 oz. 4dwt. 12gr. ; Copper, 29 per cent
General Matte, June 12—Silver, 201 oz. 17dwt. 14gr. ; Copper, 29.4 per cent.
General Matte, June 13—Gold, 3oz. 18dwt. 9gr. ; Silver, 2890 z. 15dwt. llgr. ; Copper, 42.8 per cent.
General Matte, June 16—Gold, loz. 6dwt. 2gr. ; Silver, 184 oz. 4dwt. 20gr. ; Copper, 29.4 per cent
General Matte, June 17—Silver, 1590 z. 18dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 26.8 per cent.
General Matte, June 19—Silver, 2060 z. 9dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 41.8 per cent.
First Shipment Matte, June 19—Gold, 7dwt. 4gr. ; Silver, 1430 z. 7dwt. 12gr. ; Copper, 32.6 per cent
General Matte, June 21—Gold, loz. 6dwt. 2gr. ; Silver, 1770 z. 7dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 89.5 per cent
General Matte, June 23—Silver, 182 oz. 18dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 38.64 per cent.
General Matte, June 30—Silver, 300 oz. lOdwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 41.37 per cent.
General Matte, July I—Silver, 2120 z. 19dwt. 7gr ; Copper, 41.9 per cent.
General Matte, July 3—Silver, 2090 z. Idwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 41.3 per cent.
General Matte, July s—Silver, 198 oz. 12dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 47.05 per cent.
General Matte, July 7—Silver, 2220 z. 2dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 49 per cent.
General Matte, July B—Silver, 2150 z 12dwt. ; Copper, 47.25 per cent.
General Matte, July 9—Silver, 218 oz. 4dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 42.8 per cent.
Second Shipment Matte—Gold, Bdwt. 7gr. ; Silver, 2220 z. 15dwt. 17gr. ; Copper, 42.2 per cent,
General Matte, July 12—Silver, 2220 z. 3dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 31.25 per cent.
General Matte, July 13—Silver, 2040 z. 3dwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 34.45 per cent.
General Matte, July 13 (Afternoon Tapping)—Silver, 1790 z. 12dwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 29.85 per oent.
Assay of Ores.
Bulk Sample, half Gossan, half Sulphide—Silver, 490 z. 3dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 8.4 per cent.
Fines (Sulphide) from general heaps below Dressing Floor —Silver, 220 z. 17dwt. Bgr.; Copper, 6 per oent.
Seconds, right hand side of Dressing Floor —Silver, 50oz. 6dwt. 22gr.; Copper, 6.8 per cent.
Special Sample—Silver, 2oz. 12dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 16.2 per cent.
From Foot Wall—Gold, 6dwf. 12gr. ; Silver, 38oz. 17dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 19.4 per cent.
From Hanging Wall—Gold, Sdwt. 6gr. ; Silver, 340 z. 18dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 7 per cent.
Fines from B. Shaft—Silver, lOoz. 2dwt. lOgrs.; Copper, 12.3 per cent.
From Second Heap below B shaft—Silver, 38oz. 7dwt. 16grs. ; Copper, 8 per oent.
From Third Heap below B Shaft—Silver, 16oz. 6dwt. 16grs.
Oxide Ore, top side B Shaft (bulk)—Silver, 31oz. 7dwt. 4grs. ; Copper, 6.5 per cent.
Bulk Sample, B Shaft —Silver, 20oz. 6dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 7.2 per cent.
No. 1 Sample, Limestone Shaft—Silver loz. 19dwt. 4grs. ; Copper 0.16 per cent.
No. 2 Sample—Silver, Bozs. 19dwt. 16grs.; Copper, 4.84 per cent.
Grey Ore from Trench opposite Creek —Silver, 7oz. lOdwt. 6grs.
Sulphide Ore, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 31oz. 7dwt. 4grs. ; Copper, 4.5 per cent.
Limestone Ore, No. 2 Shaft (prospecting)—Silver, lloz. 15dwt. 4gr.; Copper, 1.9 per oent.
Sulphide Ore, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 360 z. lldwt. 7gr.; Copper, 12.75 per oent.
No. 2 Sample, South Trench —Silver, 3oz. Bdwt. 14gr.
Oxide Ore —Silver, 16oz. 19dwt. 17gr. ; Copper, 17.66 per cent.
Oxide Ore, from Furnace Shed—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr. ; Copper, 13.26 per cent.
Roasted Ore from Furnace Shed —Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. ; Copper, 7.9 per cent.
Samples from Cross Course—Silver, 14oz. 7dwt. lOgr. ; Copper, 18.4 per cent.
Sample of 2 Tons of Ore—Silver, lloz. 15dwt. 4gr.; Copper, 13.7 per cent.
Samples of Black Ore in Tip—Silver, ISoz. Idwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 19.05 per cent.
Samples last Fines, end of General Heap—Silver, 90oz. 3dwt. 4gr; Copper, 7.0 per cent.
Samples Seconds, below General Heap—Silver, 270 z. Bdwt. 18gr. ; Copper, 11.65 per cent.
Roasted Ore (large Kiln), Below A Shaft—Silver, 41oz. i6dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 13.6 per cent.
Bulk Sample B Shaft —Silver, 41oz. 16dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 18.65 per cent.
Samples from Blue Sulphide—Silver, 18oz. sdwt. 20gr.
Heap S end of Mine—Copper, 7.75 per cent.
Roughs from No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 520 z. sdwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 4.6 per cent.
Prospecting Sample Pyrites, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 13oz. Idwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 12.75 per cent.
Ore from Hanging Wall, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 360 z. lldwt. 7gr. ; Copper, 12.75 per cent.
Fines from Hanging Wall, No. 1 Shaft —Silver, 41oz. 6dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 5.55 per cent.
Black Oxide Mud, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 41oz. 6dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 7.2 per cent.
Black Fines, No. 5 Shaft —Silver, 19oz. 12dwt. ; Copper, 5.6 per cent.
Roasted Fines, various heaps—Silver, 350 z. sdwt. 14gr. ; Copper, 7.4 per cent.
Bulk Sample, No. 2 Shaft—Silver, 28oz. 14dwt. 22gr. ; Copper, 5.4 per cent.
Prosp. Sample Lime Ore, B Shaft—Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. Ogr. ; Copper, 7.65 per cent.
First Sample Fines, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 220 z. 4dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 5.62 per cent.
Second Sample Fines, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 20oz. 18dwt. 2gr. ; Copper, 0.4 per cent.
Fines, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 350 z. sdwt. 14gr. ; Copper, 4.12 per cent.
Ore, No. 4 Shaft, North —Silver, 28oz. 14dwt. 22gr.; Copper, 2.0 per cent.
Ore in Furnace Floor—Copper, 4.3 per cent.
Bulk Samples, No. 2 Shaft—Silver, 40oz. lOdwt. 2gr. ; Copper, £.3 per cent.
Bulk Sample Fines, No. 1 Shaft— Silver, 31oz. 7dwt. 4gr. ; Copper, 3.68 per cent.
Samples, North Stope, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 450 z. 14dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 8.32 per cent.
Sample from Face, South Stope, No. 1 Shaft —Silver, 450 z. 14dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 5.92 per cent.
Sample from South Stope—Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. Ogr. ; Copper, 8.96 per cent.
Sample from South Level, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 1.6 per cent.
Sample Oxide Ore from Furnace Shed —Silver, 450 z. 14dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 6.6 per cent.
Roasted Ore, Furnace Shed—Silver, 520 z. sdwt. Bgr.; Copper, 6.08 per cent.
Bulk Sample, B. Shaft—Silver, 220 z. 4dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 9.52 per cent.
Oxide Ore, Furnace Shed—Silver, 17oz. 12dwt. 18gr ; Copper, 6.64 per cent.
Roasted Ore, Furnace Shed—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 4.66 per cent.
Samples Roughs (bulk) from New Kiln—Silver, 20oz. 18dwt. 2gr.; Copper, 6.08 per cent.
Oxide Ore from Furnace Shed—Silver, 40oz. 16dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 4.4 per cent.
ROBERT MAR, Assayer.
Brisbane, Ist March, 1898.
(Signed)
N.B. —Even before the issue of Prospectus, heavy applications for Shares have been received, and the flo - f
ssured. It is advisable to apply at once by letter or wire, as Shares are to be allotted according to p
pplication.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors of
The Pike dale Proprietary Copper & Silver Minify Co.,
NO LIABILITY.
Gentlemen,
I hereby apply for ;
Shares in the abovenamed Company in terms of Prospectus, and I hand you herewith the
sum of pounds ■ __ shillings, being
application money for Shares.
Name in full
Address
Occupation (if any )
Usual Signature
Dated at this
Witness to Signature
day of II 189


Beale and Company, Ltd.
Iron-Framed Pianos for Hot Climates.
Tbt Celebrated HAPSBUR6 PIANO, New Style.
. . . Tbe Nigb-CIaSS F. ISERMANN PIANO.
Here are a few
Condensed Testimonials
from Many THOUSANDS. Each has been
voluntarily sent to us*
• • Please Write to us for - -
Catalogues and Particulars,
no matter where you live. Kindly mention
“The Bulletin.”
PIANOS of Many Makers.
HI
5535
H
A
"•N
m
\mmxm
No matter in what part of Australasia you
live, we will supply you with a
PIANO fit for the Climate.
We have Piano-actions with
ALL PARTS CLINCHED and RIVETTED
and TIED TOGETHER with SILK;
also the Felts and Cloths prepared against
Eating by Insects.
We believe that these are only imported by
Ourselves. Sounding Boards warranted not
to Crack or Split.
SPECIAL UNIQUE CONSTRUCTION.
The late Chas. S. Packer, Royal Academician : “ Ex-
tremely pleased with sweetness, fulness and power. Tone
and finish all that can be desired. Unsurpassed.”
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman : “ Aussi charm6e que
surprise de la douceur exquise de leur toucher, unie li
une ampleur et une sonority remarquables.”
Monsieur Henri Kowalski : “ Good tone, easy touch,
durable, every element of conscientous work and careful
making.”
Signor Roberto Hazon : “ Purchased one. All respects
very perfect. Suited to climate. Splendid finish, faith-
ful workmanship, tone and power. Cannot be excelled.”
Mr. J. A. Delaney, of St. Mary's: “Tone powerful;
extremely sweet and clear. Touch elastic and sympa-
thetic. Depend on remaining well in tune.”
Sir Wm. C. Robinson, Gov. of S. Australia, gave his un-
qualified approval.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Queensland. Purchased “on
account of its special sweetness.”
Rev. W. G. Lawes, New Guinea : “ Stands this trying
climate remarkably well.”
Rev. J. Levy, Sydney: “Highly toned. Entire satis-
faction. Confidently recommended.”
■Rev. J. Hornsby Spear : “ After six long journeys and
eight years’ constant use, has been only tuned once. Per-
fect order, condition and tone as new.”
Rev. Hy. Jobson, Cowra : “ Every satisfaction. Very
pleased with it.”
Very Rev. J. T. Marriott, D.D., Dean: “Has given
satisfaction. Much admired.”
Rev. R. Thomson, Tenterfield: “Every satisfaction.
Exceptionally economical in tuning.”
Rev. Jas. S. Scott, Woodburn : “Cannot speak too
highly. Never heard a better-toned inst. than you sup-
plied me. Retain surpassing brilliancy.”
Rev. Chas. H. Gibson, M.A. : “After many years entire
satisfaction. Very fine inst., sweet tone, easily kept in
tune.”
Rev. Jas. Moss : “ Constant use in school six years,
thus proved good and durable.”
Rev. Walter Lucas : “ All who have seen mine are in-
clined to break the tenth commandment ! ”
Ven. Archdeacon Matheson : “ Such an instrument is
a real treat.”
Rev. J. C. Warner, Warwick : “ Very much pleased.
Can speak very highly.”
Rev. Dr. Murphy, St. Patrick’s College : “ Greatly ad-
mired for sweetness and purity.”
Rev. Hy. Plumb, M.A., Townsville: “ Well calculated
to stand the tropics.”
Rev. Matthew Maddern, Orange : “ A charming piano.
After many years use improves in sweetness and mellow-
ness of tone.”
Rev. Father Doran, Oberon : “First-class in melody
and durability.”
Rev. C. Hamilton Sheddbn, Bourke : “ Wonderfully
sweet; perfectly elastic. Touch full of sympathy.”
The Rev. Mother, Convent, W. Kempsey : “Given great
satisfaction, as they all have.”
The Mother Rectress, Bega : “ Satisfaction with the
beautiful instrument.”
The Sisters of the Good Samaritan : “ Recommend for
durability and usefulness.”
The Rev. Mother, Coraki: “ Greatest satisfaction. A
splendid instrument.”
The Rev. Mother, Lismore : “ Clear, full tone, free
action, stands wear-and-tear better than pianos by other
makers at same price.”
The Mother Superior, Wagga : “ Purchased years ago,
gave satisfaction ; still in good order.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Sunny Corner : “ Constantly
used. Needs no tuning. Sweet-toned, after years, as
when first arrived.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Townsville : “ Your Pianos give
us entire satisfaction. Withstand admirably tropical
climate.”
The Presentation Sisters, Hay: “ Piano given un-
bounded satisfaction, although in constant use for seven
years.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, O’Connell Plains : “ Recom-
mend for durability and sweetness.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Perth : “ Good instrument.
Great satisfaction."
Holy Cross Convent, Cooma : “ Recommend Hapsburgs
for schools, as very durable. Particularly suited.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Parramatta : “ Hapsburg giving
. every satisfaction.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Emmaville : “ Greatly pleased.
Highly recommend as well-toned, good, strong and dur-
able.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Wattle Flat: “Beautiful
piano ; after several years use, preserves its sweet tone.”
Mr. Thos. J. Fitzpatrick, Organist, St. Patrick’s, Bega :
“ My 60-guinea Hapsburg, after several years, gives every
satisfaction. Excellent tone.”
Mr. R. H. Lansdown, Station-master, Quirindi: “ Every
shape and form an excellent instrument. Very highly
pleased. Honestly recommend to everyone.”
Mr. W. S. Watts, Asst. S.-master, Millthorpe : “ Mag-
nificent instrument. Exceeds expectations. Tone and
touch excellent. Certainly recommend.”
Mr. Gus. T, C. Miller, M.L.A. : “None to surpass;
splendid tone, volume and thoroughness.”
Mr. Marcus Hume, Bega : “ After many years’ experi-
ence, have bought a second Hapsburg in preference to all
others.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Cargo: “ They cannot be
excelled.”
Annis Montague-Turner, Vocalist: “Had one in con-
stant use. Every satisfaction. Resonant and powerful,
yet easily modulated.”
Saml. Geo. Benson, R.A. Music, London: “I testify
to excellence, power, and durability of Hapsburgs. That
I purchased is a really splendid instrument. I prefer
them to those of any maker I have met with.”
John Radcliff, Premier Flautist, Her Maj. Theatre,
London: “The Hapsburg is an unrivalled instrument.
To the flute-soloist nothing is more important than
quality of piano accompanying.”
Fred. MACCABE(the Evergreen) : “ Excel in touch, tone,
equality, rapidity of hopper and hammer, but above all
in the singing quality of each note. These, united, I
have not met with in any other piano.”
School of Arts, Hinton: “Piano gives every satis-
faction.”
School of Arts, Wickham : “ All first-class pianists
speak in highest terms of its brilliant tone and suitability
to large hall.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Granville : “Well pleased, en-
tirely satisfied.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Hillgrove : “ A splendid in-
strument.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Newcastle : “ Great pleasure to
speak highly.”
Ancient Order of Foresters, Macdonaldtown : “En-
tire satisfaction.”
Bachelors’ Club, Hillgrove : “ Satisfaction in every
way.”
School of Arts, Townsville : “Rich, full tone rarely
met with.”
School of Arts, Ipswich : “ Utmost satisfaction in
every way.”
Burwood Mechanics’ Institute, Newcastle : “ Tho-
roughly satisfied.”
Mr. Lewis T. Garnett, Australian Star : “ Great ap-
proval.”
Mr. Fred. B. Gipps, Ashfleld: “Rich tone, excellent
construction.”
(Late) Prof. K. W. Goergs, Woollahra: “Most satisfac-
torily stood test of wear and climate.”
Dr. W. Cleaver Woods, Albury : “Combines brilliancy
with mellowness of tone. Unusually sympathetic touch.”
Mr. H. Headley, Brewery, Albury : “Complete satis-
faction ; keeps in tune wonderfully well.”
Mr. Chas. Clark, school, Araluen : “ After years of
use, perfect tune. Unrivalled as an accompaniment to
voice.”
Mr. M. O. A. Marsh, Lands Dept. : “ I have had several
pianos ; prefer yours to any, and am sure will stand any
climate.”
Mr. Fred. Hamilton, Pub. School, Donald : “ I like the
Hapsburg very much.”
Miss Eliza Ella, Pub. School, Spring Vale: “Every
reason to be highly pleased.”
Mr. Jas. Thompson, Dep.-Gov. Berrima Gaol : “ Every
satisfaction."
Mr. J. J. Smyth, Pub. School, Bonegilla (Vic.) : “Re-
commend any to purchase.”
Mr. T. Phillips, Station, Breeza: “My wife is highly
delighted.”
Miss Rose A. Sunny, Pub. School, Brookfield : “ Really
fine inst.”
Mr. Wm. Griffith, Pub. School, Bundarra: “Beyond
my expectations.”
Mr. Geo. Drummond, Pub. School, Bungawannah:
“ Strong, remarkably sweet and pleasing.”
Mr. W. H. Prior, Senior Sergeant, Burrowa : “ Splen-
did inst. Stands climate ; never out of tune or unison.”
Mr. Wright Smith, Pub. School, Candelo : “Verysweet
tone. Every satisfaction.”
Mr. Walter Stevens, Pub. School, Canoblas : “ Only
when contrasting with other insts. can I fully appreciate
what a grand inst. it is.”
Mr. R. G. Francis, Sergeant of Police, Careoar : “ Most
handsome. Pleased with quality and sweetness.”
Mr. J. G. Banber, solicitor : “ Every satisfaction. None
better designed to resist climatic influences.”
Mr. Robt. • Wenn, Sergeant of Police, Cootamundra:
“ Cannot be excelled.”
Mr. Wm. Anderson, Pub. School, Cow Flat: “Surprised
and delighted.”
Mr. A. H. Nichols, Pub. School, Cudal: “I recommend
to all my friends.”
Mr. C. H. Dean, Police Office, Dandaloo: “Everything
I could wish.”
Mr. Geo. Claudius Nash, Mission Station : “Tone pure,
soft, and melodious. Not excelled by any inst.”
Mr. W. T. Adams, 8.A., Delegate: “Treble and bass
registers very evenly balanced. Cannot speak too highly
of tone and elastic touch.”
Mr. Rodolph Hempel (Carlos Sante of W. G. and M.’s
Comic Opera Co.) : “ Recommend to all my friends.”
Mr. A. Clarke, Stationmaster, Koorawatha : “ Every
satisfaction.”
Miss Annbb Munro, Pianoforte Teacher, Quirindi :
“ Great satisfaction ; consider it the best.”
Mrs. M. A. R. Britten, Public School, Gentleman’s
Halt : “ I testify to superiority.”
Mr. W. J. Lindley, Newtown : “ Rich tone and superior
qualities.”
Mr. D. Brennan, Palace Hotel, Mortlake : “Is giving
great satisfaction.”
Mr. W. T. Gleeson, Professor of Music, Petersham :
“ During five years has stood enormous wear. In perfect
order.”
Mr. S. Bailey, Waterloo : “ I should like to let you
know how pleased I am w’ith piano.”
Mr. A. G. Mitc'hell, Public School, Peak Hill : “ Sweet
tone, handsome and strong, and giving satisfaction.”
Mr. P. Dempsey, Compagnie des Mines D’Or, Brown’s
Creek : “Thoroughly pleased with it. Sold two on my
recommendation.”
Mr. J. C. Cunningham, Condobolin : “ Gives every satis-
faction. Stood long road journey well, and thermometer
at 115 deg.”
Mr. Ciias. T. Campbell, Cudal : “ A good, reliable in-
strument, improving in tone with use.”
Mrs. Bull, 53 Berthing-st., Newcastle : “Splendid in-
strument. This is the second I have bought from you.
Will want three more.”
Mr. Gerald Doyle, Mungindi : “ Splendid instrument,
both for tone and finish.”
Mr. C. E. Hooke, Tamworth : “A first-class instru-
ment. No hesitation in recommending.”
Mr. Benj. G. W. Freeman, Public School, Coolac : “ All
remark its beautiful tone.”
Mr. P. J. Donohue, Railway Inspector, Wagga Wagga :
“ Am highly satisfied with my venture.”
Mr. Thom. Blundell, George-street, Sydney (Abbey &
Co.): “Tone, touch, appearance, and resonance all that
could be wished.”
Mr. T. Tyrer, Petersham : “ Well pleased, excellent
tone, and beautiful appearance.”
Mr. J. W. Williams, Orange : “ I recommend the Haps-
burg.”
Mr. E. Lunn, Public School, Brucedale : “ Sympathetic
tone, and handsome and durable.”
Mr. M. Riley, Public School, South Casino : “Never
heard an inst. so perfect in ff and pp passages.”
Mr. D. Jones, Public School, Oakland, R.R.: “ A beau-
tiful inst., and has given perfect satisfaction.”
Mr. J. Collins, Public School, Bumbury : “ Useless to
enumerate its merits ; I am satisfied.”
Mr. C. S. Carpenter, Hexham : “My daughters are
delighted with it. First-class inst.”
Mr. John Condon, Hotelkeeper, Port Macquarie:
“Beautiful tone.”
Mr. Robert Maguire, Curban : “ I can highly recom-
mend it. lam perfectly satisfied.”
Mr. Patrick Mathews, Hotelkeeper, Cofcar: “ Four
years in use and but little attention to tuning. Confi-
dently recommend to anyone.”
Mr. M. J. Murphy, Bulyeroi: “Eight years in use and
stands climate well. First-class piano.”
Mr. J. H. Sweeney, Telegraph Dept., Muswellbrook :
“ For excellence of tone and touch it is all that could be
desired.” *
Mr. T. W. Edwards, Public School, Krambach : “ I can-
not speak too highly. All agree as to its excellence.”
Mrs. P. Matthews, Pallamallawa: “ Has given me
satisfaction.”
Mr. P. Neilson, Dapto : “ Absolute perfection of
mechanism and incomparable beauty of tone.”
Mrs. F. Hart, Public School, Berrima : “ Never yet
came across its equal in tone and sweetness.”
Mr. Roy Gulson, North Goulburn : “In constant use
for six years, and as perfect as when new.”
Mr. George Stoneman, Trangie : “ Has given every
satisfaction, standing hot climate admirably.”
Mr. A. J. Bundock, Public School, Chain of Ponds,
Yass : “Is truly a ' wonder.’ ‘ The piano of the day.’”
Mr. W. T. Bullock, Stony Creek, Bathurst: “ I am
indeed very pleased with it. Splendid tone.”
Mr. W. H. Tindall, Duramana : “ For sweetness of tone
it cannot be surpassed.”
Mr. S. A. Kaye, Albury: “ Splendid instrument. Would
not take £2O extra for it.”
Mr. W. Mason, Lower Botobolar: “ Has given every
satisfaction.”
Mr. M. J. Connell, Moree : “I recommend, having
used Hapsburgs for last ten years.”
Mr. S. Royse, Narrabri: “A magnificent instrument.
I am highly pleased.”
Mr. J. J. Moore, Moree : “Given the greatest satisfac-
tion.”
Mr. W. E. Browning, Telegraph Department, Young :
“Thoroughly satisfactory in every particular.”
Mr. Jas. Ahearnb, Young: “A superior instrument.
I am highly pleased with it.”
Mr. E. H. Tyrell, Plattsburg : “ Tone very sweet.
Have not played on a better.”
Mr. Michael Lyons, Jainberoo : “Given me complete
satisfaction.”
Mr. George McLennan, Carrington : “ Every satisfac-
tion. The tone is perfect.”
Mr. W. E. Benson, Forster : “ Have been supplied with
two Hapsburg Pianos, and can therefore speak in the
highest possible terms of their marvellous wear.”
Mr. _J. F. Murphy, Public School, Mount Keira : “ Its
tone is exquisitely sweet and resonant. Excellent
touch.”
Mr. S. E. Clifton, Public School, Mugwill: “The tone
remarkably sweet.”
Mr. A. Murdoch, Bibbenluke : “ Have had piano three
years and does not require tuning ye.t.”
Mr. W. H. Vicq, Federal Hotel, Bookham : “ Recom-
mend anyone wanting lifetime piano to get a Hapsburg.”
Mr. Jas. Rigby, Eskbank : “I am very pleased with
th.e piano.”
Mr. M. O’Connell, Public School, Mogo : “ Five years
without tuning. Sweetness of tone instantly remarked.”
Mr. L. Hogan, Annidale : “ For richness of tone and
standing quality its equal is not on the market.”
Mr. George McKerrow, Armidale : “ Has maintained
its richness of tone in this severe climate.”
Mr. J. Bolt, Eskbank : “ A sweet toned instrument,
and I shall be proud to recommend it.”
Mr.. Wm. Radford, Superior Public School, Albury :
“ A high-class piano, rich in tone, and durable.”
Mrs. Margaret Pitman, Corowa : “ Quite pleased ; very
handsome.”
Mr. K. C. Hughes, Thuddungra : “Kept tune perfectly
through two hot summers.”
ALLOWANCE made for OLD PIANOS.
Kindly Address :
BEALE & CO., Limited, 484 George Street, SYDNEY
Or 13 STRAND.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS throughout the COLONY.


Smoke
Chief
-
T'OBACC- 0
MANUFACTURED IN AMERIOA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIOH STREET, SYDNEY.
Secrets of Sdccess.
Poor Stoddart’s “got the needle
’Cos a win he didn’t see;
How different it might ha’ been
Had they trained on HILLY TEA..
We hope that soon he may regain
His usual good hnmour ;
But the Secret of Our Boys’ Success
Is FOB AH and GRAKUMA.
Drink “BILLY” TEA
and Eat GRANUMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneer a 9
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
AT THE CAFE.
“Hello! Have you taken a half-holiday?”
“No ; why did you think so ? ”
“Because I once heard you say it was a mystery
to you how people could keep awake after
dining at mid-day.”
“Ah! that was before I got LOASBY’S
‘WAHOO.’ You see, I was a dyspeptio
then. Now, I dine when I like, and eat
what I like ; but always with my eye on
the ‘WAHOO’ bottle.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Re^ ailS P OS^^°n ’ Federation One Fat
The Sydney daily papers particularly detest
tinn at he has alwa y s favored the imposi-
tion or postage on newspapers.
Queensland’s new Minister— Hon. Chata-
rfSTSS “■-? the P re sent Parliament by the skin
I™ The next candidate, a brother of
Minister for Lands. 6 Within V ° tGS ° f thenew
In the event of the States carrying the
Federation Bill, a pretty scramble for member-
snip of the delegation which will carry the
measure to England will set in. Barton, of
course, is sure of a place.
Premier Turner voted for the inclusion
of the appeal to the Queen in the Commonwealth
Constitution Bill. Before the jubilee Turner was
as much of a Democrat as he could be ; now he is
no more of a Democrat than he can help
THE A.N.A.
Big patriots and smaller fry
Who, knowing they must talk or die,
Allow their vanity to balk
Their amor patriae—and talk !
D.
“The A.N.A. is a power,” says Melb.
Herald. So it is—a wind-power. The A.N.A.
is a remarkable body of young men who might be
content if one half were deaf or the other half
umb. It is composed of men whose speeches
endure, and others who endure them.
N.S.W. Minister Young: “£1,750,000
has been expended in reproductive railways dur-
ing the life of this Parliament, and I can see no
limit to the borrowing and spending capacity of
the province in this direction.” Minister Young
can see no limit to the borrowing capacity of the
province. The Bulletin’s large Australian oath !
The abolition of “ Black Rod ” should be
the irrepressible demand of N.S.W. political
economists The history of the office, the antics
of the performer, and the pretensions he sym-
bohses make him a solecism dear at any price.
Yet this doddering image is paid more than a
member of Parliament.
Approaching dissolution has cast its shadow
Stq and well-paid body,
N.S.W Public Works Committee. These (Trea-
Bury)-bleeding patriots now sit every day, except
Saturday and Sunday, and work like galley-slaves
—at A 3 3s. a day additional to their Parliamentary
pay. Chained to the Ore !
Yellow agony at Port Darwin :
Hang Kee, charged with the manslaughter of a lubra
at Borroloola, acquitted. Chew Horn, charged with stab-
bing with intent Hong Kim, found guilty and sentenced
to five years ; second charge of shooting Leung Hem was
withdrawn. Chong Yow, charged with seriously assault-
ing a lubra under the age of consent, found guiity.
Bet Pritchard Morgan bring ’em in !
A just-returned-from-India S. Australian
says that in the Calcutta riots, about a year ago
natives were shot down like dogs. And not a
word about it in the papers, “ out of respect for
the feelings of the Home Govt. ”! One man
boasted that he had accounted for 13 darkies ; and
next day you could not buy a firearm from the
flhops at any price. The whites had mopped them
all up.
S.A. L/abor-party nas decided to run nine
Labor-candidates for country electorates at next
Assembly elections. This move has caused dis-
satisfaction in Ministerial ranks, as many Liberals
who support the Kingston Govt, will probably be
opposed. Those behind the scenes aver that the
Labor crowd will have enough to do in defending
its city seats without splitting the democratic
vote in the provinces.
Two of the Westralian Federationists—
Venn and Briggs-broke silence in one week of
/Tif Y on y ent A° n T qu ' te a remarkable achievement
(the last). One has only to read any talk of the
members of the delegation from the West to
understand Forrest’s mastery. If these are the
best that Westralia could send, the rest of the
politicians in Forrestland can’t be up to the level
of a fifth-class shire council. Even Leake, nominal
leader of the Opposition (Forrest lets him call
himseif that), is a poor, puny thing, palpably
afraid of big John. Why don’t some of the out-
of-Parliament Vic. politicians go over to the West
and play the game there ?
Premier Reid
became the giddy
hog of the Con-
vention in its
closing days. He
told Zeal (aged
68) that he was
beneath i n suit;
he described old
Douglas, of Tas-
mania (aged 83),
as a person with
a voice like a saw-
mill ; and Brad-
don (aged 69 and
very frail) he de-
fined, apropos of
nothing in par-
ticular, as a luna-
tic. The general
tone of the Con-
vention wasn’t
high enough to
make these re-
in arks very notice-
able, except for
the fact that the
persons aimed at were all too
old and physically weak to bounce
G.R. s rotund corporation down
the stair in return. Towards
big, healthy, militant delegates
like Kingston and Forrest he
was at least moderately respectful
at all times.
Wanted in Australian
Parliaments, fewer 44 scenes ” and
more acts.
The Bulletin has received information of
this sort about fifty times :
The Irish are a stronger power than ever in Melbourne
Metropolitan Board of Works. To get a job on the sewer-
works, Pat has only to bring a note to the ganger from
P r jest to say that he is a good member (paying) of the
church, and on he goes, as a rule. Pat is expected, while
in work, to give 2s. 6d. a week to the church ,and some-
body comes along with a book to collect the weekly “ offer-
If Pat doesn’t ante-up, his spiritual adviser arrives
upon the scene—and then !
Truth or lies ?
T. Brown, M.L.A., who loses himself in
arithmetical admiration over the land-tax, but
doesn t like the income-tax, starts his race for
next N.S.W. Parliament astride the following
pathetic incident. He picked up two Condobolin
patients bound for Sydney Hospital. They were
his constituents, but, although they travelled
second-class, the great M.L.A., with the gold
pass on his waistcoat entitling him to a first-class
carriage, went into the second-class and stayed
. his constituents till Sydney was reached.
.Think of the heroic nobility of that! ” ory his
barrackers.
A PERMANENT ATTACHMENT .
BUSH TOWNSMAN (to actor): “I see that little ginger piece is up
with you again"
ACTOR : “ Yes; she’s my wife !”
Thus a New Australian pilgrim recently
returned to Bundaberg (Q.) :
But what was the use of working when there were so
many doing nothing and, apparently, never intending to
do anything? . . . About 50 per cent, were grand men
and the other 50 per cent, duffers. That’s where the
trouble came in. And then che Paraguayan Government
made things worse by offering, just when need was driv-
ing some of the lazy ones to work, to help us with a grant
of 800dol. a month. The result of this subsidy was that
some were content to sit down and eat the bread of idle-
ness—thus paralysing the rest of us. . . . I never ate
monkey ! ! I returned because I came to the conclusion
I could do more good for social democracy in Australia
than in Paraguay.
Which is just what this paper always told the
Paraguay pilgrims.
FREAKS OF FASHION.
BARBER (to young “ forty ” ) : “ Ho w will you have your hair
cut? ”
FORTY: “ Oh, like Cholly Smith—’e’s a loud bloke, ain’t ’e? ”
While most of the present Australasian
Ministries would hardly be recognised by Ballance,
Griffith and the other men who gave them exist-
ence, Reid’s N.S.W. Govt, remains almost the
same as when first constituted, four years ago.
Only two changes have taken place—in the substi-
tution of Vice-President Garran, for W. H. Sut-
tor, and that of Attorney-General Want for G.
B. Simpson, when the latter became a Judge. It
is significant that in nearly every N.S.W. Cabinet
the unpaid Vice-President of the Executive Coun-
cil has been first man to kick over the traces.
Those dreadful persons, “ Patriot ” and
“ Pro Bono Publico,” are having convulsions in
the Melbourne papers about the acceptance of the
lowest (an American) tender for steel rails, and
ask, in a bitter hunk of grief, if Victoria isn’t suffi-
ciently loyal to pay a little more in order to get
its rails from the mother country. Almost on the
same day it was announced that the British
Government railways in India had placed a large
rail contract in the U.S. for the sake of cheapness,
so it appears that the Victorian groveller grovels
to Bull even harder than Bull grovels to himself.
The ratification of the
appointment to a salaried
office of an ordained clergy-
man by N.S.W. Public Ser-
vice Board, the clergyman
at non-official hours re-
taining the right to per-
form clerical duties, em-
phasises an important dif-
ference between N. S. W.
policy and that of Victoria.
In Victoria clergymen, un-
til they retire from the
ministry, are not eligible
for employment in the
public service.
Queensland lately im-
ported some fine, sturdy
specimens of the genus
agricultural laborer. Sever-
al of them immediately
trotted round to find vacan-
cies in mercantile institu-
tions for clerks ; one tried
to start a private school;
and half-a-dozen made des-
perate attempts to get in-
to the police-force. The
agricultural laborer from
English counters, ware-
houses and offices, is a
fairly-numerous institu-
tion.
N. : “ The Argus
comp, says that the U.S.
are about hauling downjthe
Canadian ‘bag,’ at a station
on the Klondyke Wallaby.
Evidently ‘ flag ’ is meant.
When one comes to think
of it, * bag ’ may be a better
name for abortions like the
flags of Canada and Aus-
tralia. If the Federal
Con ventionists talked
about the flag, all Aus-
tralia would prick its ears.
But they will insist on talk-
ing about nothing but the
bag—the finances.”
A century ago Botany
Bay managed the Sunday
closing of its pubs, with de-
finiteness and decision.
The Licensing Ordinance
of 1801 ordained: “All licensed houses shall be
closed from daybreak on Sunday till 9 p.m. Any-
one selling spirits between these hours shall be
imprisoned and have his house pulled down.”
T.D. : “Have the police ever prosecuted
any of the big Sydney hotel proprietors for
Sunday trading, or selling after hours ? Yet these
places openly ply a trade which has to be done by
the small publicans with mysterious knock mgs and
countersigns and darkened bar-rooms. To-night
(Sunday) I was in the crowded smoking-room of a
leading hotel. Two prominent Govt, officials and
an M.P.—none of them lodgers—were of the com-
pany, and a policeman stood near the entrance
talking to one of the waiters ! ”
It is stated, by those who ought to know
that in proceeding against the Q.N.B. directorate
loinjoe Byrnes was acting in the face of the whole-
Cabinet. Moreover, M‘l]wraith’s slashing attack
on the Morehead crowd was published within a
week after Byrnes announced his determination
J ) r? Se ? u^ e ‘- -k°°k s as if t! 10 perfidy of Nelson
and Co. had incited MTlwraitli to urge his pro-
tege, ronijoe, to avenge him.
Ihe Rhadamanthine (Q.) law (now abro-
gated) against the sale of opium to Chinese exists
m spirit in N.S. Wales. Twelve months ago a
station-manager forbade the Chinamen on his run
to sell opium to blacks, males or females, though
numbers of them were as helpless slaves to the
vice as any Chinese. That manager) too, on one
occasion was summoned to court for thrashing a
Chinaman who offended in this way.
A member of N.S. W. Parliament thinks
of inviting the Leg. Assembly to pronounce upon
the action of Judge Backhouse in interdict-
ing, during the late . Carruthers v. Norton
criminal trial, the publication of Mrs. Black-
burn s evidence until after Mr. Carruthers’ evi-
dence in rebuttal was giveh. If he follow alO to
1 majority of counsellers lie will table his motion
within the first week of the new sitting.
At least three N.S.Vfy. Ministers—Car-
ruthers, Gas Garrard, and Sydney Smith—must
look forward apprehensively to the approaching
elections. Minister Smith has hopelessly offended
farmers in his electorate by putting pumpkins and
tomatoes from the local Govt, farm into the market
m competition with their produce. A man with-
out nous enough not to experiment on his own con-
stituents is better out of Parliament, anyway.
Bananaland expenditure on railways runs
about thus : Central District, 3 millions ;
Northern Q., 3| millions ; Southern Q., mil-
lions. Latest obtainable annual dividends ran—
Southern Q., £2 7s. Bd. per cent.; Central Q., £4
Is. Id per cent.; Northern Q., £3 Bs. percent.
Rockhampton to Longreach returned 5 per cent. :
Townsville to Hughenden, 10 per cent. What a
magnificent property this line will be in 20 years’
time!
The general opinion is that nothing short
of an earthquake, or a cannon-ball, or a regiment
of sand-shifters with a steam crane, will shift
George Reid from the N.S. Wales Treasury
benches. This probably accounts for the rumor
that there is a plot on foot in the House for
Kenneth Mackay to march on Parliament House
with his “ wild horse ” and puncture the aforesaid
George, and hang all the Labor-members, and
make Lyne King of Australia.
G. H. Reid’s refusal to dilate to Sydney
reporters upon the Melb. Convention fairly de-
monstrates that the N.S.W. Premier recognises
how badly his political nose is out of j'oint. Reid
jumped into the Federal breach only to find him-
self shoved aside by Barton, and when he tried to
assert himself in Melbourne the other delegates
didn’t even pretend to wait respectfully upon his
utterances—they were only too ready to bait him
with interjections as ironic as his own.
The Queensland Labor-party just now
doesn’t cut a very edifying figure. One section of
it goes round clamoring for a revival of the Opposi-
tion that died in ’96; another section loudly
asseverates that the Labor-party is all-sufficient to
•run the country itself ; a third faction is appar-
ently cutting itself adrift from the Labor platform
altogether. And, meanwhile, the lurid eloquence
of John Hoolan adorns the background with a
chaste and cheerful variety of rhetorical figures
worthy of a clown in a baokblocks circus.
Melbourne Argus is for once on the
Liberal side, and urges Victoria to accept the
Federal. Constitution and become part of a great
nation instead of the whole of a scrappy little
province. The Age covertly urges Victoria to
remain a free, disjointed scrap as heretofore. But
the Age isn’t an unbiassed witness in the matter.
A Federal Government means a Government
which David Syme couldn’t boss, and the obvious
reason why the Age should be against it is that
the stupendous David naturally bucks against his
own downfall. And if Turner and Isaacs are men
with big ambitions their obvious course is to help
Federation along all they can, then go ihto the
Federal Parliament, and leave their forgotten
Syme lamenting in the distance. They wouldn’t
need their Syme any longer then.
The N.S.W. Premier, who ought to be
an authority on such Parliamentary matters, has
declared that President Zeal, of the Vic. Leg.
Council, is “beneath contempt.” A Bulletin
minstrel is singing :
I did aspire, when I was young
And full of green ambition,
To cultivate the “ cheek ” and tongue
Which make a politician.
How foolish were the dreams I dreamt
If Zeal be far beneath contempt!
In Legislative Council chair,
Upon an elevation,
He sits with a commanding air,
A man of rank and station ;
And yet this Great One is condemn’t
To bear the brand “ Beneath Contempt.’*
One time I thougbt the Senate crowd
Were honored and respected,
But now with such as them I’m proud
To.think I’m not connected.
I’ll never make a wild attempt
To join the “ push ” beneath contempt.
Farewell ! my dream of black frock-coats
And shiny hats appalling ;
Let others scheme for voters’ votes,
Whilst I pursue my calling.
The bard, though grimy and unken pt,
Is not, in print, beneath contempt.


Yic. : “Obit. : Squatter Currie, of Larra,
in the West, one of the mightiest merino men.
The merino was planted by the Phoenicians,
Sidonians of the Bible, in Spain, nearly 2000
years ago, and jealously preserved there for the
future benefit of Australia, until the Peninsular
War broke the embargo.”
None of the swan-song speeches of the
Pederal Convention rose to the occasion. Even
the most sanguine of the speakers, Barton,
Symon, Baker and Dealcin, seemed to express
themselves with utterances weighted with doubts.
Trenwith was very disappointing. His apologetic
remarks on the absence of the Referendum were
abject. His part clearly was to declare boldly :
“ Without the Referendum the workers will
accept no cast-iron Federal Constitution!” It
would have come well from him, but he wasn’t big
and bold enough to say it.
In returning thanks for complimentary re-
marks, Convention-President Kingston spoke in
fenerous terms of the supreme egotist Chaffey
inker’s ability as Chairman of Committees.
Baker, speaking later on, failed to return the com-
pliment. He seemed to studiously avoid it. Old
wounds rankle !
By a firedamp explosion in the Dudley
colliery (Newcastle, N.S.W.), on 21st inst., 14 men
were buried ; and, at time of writing, there seems
no probability that any vvill escape alive. The
explosion wrecked the mine underground and
sent surface-machinery flying. By good chance,
the pit had suspended operations, and only a small
party of workmen were down. It is singular to
read that these carried naked lights, although the
colliery is known as a “ hot ” one — i.e., the coal-
seams are full of inflammable gas. Cne would
think that, at this day, the use of safety-lamps
would be made compulsory.
.. MV ROLE ~
IS HOT OF WOOD,
IS NOT OF TIN,
NOR ANYTHING COMMON,
. A GOLDEN RULE,
60 AWAY
WHICH IS NEVER TO PERMIT A CUSTOMER TO
DISSATISFIED IF I CAN POSSIBLY HELP IT I
undertake to see that he (or she) is perfectly fitted, and
GUARANTEE MY FOOTWEAR to give SATISFACTION.
ASK FOR THE < kaNGARA ’ Boots or Shoes.
As Soft as Kid, as Durable as Steel.
JOHN HUNTER,
THE BOOT KING
OF AUSTRALASIA,
City Boot Palace, George and Market Sts., Sydney,
AND 70 BRANCHES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
w>
•rto'Wfl'ST
I ARK
Corset
WitvoWAiST Corset
.MARK
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGTHENS THE WA l ST.
BEA U T IFIES THE FIG URE.
W'wwowa'ST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
WiU.O^AiST°CORSET
OF AU. DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS*
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
P . w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
218,GEORGE STREET, SYONEY,
CIGARETTES.
Royal Sweets"
..A . .
ROYAL SMOKE.
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
mimi;
PIPSS.
WARRANTED
Finest Rand-made BRIARS.
Sole Agents-S. HOFFNUNG & CO, BRISBANE.
“ System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national Cash Register
pr
KEY
saves,
essure
on the
Brain
IS -A.
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments.
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM,
General Manager for Australasia.
Make No Mistake!
asax
m
srai
hiss
BSBI
m
KH
ns
El
HR
111
sin
r la undoubtedly the
best house in Austra-
lasia for Music and
Musical Instru-
ments of every de-
scription. Theirprices
are the LOWEST,
their goods are of the
BEST QUALITY;
they always give
VIOLINS . .
Well-made Models of all the Best Masters at lowest pos-
sible prices ; also a large stock of Old Instruments.
CORNETS . .
Besson & Co.’s “New Star,” Boosey & Co.’s “Victor,”
Couesnon’s “Student’s Model,” a marvellous instrument
at the price—viz., 555. in case.
SUITARS ..
Spanish, French, German, and American.
STRINGS . .
For Vioiin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar or Harp,
specially suited to this climate.
FLUTES . .
Boehm and Pratten Systems; also Boys’ Band Flutes at
very lowest prices.
AUTONARPS . .
Meinhold’s —Three and Six Bar —the Best Instrument in
the market.
?Bfc
MANDOLINS . .
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CONCERTINAS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and
English by the Leading Makers of the World
Lachenal & Co., London.
ACCORDCONS . .
“ The Imperial.” These Instruments are beauti-
fully finished, and the quality and volume of
tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices are
extremely moderate.
The polyphon musical Box..
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music un-
limited.
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Keturn Mail.
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited
338 George-st., Sydney;
and at BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
Our
Guarantee
is worth
We Undertake
to replace or repair free of cost any
of our Roadster
Duniqp Tyres
which fail by reason of fair wear and tear, or defec-
tive material, or bad workmanship. This under-
taking lasts for 12 months from date of
leaving works. The Tyres will wear perfectly, if
treated fairly.
Unfair treatment comes under the following
heads: — -
1. Riding Tyres Deflated.
2. Detaching Tyres by use of Unsuitable Tools.
3. Exposing Tyres, to action, of Oil .
4. Using Racing Tyres on Roadster Machines.
We do not accept responsibility for damage to
Tyres through undue brake action or friction with
puncture-proof devices or machine parts, or defec-
tive wheel building.
20s.
in the
£.
And
at
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FUIITIIEIt KK»UCEI> KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERKAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
X Reginald A. F. fiOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEHEAGH SIS,
SYDNEY.
000 0 0 O
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Elliott's
INVESTORS’ SUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS eJI’UISKT MIiLIIOUItNE.
< able Add I-' ss— Kiemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code — Mocking & N eat,, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarfee & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
XJSE
ners
iROYALNAVY DRESSISi
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 2t SHOES j
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS !
DIKLC HONS FOR OS.'
iM.naniiiuH«iHHymmßgl
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
U nrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees , Executors , A Agency
Company , Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 ■ £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ITIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital.. .. .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,712,058 14 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capita] Called-up .. .. 37,941 510
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. „ 750,000 0 0
2,805,786
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; Acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M'Miilan, M.L.A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. VV. Cunningham.
-THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 456,973 0 3
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, e(!c., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 lOs.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T, Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry G.vlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P,
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopaf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIIGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
This Company
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
The
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . £500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
VMember Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. flelbotiroe.
DICKSON &, BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS . AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOUJtNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD and
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for lii?ht beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5/-, 6/-, 7,6.
Soli listen Razors, for lijfht and heavy beards, 5/-, 6/6, 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALI, RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, J, |, jj, 10/-, 12 6.
All Razors Set, and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing: Strops, 2 6, 3 6, 5/-, 7/6.
Ra2ofs Set and Returned by Post, 1 - each-
All Post Free on receipt of postal noth from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &e., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GfcELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
■Gabo, Tuesday, March 29, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, March 29, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, March 29, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tues., March 29, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 26, 2
-Barrabool, Tues., March 29, 6
Leura, Saturday, April 2, 2 p
. *-l
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith 8s Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydne3\
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AMD
J Af>
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TvESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
- L/ STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports:—
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday” Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY^
Assayers, Metallurgists, 8 *"
Melbourne Ore Testing & Technical CheHlistS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
raWKFitr?
STOVE,
“Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will BOAST, BAKE,
BOIL w.th one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” burner
fitted tn any stove.
“ Primus'’ Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
BRA.KT3DT BROS.,
Lamp Ma n r r acti; rer s,
233 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
riIALES OF. v THE CONVICT SYSTEM
JL Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Friday, March 25.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, March 29.
ALBANY, a
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Fridaj', March 25.
S.S. Innamincka(fromMelb.)
Tuesday, March 29.
esperance bay
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
March 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
March 29.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Uniuiraith, [fl‘Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON &; CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEUS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, P.fRT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co's Own Lines
to Europe,-Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street,-Sydney.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE,
No. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Euby centre, JEI 2s 6d.
No. 209
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130. —15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 Sa.
-
M 33
hm’JS
?»J>
fa
THJ,
No. 145. —9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117. —Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17 s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
tfo. 335. —Solid Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in. high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s 6d.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
JBl 7s 6cL
No. 201. —Set Gold Links.
0-ct. Gold, £1 ss; 15-ct. Gold, £2 ss ; Silver, 6s 6cL
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
JEll2s 6d.
Uo. 289. —Out-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2|in. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332. —Electro-Silver or
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6d.
Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 134. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 150. —15-et. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies
£4 7s. 6d.
Ho. 311. —Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dia'a,
6Jin. by sin., £1 7s 6cL
No. 263.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 17s 6d.
No. 260. —Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. sJih. long
to hold Four Cigars, J 63 3s ; ditto to hold three, JB2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong, llin. high,
£1 108.
I
X.ONOON '
'/Jlh , hi. ~liuii.:.AV\.v\.
No. 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons,
in morocco case, £l los.
No. 197. Set Gold Links.
9tci. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 190. —Set Gold Links.
9-et. Gold, 18s 6d ; 15-ct., ill 15s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 2X5.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 200.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d ; Silver, 5s 6d.
No. 284.—0ut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
CONDON :<•?
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, £1 ss.
No. 286.—Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver,' cabinet size, 16s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
No. 133. —15-ct. Gold Broocli, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, £4 17s 6d.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, JLB 10s.
No. 118.— 15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Rubies, £l l2s 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7. ,
No. 319.
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe Lilt,
16s 6d.
ws
raw
£
No. 2C2.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £1 15s.
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Rings.
2 in case, 8s 6d ; 4 in case, 16s 6d;
6 in case, £1 5s
No. 336.
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the n No - 261. Medal,
goods, any of which will be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free. 9 ' et - Gold > ls !
Silver, 3s Ort.
15-ct., Ll 17s 6<l
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


Daniel Whelan, recently appointed to the
charge of Green Cape lighthouse (N.S.W.),' is the
plucky rescuer of the Ly-ee-moon unfortunates in
1886.
Ed. Bulletin.—How would it be for
foreign-bound coal-laden vessels from Newcas+3 e,
N.S.W., to have the Burial Service read for them
as they pass the Nobbys ?—C.P.
Grandmaster and Masonic goat-actor-in-
chief Brassey got a hint to extend his hospitality
to the Wardens, who are the actual “grafters ” in
Masonic lodges, but it was no go. The claret and
buns cost quite enough as it was.
The taking of Edmund Barton’s final
speech in the Convention at Melb. was a triumph
of stenography on the part of Vic. Hansard
staff. Though he spoke for only an hour and a
half, Barton had the printed “galleys” of half
his speech in his hand before he resumed his seat.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses —for Is. Id. by post.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ Kin "-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
This Nameplate
Protects the Riders
of the wheels which
never require re-
pairs.
YOU WILL KNOW
THEM
BY THEIR CRIMSON
FINISH.
ik
n
.Q
mmm
Latest Model
Red Bird,
Ruby Rim,
‘““‘Black Bird
. . . Cycles
ARE TO HAND.
The GOOLE BICYCLE CO., Limited.
Australasian lirarich —
-64 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Branch—24s Collins-st. ; Brisbane Branch—Edward-st. ; Adelaide—22l Kundle-st.
Wellington, N.Z.—Victoria-st.
HUMBER CYCLES
(America)
reduced.
Lady’s
Gent s
«£
so
so
“These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and are of the MOST APPROVED AMERICAN DESIGN. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give'the
■same guarantee with «h e WA!f[ED . The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
In this issue appears the portrait of 70-year-old
Charlie Lawrence, M.C.C. Junior Players’ coach. Law-
rence’s cricketing career began as far back as ’45, and,
playing four years later, at Edinburgh, for an All-England
11 against 22 of Scotland, he took the whole of the Cale-
donian wickets at a cost of only 24 runs made from his
bowling. Settling in Dublin later on, as cricketer to the
Lord-Lieutenant, Lawrence formed and captained the
United All-Ireland 11; and in ’6l, as one of the first All-
England 11, he came to Australia. In '6B, he trained and
took to England the first aboriginal cricket team,
entered the N.S.W. Govt, service upoii his return,
remained in it 24 years, and, upon his retirement, seven
years ago, was snapped-up as junior-coach by the M.C.C.
This body is giving its ground and patronage for a
match, on Lawrence’s behalf, on Easter Saturday and
Monday, between 15 out of Charlie’s 150 pupils and a Vic-
torian 11.
* * • »
Q.: “The peculiarity about Ranjitsinhji’scricket
criticisms is their grudging praise, amounting almost to
ungenerosity. When he gets out, it is never because the
ball beat him, but because ‘he made a bad stroke,’ ‘a
fly got in his eye,’ or ‘ a fieldsman happened to be there.*
Throughout his comments on the test-matches he has
never admitted that the Australian batting, bowling, and
fielding were good. On the contrary, he has repeatedly
stated that it was only ordinary. Apparently, however,
the Indian Prince overlooks the fact that his style of
criticism carries with it the very awkward implication
that the English play must have been very bad indeed.”
* * » *
Cricketer Mac!aren : “There is no man who is
better able to talk "about cricket than Prince Ranjit-
sinjhi.’’ Our colonial oath 1 By the way, a recent
Saturday Review quotes a private letter from Australia,
attributing the Englishmen’s downfall partly to team-
ructions caused by the belief that Ranji, in Stoddart’s
absence, bossed around altogether too freely.
* * * •
The English eleven are not the only cricketers
who get cross when they are beaten. There are in Vic.
Western district two teams of lady cricketers—the “For-
get-me-nots” and the “Sea-Foams,” bless their little
hearts. Recently the latter, whose headquarters is Nir-
randa, defeated the former for the fourth time in succes-
sion. Then the disgusted Forget-me-nots said that their
rivals were mean, nasty, spiteful things who didn’t play
fairly, and added that they (the Forget-me-nots) would
“never, never again visit Nirranda.” So there, now 1
This shows what a lot of the fietful masculine element
there is in the nature of some females.
* * * •
Melbourne University, in its match against
Essendon, has been knocking world’s records kite-high.
On the first day the score stood four wickets for 722,
and at close of play eight wickets were down for 1016
runs, the largest number ever put together in an innings.
So far, four centuries have been scored, and as another
man is 92 not out, there is every probability of still
another hundred being added.
* » * *
“Rap”: Betting being prohibited at certain
cycle sports, sweeps were in full swing—7s. winner, 2s.
second. I went into every sweep with one particular
promoter, and was so struck by the fact that one little
Hebrew either got Ist or 2nd prize nearly every time that
I made a point, after the races, of getting the strength of
it from the boy. The half-sov. was well spent to learn
that the promoter, before he puts the tickets in the bag,
gives the boy the two tickets which have the favorites’
numbers on. The public don’t know that two tickets are
out of the bag, and the promoter and boy whack up the
stake when it comes off, and save the risk of losing the
2s. by taking care that they have only starters whereas
the public generally have three non-starters distributed
amongst them on each race.
* * » •
The Englishmen’s second innings against Vic-
toria was undoubtedly the most spirited performance
they have given in Australia On a rather difficult
wicket, they started with 35 runs in 12min., and con-
tinued with another 14 runs in 6min. The change to
autumn (almost winter) weather appeared to have put
new life into Wainwright and Hayward, and even Ranji—
who professed to revel in summer heat—would seem to
be a more vigorous hitter when the wind blows cool. As
for little Board, the merriest batsman of the crowd, it is
impossible to say how he might have shaped in the games
played under typical Australian conditions.
• * • •
The Englishmen have got as far as Adelaide in
their lingering farewell, and were playing S.A. vigorously
when this paper went to press. Going in first, the
foreigners scored 222, and the home team retaliated with
287, Darling hitting a brilliant 88 and Lyons 79. Jones
took 7 English wickets for 80. When Stoddart’s men
went in again leather-hunting began in earnest. Mason
ran up 84 before his wicket fell; and Wainwright 105-
total, 2 for 193.
* * * •
After an easy victory by a Cairns (N.Q.)
cricket-team, at Cooktown, over the local team, the latter
protested on the ground that the visitors had occasionally
bowled two balls simultaneously. Cooktown, however,
was compelled to admit that towards the close it had it-
self had two wickets at each end to play at—so honors
were held to be easy.
• * » *
TO STODDART.
In vain, old man, you try to show
The failure of your crew
Is not to bowlers fast or slow,
But to the bawlers due.
* * • •
Recent Melb. Argus advt.:—
ANTED, Master, junior, mathematics, High
' ' School, Perth ; cricketer preferred.
Wrong way about. Advt. should have read :
ANTED, Master, junior, cricket; mathematician
preferred.
This would have been up to date.
* * • •
“ OVERI”
Lay up the wicket, the bat, and the ball,
Let history tell of the ease that we won with ;
Give cricket a spell, lest the great old game pall.
It’s well for a time that it’s over and done with.
Bails.
* • • •
London Pink-Un : “ Let us hear no more about
the bad luck of the Englishmen. They lost the toss, and
the services of their two best bowlers, and the game. But
the best men won 1 ”
• * • •
Ed. Bulletin. — He “Travelling Maorilander’s”
remarks as to baseball-players being able to curl the ball
in the air, writer begs to state that he has, “ without the
aid of whisky,” been deceived by the same optical delu-
sion, for such it is—as, in reality, no bias given to a
sphere by the hand can make the projectile change in flight
its line of direction. This has been conclusively proved
at Woolwich Arsenal by artillery experts.—Ballista.
* c * *
The cable reports that Ebor, on the strength of
several good steeplechase victories, has been sold by Mr.
Gollan for 1200 guineas, a much higher figure than the
horse could have commanded in Australia when he was
two or three years younger. It seems to The Bulletin
that a cool-headed speculator could hardly go wrong in
buying up the pick of Australian flat-racers and ’chasers
(sound limbs being a first consideration) for export to
Hingland, where a good performer is valued according to
his numerous chances of winning fat stakes. The crack
Australian horses are sold at a comparatively low price
because fat stakes are so few and far between.
» •» * *
“ The ‘ talent ’ who d,idn’t back Galway in the
Stewards Steeple at Kempton Park were much shocked
at his easy six-length victory,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ Gollan’s progeny of Boolka-
carried list. 71b. of Hickey, &c., and, under the
heavy odds of 10 to 1, reduced to sixes at start, left the
even-money Sheriff Hutton and 6-to-4 Goldfish—the only
other starters—too far behind to see his heel-heavings.
Galway jumped clean and sharp, racing between the
hindrances, and going like a mechanic for the stable pot.
Innuendos shadier than a negro bootblack were slung
like hand-grenades all over the stand and fiat, and
Hickey’s chumminess with the downed favorite’s party
was referred to in comments that supplied in libel what
they lacked in ambiguity. But, nevertheless, I think
the best horse won, though there is lots of Klondyke
waiting Sammy Allen and co. here.”
* • • •
The well-bred True Blue, who has shown him-
self before now as very smart over all distances, is doing
so well at Randwick that his chances in Doncaster and
Sydney Cup look very rosy. He carries 9st. lib. and Bst.
101 b. in the respective events.
* * • •
“ Tut ” Ryan, erstwhile champion Australian
pug, is back in Melb. awaiting word from Frank Slavin to
proceed to Klondyke. Tut credits the resuscitated Slavin
with the possession of £lO,OOO, and states that Joe
Goddard is already on his way to the field. Regarding
Australian boxers in America, Ryan, who is himself a
non-smoker and a teetotaller, practically says they are
utter wrecks from liquor; and concludes by asserting
that the refereeing and general officialing of the game in
U.S. is glaringly cronk. Men down in “ Queensberry ”
bouts for five secs, are counted out by interested time-
keepers, and no pug can even trust his own seconds.
•** . *
Wonderful how the small horses last. Come-
well, 14 years old, is still winning races in India. And,
by the way, what has become of Len Want’s prodigy,
midget Mirabeau, who used to hump 13jst. to victory
round Lillie Bridge ?
» * * *
Shellback : “ Gov. Brassey’s yacht, Helen, is
manned by an amateur crew and has carried off several
money prizes. What has become of these? Have they
been distributed airong the crew or paid into his nibs’s
private banking account ?”
* • • *
Glebe Rowing Club has been steadily coming to
the fore, and at St. Ignatius College regatta on Saturday
it carried off both the maiden fours and senior eights.
Glebe had the misfortune to break the lashing of stroke’s
poppet-head in the eight-oar race, but for which it
would have had a much easier win. A. E. Sewell, the
Glebe coxswain, steered a splendid course, fairly out-
generaling his opponents, and but for his excellent work
the crew could scarcely have won, with the broken lashing.
• * • *
Interesting at Epsom (Vic.) races last week to
see a certain excommunicated plunger on the top limb of
a tree outside the course, instructing his satellites inside
the enclosure, by the tick-tack system, what gees to
invest his money on. It was also gratifying to see a
certain banned bookie punting in shilling sweeps at St.
Kilda bike sports last week.
• » * *
At Capetown, the other day, a horse called Free
Lance, 18 years old, won a double. His jockey was a man
of 56.
* • • •
To those in the know, a N.S.W. horse’s running
at a recent near-Melbourne meet supplied food for reflec-
tion. The party behind the horse was at sixes and
sevens, and when the horse went out it was not known
how the entire party stood. Whilst quoted as starting at
3 to 1, any amount at 100 to 5 was available at the start.
All the jocks, bar the one riding the animal, were “ on ”
at various prices, and the utmost pains were taken by all
but he to make way for the animal. In the end, he had
to win by a very short head, and the time taken —for five
furlongs—was just one second below the record slowest
time ever made in Vic. for six furlongs.
• » * *
Walne made a hack of Body at St. Kilda track
on Saturday, beating him with such ease in both the mile
and ten-mile events of the Vic. Brassard that the Maori-
lander gave the game best on both occasions. A crowd
of over 10,000 rolled up—the biggest this season except-
ing the “special” meetings of the Austral and the
A.N.A. —and showed the wooden-headed L.V.W. how
little the public care for the science of track building.
The League held its meetings this year on the up-to-date
tracks at the Friendly Societies Gardens and the Exhibi-
tion, with the result that the public stayed away vehem-
ently and just let the promoters get through. The St.
Kilda Cricket Club, with its unscientific but safe enough
track in a good situation and with fair conveniences, has
been left to snap a profit of £'3oo, purchasing the Bras-
sard and the ten-mile championship of Australia from the
unbusinesslike League for a trifle of £25.
Parsons made a reappearance on Saturday, but
showed himself far out of it. Though starting from
60yds. he could not live with the men near him, and was
broken up badly at the end.
Ken Lewis is a far better man than when he
beat Bilmartin on one smellful occasion which led to the
late Bill’s disqualification of two years (afterwards
shifted). He snapped the ten-mile championship in rare
style, and rode every inch a champion in the handicap
event.
* * * *
Tote-shop owners in Maoriland have closed-down
on the practice of receiving money after advertised time
of starting—a sure safeguard against being “ had.” But
when an apparently very drunken horse-follower of
means stumbled into one of these dens lately, and-planked
down £25 on a prad of whose victory he hid been advised
by urgent wire, the pile of wealth tempted poor bookie,
who thought it was a soft thing. Of course, intoxication
had been feigned. The prad paid the limit (£10). It was a
cruel thing to do ; but, in betting matters, bookie has no
friends.
* * * *
JFweedie has returned from the States after a
bitter experience. He was matched against one Lawler;
got all over his man in the first round ; played to the
gods ; left himself open ; and Lawler landed him on the
“ point.” Over-confidence has beaten better men than
Tweedie. * /
V * ♦ •
Pennefather, the Westralian Attorney-General
who assaulted his legal partner with a blood-stained
handkerchief and a pair of spectacles, was formerly
known in Vic. racing circles as the member for Alf.
Joseph. Under the patronage of fat Alfred barrister
Pennefather put up for Parliament, also for Bendigo City
Council, and on behalf of Alf. aforesaid he bombarded
the Melb. press with letters calling attention to the awful
immorality of the Tote.
• * * *
Ayrshire is a reminder of bis old man, Dunlop,
in more respects than family likeness. Dunlop was dis-
tinctly a non-stayer for a long time after he had started
business, and the public didn’t think him capable of
getting two miles until he won Melb. Cup, as a five-year-
old. Ayrshire’s stamina was equally unproven prior to
his taking the Australian Cup, as a five-year-old, under
exactly the same weight that Dunlop carried for the Mel-
bourne Cup of ’B7. In each case, the handicapper made
an allowance for the horse’s supposed want of stoutness,
and the starting price was 20 to 1 or thereabouts.
• * * *
A compositor in Grafton Grip office held third
horse in Tattersall’s Newmarket Handicap, value £lOOO.
Five years ago another comp, in the same office also held
third horse in the same handicap.
* » * *
Adelaide footballers are already making big
efforts to fight the lacrosse boom which threatens. For
several years there has been no junior football association
in Adelaide, and even some of the senior clubs will have
trouble in raising teams in the coming winter.
* * * *
The tars of the warship Royal Arthur played
a cricket-match on Sydney Domain the other day.
The umpires took things easy, and one bowler was not
“dead-on.” Wide after wide was sent down unchal-
lenged. At last, a ball pitched fully a yard out of reach
compelled the batsman to apologetically ask “if that
were not a wide?” Umpire Jack, quite unmoved,
shifted his pipe three teeth round, spat musingly, and
said— “ Never seen a widerer.”
• • * •
The easy annexation of the Maoriland 100yds.
amateur championship bv footballer Smith disproves the
theory that an apparently fast man in the Rugby game
is outclassed when lined up for a sports sprint. Rut
Smith is an exception. The Aucklander is one of the
dashing sort capable of making a final rush when his
opponents are tiring. Oliphant, the quarter-mile cham-
pion, is a policeman. Richards, the Australian, was quite
outclassed at the late meeting.
* * * •
The greatest blot on those dens of corruption,
the Sydney pony courses, is the filthy language shouted
on all sides during the running of a race. Not “good,
honest swear-words,” but expressions of the filthiest kind.
Police!
• * * *
Latest racing-swindle was to get a 10s. ticket in
a big sweep, have a dummy-ticket printed, facsimile,
save for absence of number, transfer to it first favorite’s
number from list issued to ticket-holders after drawing-
then sham imbecile drunkenness and sell to a smart book-
maker, who hasn’t cared to write himself down a mug by
making a splash about the matter.
* » * *
Said that a record-breaking cyclist recently
wept with disappointment when the Sydney League re-
fused to grant him “ pace ”to go for another record. In
what other branch of athletics would a man allow' him-
self to be publicly tearful over such a slight puncture of
his vanity ?
* * * •
In Adelaide betting is now carried on by means
of bogus “ clubs” with a nominal entrance fee, and the
new system already begins to flourish. One club, pre-
sided over by a leading bookmaker, has over 1000 mem-
bers. The old tobacconist tote-shop game has gone bung.
* » » *
Said that Brighton (Sydney) has again given the
trotting-men up in despair—after the last disgraceful ex-
hibition. Vic. owners have done better for themselves
and the sport. Richmond (Vic.) programme for 24th Feb.
has 20,18, 10 and 13 entries for the four trots.
* * * ♦
A pacing novelty will adorn London tracks next
season, in the shape of a team of negro multiplet pace-
makers. These swarthy braves are training now to get
used to curves and banking, and some of the larger speci-
mens are ransacking London in a futile endeavor to find
shoes and pedals of sufficient size to accommodate their
20-horse-power feet. All the machines to be ridden by
the blacks will be enamelled white, and there will be no
risk of the racers and pacers not being distinguished from
each other.
* • • •
The Charters Towers Jockey Club, Q., is
making the very large reduction of £lOOO in the added
money for its annual meeting this year. Indicative
that the only' really prosperous town in 'Stralia is feeling
the stress of the times —or merely an experiment, to see
if cutting distances and prizes will produce sufficiently
attractive sport ?
» * * *
Hollowing close upon the S. A. Crown Solicitor’s
letter claiming £49 odd from T. Coleman for the cutting
of the overland cable during the progress of the Dunlop
transcontinental ride, is a writ for £lOO and costs which
has been served upon Coleman within the last few days.
Coleman’s misfortunes seem on the increase—first a
serious operation, from which he has only just recovered,
then the Crown Solicitor’s letter claiming £49, and on
top of this a writ for £lOO. Coleman has not yet decided
what steps he will take in the matter. A strange thing
in connection with this affair is that Messrs. Coleman
and Mather waited upon E. T. Supt. Todd upon their
arrival at Adelaide and fully explained the incident of
the cable cutting, and as he at the time expressed his
satisfaction with the explanation, the whole matter was
thought to be over. Yet, after a lapse of months, the
matter is resurrected, and legal proceedings taken.
£7OO and Twelve Lives.
N.S.W. Marine Board on Monday shuffled for
the third time in the matter of the urgent need for
inquiry into the loss of the full-rigged ship
Atacama; which —sold by auction for £7OOl
patched for =£looo or less ; loaded with 1778 tons
coal and a score of human lives—sailed from New-
castle on Jan 29, and foundered in moderate
weather a few days out from port, drowning two-
tlnrds of her miserable crew. The Bulletin de-
sires to know whether or not evidence is available
to show that endeavours were made to insure the
vessel; and whether or not expert evidence is
available to say that the vessel was in such a con-
dition that she could not have been made sea-
worthy for the amount spent on her patches. The
Marine Board of N.S. Wales—which the Public
Service Board has not yet been permitted to re-
model, in spite of an awful report regarding
its maladministration appears to consist of
one middle-aged gentleman, three bright-look-
ing old gentlemen, three dull - looking old
gentlemen, and one betwixt-and-between old
gentleman. Judging by appearances, four of
the old gentlemen are well past the age of ad-
ministrative usefulness. The President draws
J 2740 a year salary ; the secretary <£47o ; and the
old gentlemen .£lO9 4s. apiece. Three of the old
gentlemen are elected by the ship-owners and five
by Govt. And on Tuesday last all the old gentle-
men, sitting in conclave, resolutely refused to
sub-poena witnesses whom the Govt, solicitor
desired to be brought to give evidence in
the Atacama case. If the witnesses liked to
come “on their own,” well and good; but the
Board wasn’t going to summon evidence against
the owners. Mind ! nothing had been said about
the owners; the question was about evidence
“material to the case”; but the Board was so
impressed with the necessity of protecting the
interests of the owners that it refused to exercise
the power of summoning witnesses conferred upon
it by sec. 27 of its constituting Act. In other
words, the Board, sitting as a court of enquiry,
refused to summon evidence which the Govt.’s
representative assured it was material to the
enquiry! What on earth are the old gentlemen
paid for? So, after a lot of palaver, the Govt,
lawyer undertook to politely beg the witnesses to
attend ; and the case stands adjourned. But the
last of it hasn’t been heard yet —no, not by a long
way. The Bulletin hopes to see Attorney-
General Want give this matter his personal
attention.
With the death of Arthur Palmer, a desper-
ately loud and aggressive bullock-driver drops
out of Australian politics. No politician, even in
Queensland, where the wildest variety of poli-
tician used to grow, was ever gifted with such a
fearsome streak of blue and green vocabulary as
Palmer. He was in Queensland politics for 32
years, his Parliamentary career starting in 1866,
and, as Parliamentary Government only began at
the end of ’59, Palmer dated back almost to the
beginning of things. In ’7O, he formed a dread-
fully profane Ministry, which lasted four years,
and, in ’Bl, he took the Presidency of the Upper
House, and held it till his death. Like almost
every other Q. politician, he was in the Q.N.
Bank trouble (probably it was the loom-
ing prosecution which killed him), and,
like all the other Northern boomers, he
died Very poor. Where the money went to
the Lord only knows, but all the millions which
vanished out of the Q.N.B. and the Q. Investment
Association seem to have left everybody ten
times more dead-broke than before. Palmer had
very little political ability and no great financial
ability outside bullocks and grass ; he was a loud,
fierce, combustible Tory of the primitive squatting
order, and a fair sample of the early Queensland
statesman. The Queensland statesman of the early,
stinkful days of boom and boodle and rum was an
institution such as Australia will never see again—
at least, it hopes not.


STEADY STEERING
is a mark of the perfect
alignment of the ....
Maasey-Harris Bicycle, and a source of delight to its riders. It
is the result of the expert designing thorough and skilful con-
struction that always distinguishes
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES
and makes them “ Run Easy and Keep Running Easy.*'
MASSEY-HARRIS GO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
ESTAHT/tSHED
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 29t Bourke Street, -Melbourne ; 886. George Street, .Sydney
““ Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thorough matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity.*.
DON’T BUY A GUN unless vou first look at the
name, or (should you happen survive the first sho«
you will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
can be obtained from all principal dealers in Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER. Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to Vic. Bep.,
C. W. BUOKLAND, 16 Ourral-road, Elsternwick, Melb.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
TATE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ * We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date. ,
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
£2T Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames St Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an i ianprr i a I ’
Duplicate parts always in stock. r
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
..clearance sale . .
UJolf American High flit Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICB !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed, tzar Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
f)
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
H Gold match for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
A W*T*H F*R N*T*l*G.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watihes. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the 1 RI/E.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ DOW RIDGE’S’
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pufe d&flMio Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
on
2*7
iiert*s
UUVwV
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d.; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. O. 0., P. N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
|TjLLAF£§!
'ABSOLUTLY 1
J
¥
Lists
■w
,-r saws 1
7V2OA i
sane ouY/d |
?070S OHVIdI
Tlinr Contain
TO FAT PEOPLE.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to (ret permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
PILES. A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anvone, voung or old, by their use.
PRICE', ss. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read,
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
i. Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Hotels.
•MWv
VISITORS
MELBOURNE
OTICE
"wimp OLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, °PP°f
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
KOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
id
m
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE Q.A9J
THE 6RANP CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Toronto Hotel,
hake
Macquarie,
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing’ pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Missing Friends.
|ROW.—Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
thankfully received and acknowledged.
0
S
F
0
p
(D
0
(I)
ID
K*
n
Ah
0 &
P
b“
®
0
ct
t?
0
5
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold 5 Pure Double-cut Diamonds, £4.
Neat and strong.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £3 5s
5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12s 6d.
Links to match, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Gold „ „ 455.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s Gd.
18c. Solid Gold Nurled
Edges Dress Keeper, en-
graved, 255.
Raised Flowers, 30s.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7los,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s. 25s ; 18c.,
265, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold,
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
£3 ; Double -cut Dia-
monds, £3 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s;
Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Bedstone, 20s-
€TO
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s
land - made Wedding Bings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
card.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
m
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s 6d
ai
c \s7
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
£5, £6; with key pad-
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin.
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
255. Gold, 26s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamond, £2 10s.
15c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 15s.
Silver Thimbles, Is 6d,
2s, 2s 6d.
Silver, Steel Lined,
3s, 3s 6d, 4s.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
No. 1.
16c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
No. 1,15 s ; Nos. 2 and 3,145;
Ruby or Sapphire, 13s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s;
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and ss.
Newest Style, very pretty.
A. Saunders.
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s 6d.
Pearl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO,
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for Price List.
Gold 2-Bamboo Bars Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d.
15c. Gold, 32s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’
ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s.
Strongest, cheapest, and best timekeepers ever made.
Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £B—3, 4,
B „ nd 6 vears’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Shortwind
Keyless 7s 6d 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality. 20s guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Direct
Agents ’for Rotherham’s and Waltham Levers. Send for price list. Send for price book.
A. SAUNDERS,
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly opp
Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W.


rj'
xz
vv
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which ' warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation.
BUT FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned ! '
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices chanced else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georee-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies.- call and
see our OH HAP
.'i A OH I N ES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
iTHE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
[fer BRAVAIS
>FER BRAYAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution o resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases of-
anaemia, Influenza and
general dehility.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-
dren. S
. LANCLT ' A beautiful and interesting preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all j
" the good effects of icon without producing consti- j
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
l blacken the teeth.
I Sold by Chemists all the world over. I
PeafQcss
and HEAD
NOISES
I Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aiirad Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. lone, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
\Ve are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.’Wigzgll,
110 William Street,
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attention'given to Country Ordm
Purple patch in the sea of meteorology :
The sea in sympathy adds its stentorian bass to the
whirring of the wind, anon roaring round some cavernous
bluff, then lashing the cliffs in angry tones with supernal
cascades of majestic beauty—while modulating the sonata
in turn to the hissing, seething notes of bubbling foam.
Which the author’s name is Wragge.
Truth (some varieties of it) can beat fiction
hollow any day. The people of Maekay (Q.)
have been long agitating to get a channel cut
through the point south of Signal Station, but
Bananaland Govt., tired of attempting to create
artificial ports, has stubbornly refused assistance.
But the recent cyclone did the job for them —if
Capt. Meaburn, of the Wodonga, is to be believed.
A new channel in the desired location has cer-
tainly been cut, and time will show if it be a
practicable one.
“The one incident of the affair was just after we
realised that there was no danger from the carriages at
the rear. Picking himself up, Mr. Wood, an enthusiastic
amateur photographer, called out, ‘ Where is my
camera?’ It was fished out from among the ruins, and
Mr. Wood afterwards took several pictures of the scene.”
THE KODAK FIEND.
’Twas Judgment Day, and solemnly
The trumpet-call awoke the dead.
And, rising up excitedly,
“ Where is my camera? ” he said.
Millionaire Pullman, the American railway
car-man, cut off his two sons with an income of
•£6OO a year, stating in his last will and testament
that he considered them deficient in the “ sense of
responsibility requisite for the wise use of large
properties and considerable sums of money.” Poor
Pullman, to be so rich ! He seems to have died
of his own awful sense of responsibility for the
future preservation of his dollars.
The eldest daughter of the present Marquis
of Ailesbury has signified her infatuation for life
on the ocean wave by marrying the mate of a
trading schooner. The sister of the late Ailesbury
showed her love for the Turf in a union with
bookmaker Bob “Sutton.” Evidently a head-
strong lot, these Ailesburys. The Bulletin
wouldn’t be surprised to hear that one of the girls,
being “struck on” the Church, had given her
noble self to a curate.
One of the very few characteristic speci-
mens of the art of Turner (writes a Bulletin
correspondent) was sold at auction in Melbourne
the other day. It was a sunset study, all sky,
painted on wood, in size rather smaller than half
a page of The Bulletin, and evidently painted
direct from nature. Close to, it looked like the
bottom of a frying-pan in which meat had been
fried in grease. There were formless daubs of
white and yellow paint, streaked with blood-red
and smeared with brown and black—a confused
jumble of splashes and splutterings of color. But,
seen at a right distance, it was a vivid and glow-
ing bit of sky-painting which might have been a
study for the gorgeous “ Fighting Temeraire.” It
is a pity that such rare bits—richer in instruction
for the student than a room-full of ordinary can-
vases—are not snapped up for our National Gal-
leries. One could pick out a dozen pictures in
the Melbourne gallery not so precious in the
aggregate as this little bit of colored wood.
“ APEKTTA.,”
Tlie best Natural Aperient Water.
Relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver, and
opens the bowels.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co., Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar
veil oils value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/... Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. IF rite for t hem.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
A prominent European doctor recommends
swearing as a cure for many diseases. Relieves
the mind, no doubt, and lets off the steam. Bul-
lock-drivers are rarely ill, and pet cockatoos are
notoriously long livers.
Mormon missionaries in the guise of
hawkers are said to be plentiful in and around
Sydney. While plying their calling they distri-
bute tracts or leaflets, or otherwise endeavor to
disseminate their opinions.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
i
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Sulkies, £4 155., £0 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
KST Send for Price List.
The Sydney Carriage M’nTg Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co>
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
Make it
a
Rule
to always Smoke
OGDEN’S
GUINEA-GOLD
CICARETTES.
ROYAL WARRAUTT of ARPOIKTTMEWT to
“ THEE QUEEN.”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE.”
Schweppe
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable/’
London Medical Record.
FOOD For
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of nil Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


ITerr Rassmussen, Celebratedi Herbalist,
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Rlfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
‘ ‘ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Rem edies.
Again, we see a man
iW
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
, s
\ % Wv
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE "SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoor*
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
their life. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
V£l
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SIMPER,
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSEH’S Medical Page
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who nears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
r&cv
JtM
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
w
'A
HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
FICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
3
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa'ine
Fat-Red acingf Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
tojoin in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
ffl).
ix
S
■f
&
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder’ eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. (id.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifL,
their complexion sutler-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
V”
-l
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the, MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
A
k
' 1
Only
How to excel at Billiards.
few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
r : -
How to Obtain Free Book.
*r When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmnssen’s
wonderful Alfaline Hei'bal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not front any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFA LINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIO,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet; Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kaigoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
m~ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, cfc any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer R, ‘o his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy saVe
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Generat, Post Office,
SYDNEY."
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, Without iail.


Amusements.
TJOYAL STANDARD THEATRE SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereairh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings-
74th
WEEK
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
74th
WEEK
The Great Irish Patriotic Drama,
The Queen’s Colors.
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverlev ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
•“Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING UNTIL
FURTHER NOTICE,
The Terror of Paris.
(By arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway).
No more powerful or enthralling dramatic success has
ever received the unanimous and enthusiastic approval of
the Australian public than THE TERROR OF PARIS.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
■T* 1 V O L I THEATKE, SYDNEY.
■■■ Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45, Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
GRAND MUSICAL EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled.
JACK THE GIANT KILLER |
By the Most Powerful Combination of Comedians and
Pantomimic Artists in the world.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Plan now open at Paling’s.
No Booking-fee. No Early Doors.
UOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN ARTISTIC AND COMPLETE SUCCESS !
Mr. Ctas. Cartwright Miss Beatrice Lamb
AND NEW LONDON COMPANY
Another Superb Production, by the celebrated author
Sydney Carton,
THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Plan at W. H. Glen and Co.
LEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT*
Dan Barry’s Dramatic Company
In the Intensely Exciting and Thrilling Story of the
Lawless Deeds of
The Kelly Grang.
CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS THURSDAY, and for a limited number of nights.
The Merry Musical Faroe, in 2 acts,
“TH€ gay PARISICNNC.”
SATURDAY, 2nd April—THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
Two Farewell Performances of the Ever-Popular Comedian
GRATTAN RIGGS.
Thursday and Friday, March 24 and 25, by Special
Request, THE IRISH DETECTIVE.
SAT., March 26th, Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS. First Time in Australia.
tar - topular prices i
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove..
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
CLA.TJDIA.KT.
Play in 4 acts, by W. G. Wills and Henry Herman.
Mr. Barrett as “Claudian” ; Miss Jeffries as “ Almida.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. J3Y" PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
rpHE CYCLONE ' APPROACHES I
Unborn Millions in dim and distant future
ages will recall with as much pleasure as
we do to-day the most Illustrious Amuse-
ment Enterprise that Sydney has ever seen.
HARMSTON’S
Circus Gigantic Zoologia
OF PERFORMING' ANIMALS.
TWO GREAT EQUESTRIAN COMPANIES
AND ONE WILD BEAST EXHIBITION.
Combining in one Elegant Entertainment, the
varied Exercises of the Circus, and Living Won-
ders of Gymnastic and Acrobatic Art culled from
the Principal Establishments of
EUROPE and AMERICA.
Comprising THREE Distinct and Separate
Entertainments under canvas, for
One Price of Admission-
Great Attention has been paid to the Elegant
and Commodious arrangement of the interior.
The Royal Bengal Tiger, “DUKE,” the largest 1
Tiger in captivity.
The Monster ELEPHANT and her BABY (14
month old). The only one in the world on
exhibition.
LOCATION: BELMORE PARK.
GRAND OPENING DATE-
Saturday, 2nd April, 1898.
MATINEES—Every Wednesday and Saturday.
Prices of Admission:
Private Boxes (containing 6 chairs) ... £l4 0
Single Chairs in Boxes ... ... 4 0
Dress Circle Chairs ... ... ... 3 0
Stalls ... ... ... ... 2 0
PIT, ONE SHILLING. i
Children Half-price to Matinees ONLY.
Doors open at 7 o’clock; Commence at 8.
The last of six : tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
ART JEWELLERY at LONDON PRICES.
THOUSANDS OF VERY LATEST NOVELTIES.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst Pendant
With Bell Pendant ...
13s 6d
12s 6d
Gold 2-bar & Buckle Brooch.
Set with Pearls and Red Stones, or Pearls
and Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
eMHWllllllUli
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with Ruby or Sapphire, 18s 6d.
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, 255.
9-carat, 13s 6d pair. 15-carat, 27s 6d pair
Silver, 3s. pair.
20 other Patterns from 10s 6d pair.
18c.
Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s', 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 265,
40s, 50s.
Plain Band
Ring.
9-0., 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
15-c., 20/-, 22 6, 27/6
18-c., 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
With any name,
1/- extra.
New
Pendant Brooch
with
Amethyst Heart.
9-carat, 10s 6rl
15-carat, 12s 6d
Gold Novelty Broocli.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant, 20s.
Hp
New Gold Brooch, Bs. 6d.
Hall-marked Gold, Pearl Set,
2-Bird Brooch, 17s 6d each.
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock, pearl
’ centre, 20/- each.
Plain Large Size, 7s 6d ; Small, 6s.
Pearl Set all round, 20s.
9-carat,
17/6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat',
35/-, 40/-, 467-
Silver, 4/-, 6/-
18c. La Parisienne.
2 fine Diamonds, £5.
' 1 fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Rubv, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £llss, £2 ss, £3.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds and
1 Ruby or Sapphire,
Emerald or Torquoise
centre, £4s 4s.
POST FREE.—Please Send for Illustrated Slips of Novelties.
rfr:*
NOTE Otra, Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
League Cycling Carnival!
AGRICULTURAL GROUND, SYDNEY.
MARCH
26th
SATURDAYS
APRIL
2nd
TN€ SYDNEY PLATE.
A SERIES OF SCRATCH RACES. ONE, THREE, AND FIVE MILES
MARCN STAKES.
GREAT AMATEUR HANDICAP.
HAMPDEN WNCEL RACE.
RECORD ENTRIES.
INTERNATIONAL TEAM RACE.
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA.
MULTICYCLE HANDICAP.
20 TANDEMS AND TRIPLETS.
Walne, Green, Meg'son, Body, Relph, Porta, Jackson,
Admission, Is. Stand., Is. extra.
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
* 4 11 i- jmm j
SEn
I
:
Hi:
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING* BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. In© favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to 1
I HUM UntAin I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
JUHIM HUWtLL, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
C .i -
m
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye ;
To Friend or to Foe, >
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating. .
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
** SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one oi
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and o e
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent Habers9* t: “?I. a A iXv .
the use of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH , he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, andean partake of his food to the great satisfaction o
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bbno publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.” (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.-“ After suffering for nearly
0 two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO S TKUiJ
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAi hf-A
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for year .
— Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTlON.— Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE .is marked. ENO'S \ FRI , 7I J, S h^ LT:
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free front
Starch and Dane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
stioplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
c(inverted into a perfect food tor the youngest
Ihf&ht.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
World.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
fIASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
r^ AT
get
IT
Sole Agents—S. HOFFNUNG is CO., Brisbane.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades;; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croqui"nolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauge Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The” Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO thej_ad.es.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <ST AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 682 George Street, Sydney.
ys Life, oh thatSigajet tobacco l
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
WALES OF THE CON VICT SYSTE M, by
L Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moiistache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 6So-652 George-St., Sydney
ana
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
‘fteettims
imiyeeme
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BBETHAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & 00., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
REAr German Hollow Ground
• ;
‘Or r,. e Qtf
#U-
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & Co. e LQM?O‘! '
I* Reg>avhend tp
[Af /\m
F INDiGE;Tio/f
A
P Ut . Ol UFoR.<
3P»54iN5 wWidc
cOOGWS (OLPJ tc J
BzWfiRZ OF
/MITATI°MS
"ffioffi?
POST FREE
WATCHES-CLOCKS-JEII/ELLERY-BiRtHdAY*
WeddipJg j CrißisTErJiivic Presents
H-Nev/MAIS]- 175 3177-ELIZABETH ST*
OPPOSITE C:RQ.-
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homceopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING GO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years bsfors Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
V
f
SHE'“THIS TRADE'/AARK^Ij
IS ON ENfERY^SKEjN,
Trade Mn> k Register**.
listab ishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
A 1 s > “ Beehive "
Hosier v&Under-
wrar manufac-
tured from tire
‘Beehive Wools.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
, ENGLA NUT
m
DINBU
MADE
Mark
%otcA/
n ri»op«icTo»c -lJu
& Distillers Company!?
EDINBURGH. 9
fjfw. \
"**•! '"t rt/,0, oi/iJa
i j/'“7
.. .r w «»a./. />,„< A.t../iw">inc*
I,"' , "1 <*«»/ t>J //if UAH At ifn/<&V
V «. ‘ . \ ~"U <J ititu AHtJ! iJll/<ani
I iMiU &>Pu fag jjj l‘mu/tndliW'
te - %M
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you ean then afford
to drink the very best
I you can get. “ tf.C.L.”
I Scotch is the best. One
glass stt meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist oh
‘ D.C.L.’
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND OR MARINE)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Fjcplos'ons Imposs hie
Always Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can be had on application
INSPECTION INVITED,
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON'T USE DRUGS*
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What We use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), priving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Kucrawy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
D’r. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, n 1 in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/o6S WeakQcSs - . .
AND
Cerehro-SpiQal Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. RIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
OEI DELL’S Fluid IHsiuft ctuiif is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead. and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
Chinese cookery is much iri vogue in Wes-
tern Q. Consequently the following item gleaned
by writ&t from a book of Chinese travel tnay
interest some folks :
At an inn in Yunnan we asked for eggs and were sup-
plied with some which were hard and black and rotten.
We were informed they had been kept underground a
year, the Chinese belief being that they go rotten in the
first six months and become sound again in the next half
year.
When the Australian Premiers and Pre-
mieresses occupied sumptuous rooms at the Hotel
Cecil, London, they were waited upon by State
flunkeys. On leaving they were seen to the re-
spective railway-stations by the flunkeys in the
State carriages, and it is understood they all
liberally tipped aforesaid flunkeys. But one lady
(from the West) ere parting went round to all the
flunkeys, shook hands with them, and individually
thanked them for their attention and kindness.
Which, it is said, moved the most superior one of
the lot to remark : “ Blessed if she ain’t the only
real toff hamong ’em.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skirt.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Rev. Dr. Bevan, of Melbourne, lately
expressed his opinion that the evening church
meetings, &c., at which young.people attended
were “conducive to the bringing about of man’s
natural state, namely marriage.’’ The doctor
remarked that “ it was really very nice this coming
together of the sexes, and it was a beautiful sight
to see young men and women strolling home
together when in the first bloom of love and fresh-
ness. And, besides, the churches are becoming
dormant and require to be resuscitated with new
blood.” The Fitzroy Gardens are close to Dr.
Be van’s church.—
“ Marie Corelli, to put it mildly, appear 8
to have fallen on evil days indeed,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ She is not
advancing in the literary market, and now ‘ her
dear friend,’ Mrs. Tom Kelly, has hopelessly given
her away in the pet magazine of the fire-and-tongs
novelist. All * Tom * did was to publish a letter
amid her eulogistic taffy of M.C. in the Ladies’
Realm, which letter purported to be from Tennyson,
acknowledging the receipt of ‘ Ardath,’ and term-
ing it ‘a truly powerful creation.’ The dead bard
was further debited in the same letter with other
comments of a flattering and philosophic character,
showing strong approval of Corellian ways and
works. Unfortunately, one of Harms worth’s but*
tresses (Springfield, of the Mail) printed the letter
in full'with another, also from Tennyson, which
appeared (addressed to the author) in the second
edition of ‘ The Silver Domino ’ —a work Marie
was always accused of, and always, as now, fiercely
denied. The two letters are word and phrase
alike, and there is no doubt Mrs. Tom in her
desire to boom her friend has burst the bubble and
given the show away. Which is all very funny,
but Corelli is impervious to exposures or ex-
plosions, though many of her readers may not be.”
“ON THE BENCHES IN THE PARK."
(Encore Verses.)
On the benches in the park,
When you’ve had a walk,
After being- to service
Enjoy a pleasant talk
With a pious “ donah,”
Sitting in the dark ;
And you talk about the sermon
On the benches in the park.
On the benches in the park
Who is that we See ?
Is it Deacon Brown’s wife
That’s sitting on his knee I
And who is he that whispers,
“ Church meetings are, my dove,
The times to teach the young and chaste
The mystic art of love ”?


vattgf&utenA Cocea
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthinjj.
AsK: for
WHITE
heather
■wmisici-sr.
Tlxe Enterprising- Burglar
is A-’BXJRGLIKr Gr,
But at a Terribly Increased Bisk of HIS LIFE or L! BFRTY since
M‘DERMOTT’S BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The MDERMOTT BURGLAR ALARM CO.,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’& Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/G and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Pates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoi) H.SoCil &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160. and 208 Pitt“street, Sydney;
Church-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney.
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best A Broad Well
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dressing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants. b
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, with a 12x10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
■{ 10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give ar
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of
. No Disappointment.
i Extra Position FREE to each Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-si ttiu«'
our Work.
No Delays. Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios.
King Street
(between Pitt & George Sts).
The Swiss Studios.
Cellular “S,
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling',
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/- and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
dfeflTHSstKasoa.
mum
msi
r|W®P|»; 1* p
»ir
ESKSSiSS
KsSiSi
-: ;:^i
KCiSS
H
Note New)
Address: /
73 & 75 King Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO.,Sole Agents for New South Wales.
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated " Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lllustr’n., i'll 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
Agent roe F. BESSON &. CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
fldams’s TattersaH’s Hote!,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
This Establishment has recently undergone the most EXTENSIVE ALTERA-
TIONS, and is now one of the MOST COMFORTABLE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS IN SYDNEY. The following Additions have been made:—
NEW ENTRANCE HALL and GRAND STAIRCASE;
COMMODIOUS SUITES OE ROOMS ;
DRAWING and READING ROOMS ;
SMOKING ROOMS, &c. &c.
BOILING WATER for Baths, &c., and
ELECTRIC LIGHT all hours of Day and Night.
Tariff Moderate.
This Establishment has TWO Entirely Separate KITCHENS and TWO DINING ROOMS-
thus giving to Visitors an advantage offered by no other Hotel in Sydney.
For further particulars apply to
WM. J. ADAMS,
Telephones 728 and 1938. Manager.
TtOOK OF iNATUIiE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything' is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language an .this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d,
The Nol’Oßious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, poet free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s posh
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, hew
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is. 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price ;Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for : Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress; etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Drbz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
fHE
‘Plum’
NTPf
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEIm who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price i S ! n £ le R azor > j n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles' in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Ageats
TRY
6
ffomatic
CO
TobaccoC®
SO-A.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Wm
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTBIt M. NOAKICS, Colonial Manager.
Also Represen bxtive for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
u
reals- ~
-i HO
Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING;
Per Post, Is. 3d.


Sparrows have been introduced into Wes-
tralia in a curious way. It is stated by the
Acclimatisation Society that the sparrows which
lately made their appearance m Perth were npt
imported from the East, but came from London
as canaries, and that the Purchasers, on finding
that they had been imposed upon by the London
dealers, liberated the birds. Looks like an
attempt to get level with the dealers who ex
port wild cats from Westralia for the London
market.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opai direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they w
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.
POKER MACHINES.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiilllklUllimiiilUlli
mm
iiiiiiiiiiiHiiihiiiiimiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniwiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiin
U
aafprois 3hx mi A£doag
33« J SW3IO
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from TJs and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
For
Counter
Use,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
[flick Simmons, frparket, Sydney.
sswsssssrs.ss:ss=f£=a*«si
YORKSHIRE RELISH
'fHE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
BOTTLES BOLD .N ONE M R ONTH^ENGLAND. e
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., */-» and 2- each.
Proprietors * GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO ,
N a cents for New South Wales:
TILK .«, :K & Co! bENT ana J.IVERJPOOI. STREETS, BVDNEY.
LEEOS, ENG
Fresla-
Cooling.
Sp arkling-
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
mi
»-
m
Letters Latent, No. 2590.
Half-Tester Wood Bedstead
AND
Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire Mattress
(Combined), any color wood.
Size— x 3, 4, 4J feet.
Price —155., 17s. 6d., 205., 225. 6d., 25s
SOLD by all STOREKEEPERS, IRONMONGERS and FURNITURE WAREHOUSES.
J. Lawler & Sons,
Manufacturers
a “ a Patentees
610 George Street, Sydney,
TOOTH & CO
PAID-UP CAPITAL,
Limited.
£900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO TVRT’Y COMPETITION.
WINES The Be3t ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
At the Yards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waddy, in its decadence, lived through two days
of every week. The awakening began late on
Sunday night, or in the gloom of Monday morning,
with the sound of phlegmatic cursing, softened
and chastened by distance and the enfolding
darkness, the yapping of busy dogs, the pathetic
lowing of weary beasts, the marching of many
hoofs, the slow movements of big flocks and herds
on the ironstone road.
On Sunday evening Waddy was a mile-long
township facing an apparently interminable
post- and - rail fence and a wide stretch of
treeless country dotted with poppet-legs a
township of some fifty houses, a Sunday-
school and a chapel; grey, weather - board,
rainrwashed houses, and an old, bleached,
wooden day-school shored up on either side with
stays, but lurching forward and peering stupidly
out of its painted windows with a ludicrous sug-
gestion of abject drunkenness. On Sunday evening
Waddy was still, silent, and apparently deserted,
oppressed by the weight of a Cousin-Jack Sab-
bath, but on Monday morning tents and covered
carts linked the scattered houses, camp - fires
smoked everywhere, and bearded cattle-men,
making their scant toilet under the decent cover
of a cart-wheel or a rail-fence, enlivened the place
with light-hearted blasphemy and careless snatches
of song, whilst flocks of sheep drifted on the
common, fraternising with the local goats, and
mobs of cattle came slowly down the old toll-road,
sniffing at the bare, brown track; the dust-colored,
sleepy drovers, with sunken heads, nodding on
their limp horses.
Tuesday was sale-day. Monday afternoon was
devoted to the yarding of cattle and the yarding
and drafting of innumerable sheep, the former a
comparatively easy and decorous undertaking, the
latter a clamorous and arduous business provoca-
tive of disgust, dust and madness, and inducing a
thirst that afflicts the toiler like a visible disease,
making him an object of pity to all humane
beholders. The average bullock is of incalculable
mental density, but he has the virtue of faith, and
if you wish him to go through a gateway he goes
in blind confidence; but you may pack a mob of
five or fifty thousand sheep hard against a 10ft.
opening in a fence, and you may yap yourself
hoarse, and beat your trousers to rags, and your
dogs may bark their lungs up, without inducing a
single monumental idiot of the whole flock to
venture through.
* * • *
It is a hot afternoon —it always was a hot after-
noon it seems to me at this distance ; and scores of
thousands of sheep are being hauled, and bullied,
and cursed, and cajoled into the yards, and from
pen to pen. There is a decided substratum of
sound, the ceaseless, senseless bleating of sheep,
low and unvarying; above this the “ yap, yap,
yap ” of the men and boys, the sharp barking of
the dogs, and the lowing of the cattle in the high
yards beyond. Over all, the dust and the sun —a
burning, yellow sun, and a rolling cloud of
powdery dust and everywhere in the air the
taint of sheep, the pungent smell of the beasts,
and the taste of them if you open your lips to
breathe.
It is a great time for several of the boys of
Waddy ; it means half a day from school and the
opportunity of earning a shilling or two playing
at work. Every healthy boy in the township is
ambitious to be a drover, and have a black pipe, a
wonderful horse, and a fabulous dog. Working
at the yards is an approach to the ideal, and
confers a dignity obtainable in no other way. lo
the boys penned in the stuffy, little, drunken school-
house, the others who have a job at the yards are
kings and objects of an envy unspeakable, lhey
command humble service, and awe and admiration
always. , , ,
With treasured whips, home-made of many
fragments, the boys are busy helping with the
drafting and penning of the cattle, or, coated
half -an - inch deep with yellow dust they
are rushing the sheep up and down, bleary
black patches indicating where their eyes maybe,
and muddy circles the probable situation of their
mouths. It is hot, hard work, but, oh ! the glory
of it, and the pride of walking home with money
in one’s pockets, and covered with heaped-up,
honorable dirt 1 t
On sale-day the Drovers’ Arms is hemmed in
with conveyances of all sorts and sizes, each with
a sober horse or two tethered to a wheel, dreaming
with drooped heads under the scorching sun, or
patiently foraging for the last oat in the corner o
the feed-box. The heat is the same, so are the
dust and the smells, but the noises of yesterday
are supplemented by the continuous rattle of the
auctioneers’ voices. Over the simmering stew
sound the voices like the crackling of gum-twigs
in an open fire. j
“ Fo’rteen fi’! fo’rteen ft’ I fo’rteen fi 1 , . „
“ All done eighteen, done eighteen, dono eighteen !
“ Fo’r pounds, I’m bid. Fo’r two six ! fo r two six !
“ Fo’r two six! Goin’ fo’r two six !
There are a few “ drunks ” sleeping in attitudes
of absurd abandon along M’Mahon s fence coated
with flies; and out on the common, with the whole
waste to themselves, two men, stripped to the
buff are engaging in a dull, boozy, interminable
fight. They have been fighting ineptly for many
hours, and their punctilious observance of the
rules of the ring is the wildest farce; but the
comedy is wasted on Waddyand the drovers are
*°?„ bU Z ,0 .& h c,? d the cattle begin to move out
again and off by the roads they came, but the
babel continues, and the buyers, stout, red,bibu-
lous men of one pronounced type, follow the auc
Seers in knots along the platforms over the
vards. The cattle are not the meek, weary
animals of yesterday ; they have been hustled from
one yard to another, rushed around, whipped, and
prodded, packed into small pens, and cursed and
orated to the complete loss of heir fevv poor
wits, and there is now a decided note of revolt
the lowing that rises up from the yards like a
lingering curse. In every lot turned out there
or two beasts filled with blind, blundering
hate - they swing up the road, leading the mobs,
SeyedTnd possessed of devils; cards of saliva,
hang from their muzzles, and their moaning is
ominous, suggesting the vacuous complaining of a
m The°youngsters coming from school kee P s ®
to the rail-fence, but they delight to run deadly
risks, and fill the air with the mofane shrieks of
the drovers. Often a goaded, homicidal bullock
bolts, and then young hearts are glad. It w won-
derful sport to behold that frantic race for the
distant timber, the long, rolling plunge of the
bullock, with the good horse working on his
shoulder, and the volleying whip kicking up dust
and hair from the hollow ribs.
The clatter of the auctioneer grows fainter and
hoarser, and the perishing beasts in the pens below
toss up their heads like the branches of wind-
blown trees, and push hither and thither cease-
lessly with a pitiful “ mooing.”
Marks is selling a pen of Bellman s stock in JNo.
26. The buyers cluster about him on top of the
fence, and bidding is brisk. One bullock, a fine
red beast, has knocked himself about badly ; his
tail has been torn clean away, one horn is cracked
close to the head, and the thick, red blood oozes
out and blackens, rolling sluggishly down the
white blaze of his face. It is a large yard, and
there is plenty of room for the brute to charge,
which he does several times, now and then driving
blindly into another bullock, but generally crack-
ing his skull sharply on the great posts of the fence.
Suddenly a portly, helmeted buyer, leaning over
to get a better view, misses his centre of gravity,
and goes after it, the whole 16st. plumping solidly
into the slush of the yard below. The red bullock
is at him instantly. The good horn takes Langley
in the back of the trousers, and the drive rips him
bare to the collar, leaving him unmarked, but
prone in a condition of unseemly nudity.
The beast backs away for another drive, shaking
his head and uttering his low, tigerish bellow, the
expression of all malevolence; but at the same
moment a figure drops smartly from the platform,
and a ragged, smudgy, red-headed small boy
is riding astride the animal’s neck, diverting his
attention by battering him over the eyes with an
old felt hat. Dicky Haddon has performed
this feat often for his own amusement, to
the amazement of staid and matronly cows, but
this is a beast of another color, and the trick is
done in response to an involuntary heroic impulse.
The bullock backs about the yard, tossing nis
head in an effort to be rid of his mysterious
burden, and many hands clutch stout old Langfey
from the other, pen, and tow him along through
the mire to the gate, the bottom rail of which is
high enough from the ground to enable them to
null him out of danger. Then he is borne away, un-
nerved and invertebrate. The boy seizes his
opportunity, drops from the bullock and slips
under the gate like a cat. Then he follows Lang-
ley, and stands in eager expectance whilst the
damaged grazier is being bundled into his buggy.
Really, Langley suffers from nothing more serious
than blue funk, but is oblivious of everything ex-
cepting a great craving for neat brandy, and is
driven off without bestowing even a glance on his
small preserver. . .
This base ingratitude inspires the youth with a
loathing that can only be expressed m the choice
idiom of the yards, and the disappointed hero
yells bitter and blasphemous insults after Jabez
Langley, moneyed-man and M.JL.A. _
EDWARD DYSON.
From Torres Straits Pilot
WANTED, LADY HOUSEKEEPER; white pre-
YV ferred. Apply, enclosing photo., to Mr. ,
F.Z.S., Schooner .
Clearly they don’t put too fine a point upon it, up
North.
Every year Bananaland hatches out, a
fresh plague. ’95 and ’96 brought the ticks ; 97
swarms of grasshoppers; ’9B (m coastal districts)
is breeding a fearsome variety of mosquito that
laughs the ordinary curtain to scorn. Fine muslin
alone seems able to keep the pest at a distance.
This is probably Nature’s way of squaring
accounts with the province that doesn t get any
heat-wave.
A Chance Move.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The high-wheeled dogcart swept out of the
open gates into the dark road. The.man.had beer
kept waiting, and was angry. Bidding him good
bye ? ” he muttered, and the woman quivered. A
solitary tear rolled down her cheek, and the man
stooped his head to kiss her. She moved her head
aside-he thought by accident; but he tried again,
and this time he knew it was by design. . Lure
you !” he said, fiercely. “ I have done all I could ,
all but cut a friend’s throat.”
“ And I,” said the woman—“ for you I have be-
come a wanton.”
* * * *
The man did not reply, but a vicious cut
of the whip made the mare leap forward, and
the dogcart swayed from side to side of the rou h
road, as the trees flew by m the half-darkness like
huge shadow banks. Still he lashed the mare, and
the woman clutched his arm and shrieked He
laughed. “ I’ll frighten the soul out of you ! he
said. “I am different from him.
* • » *
They reached a rise on the road, and, like
a flash, she looked back. A lonely, desolate spark,
seemingly miles away, was the only light visible.
The woman caught the man s arm again. I
she cried, “ I won’t go on. I am going back
Then she broke down, sobbing, and the man shook
her off with a curse. With difficulty, he pulled
up and looked. The red light winked in and out
at the station, a mile past the bridge at the bottom
of the hill. “ Come on ! he said ; then, more
gently, “ the light in front is Love.
g ‘‘lt is reef,” the woman said, “ but the white
light behind is Honor.” ,
Instantly the man gathered up the reins
again, and lashed the quivering mare into a
gallop down the steep road to the bottom of the
hdl The cart swayed wildly from side to side,
but still the man used the whip, and the woman
shrieked, till, just at the bottom, one wheel jerked
high into air—and over they went !
* * * *
The man never moved ; the splash-board
had split his skull. The woman was little hurt.
Honor had won by a chance move ; and now
the man is forgotten !
SELINA C. R.


Evidently in ignorance that a small cottage
belonging to a particularly pious Perth (W.A.)
church was rented to a foreign lady of unexacting
morals, the pastor of said church has been vio-
lently denouncing all such unspeakable creatures
from the pulpit. And, now that somebody has
jogged his memory about the matter, the result,
he says, is that the agent can’t get the dreadful
person out; whereas the d.p.’s version is that
“ zey did vant to rise my rent just two times ! ”
At latest accounts Delilah was still in situ, and
the church was still profiting only half as much by
her industry as it wants to.
Ladies and Gentlemen in the Country.— lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
(which promises to be the great event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and leave a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble when ordering
garments of any description from us.— Hordern Brothers
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
ARE YOU BILIOUS ? IF
SO, TAKE
Bile Beans
THEY POSITIVELY CUBE
sness.
Headache, Indigestion, Debility,
- - - Constipation, Sleeplessness, Piles, &c.
A Prominent Sydney Citizen Cured.
f
THE CASE OF MR. FREDERICK MARKS.
SUFFERED FROM BILILOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE, AND LOSS OF APPETITE*
BILE BEANS EFFECT ANOTHER MIRACULOUS CURE.
“All through the stifling muggy days of the present summer,” said Mr. F. Marks, of Park-
road, Moore Park, Sydney, with a smile to a reporter, “ I have suffered severely and continually from
repeated attacks of biliousness and sick headaches. Being recommended by a friend to give Bile Beans
a tria rpT SO * an( * ai *J a PPy s^ate that lam in every way completely and perfectly cured.
Ihe excessive heat, and those warm, muggy days upon which the atmosphere in the city is
largely imbued with moisture from the sea were undoubtedly the cause of my afflictions, for my con-
stitution is not prone to these ailments.
With the advent of summer came the bilious attacks, and these gradually became worse and
more frequent as the heat continued, until at last I came to expect an
attack about every three days, and I always got it. I tried patent
medicines and some pills, which have been largely advertised for
many years, but I found I derived no benefit from them. The
juice of a lemon and seidlitz powders also failed to afford me relief.
Sometimes the biliousness became so bad that when I was at work
in the office I would be unable to read my correspondence and papers
correctly, for the lines would dance and quiver before me until the
letters seemed merely an indistinct mass. Always a good sleeper,
my rest was somewhat disturbed, and when I rose in the morning I
would have an unpleasant taste in my mouth, attended by a horrid
sick headache. Under these circumstances my appetite would at
times completely fail me, and sometimes I took no food at all, merely
drinking water in an endeavor to wash the biliousness out of my
system. Needless to say, this proved quite ineffective, and I found
jfty physical virility deserting me, leaving in its place an unaccus-
. tu j 4-u u • tomed and distasteful feeling of listlessness. At this juncture,
however, I had the happiness to try a course of BILE BEANS, with the gratifying result that
notwithstanding the heat and muggmess, I now feel as full of vitality and as free from all listlessness
as if we were in the depth of winter. Ihe biliousness, the headache, the loss of appetite, and the
disability to read small print have all completely vanished. In fact, BILE BEANS cured me com-
pletely, and in a very short time, too, and especially do I recommend them during the summer
months, when the distressing heat causes us more trouble and brings on more ailments than we are
aware of.”
~ 'C
LO
/OS;
From a Melbourne Resident.
PRESSURE OF BUSINESS CAUSE OF HIS ILL-HEALTH.
HIS SYSTEM ENTIRELY RUN DOWN.
The Manager, 248 Cardigan-st., Carlton, Melb., Dee. 81, 1897.
Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir —Owing to an exceptionally heavy and protracted pressure of business during the past
tew months, I became very low-spirited, my whole system being fairly run down. I suffered a great
deal from insomnia, followed by loss of appetite, and in consequence my nerves were completely
unstrung ; in fact, my nervous system was so much upset that I became totally unfit for business. A
tew weeks back a friend recommended a course of Bile Beans, and I am pleased to say that after
using them for a short period the insomnia entirely disappeared, and my appetite returned. Since
taking this medicine my weight has increased nearly a stone, and I am now in the best of health and
spirits, and have no hesitation in recommending them in all cases similar to my own.—Gratefully yourst
(Signed) T. A. CHAPPEL.
What Bile Beans Are.
~, ® IL ® Beans owe their existence to the discovery by an American medical man of a certain vege-
table substance that has the effect on the. digestive organs of Nature’s own animal bile. This dis-
ILE
£$S
FOI\
ILIOUSNESS
covery is revolutionising all the,present methods of treatment
for digestive ailments. The old theory of pepsin, bismuth,
starving, purging, &c., &c., is to be done away with. This
great vegetable substance is compounded with other in-
gredients to facilitate the working, and to-day this remedy
can be purchased the world over and in Australia under the
name of Bile Beans for Biliousness. This great specific
possesses the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels with-
out purging or otherwise weakening the patient, being so com-
pounded that the substance that relaxes the bowels has about
the same action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are manufac-
tured in one of the largest and best-equipped laboratories in
the world at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. They are sold
throughout the world, and are an undoubted specific for
Biliousness, Headache, Constipation, Indigestion, Debility,
Biles, Sallow Complexion, Female Weakness, Dyspepsia, and
All Liver Troubles. For sale at all chemists. Australian
Depot, 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Victorian Agents,
Kocke, Tompsitt an Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Every Bean a Dose. Millions Sold Annually.
In the Cathedral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The yearning organ sobbed within the fane,
The Asaph voices sang up to the stars,
As though to lift Earth’s sorrow and her pain
Beyond all earthly bars.
The mounting treble made the dome its eoi»u.
And the religious chords
Swayed in the chancel— swung up to the groin—
And gave their place to words—
To words that mated Love and Genius bore
In times of m artyr’d stress,
Till, polished by the centuries’ long lore,
They shone in holiness.
My soul became the emperor of my will;
I bore the fardel of the wide World’s woe;
I felt of life the dolor and the thrill,
The tear-gush and the throe.
The fine romances of the pulpit-preaching
1 heard with ears a-dulled ;
Accepting— n °t believing in—the teaching
Gold reasoning annulled.
The kindly promise of the resurrection,
The ending of all pain,
The errors of the flesh, dead past correction,
The sprouting of dead grain . . .
A dark-tressed angel shares my book—her tender,
.Beloved, clear-belled voice uplifts the hymn ;
1 lie grave shall clasp her, palpitant and slender •
Her eyes the dust shall dim !
Her secrets sweet the eager clods shall ravish ;
Her heart the worm shall rust;
And all the lover tricks I on her lavish
Forgotten be in dust.
We die like poppies in the midst of beauty ;
We early die and late ;
And t^l ' s frozen Heaven, past barren dutv,
Not Time nor Place, but State.
A grim Dead-Level of machine-made singers—
No individual care:
All minor bells rung all by minor ringers—
Great Love nor Great Hate there !
The wheat is sown and in the Spring is sprinrino-
And Earth is green again ;
But, if the grain forget its first up-bringing,
What joy can sway the grain ?
The preacher of the Newer Life is droning,
After we ripe and rot:
I hear no comfort, for my soul is moanin°-
Forgotten ! Self-forgot!
Oh, Shadow-Heav’n, spun of frayed threads of
Time,
Built by Man’s longing in a many lands !
Oh, lying sanguineness ! Oh, dreain sublime !
Oh, house not made with hands !
The creeds with all their details I compare;
Their miracles I put to evidence,
And find them falsely great and lying fair—
Sweet foes of thought and sense.
No sun e’er faltered in young Joshua’s path ;
No multitude miraculously fed ;
No beast saved Balaam from Jehovah’s wrath ;
No quick rose from the dead !
' No cloudy presence hovered o’er the ark ;
No sacrifice has carried human pleas ;
No human feet sped to the storm-stressed bark
On high o’ertoppling seas !
Ah, angel by my side, whose bell rings out,
Whose voice high in the choral hymn rejoices,
The weary World and I are full of doubt—
Oh, drown the doubting wailing of our voices !
I doubt ! I die ! She faith has in the prophet,
And yet she too shall die ;
Vain shadows all, and liars born of Tophet 1
The promise is a lie !
And so I wish, my doubts and fears then over,
I lie near to her hand,
Under a green tree and bee-raided clover
In a fair sunny land . . .
The sobbing voluntary seeks the chancel;
We walk the qpiiet street —
Dear lovers twain whose love the Grave shall can-
cel,
Silencing kisses sweet ?
I know not, but my doubtings all I know;
I burn in wondering as the moth in light . . .
Her love is told me, tremulant and low —
I have my Heaven to-night /
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Frost, Famish and Filthy Lucre.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Told to the writer, in Dawson City, last August,
by a miner who has been alternately freezing and
thawing in Alaska for seven years.
I had taken advantage of clear weather and
perfect sledding to start to Circle City for grub
enough to last over the spring clean-up. The glass
registered only 38 below—quite mild compared
to the 65 and 70 of a few days before. My dogs
were fat. ‘ Shorty,’ my Siwash helper and side-
partner, always saw that there was plenty of dog-
feed (fish) laid by in summer. ‘ Shorty ’ stayed
behind to look after things, and I set out on my
90-mile journey with sled and dogs, and the last
pint of whisky out of my demijohn. After getting
over the hills, I went down a creek that runs
northerly into the big bend of the Birch.
“ There wasn’t a cabin or a prospector that I
knew of along that creek that winter—not a soul
between me and Pokey Creek, 50 miles north
The ice was pretty rough, but ‘ Shorty ’ had made
my sled, and the moose thongs allowed enough
give ’ to keep it from racking to pieces. Dark-
ness came on early, and the sky threatened a
snow-flurry, so, about three o’clock, I decided to
be on the safe side, and looked for a place to
camp. With the rising wind, it was rapidly
growing colder, and the pebble-like ice had
cut the dogs’ boots and feet. That settled
it I couldn’t camp a minute too soon.
Luckily, the snow wasn’t more than 10 or 12in.
deep. I worked desperately and soon had a big
pile of branches on the lee side of the creek bench.
But I had to pull back my face furs to gather the
wood, and my beard was soon caked with ice. The
dogs were whimpering—a sure sign of extreme tem-
perature. The trees were cracking like a thousand
Winchesters; every minute or so came the artil-
lery—the ice and the big trees. I don’t believe I
was more than five minutes over the job, for I
knew it was a race against time to save the dogs’
feet, but when it came to matches—l hadn’t one
about me ! Box must have been jolted out of my
pocket! I was scared; I was numbing and my
head begun to feel queer. I thought about brain-
chill, and I jumped and yelled for fear. Brain-
chill first makes a fellow as crazy as a loon ; then
a^jr ’ U P an -d around—if he does get up
and around —he is just no account whatever;
mopes about, not caring much whether he’s dead
or alive !
It was awful! —no fire—the trees and ice
cracking, the wind howling, the dogs crying like
children ! No time to think, however, so I just
grabbed ‘ Tige ’ by his throat latch and started
down thecreek. The dogs were still hitched together
and fora wonder they came along willingly. When
dogs stop once, if it is only 12 o’clock, it is
almost impossible to get them to move again
that day ; but the intense cold seemed to freeze
the cussedness out of them. I struggled on, hardly
conscious, dragging the dogs after me, till sud-
denly I heard a terrible noise, a roar like the
ocean, then crack ! crack ! boom ! The ice rose
under my feet, and I was pitched violently for-
ward on my head and stunned.
“ W hen I came-to I was in a bunk, covered with
furs, and, turning round, I saw right by me one of
the sheet-iron stoves that the Alaska Co. had
brought in the summer before. There were three
men in the cabin—Joe Henderson, and Ell. and
Bill Mentzer, and, seeing I was coming round,
they dosed me with soup and whisky.
“ They had pitched camp there since I had been
along that trail before. They had struck pay-dirt,
and, having plenty provisions, they concluded to
winter there. I was in front of their cabin when
the ice-quake came. The shock threw me on the
bank, and then I must have staggered, uncon-
sciously up to the cabin, and fallen against the
door. It was the second day after when’ I came-
to in that bunk. We found the dogs frozen hard
as rocks a quarter-of-a-mile up the creek. The
ice in the creek had been bodily lifted out on to
the bank, and lay there like a monster white
snake, as big around as a house and nearly half-a-
mile long.
“ There wasn’t a thermometer from Sixty Mile
to Fort Hamlin that didn’t freeze that night except
the one hanging on the North-Western Company’s
store at Circle. It marked 92deg. below; never
make me believe but what it froze at that point,
for we all knew it was way below 100 that night.
A whole village-full of ‘ Injins ’ were frozen to
death up near Fort Yukon—7o all told, and a dozen
or more strong men got ‘brain chill’ before they
could reach shelter. Now, here comes the point !
Henderson and the Mentzers cleaned up nigh
onto 24,000 dollars in the bed of that creek in two
days. And that ice-quake was the cause of the
discovery of the richest diggings ever found along
the Birch.”
• * • *
Whether or not “ Big Sandy’s ” yarn was em-
bellished in other respects, the writer can testify
that his “ cold spell ” is not worse than the reality.
A record of 60, 70, and even 80 below zero is not
uncommon, but even this severity is not dangerous,
unless there is a lack of proper clothing and
shelter, or of fat-producing foods.
February and March will seem the longest
two months in the lives of the 4000 people huddled
in Dawson City and the diggings -up along the
Bonanza and Eldorado. The brief, dim day-
time, from nine to three o’clock, only empha-
sises the long night. Artificial light is scarce;
candles are five dollars apiece, and few to
be had. The. Alaska Commercial Co. and
the N.A. Trading and Transportation Co. (the
twostores ”) couldn’t sell you a gallon of
mu you **ad the wealth of a Vanderbilt.
The saloons have been without liquor since
January, and the camp was put on limited rations
shortly before Christmas. Now, short rations are
bad enough in a warm climate, as any inhabitant
of Sydney Domain can testify, but in a cold
country like Alaska a shortage is Death ! You
eat twice or three times as much there as in a
temperate climate. You eat fat as a Fiji islander
eats bananas—at any and all times. It is neces-
sary to eat so much, and on what we here would
consider ample rations all sustained outside work
must cease—the weak will die and the strong
become weak. The latest reliable news said
they would be on “short rations long before
spring!” And how in all that cold, hunger;
misery and death the plentitude of gold
will mock them. Big-hearted Alick M‘Donald
will sit and look at his piled-up millions,
and curse them because they cannot relieve
the sufferings of scores of women and children
in the camp, nor prevent the slow and hor-
rible torture of hundreds, whose pinched faces
and shivering forms, under loads of furs, tell
plainly that they are shivering to death from the
inside , It’s not the outside cold that is the trou-
ble now—it’s the lack of- life within.
There is only one thing left to do with their
gold—gamble. And gamble they do, day in and
day outsuch high stakes were never seen before,
for gold has lost its value. Dogged, haggard, and
unkempt, they sit over their cards like so many
jewellers peering into watches. The door opens,
and a shaggy giant comes in and crowds his way
to the stove. The men look at him, and he
shakes his head. “ It’s all over, fellers,” he says;
“ she and the little ’un died a half-hour ago.”
That is Dawson City “life” this month of
March. Not quite so bad at the mines, where
one has work to break the monotony. But there
is not a man there digging who wouldn’t rather
that stone just thrown up by his shovel was,a
potato than a lump of gold as big as his fist.
HOMER GALLOWAY.


BLOOD PURIFIED. WEIGHT INCREASED.
Health Completely Restored.
Col. Jas. H. Carmichael, a Distinguished member of the Staff of tfco
Governor of Massachusetts, and whose portrait is here reproduced,
heartily recommends Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
0
t C'
Y,
m
TfrnffTTmr
/if
7
r
m
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with markedly beneficial results.
When I began using it 1 was very much out of health, and had lost a good
deal in weight. My blood was in an unhealthful condition, which was made
manifest in several unpleasant ways. Soon after commencing the use of
the Sarsaparilla I began to improve, my weight increased, and before
long my health was completely restored. I heartily recommend AYER S
SARSAPARILLA.”
The above, testimonial from the gallant Colonel, and the many thousands
of others received from all parts of the world, are incontrovertible evidence
of the wonderful efficacy of AYER’S SARSAPARILLA as a blood purifier
and health restorer.
“ Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worthless
imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is on the wrapper, and blown
in the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Bonning ton's Sarsaparilla, 2/6
MAKES PURE BLOOD, Strengthens the Nerves, Sharpens the Appetita*
Removes that Tired Feeling, and makes LIFE WORTH LIVING.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
RESTORES THE FUNCTIONS of the Nervous System, Prompt in
Action, and a Perfect Regulator of the Body. ■
HEADACHE
' of l this paper should
Iknow that Bishop’s Citrate of
(Caffeine, which obtained the
; highest award at the Chicago
of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache. It is
Bin't to take, and will be
? most £ refreshing after
or as a morning re-
storative. VThe Lancet
'mends it. {Of all Chemists in
twp sizes.) A Booklet on Head-]
ache sent post free on applica-
tion to their Australian Depdt,
IS street,; Sydney:
•Inventors anil Sole Makers—
/alfred: bishop,llw>,
'4B,lSpelman]St.‘,;London]lE.
CUBED.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
sar - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. t-SF" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
BSF” Poverty Pol uters
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland*
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW
UNDER THE SUN.
The
LATEST
And
GREATEST
FOR
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
Post Free ... ... 2s. Bottle.
The DON CASH TRADING CO.,
206-214 Johnston-street, Colling wood,
MELBOURNE, Vic.
BEECHAM’S
MUSIC-FOLIO
Beyond contradiction by far the cheapest and
best collection of Music yet published.
Volumes 1 to 12 Now Heady
Beecham’s Music Books are lithographed from -well-engraved plates on
stout paper, and edited by an eminent professor of music, thus guaranteeing
perfect accuracy. Each volume contains unrty different pieces of mu.de,
either old gems, or some of the most popular songs of the day, some of which
being published at 2s. have been included at considerable cost. The Songs
have all the original Symphonies and Pianoforte accompaniments in full.
During the year 1896 no less than One Million of these books were
sold. It is worth mentioning that “ The W ashington Post March, which
is now so much called for, was published in Volume 7 so far back as 1894.
These Volumes can be obtained from Gordon and Gotcb,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, and from
most Newsagents and Booksellers in Australia at
TWOPENCE per Volume.
PntolisUedL toy
The proprietor of “BEBCfUND’S PILLS,”
ST. HELENS, ENGLAND.
EXPENSIVE.
Smythb: “What does a typewriter cost?”
Wythe : “ Well, mine cost me a divorce and £lOOO alimony 1
BoQQiQgtOQ’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
PNEUMONIA, SORENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF BREATH-
ING, and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In Large
and Small Bottles.
BoQQiQgtOQ’S Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPATION.
Do not GS-ripe.


ii
OLEfIC”
Discovered by Ohri
Mudd, F.L.S., Dots
H.It.H. the Prince
ECZEMA
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/'
“
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOB THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
$
'&
WORLD RENOWNED
“GLYCERINE & HONEY JELLY,”
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat.
It so.tens and improves (he Hands, I ace, and Skin generally.
. .oling and Re. i eshi :g. Still growing in popular favour after
to years’ use. Beware of Spurious Imitations. Sold by all
Ch.mists and Stores i Metallic Tubes, 6d. and 1-
‘HEAD (andßath) SOAP,” Regd.
\ Pure, Refined and Perfumed Soap. Cleat ses, Sireng-
hens and Promotes t e Growth OF HAIR, removing Scurf,
in 1 producing Healthv Action of the Skin. A Ifuxury for
Bath and Toilet. An Excellent Shaving Soap. Price 6d.
Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to ilie Queen,
l9, Golden Square. Regent.St, London, W. A
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. O- ZEHLZDrRXZDGKE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies;
attended to.
Wortl)iogtoD PftnjpiQg Cori)pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
trade mark.
Sydney, N.S.W.
mmm?
lIS
: -
REGULAR PATTERN
agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia . mormiT . r,r . , _ __ . __
_ *, «. xYioray-grreec, ouum iVIJKiJUiSUUJtIJ
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia.- HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
__ w KJU. U UUJJLO-ObltitJUj ±J±X. U JJV vy JLO _L
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOETHIN GTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
What is_Health?
Sciatica,
Ltimbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. JE.
PARKER, 146 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where*
ever situated, ivill greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to 'procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
Tho COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) •
REFRIGERATION ; ICE-MAKING. ' '
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR
Agents
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refresh meiß) and 23 Royal Arcade— for
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties
is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATES ON, Manager.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres-
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services, . W
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls,
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
o
ft?
a
Forges,
S crte 1&,
Horizontal
and
ertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
57
Sr
&
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting,
Pullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
ft'
&
ftp
ft?
A*
ft
$3
&
ft?
£5
£
ftp
At
ft?
*5
ft
to
Sole
Agents for
“ Three
Bullet ”
Brand
Mining Steel.
THE - -
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
Batho’s n ft L: nn
B _ n 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
©artridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price »10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesand cleaners complete. Usual price 421, reduced £7los ea. complete
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6< 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Niekle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 66, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90, -. Send for trade Illustrated Price
LUt. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bourke-st.,.Melbourne.
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engines are fitted with The Pickerinn
Governor (for which we are Sole Af/ents), the
most Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
AU kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
rite for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
