

The Bulletin
Voi I 9— jNo. 983. j
[Saturday, December 17, 1898.
Postered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
USE
TEITS MALTED COCOA
GXIAnAKrTBiIIID LITRES COCOA. A2VO EXTRACT OF MALT. ■
!07 Kent St root:, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
* XPI OS I Y ES, BUILDERS’ amp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR AIMY°SIZE OF LOGS. a
Up-to-Date Flour Milling Macliinery, Engines & Boilers,: Steel Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
Clarence Street,
Sl’nNKy,
268
Prize
Medals
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
f
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARfiCULARS.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-•«» ntt street, SYDNEY.
uston, Proctor
3LE AGI
&
PS FOB
Co
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED an» SEMI FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
KCCEKTTHIC THFtA.SH:iKrG MACHIKTES, S A-TUST jBESKTCIoCEja, &0., &o
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
2™ I ? I ®GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
- MANLY BEACH.
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kihninster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS .
THE EAST OF SIX
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourißts.
Boating, Bathing, and Pishing unsurpassed. Jsirge en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at T'attsifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to ail parte of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MAN ACER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
□ETOEIAIFIIV
Hadley s Orient [jotel
co xAw A&qA.
PIONEER
Jd3HJLV3I
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
- -■ AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
•gri g'h Awards wherever Exhibited..
Vandtck
CIGARS
K£
1
m 8
Is


THE RED PAGE.
Brewer quotes Walpole's story how the con-
fesssor of a French king reproved him for conjugal
infidelity, and the king abruptly changed the
subject by asking what di h he liked best. The
confessor thought, an.l an aw red " Partridge ”;
whareupoa the king ordered him to be served
with partridge every day. tdl he loathed the sight
of it. Then the kprg \i.ited the confessor, and
enquired if he hid IK a welrserved. “ Mais oui,”
replied the coufeasi r, “perdrix, toujours perdrix ! ”
“ Precisely,'’return.*! the fickle monarch, “and
ray wife is all very well ; but not ‘ perdrix, tou-
jours perdrix,’
In Dyson’s case there is variety enough to make
his book excellent reading even at a sitting;
though half-a-dozen sittings help the flavor.
Dyson’s literary style is peculiarly terse and lucid ;
his effects are all clearly seen and cleverly
worded ; and he finishes his stories cleanly and
well, as a good prose workman should. He is
particularly a miners’ story-teller, as in “Rhymes
from the Mines ” he was the miners’ verse-writer.
To the men' and women and scenes of the early
Victorian reeling days he recurs continually : and
here his knowledge is ample and his touch sure. The
lights on Chinese character in “ A Golden Shanty ”
and “ Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat ” are hardly less vivid ;
and these stories are bedecked by a somewhat
sardonic humor which makes them among the
most interesting the author has penned. Of
Dyson’s skill in climaxing grim tragedy “The
Trucker’s Dream ” and “After the Accident ’’are
leading examples : the tales could hardly be con-
structed better. Indeed, only a certain hardness
of touch, a certain lack of vivifying emotion, pre-
vents Dyson from excelling almost any competi-
tor in the art of dramatic- story-telling.
“ Below and On Top ” is a substantial addition
to Australian fiction : and The Bulletin heartily
recommends it to Australian readers. Those who
have read some of the tales before will he glad to
renew acquaintance; and those to whom they
come freshly cannot fail to conceive admiration for
Dyson’s industrious talent.
— ——-
“JackSliay” writes on Australian slang -—Some
of the idioms which 1 quote are probably foreign;
of some the local use is restricted; hut all are
currently used.
The horse is a power in Australia, and a few
choice expressions spring from horses. Horse-
shoeing is a word occasionally heard to describe
abuse, obscenity, profanity. A bit off, an off-sider,
off color, out of collar, collar-proud, off his oats—
these are familiar.
In draught work the laziest or worst horse is on
the off side, under the whip; thus it is an inferior
man or thing that is a bit off, off color, or an off'-
sider. Out of collar aptly describes out of work ;
off his oats, sickness or a state of off-islmess.
Collar-proud is applied to horses put to work after
a spell. They jerk at the collar, pull indifferently,
and want the whip to keep them “up in the
collar. ” Working dead-horse is working to pay off
a back debt; or, as a teamster would say, “This
trip has got to pay for a horse that I lost last trip;
£2O to make up to pay for the new horse.”
From shooting comes that murderous phrase,
“ I’ll blow your light out ” ; and a sure win is a
dead bird. The first is no doubt from the gallery
pistol-trick of blowing a candle out; the second
from pigeon-shooting. A horse or man just beaten
is said to have “ just blew out ” ; and to have lost
money on a man or horse oi any gamble is laconic-
ally expressed by " I bit wed ” my money.
Waster is a timbei -getters’ phrase for worthless
logs or flitches. This is applied to men and things
promiscuously.
Snow-dropping is thieves’ argot for clothes-line
robbing. Duck-shoving is poultry-thieving. The
practice which Morris (Austral-English Diet.)
calls duck-shoving (i.e., cabmen forestalling each
other for a fare) is known among Sydney cabmen as
touching off. A sweet idiom is nicking the -peter---
the stealing of tills in small shops. There may be
a connection with Peter’s Pence.
Among cabmen, touting around the streets for
chance fares—a forbidden practice—is known as
gagging. Men with licenses hut no vehicles, who
“do a mind ” for a regular driver, live by plurri-
ming, and are known as plummers.
To get narked is to lose your temper ; also ex-
pressed by getting dead wet or going to market. An
informer or n,ar-plot is a nark or a Jonah or a
Noah's Ark.
The Yiddish element is very strong in Austra-
lian slang. Kosher is good; shiker drunk;
stoomeg broke; and a stoomer or stumer is a man
without money. Mozzle is luck, derived from
wurzschimozzle. Good mozzle= good luck ; kronk
mozzle, bad luck ; and a shiksa is a girl.
Speaking of things in general: if things are
going fairly with a man he is throwing deuces ; but
if bad, throwing sevens. If any one dies it is
known as throwing the seven or throwing his hand
out.. Both these phrases originate in the hazard
school.
An incessant talker is a skiter or a fluter, and a
request to him to pass the flute or the kip is to
allow someone else to “do a pitch.” Flute ex-
plains itself; and the kip is the piece of wood
used in “two-up,” otherwise pitch and toss.
Xjoint may be applied to anything, but usually
refers to a gambling place or machine. Its origin
is the “break joint,” a mechanical contrivance
attached to racecourse roulette tables to enable
the o] erator to cheat the bettors. Umpcka, re-
versed, spells “chump,” a inug or flat'. This is
the old gy] sy method : as delo namow —old woman ;
oekerla - -tobacco. Chyack is more properly chy-
ike, the cockney pronunciation of “cheek”—im-
pudent badinage.
Tmlinj, winch Morris gives as literally “to
follow close behind the tail ” of sheep or cattle,
is a corruption of ‘ tallying to count, which
was a nightly custom with many shepherds in the
days of no fences and open pasturage. A tally-
clerk is a common term ; and tallying, on a good
many stations, is spoken tailing.
The cockney rhyming slang is popular in Aus-
tralia, and the lion comiques ami lydies of the
variety stage are helping to make the hold
stronger. This slang is built thus—
Collar Arty Rolla. Old man— Pot and pan.
Rvea—Mince pies. Drink Tiddly-wink.
Mrs.— Cheese and kisses. Tie -Lamb’s-fnj.
Waistcoat— Charlie Prescott. Head-Lump o’ lead.
Street organ— Joe Morgan. Feet—Plates o' meat.
Lie—Fairy-tale.
The Australian mostly abbreviates by using
only the first of the compound words. Thus, a
drink is a tidley. A fairy-tale has become a post-
and-rail or “snake-yarn.”
Drum— derived from the kettle-drums (evening
parties) of the days of the Georges—was a high-
class word, but it fell. The cockney turned it
into rub-a-dum-dum ; the Australian now calls the
same thing a rubadcy.
The use of Christian names in this form of slang
seems to have originated the Australian Billy-Can;
Jack-Shay, a quart pot for making tea, with which
word shay almost rhymes ; and Jimmy- Woodser, a
solitary drinker. Rye-buck (all right) is no doubt
an abbreviation of “all right, my buck.” Good-
iron, synonymous with “Bravo! ”is unexplainable.
Xrook or kronk is bad ; while sweet, roujig, and
not too stintin’, are good. To these are prefixed
the adjectives motherless and dead, thus dead
motherless broke (or sweet, or kronk).
Familiar similes are as yet unnoticed. “As
mean as Hungry Tyson” (used by people who
know nothing of Tyson). “ Like a bandicoot on a
burnt ridge ’’ was, I think, applied by Parkes to
a lonely and forlorn opponent. “ Like a possum
up a gum tree ” is not bad to express quickness or
cleverness in doing anything.
The only classical idioms I have found (there
must he more, I think) are rotter, he., an adept in
learning anything ; and panerti agere, Sydney Uni.
slang for “ doing a loaf.”
A watch and chain'is a block and tackle; if of
gold a red lot.
The most curious inversion I come across is the
word Fat. Anyone would naturally think a Pat
was an Irishman, but a Pat is a Chinaman
(? abbreviation of paddy, Chinese-used for rice).
A spieler or yuy-a-whack is a professional sharper
or kronk bookmaker ; while a gee is their outside
confederate, who “gees up ” the mugs for them.
A bludger is about the lowest grade of human
thing, and is a brothel bully. A man-about-town
amounts to the same thing. A battler is the
feminine.
- ♦
C.B. remarks oirthc other side The secret is
out. To speak a priori, and settle questions in
advance —envious prestige !—all you want is phy-
siology. “No man ever creates anything in
letters when over 50 ; no man creates anything
which is worth creating (gives forth a fresh, strong,
original impulse) after 40. To expect a poetic
masterpiece after 25 years hard scholastic labor is
to fly in the face of physiology.” Ipse Physiologus
dixi. Punctum.
Perhaps the “ physiologist ” is, after all, “flying
in the face ”of fact. Tradition, at least, imaged
Homer as “the old man in rocky Chios,” and
Aeschylus called song “a wayside gift from
heaven to men whose prime is past.” History
would have us believe that Aeschylus wrote the
Prometheus and Oresteia when over 60, Sophocles
the (Edipus Coloneus when over 80, Euripides
his most passionate and romantic tragedies—a
striking contrast to the realistic problem-dramas
of his youth—On the environs of 70. Milton wrote
no verse beyond scattered sonnets for 20 years, sat
him down at 51 and dictated “Paradise Lost."
Tennyson did finer lyrical work at GO and upwards
than m his youth ; Swinburne’s “ Tale of Haleb,”
written at 58, is as fresh and poignant as the
“Poems and Ballads” of his twenties. Only a
few examples these.
“ A poet is not there to compile.” Perhaps
not; but if you mean to say that there is no
memory for inspiration, no power of developing
and amplifying the confused riches thereof—
generally just the raw matter of art—that the
poet cannot patiently and systematically exercise
his voluntary consciousness on the sudden
“surges” and flashes of his subconscious mind,
just as other people can in other departments,
pray how came Goethe to write “Faust,” Milton
to write “ The Paradises,” Dante to write “ The
Commedia,” Hugo “ The Legende des Steeles,”
&c., &c., &c. ? Nor did all the lyrical poets, from
whom the “ surge ” theory is a hasty generalisa-
tion, get them delivered of their songs in a frenzy.
Technique ?—technique can neither be learned nor
practised apart from the matter it is suited to :
there is no abstract technique.
The fact is, genius generally “flies in the face ”
°f everything > of physiology, by living harder and
wilder, and yet longer than cautious people ; also
m the face of critics. For another instance,
haven’t they been telling us that to write one’s
tongue well and preserve originality one should
know only that one tongue. Proofs : Milton,
skill’d and eloquent in six languages ; Swinburne,
rhythmical in five.
Now what is behind all- this “physiology”?
Perhaps this : poetry is the product of green and
salad days, prose the result of thought. There-
fore, as thought is to emotion —pardon, as grey
matter is to white . . . or is it as white is to grey?
—of course, I don’t know, but no odds—so is prose
to verse. “Verse is the weak feminine of prose,”
and the man is the woman’s head. As for the
prose which is the sturdy—not to say “stodgy
male of the verse of Aeschylus, I )ante, Marlowe,
Milton ; if I were to enquire as to its whereabouts
who knows whether the “physiologist ” mightn’t
turn a somersault, while still remaining true to
the good old “ highpriori, ” and tell me that it was
laid up, along with physiological certainty, scien-
tific truth, final criticism, and Mallarine’s CEuvre ,
in Plato’s transcendental heaven ?
♦
This is reprinted from Lond. Athenceum for the sake of
the Australian application—
“ The Last Poems of Susan K. Phillips” (Grant
Richards) are worth notice as being typical of a phase of
modern book production. They do not contain a line
which could be called purely poetic, and yet they will
probably have a considerable circulation. We have to
recognise and accept the fact that the bulk of the popu-
lation of these islands can get on very well without
poetry--that it is satisfied with very much less. A large
proportion of it regards as poetry everything which is
not prose. The average man probably never reads any-
thing in the shape of verse. In general the feminine
taste does not rise above Miss Procter ; usually it falls, in
a literary s.ense, much lower. Widespread as is the spirit
of culture in England, it has not, in the matter of poetry,
sunk very deep. The suburbs and the provinces feel no
need for the higher poetic achievement, and they are
quite well pleased when, instead of pure poetry, they get
fluency and prettiness. It is not true of the world of
verse that “ we needs must love the highest when we see
it.” The highest is offered to the big reading public, and
in most cases it, wins no regard. Something much in-
ferior will suffice; Can we wonder that, such people are
written for? Nothing could be more natural. There is
a demand for a certain article, and that article is duly
forthcoming.
“Take the following, from S. K. Phillips's ‘ Last Poems,’
and note how pathetically it falls short of the outcome of
Miss Rossetti in the same vein
Do you forget it, love, the old sweet phrase?
Do you forget the clasp of hand in hand,
The gesture we two only understand?
The magic lying in the dear old ways?
The glow of passion in its morning days
Has softened to the evening, where we stand
Watching the wavelets break upon the sand,
In the soft reflex of the sunny rays.
Dear, the sweet roses that we gathered then
Are faded quite, and the pale twilight sees
Nig4it-blowing lilies glimmer, each a gem,
Beneath the low boughs of the yellowing trees ;
But, oh ! their scent is rich and subtle yet;
I prize the fragrance, dear. Do you forget?
“ We have no doubt there are thousands of women, old
and young, in England whom the above lines have the power
to thrill. They are not real poetry, but they are the
poetry of the parlor—the only poetry the parlor really
cares for. They embody, clearly and harmoniously, a
familiar sentiment. Why should not such things be
penned? Every class has its intellectual needs, such as
they are. It is not disgraceful, or even discreditable, to
satisfy those cravings so long as they are wholesome.
After all, it is something to have given articulate voice to
the feelings and the thoughts of millions. The result
may not be literature, and yet may lead to better things.
The time may come when the British public—even the
magazine-reading public —will insist upon having poetry,
and nothing less. Meanwhile, it is no one’s business to
sneer at the earnest and amiable souls who furnish the
pabulum required of them. They do their best, and we
ought to be thankful they exist among us, willing and
ready to produce what is asked for. S. K. Phillips said
the old things over again, but she said them better than
many a poetaster has done. To the average reader,
indeed, her volumes can positively be recommended ;
and assuredly they will do no harm to him or to any one.”
Lance T. : Rn definitions, etc., of poetry. Reading G.
H. L-wes’s “ Principles of Success in Literature,” I came
across the following : —“ Poetry is the beautiful phasis of
a religious idea.” “ Poetry is the metrical utm ranee of
emotion.’’ Solger’s “vEsihetik” is quoted : “ Everything
must be action or emotion. Hence a purely descriptive
poetry is impossible, if it confine itself to its subject,
without action or emotion ; on which point Lessing
has some admirable remarks in the Laoeoon. In
Horner, you never see a particular subject merely
described, hut the description is always contained in
some action. So tire clothing of Agamemnon, or the
shield of Achilles, where the subjects represented appear
themselves as living and in action " ; and (G. H. Lewes)
the reason of this is given by Hegel when he says, “ Not
things and their practical existence, but pictures and
imaginative symbols are the materials of poetry.’ Quite
akin, this defining of Hegel's, with Class VI. and Quinn’s
printed “Camp within the West.”
Lewes goes on It is this emotive principle which
creates all the ornaments, as they are styled, such as per-
sonification, metaphor, and trope; for nothing being
announced as a fact, but everything as seen through the
passionate medium of the speaker's soul, it necessitates a
figurative impassioned language. [ln this connection
Ogilvie’s “ Land of Dumb Despair” and Victor Daley’s
lines—
But where are all the ancient singing-spheres
That, burst through chaos like the summer’s breath— etc.]
Lewes again : Professor Wilson’s definition of poetry—
“ man’s thoughts tinged by his_ feelings ” —becomes ad-
missible, except that it does not cleniarcate it from novels
or oratory (or even the bellowingsof the mud-brained Leg.
Councillor). “Ornaments” may be used by imitators
and verse-makers ; but they are always foreign, repulsive,
and cumbersome, simply because they are ornaments,
ostentatiously worn for their glitter, and not . real
associations clinging round the central feeling. But in the
true poet, imagination acting on the feeling, or the feeling
acting on the imagination, condenses and fuses a whole
series of ideas into one nexus of expression ; such is per-
sonification, one of the most poetical of figures, hut which,
when not springing from the ground of real passion, be-
comes an impertinence in the imitator or scholar-poet,
and warms the mind no more than prose.
To think much of Poetry and all it signifies—artisti-
cally, philosophically, and historically—calls up imagi-
nary swaddlings of the fevered brow in ice-cold cloths,
and much tired endeavor to assimilate Watts-Dun ton’s
labyrinthine article in Encyclopaedia Britannica.
After all, tot homines qaot sentential ; closing with the
Shelleyan paean—somewhat paradoxical—of the true
bards : “ Poets are the hierophants of an unapprehended
inspiration ; the mirrors of the id-antic shadows w v u
futurity casts upon the present; the words whTh exnr' 1 *
what they understand not; the trumpets u t. , n e . x P re M
battle and feel not what they inspire * - to
unacknowledged legislators of the world.” W are tbe
, : Nothin :< Grange in Mark Twain’s
ability to appreciate Thackeray. Heaps of nen,,u. i , n '
same bed, only they can’t afford ffi’ Jg our -8?
Browning cant and George Meredith ecstacy of
Austral Salon animal override honest confession in the
matters. You see the same thin- in art ciiri io ?»<*
is built of sham and pretension. " You have to !!„'>" " eh
secure position when you dare to hurl anathema at?l *
gods of convention. What baulks Mark Twain P V
judgment of Thackeray is the latter’s stvte n • ." s
style who doubts it ? But its force is marred *, fb ' e
dancy. Thackeray writes out his i r ?' 1 '"' 1 -
anaemic thread. And he preaches, lectures,
upon such cheap moralities. He rwS™f
Balzac, whose method mastered him' and whose egotist
he unconsciously imitated. Thus his hhniJ
with commonplace reflections, beautifully expresscdW.
inartistic. For it is not art to intrude the
story, and this Thackeray is guilty of. Who a
sermon between the courses? Let the storvTfl imlu
See how Cervantes gets home, and Swift, a B i a 3
is his impatience of this needless chat I er-f his overhvi,,
of work with philosophy which is none the k
place that it is dressed in Hue phrase and Xmtn? 0 "’
pression—that repels Mark Twain, ft is a id tv l L 1 " X ‘
the two men are built upon similar lines.' 'Each iaughs'm
the comedy in much the same manner. They own a kin
ship of humor. A gracious thought moves them to the
same cynical pretence, which imposes upon nobody, u
reveals the truth. Thackeray would have relished I l uck ?
hero- Finn. I am persuaded that Mark Twain understands
a mt k r,i,i S la T ; üßut Twain is conceited-no doubt of i
And old-which is always a drawback. And he ought to
be told, anyhow, that he, a pygmy, girds at a giant
. ’ : I® °? ie of his addresses on his return
to England, R.C. Bishop Ulluthorne (N.S.W ) gave Gov
lung as originator of the term “ laughing jackass » » T , '
Governor, who was frequently in an irritable mood, wall
intently occupied on a knotty problem one morning when
a bird near him broke into the cacophonous strain In
rage, the Governor shook his fist at the bird and apostro-
phised it as a jackass. In the beginning it was only the
male bird that was so named.
Edward Dyson, a well-known Bulletin con-
tributor, harvests in a volume called “Below and
On Top ” his short stories sown in many years
through many news; a| ers. The book is published
by George nobertsui and Co. at 2s. (id. and 3s. Gd.
(posted from Bulletin office 3s. and 45.)
Perhaps no collection of short stories by a single
author is ever quite satisfactory. The writer
tends always to reiterate his < h -ranters, his inci-
dents, his scenery ; and ins sT.le and outlook
rarely alter. So monotony is bred.
JUST RUBBISHED.
fair Girls and Gray fiorses
Uiltb Other Uerses,
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
Reprinted from the Australasian ; the Sydnry Mail ;
the Border Watch, S.A.; the Western Champion,
Parkes, N.S.W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin, With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces.
Handsomely bound in cloth , gitt-top, with 3 vignette,
illustrations by G. W. Lambert. Lost free
4s. 6d, from Bulletin office.
13Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR. .
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
PER R.M.S. AUSTRALIA.
Feasey’s Monasticism, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Wolseley’s Marl-
borough for the Young, 6s, post 5s 6d ; Mitchell’s Far in
the Forest, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Belloc’s Historic Nuns, 6s,
post 6s 6d ; Abbott’s Sr. Thomas of Canterbury, 21s,
post 26s ; Dawson's Accountant’s Companion, I6s, post
16s ; Luther, by Jacobs (Heroes of Reform), 6s, post 6s 6d;
lirunetjere's Manual of the French Language, 12s, post
12s 6d; Boldrewood’s Romance of Canvas Town, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Maarten’s Her Memory, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Oliphant’s That Little Cutty,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; H.vne's Adventure of
Captain Kettle, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, and 4s ; Stephen’s Enemy
oft.be King, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Hutchinson’s
Pirate Gold, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
The Public are invited to inspect our large and varied
assortment of CHRISTMAS CARDS, Booklets, Calendars,
Annuals, Children s Picture Books, Fine Art Volumes,
and novelties of every description, suitable for presenta-
tion during the coming season.
Christmas and New Year Cards.
ARTISTIC DESIGNS in LANDSCAPES, MARINE VIEW’S,
FLORAL, FIGURES, ETC.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO’S STANDARD
PACKETS:
University Packet, 50 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. The
Special Packet, 100 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 7d. The Aus-
tralia Packet, 36 Cards, 9d ; Post Free Is. Antipodean,
25 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. Atalanta, 12 Choice Cards,
3d ; Post Free sd. The Federal Packet, 24 Cards, 6d ;
Post Free 9d. The Waratah Packet, 18 Special Cards,
2s ; Post Free 2s 3d. The Holly Packet, 18 Special Choice
Cards, Is 6d ; Post Free Is 9d. The Sydneian Packet, 12
Choice Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 3d. The Wattle Packet,
12 Extra Choice Cards, ss. The Aotinotus Packet, 2o
Selected Cards, 2s 6d ; Post Free 2s 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO’S AUSTRALIAN
EMU SERIES.
Is Each ; Post Frkb Is 2d.
Fort Denison, Sydney Heads, The Emu Hunt, Katoomba
Falls, The Buckjutnper, Bushman’s Friend, Aboriginals
Camp, An Artesian Spray, The Kangaroo Hunt, Round-
ing up a Stray, The Bushman’s Camp, Home of_tne
Kangaroo, The Lyre Bird's Retreat, Australian Uusn
Favorites, Sydney Heads by Moonlight.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WI)€Q Yo(i AcqOaioted
Witli the Genuine Purity, Flavour,
Strength and Matchless Quality of
... CAM€O CI6ARETTCS,...
Try CAMEOS.
You will be satisfied that you have reached the
snm muni bon u rn, or the highest point of ex-
cellence.


B ■
&
Sydney’s leading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
of Dreadecl Diseases which
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“Stop—be sad!” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of tiie
future. It says to the young, unmarrried man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Symptoms
Blood PoiSoo-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
a™ a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A lon tier course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
'ng when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NEN L'LY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the ease. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
NerVoCis Debility, Loss of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stiipicfness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage vour thoughts run more or less to suicide. The cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow in elan-
choly. Lif e becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don’t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious—successful. Don’t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
Tliis is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of ind is-
olations, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
sliould be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
Edited physician, and we are .able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
lake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
m its incipieney—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
1 vin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
-"T sore ® cured speedily and permanently.
ie latest and most scientific mode of treating
aiK permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
dipture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. ~
° detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
"> a .y be > remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
and low charges.
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully. Dq all you
OTTOTiR ns and wo wdl help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
cofiit - r are ready to help y°u. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO
mi
EJ
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
COBKESi’OMDKNCK P.O. IiOX 13..
1 37
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Wliois trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received liis education in the Eiudish and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
research, investiprated their origin and course, and has discovered the
a ntr| ,i , sflrest means uf thoroughly curing tliern. He has, hy his unequalled success, during
‘Jj ’ , . lr ! a ."y ymw, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
th m an,, V! u - s . speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
an any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young- Bleu!
cllld Those who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
frutn any of the following symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
„;n a • , ness of t . ,le breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
• ‘ °f W <lnr,n F. B ' ef ‘P> palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
. l,^°f C 'r i a wll,tl . sll or cloudy sediment in the urine nfter standing, fear of something dreadful
, , . 1,1 * ,{, Pl>en, impure blood, spots or pimples on the hack, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
e<> J l "l' '"'Hiijsf out of the hair, ftc,, &c., should consult him, for lie is now enabled
quiciuy and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
who wish
to Marry!
On Receipt of 6d, in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
SPS -'" ay l, e quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
r Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Net
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance,-you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Du. GiBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competenjt
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which yon will find n list of care-
fully-prepared quest ions that will assist yo,u
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, ns in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBIjONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses nope but theyery purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescrilns Mercury iu any fm-in.
PATIENTS are reminded that theiy letters
are destroyed by I r • immediately they liaye
been read and answered, and .tli.vt their cases
and names .will remain p secret between the
,D" <: tor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All eomrnunications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
ol Vi l?r?{f rr ?, d ’ “ The f ,, «R r A eto rU Isox 230 , GP 0 ’ Sydney. CONSULTT \ G HOURS —])iiv.
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention tins paper when writing] .CONSULT AT lON Fit ICE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who
TRUTHS, the PLAIN
would KNOW THE GRAND
FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy KNTIIt K L Y
EltlSE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W;
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Vai ■ try nmfJ who have lost their manly
I UUißg «■■■*»* power vitality strength
OI H MD n I J ma y regain same .easily
lwßtJll ■ ■ and permani ntlv frcf.
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cure-; the most obsimate ca.-.es
ot Debi ity, Atrophy. Varicocele, Sc. A Written
Guarantee given m all cases 'the Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the semiral vesicles «nd ducts
prevents the constantd am of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discourag'd, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “Prom Bondage to Freedom, showing how ah
nervous disoiders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St.,Melbourne
FRENCH REMEDY.
TKADE
M UIK.
This stlccessllU amt huh I, popu.ar i tun it y, as
employed in .the Continental Hospitals by liicord,
ltostan, Jobert, Velpeau, tmtl minus, combines all
the desiderata to he sought in a mvdieiiie of the
kin I ami surpasses even thing hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a reiit.iika dy Muut time, oiun tt lew nays only,
removes an tli'Charg. s from the urinary organs,
superseding injections t ie use of which does irre-
p .ruble harm by laying the fonndation of stricture
and other serious iliseaM's.
THERAPION No. 2
for iinpur t . .1 die ut.mil, seiti vy, ptuip.es, spots,
blotches; pains and swelling of the joints, secoti-
daiy symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion ter employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, Ac., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and niitiof health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through 'he h ond.and thoroughly
eliminates every p iscnous n atur 'r un the body.
THERAPION N 0.3
for net V .its , xn.iitsiton, waste of vt . alttj .harassing
dreams, anil ail the distressing consi quenees of
early error, excess residence in hot. unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses sin pri-ing powet in
restoring strong!lt and vigour to the dehilii ated.
THERAPION the principal
Chemists and Me. nan's torotignnilt the World.
Vrice in England 'l/',) & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the t 1 ree numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Tratle M irk, which is a fac-siniile of word
“ Theuai'lon ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty's Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thrrapion ; —FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSrTT A Co.
VARICO— E
Every Mam
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollauiaij Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
EE
9h
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured,
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
consultations free.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
jVo money is 13 Castlereagh St.,
IZ7‘ d fril SYDNEY, NSW,
ieffpr. or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CUR E D by
EXHAUSTION
Mum ford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pilh>.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ;no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE ; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
Atrophy
_, . JN MEN.
W“ te . d °r shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED ani DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by. the Vacuum Process. A won.'erful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you f, el, know
and admit the ve y first hour of its Use. Strength
Vitality, Manhood. I.QSSPS, drains, cease
at r n:e. Send six for descriptive
, book containing und -i btatfVyMevce of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address:-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Stre°ts, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Pavorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despoil
dency, etc., are to be found in the
u Ligix t and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Freo to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
AddreseMS. WARD & CO.,
Sjtfhey Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNISL


TATTERSALL’S
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
When Full, will be Drawn on the Advertised Day of the
Next Principal Race.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Summer C. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. —Shares in the above.
Name
Address
CARRINGTON S
December 31
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address^
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5»
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— shares in the above.
Name
Address _l
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Address.
NO lE. The SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Hace.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


I be Glass
Aof FaSbioo
fINTHOHY • l-lORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY ■—-
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the follov/ing
separate Catalogues and Price Lists —
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0>
Plumbers' Coods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing: for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
<zA) / Ae£ft'An'
A
ishopls
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
0
Obhairvable ahall Chemi&fcb
USE
Spooler's
iROYALNAVY DRESSING
brown leather
boots 8t SHOES
OF AIL DESCRIPTIONS
OIREC I lONS FOR USE
iuiiiiwiiiliuiiiiimuiiiiij
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
ANT 3 all MINING ANT) ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
t f uS, TA^° GUE ? of all M ' nin » Requisites, fully Illus-
uated and revised to date. Post free, Is 3d '
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO.,
Melta o ..irne.
fmS
DEAF
Jp" “Common Sense Ea r
Drums” relieve Deafness
Head Noises, where medical
fails. The only Scientific Aura 1 '
.Sound Conductor. Safe to wean
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. 'Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J- A. Chalmers, Airent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Where tlie Dead Men Lie, and
■roems, by Barcroft Boake ; with
portrait, and 32 illustrations, ss.
Other
memoir,
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Fixed Up.”
"I went to ehapple, Sunday,
Not as I often go.
(Em’s friend said she was going.)
The everlastings grow
All round the little sandhill
•lust back of Thompson’s lot.
The air was sweet with wattle
And blue ‘forget-me-not.’
I don t rec’lect the sermon;
I sat back near the door
And kept a-waiting for her
Eor half-an-hour or more.
She came in late and flurried,
Her dress was something blue
That seemed to love her figure,
And Emily came, too.
I don’t reo’lect the sermon ;
I didn’t seem to hear ;
Something her friend had told me
Kept buzzing in my ear.
I waited, waited, waited—
I thought he’d never stop !
She had a black straw hat on
With little bows on top.
Em. giggled when I met them
Outside the chappie door,
Them and a city feller
As works in Carey’s store.
Of course I walked with Emma j
Of course she walked with him.
And Em. stopped at the corner,
Sat on a fallen limb,
And fiddled with her hymn-book,
Then, looking at me straight,
Says, ‘Jim, I’ve been a-thinking
That— p’r’aps— we needn’t wait
Until you reaps twelve bushels.
There mayn’t be any more
Of them old-fashioned seasons.
Suppose we—make it four ?' *•
NIL.
Bandaroo.
There was dearth and drought at dusty Bandaroo,
There was seldom drinking bout at Bandaroo,
There were crows whose joy was awful,
Jubilating fat and cawful,
As their wont is, in a black and dirty rout, at
Bandaroo.
And the creek was crammed with dying and with
dead,
And the sky was ever cloudless overhead,
And the flocks were daily thinning,
And the ground a-gape was grinning,
And the boss’s face was marble—while the boss’s
heart was lead.
And we daily scanned the sky at Bandaroo,
And we watched the pot-holes dry at Bandaroo,
And the only prayer we’d utter
Was a kind of curseful mutter
When a casual cloud would mock us and go by at
Bandaroo.
Of a sudden with a changing wind there came
A blackened sky that split in flash o’ flame,
Roar of rain in deaf’ning chorus,
Giant cannon pealing o’er us,
As though Heav’n had gone a-gunning in a joyous
thunder game.
And we stood within the shelter of the door,
Gazing out upon the revel and the roar,
And the boss had brought a bottle
So that every thirsty throttle
Should be duly irrigated as a sign the drought was
o’er.
Now a deed of shame was done by Jimbour Joe
For he hurried where the bucket caught the flow,
And he tried to mix his liquor—
But I guess the boss was quicker—
He had scruffed him in a jiffy, for the boss was
never slow;
With a growl, the boss had gripped him, full of
gall;
He had pinned him, with his pint-pot, to the
wall:
“ By the holy Peter Piper !
Drink it neat , you sniveling swiper ;
Would you spoil your grog with, ivater — when the
ground should have it all /”
And ever since that day at Bandaroo,
When the drought has cleared away from Ban-
daroo,
It’s the custom on the station
That, in sign of jubilation,
Whisky neat’s the only tipple that’s on tap at
Bandaroo.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Mrs. M'Caulay’s husband fell off the gang-
way of one of M’ll wraith, M'Eaeharn’s ships and
was drowned in Sydney harbor. The widow sued
the co. for damages with varying results to date :
First trial, nonsuit; second trial, verdict for de-
fendants ; third, leave granted for a new trial ;
fourth, new trial and verdict for plaintiff with
,£,‘500 damages, with prospect of the series being
continued.
Sydney Lager Bier
. * . TOOK . * .
FIRST PRIZE & GOLD MEDAL
. . AGAINST . .
ALL COMPETITORS
. • . AT . ' ’
The Sydney Royal Agricultural
Society’s Show.
nostrali S?,J?“ al Society
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578.
. . Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Lhairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Lsq.; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A.,F.5.5.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Jt3T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & j 37 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SGARLET FEYER, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have, not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
bait, which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its yalue as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified). *
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact!
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION . —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it
y™^v e a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.!
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
N * l^Trp] b ractlCal a ” d effective preparation of the century for all EYE
S?rw IN T S ;- ans] i lg 1 fro ™ ANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
, N r ; M ‘ T ,: HOOKHAM, Organist, Holy Trinity, Erskinville, says“ I
should be wanting in gratitude if I did not express my thanks to you for the skil-
ful manner in which you extracted some substance from the centre of my eye after
suffering for three weeks. Using your eye lotion now only two days, I write this
fh Jt ® efficac y» and 1 can assure you I was nearly blind in the affected
eye, and the other one was very weak.
SoU by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PEOPBIETOE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing- Chemist, 531 Georg-e-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
5.4
Ur and Hall will accommodate 500 persons.
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
also, splendid Stablins? Accommodation.
Telephone, 26 KOGABAH— connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks op Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
”Sems'MOfeLllf
fHE
Plum
PCD
THE
‘ :F*ruL*xi’
(7 ENILEMER who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
71 trial. J ins razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, «e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to th. lr merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum ” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, Vs 6d.
‘R izoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price -f a' ng i e § ,azor ’ ! n tron g leather",case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case 30s
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on'country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
HXT.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf Comr»a,«Tr
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do -you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckhoard Buggies from £9 10s. Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), I)og Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and S \DDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, anil
you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
(dose fco Redfern Railway Station).
our Special
No 2
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash h‘"il
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.


DNIXVS
POWDER.
Guaranteed
free from alum I
PUREST & BEST IN THE WQRi n
- 1 ’- MANUFACTURED BY
Washington H.Soul* C°, Pitt St, Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL CROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness and Saddlery.
S'®
m
If/
A *
rfSI
m
Brush’s Pair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Plated
Sides, Collar Straps, Stout Traces,
Simple Pads, complete No. 1,
±6 10s.; No. 2, £7 10s. ; No. 3,
£8 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s.; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.—A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black heather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, fc'4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.—The “ Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
SADDLERY.— BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee-pads only, 42'-, 47/-, 52 6. BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee and
thigh pads, 52/6, 55/-, 60/-. Gent.’s All-over Hogskin Saddles, £3 55., i 3 155., £4, £4 10s. Gent.’s English Pattern
Hunting Saddles, £3 55., £3 10s., £3 15s. Exercise Saddles, strong and light, 55/-, 65/-, 75/-, 85/-. Race Saddles, 60,-,
63/-, 67.9, 70/-, 80/-. Side Saddles, £3 7s. 6d., £3 155., £4, £4 55., £4 10s.
NOTE.—ALU SADDLES are supplied with FITTINGS in keeping with quality.
FOR THE HEAT OF SUMMER.—Sun-shades for Horses, in great variety, I'-, 1/3,1 '6, 2/-. Face Nets, 9d, 1/-,
1/3, 16. Fly Nets, 46, 7/6, 10 6, 15 '-. Water Bags, 13, 1/6, 2'-, 3/-, 39, 4/6, 76. All kinds kept in stock.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- up.
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Go.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 George-street, Sydney.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
P#B
Buberoid for Refrigeration
Messrs. E. RICH & CO., Ltd., 63 Pitt Street,
O’Connell Street, City. Sydney, August 14, 1897.
Gentlemen, —I have pleasure in stating that I have used your P& B Products in construction
of refrigerating houses, Ice making and storage in the United States for many years. I have
also had considerable experience with P & B RUBEROIT) since coming to the colonies, and in
each instance, it has given the best results. I am satisfied that it is the best non-conductor in
the market, especially suited for damp places.
Yours faithfully, C. A. MacDONALD.
Messrs. E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt Street,
O’Connell Street, Sydney. Sydney, August 13, 1897.
Dear Sirs, —In reply to your inquiry re P & B. KUBEROID, I beg to state that in my
opinion it is the best damp-proof material to use in the Insulating of Refrigerating Chambers.
I have used it for the last two years in several of the larger freezing works in the colonies, and
in all cases it has given entire satisfaction. I expect shortly to place a further order with you
for a larger quantity than has been used in any other single contract.
Yours faithfully, FRANK COXON, Consulting Engineer and Architect.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N./.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twiog, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HE LI PON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
ALE.
TATTERSAJLL’S HOTEi, & CAFE,
-
BBing. E 39
inopfli i
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night. *
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph office.
Telephone 725.
TARIFF:
10s. per Day.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
London Qental
Institute.
' >is. 8. LEV fill, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mis. S. D. ASH Eli, Dentists.
modern Dentistry in nil its Dratiches
Der/itimateh / Yractised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -only
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC DISINFE" TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are tlie Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protect ion against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
rgO
BCHWH
lETOS
ILL.E
LI in
EOINBUB
W Habk
Tiude
(0-3 L
h. pnopßicrom ■
CompanylS
EDINBURGH.
V. 1 'l l ' •• •■■»■ v • , "“ n< 't
'fz^l^azssjM
>u /H’U jfilii ifufliv
v>// /£•/%> Zbl f
gjrink
H&ttlerately*
'Take a little Whisky
“ for 11i e stotriach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you cat) then afford
r<> drink the very best
/ou can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant;
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.
SUFFERERS FROM URIC ACID
Tour Table Water
PURIRI
The Wonderful Curative Mineral Water of New Zea'and.
To be had at “ The Australia.”
TESTIMONIALS from highest medical authorities may be had from
E. RICH & CO. Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, agents for N.S.W. and Q’land.
E. SAMUEL & CO., 376 Flinders Lane West, Melbourne, agents for Victoria.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY of
YANKEE DOODLE.
SEE
DIXSOFS TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
ID AiD^rica.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through Hew Jersey on Hew York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father L with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was beard
before or since.
If) Australia.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Yol. 19.—N0. 983.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1898.
Price 6d.
THE REWARD OF VIRTUE.
W.C.T.U. ORATRESS : “And I reasoned with my husband, and finally induced him to sign the pledge. I felt so exultant, my friends, that I threw my arms around his neck
and kissed him !”
A VOICE (a male one, and rather husky): “ And serve him jolly well right!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... El 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aeknoioledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. AU
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any 'picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Uout.-st., Cape 'Toivn, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intel-provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, ivith
6s. Gd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
77w
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1898.
The Richest Land on Earth.
1. That inasmuch as New South Wales is, in proportion
to population, according to the estimates of its official
Statistician, the richest country in the world, and as it also
has no burden of war debt, and no heavy (? naval) or mili-
tary expenditure, it should pay all the ordinary expenses of
government out of taxation, as poorer countries do. 2.
That the land revenue, being a species of special endow-
ment arising from the peculiar circumstances of a new
country, should be entirely set apart for the construction
of pubiic works. 3. That borrowing, except for the pur-
pose of renewal of old loans, should be entirely abolished.
4. That if the Legislature is not prepared to abolish
borrowing, loan moneys should be used only for the con-
struction of railways, telegraphs, telephones, and such
water and sewerage works as will yield direct revenue to*
the Treasury, but all works not productive of direct re-
venue to the Treasury, such as gaols, lockups, bridges,
roads, schools, crockery for Jenolan accommodation-
house, fortifications, breakwaters, dredging works, river
improvements, repairs to public buildings, &c., &c., shall
be chargeable to revenue? 5. That there be established
a separate public works fund, into which all land revenue
shall be paid, and to which all works shall be charged, it
having been found that the principle of mixing up works
and ordinary expenditure leads to confusion. The Trea-
surer who pays most of his expenses out of revenue is
ejected for being an extravagant person who spends too
much, while the one who puts most of his works expendi-
ture into loans poses as an economist who keeps down the
public outgoings. 6. That the foregoing resolution be
communicated by address to his Excellency the Governor.
—Motion by Chanter, M.L.A., in N.S.W. Assembly.
The last time the State Statistician made an
official estimate of the private wealth of New
South Wales he set it down at the enormous
average of £336 per head. This was in
1893, but in lately reiterating the estimate
(“Wealth and Progress ofNew South Wales”
for 1896-’97, page 905) he states that a new
valuation is in progress, and that “ the
popular impression of the extent of the
decline in property - values is not fully
borne out by the returns so far received.”
Therefore it would seem that there has
been a decline, but not a large one,
and that, though the average private wealth
of New South Wales is now somewhere below
the glorious £336 per inhabitant of 1893,
still it isn't far below it. According to the
State Statistician, New South Wales stands
in this respect at the very top of the list of
the Seven Provinces. The last time the
Victorian Statistician made an official esti-
mate of the wealth of his province he put it
at the magnificent figure of £4lO per in-
habitant, but the New South Wales official
saws £lOO off this, and estimates the wealth
of the rival province at £304 per head (Seven
Colonies of Australasia for 1894, page 290).
Presumably it was the duty of each statisti-
cal authority to show that his own province
was the richer of the two, but for the pur-
poses of this article the figures of the New
South Wales official may pass muster.
Barring his disagreement with the Melbourne
gentleman in the same line of business they
look plausible enough. According to New
South Wales’ official authority, therefore,
the cornstalk people are the most gloriously
wealthy community on earth, for the miser-
able places that lie outside Australasia are
simply nowhere by comparison. Cogiilan
quotes a few of them on page 288 of his
“ Seven Colonies ” for 1894 : Britain, £246
per head, or a good 25 per cent, below New
South Wales ; France, £235 ; Belgium,
£226 ; United States, £205 ; and the rest
nowhere.
* * * *
According to the same authority (“ Wealth
and Progress of New South Wales for 1896-
’97, page 908) the annual earnings of the
people of New South Wales are £59,000,000,
which, in proportion to population, is the
biggest private income in the world. He
also claims that New South Wales has
the biggest mass of bank deposits in
Australasia, and according to his figures
it has the biggest mass of deposits, in pro-
portion to population, among all the countries
of this globe, Victoria and Queensland
excepted. Also it appears that it has the
largest stock of gold on this earth in pro-
portion to population—the accumulations of
Victoria and Hawaii (!) only excepted. It
is also alleged that it has the biggest mass
of savings-bank deposits in Australasia, and
that, in proportion to population, it has the
biggest trade in the world—Westralia, South
Australia, and Belgium only excepted. (This
is taking no account of mere ports of call,
whose trade isn’t really their own.) In
fact, by its own official statistics,
New South Wales is the richest and most
glorious place of its population on this globe.
And on top of all its other good fortune it
has had no war up to date ; no war debt ; no
war damage to make good ; no sudden
military levies to pay and feed ; no bom-
barded towns to rebuild ; very little military
or naval expenditure of any kind ; and it has
the biggest land revenue in proportion to
population, not only in Australasia, but in
the world. This magnificent endowment,
which comes in annually without any neces-
sity on the part of its recipients to toil or
spin, is nearly four times as much in propor-
tion to population as the entire revenue of
India ; more than twice that of Java ; more
than that of Russia, Sweden, Norway, Rou-
mania, the United States or Brazil, and very
close up to the entire revenue of Denmark
and Egypt.
* * * *
And The Bulletin respectfully asks why
this land of magnificent wealth and magnifi-
cent brag can’t pay its own way instead of
always holding out the abject hat for loans
fromlands less favored than itself. Ithaslong
since given up the pretence of borrowing only
for permanent and reproductive works. It
now owes, according to Coghlan, no less than
£10,199,000 for which it has no reproductive
assets to show. In proportion to population
this unproductive liability more than equals
the total debt of either Chili, the German
empire, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Russia,
Sweden, Switzerland, or the U.S. All these
countries have struggled through bitter wars,
and all save Switzerland have maintained big
defence forces to protect them against the
dangerous neighbors at their doors, and none
of them had the magnificent, pension which
New South Wales enjoys in its land re-
ceipts. Yet they contrive, despite their
poverty, to build and maintain out of revenue
the public works which the listless, shirking
Australian borrows the money for—his
reason being that he owns the richest country
in the world, and belongs to the richest com-
munity in the world, and is too poor even to
pay for repairs to his own public buildings.
It is another of the particular boasts of the
Cornstalk that he belongs to “the most
lightly-taxed country in the world,” and
even big daily newspapers of repute and
alleged intelligence draw attention to this as
if it was a subject for special pride that New
South Wales would rather borrow the money
for its simplest public requirements, and
leave the bill to posterity, than tax itself
sufficiently to pay its way. If New South
Wales was one of the most heavily-taxed
countries in the world, and could show at
the same time that the tax revenue was
wisely spent in building railways, roads,
bridges, telegraphs, irrigation works, and
other undertakings calculated to enrich the
land, it might be something worth bragging
about.
* * * *
It is also a special boast of the present
New South Wales Ministry that it has re-
duced the expenditure oat f i eventte lower
than it has been for many years past. In
1897 the Reid Government spent out of
revenue £7 os. lid. per inhabitant against
£8 16s. per inhabitant expended by Parkes
and Dibbs in 1891. The largest part of the
saving consists in the fact that the amount
spent out of revenue upon public works was
cut down from £1,487,000 in 1891 to
£855,000 in 1897, and a lot of the roads
and bridges and dredges and fortifica-
tions and military ammunition and salai'ies
which used to be charged to revenue are now
charged to loans instead. That kind of saving
is a disgrace to any honest and solvent com-
munity. But in New South Wales, as well
as in all the other provinces (Maoriland only
excepted), owing to the absence of a Public
Works Fund, and the lumping together of
the money spent on works and that laid out
on salaries and miscellaneous expenditure,
every Treasurer is judged by the total
amount of his outgoings, and by that only.
If he is honest, and pays for the guns and
ammunition and the repairs to old roads,
bridges, wharves, buildings, dredges, &c.,
and the crockery for Jenolan accommoda-
tion-house, and the other unproductive
items, out of revenue, he is denounced as a
grossly extravagant and ruinous person who
ran the public expenditure up to 10| millions,
and the country fires him out. And if he is
brazen and unscrupulous enough to allege
that these things are “permanent and re-
productive works,” and put them into loan
charges, he is reverenced as the brilliant
economist who cut down expenditure to
9-Jf millions. Therefore, most Treasurers
take the easy and dishonest road to
popularity and office. Up to the
end of 1893 New South Wales had
misapplied 15 per cent, of its loans to save
the tired and shiftless population of the
richest country on earth the trouble of paying
its own expenses. Since then, under the
Reid regime, 32 per cent, of the new loans
have been similarly misapplied. Within the
last year or two the most affluent and most
lightly-taxed country in the world (we have
Premier Retd’s word for the fact that it is
the most lightly-taxed country in the world)
has got things down so low that even the
cartridges for its little army are largely paid
for with borrowed funds. Also, it has got
things down so much lower even than that
depth that it practically raises money now at
3 per cent, to put into revenue. Large sums
are borrowed to improve State lands and
make them saleable or lettable. And when,
say, £50,000 has been thus spent, and the
land consequently realises £50,000 more than
it would otherwise have done, the extra
£50,000 goes into the year’s receipts,
and the sum borrowed remains in its old
borrowed condition. Apart from the
appearance of the thing, it would have been
just the same if the land had been sold for
what it would fetch in its original unim-
proved state, and the borrowed £50,000 had
been put direct into the Treasury.
* * * *
The motion of Chanter, M.L.A., asks for
very little after all, though the tired, listless,
habitual borrowers of this great loan land
greeted its appearance on the notice-paper
with a shriek of derision. He asked, in the
first place, that New South Wales—accord-
ing to its own official statistics the richest
land on earth—should pay its ordinary
expenses of government out of revenue.
Such poor common people as the Chilians,
Mexicans, Yankees, Germans, Swedes, Nor-
wegians, Swiss, and British contrive to do
that, though, according to the State statistics
of New South Wales and many other authori-
ties, they are incalculably poorer than we
are. Most of them even contrive to main-
tain good-sized armies and navies, and to
carry the burden of heavy war-debts, out of
their receipts from taxation; and Britain,
the U.S., and Mexico (since the beginning
of the Diaz regime) also manage somehow
to pay off part of their old debts from the same
source; and Russia, Sweden, Norway,
Prussia, and others have even built some of
their State railways out of the proceeds of
taxation. Chanter’s motion didn't go so far
as to ask the people of rich New South Wales
to show the same grit and self-reliance as
these poor miserable foreigners. He merely
asked them to tax themselves sufficiently to
pay the ordinary cost of government, and to
let the State land revenue—that huge endow-
ment which falls on the country like the gentle
coin from heaven, wherein New South Wales
is, in proportion to its population, more
blessed than any other country on this impe-
cunious globe—remain apart as a fund for the
construction of public works. Thereby New
South Wales would get its railways, tram-
ways, roads, bridges, telegraphs, telephones,
wharves, harbors, gaols, and other public
buildings supplied to it without paying a
penny of taxation for them, or incurring
another penny of debt, or adding anything
at all to its interest bill. And it is a very
small thing to ask, after all.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t quote New South
Wales specially because it is in the aggregate
the worst offender in this matter—for it
isn’t. Proportionately to population, Queens-
land, South Australia, Westralia, Tasmania,
and Maoriland have all worse records than it,
and only Victoria shows a reasonably clean
sheet in this matter. But New South Wales
is allegedly the richest province of the group,
so it can best afford to go straight. It has a
larger land revenue than all the other six
provinces put together, so again it can best
afford to go straight. It is deteriorating
badly even from its previous bad state,
and if it keeps on as it has been doing in the
last four years, a time will come when it will
be about the most shocking example in
the Seven Provinces. Apart from every-
thing else, the motion of Chanter, M.L.A,
is directed at New South Wales alone, and
furnishes a handy peg on which to hang a
much-needed homily. Also, the greatest
obstacle to reform lies in New South Wales,
in the shape of the continuous struggle be-
tween Foreign-traders and Protectionists.
The effort of the Foreign-trade party in office
is not to make its finance clean, but to show
that that of the Protectionists was even
dirtier than its own. No Foreign-trader will
venture to complain of his own leader’s dis-
honest and ruinous loan policy, lest by ex-
posing it he lets the hated Protectionist
party get into office. If a Protectionist
draws attention to it, his effort is always set
down as an attempt to get office. Also,
if a Protectionist tries to reform the nefar-
ious loan system he is always met by the
brilliantly irrelevant answer that his party’s
system needed just the same kind of reform
when it was in office ; and if a Foreign-
trader makes a similar attempt he is informed
that the other crowd was just about as bad
in its day, and that it is no good changing
Ministries over such a matter under the cir-
cumstances. In fact, the whole reply to all
suggestions of financial reform in New
South Wales is “ You’re another,” or words
to that effect. At least two political parties
say that each of them is another, and they
both agree that the third party would be
another also if it got the chance.
A Cry From Private Enterprise.
The Bulletin has been favored with a copy of a
pamphlet, by one F. Allen, of Maoriland, on the
evils of State Fire Insurance, as proposed in that
province ; its foolishness, and injustice, and the
manner in which it interferes with the liberty
of the subject, and many other things. The
writer is local manager for a well-known English
insurance co., and, as he gets his crust and cheese
by the present system, he is naturally qualified to
take a perfectly unbiassed view of that system.
Also, as the adoption of universal, compulsory
State fire-insurance would deprive him of his pre-
sent job and salary, he is naturally qualified to
take a perfectly unbiassed view of that likewise.
* * * *
The case of the unbiassed person against State
interference begins with an assertion that has been
on deck since the controversy first started: —
State fire-insurance violates the fundamental principle
upon which fire insurance is conducted. Fire insurance
is a question of averages, of distribution of risks, not
alone in variety, but in area. The large fire-insurance
companies are world-wide in their operations. A State
scheme confining insurance to one colony flies in the face
of recognised experience and scientific principles. It
oncentrates instead of distributing the risk. In the case
of a large fire the loss is distributed over a number of
companies, and the effect is not severely felt.
It is about time this argument, anyhow, was taken
out and decently buried. If the M.L. Govern-
ment compulsorily insures all the insurable pro-
perty in Maoriland, then it will have as much
variety of risk as any civilised community can well
afford. And it will have, for all practical pur-
poses, as wide a distribution of risks as if its busi-
ness spread over Europe, Asia, Africa,. North and
South America, and Australasia. The one great
object of the distribution of risks is that one in-
sured building won’t take fire from another already
in a state of combustion, till the total loss becomes
larger than the insurance co. can conveniently
face. And if Invercargill takes fire it can no more
spread the conflagration to the Bluff township,
17 miles away, than it can to New York. A ten-
mile distribution is as good, for all practical pur-
poses, as one of 1000 miles —and it saves a vast
amount in working expenses. Anyhow, the most
prosperous fire insurance co. in Australia—the one
which shows the biggest and steadiest percentage
of profits—does confine itself to one province, and
has always done so. And every co. which has
burst disastrously in Australia spread itself over
a wide space—many of them as far as Great
Britain. These two circumstances give the lie
very considerably to the distribution argument,
anyhow.
* * * *
Then the disastrous F. Allen goes on to enlarge
his argument:
As exemplifying the distribution of fire risks : —By the
Chicago fire of 1871 there were destroyed 17,450 buildings
of all kinds with their contents, and other interests; the
insurance on which, distributed amongst two hundred
and sixty companies, was £16,000,000. Of the two hun-
dred and sixty companies, more than sixty were forced
into absolute failure, whilst nearly as many more were
compelled to adopt measures for the immediate restora-
tion of their capital or assets.
So the commendable system of private fire insur-
ance, with its admirable distribution of risks,
went down crash whenever it faced a real
emergency. And the loss was severely felt;
also the insurers were badly left. Out
of 260 companies, nearly a fourth couldn’t
pay up when they were wanted. A.nd if the
United States had insured the property it could
have paid up to the last farthing and hardly felt
the strain. The total loss was 40,000,000 dollars,
and, though the private insurance covered only
two-fifths, it wasn’t near all there when the time
came for paying the bill. A Federal fire insur-
ance department could have found the whole
40,000,000 dollars inside 24 hours. If the private
co. hasn’t the cash it closes up and leaves the in-
sured to go to ruin. If a State Department
hasn’t the cash its credit is practically unlimited.
It can pay in bonds that are as good as gold, and
redeem them by instalments out of future profits.
It can distribute its risks, if need be, over an un-
limited amount of time, as well as over a reason-
able area, whereas the private co. can distribute
them over area only. The advantages of the dis-
tribution of risks are really with the State system.
» - * * *
Some more of F. Allen :
As to rates, the “ Manager ” will fix them according to
his own will.
The proposed Government Bill provides for the com-
pulsory insurance of buildings, and, by some few words,
indicates that provision may be made for the insurance
of goods and chattels.
By the proposed Bill the “ nominal insurable value” of
buildings is defined to be not more than seventy-five per
cent, of the “capital value” : the “actual insurable
value ” is such amount as the “ manager ” may choose to
name, but in no case to be greater than the nominal in-
surable value ; the owner has not any voice in determin-
ing the amount of insurance on his own property.
Any officer or other person authorised by the
“ Manager ” in that behalf may at all reasonable (?) times
enter in any building for the purpose of inspecting the
same or the contents thereof, and every person who in
any way hinders such entry or inspection, or refuses to
give any information in his power relating to such build-
ing or its contents, or knowingly gives false information,
is liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds.
Owners would lose all freedom of action. Whether
they would insure or not, for what amount they would
insure, are points which would be arbitrarily decided with-
out consultation with them. _ ,
Every owner would be compelled to insure with the
Government and for such amount as the “Manager
might determine ; but the Government would not be
compelled to insure every owner. .
The “Manager” has power under the Act to refuse to
insure any building he may consider undesirable.
are the owners of those undesirable buildings to protec
themselves ?
At present, rates are fixed by the managers of
private insurance companies according to tlieir
own will, which seems much the same thing. Am
the private manager seldom insures, if he knows
his business, much over 75 per cent, of the real value.


The private manager also refuses buildings which
he considers undesirable, and it is to the public
interest that undesirable buildings should be unin-
sured—buildings so badly constructed as to be un-
insurable should be discouraged out of existence.
It is also to the public interest that every person’s
property—if it is insurable —should be compulsorily
insured, if the owner hasn’t sense enough to insure
it without compulsion. When the uninsured man’s
property burns down he loses money himself—
which serves him right under the circumstances ;
but often his creditors and employes also lose
heavily by his loss, which is quite another thing.
Insurance isn’t a matter which concerns the owner
of the property alone ; and he ought to lose his
“ freedom of action ” seeing that it often means
freedom to bring disaster on others. He isn’t
allowed any freedom of action in the matter of
insuring his property against foreign invasion,
which is quite as great an outrage. His premium
—otherwise his contribution to the defence ex-
penditure—has no freedom about it.
A final sample of the case for private manage-
ment :
The inevitable losses which would be largely increased
under State management, would be met bj' additional
taxation, augmented premium income, or by drawing
upon other sources of public revenue.
One of the cardinal qualifications for the efficient fire
Underwriter is the knowledge how to “ select ” risks of a
profitable character for his company—a talent not inborn
and only to be acquired by practice—combined with care-
ful reflection and oftimes painful experience. It has been
stated as an insurance axiom that “ it were better to in-
sure gunpowder than goods of a man of bad character.”
One bad or ill-selected risk in any class may absorb the
whole profit on that class upon any year’s operations.
The skilled underwriter endeavors to select from the
risks submitted those he deems likely to pay, and, when
occasion arises, he does not hesitate to decline business.
This expert knowledge, if it were possessed by, would not
be of any use to, the “manager,” the necessity for selec-
tion being done away with by the Act. The Bill trans-
gresses every canon of fire insurance.
Obviously the losses can only be larger if there are
more fires, and no reason for excepting more fires
is set forth. Or if the State insures buildings
that are now uninsured and therefore collects
more premiums to pay the losses with. Or if it
stands a larger proportion of the loss than the
private companies do—and it has just been
anathematised for not standing a large enough
proportion by refusing to insure over 75 per cent,
of the value. Or if it insures buildings which the
private companies reject—and it has just been
cursed for drawing the line at undesirable build-
ings. _ And it appears that the private companies
only live by a wise selection of risks and the rejec-
tion of bad business—yet the fact that the State
Department proposes to reject very bad business
is assigned as a reason why it shouldn’t exist at
all. “F. Allen” asks how the owners of un-
desirable buildings are to protect themselves when
the State won’t insure them? Well, how much
better are they now when the great business of
the private co. ’s is not to insure undesirable build-
ings ? Also, it further appears that—
Statistics prove that even amongst the most carefully
managed companies the actual nett premium income,
after allowing necessary deductions for management, &c.,
leaves little more than sufficient, as a general rule, to
cover the actual losses incurred.
If this is the best that private management can do
then it had better give up bragging about the
methods which produce such poor results, and
sing in a humbler key about the advantages of its
unprofitable system of distributing risks, and
about the “canons” of private fire insurance.
Seeing that close attention to these canons leaves
practically no profits, and the companies are taking
their stupendous risks gratis, all this patronising
attitude ps uncalled for. And if the private co.’s
are making nothing out of the business they cer-
tainly needn’t rage so dreadfully about the State
annexing it.
* * a *
The representative of the private system which
has formulated such a perfect scheme of manage-
ment that it is earning nothing for the share-
holders, also casts a loose, miscellaneous brick by
the assertion that Maoriland “is a specially un-
promising field ” in which to try the proposed experi-
ment. That fiction, anyhow, refutes itself.
Maoriland has no big, congested city like Sydney
or Melbourne, where one-third of the population
and half _ the insurable property are crowded
together in one combustible area. Its biggest
centre contains only about one-twentieth of the
total population. Therefore it is, above all the
other provinces, a place where insurance risks are
widely distributed, that being allegedly one of the
great essentials of the business. At least, the
interested gentleman whose pamphlet throws so
much gloom on the question says it is, and he
ought to know.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Federal Joke.
More and more The Bulletin wonders what
kind of chance Federation has with the dread-
ful gang now in office in New South Wales.
At time of writing the latest edition of the
Federal scheme was being considered in Pre-
mier Reid’s unreformed Upper House, with
Attorney-General Jack Want in charge, and
the proposed Referendum clause had just been
disposed of. Seven months ago, when the
original Convention Bill was before the country,
this same J. Want raged at large on the
Referendum subject, and among other pearls of
wisdom that he got off his chest was the follow-
ing :
When they thought the Bill was safe it was taken to
Melbourne and the wolves began their game. The whole
body and the meaning of the Bill when it had been before
us was taken out. In the first place out went the Refer-
endum. They knew they had got enormous voting power
in the Senate, and they knew the Referendum was a
check on it. But when they got down there they kicked
the Referendum out. (Howls of “ Shame ” from the fools
who actually took J. Want seriously).
As a matter of fact, there was no truth what-
ever, nor even a semblance of truth, in this
statement. The Referendum was never in the
original Bill. The “ wolves,” which was
Attorney-General Want’s pleasant description
of the representatives from the other provinces,
didn’t kick it out, for no wolf or other animal
can kick out the thing that isn’t in. Premier
Kingston, of S.A., however, being one of the
wolves, made a great effort to put the Re-
ferendum in, as a substitute for the dis-
astrous three - fifths - majority scheme offered
by Carruthers, of New South Wales ; but
only Wise, of N.S. W., and ten wolves from
the other provinces, supported him (Convention
Hansard, page 967, 21st September, 1897).
Still, though Attorney-General Want’s state-
ment was mere beer-froth, and an absolute
inversion of the facts, and could only be
regarded as the loose shriek of a'very unscrupu-
lous provincialist, who was against union in
any shape or form, some people thought that
it showed a desire on his part to have the
Referendum inserted in the Federal Constitu-
tion, and set that down to his credit. The
N.S. W. Assembly did insert it, the other day,
among its proposed amendments, and, in the
Council, Attorney-General Want proceeded to
damn it thus (Hansard report) :
I do not want any one at any future time to say that I
voted for the Referendum because I do not approve of
it. ... I do not want bon. members to say that because
I have advocated the last alternative left in the resolu-
tion I have advocated the Referendum.
J lien Jack Want’s House of Parliament took
the hint and fired the Referendum out on its
ear, Want himself voting for the thing he
didn’t like, apparently as a mere matter of
form. The great majority, however, voted not
as the Attorney-General did but as he said he
wanted to do, and he took the rejection of the
obnoxious thing quite cheerfully. And now it
is about time for N.S. W. to ask itself how far
it can take its awful Government seriously in
Federal matters. The N.S.W. Ministerial
members of the Convention were almost solid
against the Referendum when Kingston and
others tried to put it in. Then a prominent
N.S.W. Minister incited the electors of N.S.W.
to reject the Bill because the Referendum
wasn’t in it, and alleged that the other pro-
vinces basely threw the Referendum out —which
they didn’t. Now the same N.S.W. Minister
says that he wants the Referendum to be out of
the Bill, and, in a sidelong sort of fashion, urges
its rejection. And the whole N.S.W. Govern-
ment is against the three-fifths-majority clause
which was inserted in the original Bill on the
motion of a member of the N.S. W. Government.
What a howling farce it all is !
The Crow-Eater’s I O U.
South Australia, which has already, in pro-
portion to population, the Biggest Debt on
Earth (Queensland’s only excepted), proposes to
borrow another .£1,798,750 this year. At 30th
June, 1898, S.A. owed £23,622,147, of which
£5,928,328 was buried in works which yielded
no direct return to the Treasury, and which
should, in all fairness, have been paid out of
revenue. Among the six Australian provinces,
Tasmania has the most awful record in the
misapplication of loans, over one-half its debt
being sunk in roads and bridges and other un-
productive undertakings. Queensland is second,
and S.A. and Westralia are about level for
third worst place. About £517,000 of the
present S.A. loau is for unproductive works.
One very lovely item is “ cost of floating loan,
£43,750 ” ; in this country even the stamp-duty
and the small incidental expenses for raising
the cash are charged to posterity and called
“ permanent and reproductive works.” S.A.
carries the swindle so far that, when it com-
pletes a new railway with borrowed money,
it even pays the working expenses up
to the end of the financial year out
of loans, which is something unique in
the way of the great borrowing swindle.
Also, the regular Northern Territory
deficit of some £70,000 a year is paid out of
the loan fund. It is supposed to be a temporary
advance to be repaid by the Territory later on,
but there is practically no one in the Territory
to repay it. This includes the shortage on
the one lonesome railway in the Territory ;
that remarkable line was built with borrowed
money, and as it has never even quite yielded
working expenses, the rest of the expenses and
all the interest on the loan are paid out of new
loans, and the interest on the new loans is
charged to further loans, and it all goes into
that remarkable account known as the debt
which the Territory owes to S.A., which is
practically the amount which the empty left-
hand pocket owes to the right-hand pocket—
the one with the left-hand pocket’s I O U in it.
The one good feature about South Australia’s
financing is that it pays ss. per cent, per annum
off the capital of its debt, which means that, in
a general way, it borrows £500,000 and pays
back £55,000. The great national P.N. of
South Australia is built on worse security than
that of any other province ; it has practically
no gold, very little known coal or other
minerals, little rain, much desert, and N.S.W.
wants to steal its only river by way of conclu-
sion. S.A. certainly produces a vast amount of
wealth for a province with so little visible
means of support, but, all the same, the second
biggest debt on earth is a tremendous load for
barren Crow-eater Land to stagger under.
The Same Old George and the Somewhat
Different George.
Just now both N.S.W. and Vic. Parliaments
are discussing Treasurer’s estimates. In
N.S.W., Treasurer George Reid— the Same
Old George— having sewn a Protectionist patch
on that Freetrade coat which has more colors
than Joseph’s, told the Assembly that he must
impose certain new duties, or provincial sol-
vency would be absolutely up the spout. And
he specified 3d. per lb. on tea; 2d. on dried
fruits ; something extra on probate ; and some-
thing on coffee, cocoa, and rice. In addition,
he proposed to signalise his Freetrade apostasy
by retaining or re-imposing the Protectionist
duties on sugar and its corollary products
which he had previously announced himself
specially ordained of Heaven to destroy.
The Same Old George was most emphatic
in asseverating that the duties couldn’t be done
without; but the Assembly ridiculed his em-
phasis. When the struggle was over, and Reid
rose, clutching the dishevelled remnant of his
demands, his tea duty had been lowered to Id. ;
his rice, coffee, and cocoa duties were gone
altogether; some minor items had been re-
duced, and his probate duties had suffered a
little ; and he pulled out of the fire some
£150,000 of new taxation, instead of the
£280,000 which he had told the House was
quite indispensable. Yet he took his half-loaf
with the best grace in the world, and is calmly
carrying on towards the deficit which, accord-
ing to his own assurances, is inevitable. As
for resigning because Parliament refused to
endorse his policy—he never dreamt of it.
He took Parliament’s policy, did Parliament’s
bidding, and threw the ancient notions of
constitoosh’nal guvment and ministerial respon-
sibility to the hot winds. A few days passed
and in Victoria the Somewhat.-Different George
Turner was submitting his estimates of expen-
diture, which provided for paying the mass of
policemen 6s. per day. Labor-member Tren-
witii moved that in the opinion of the Assem-
bly the minimum pay should be 6s. 6d. per day ;
and the amendment was carried. It had no
compulsory force to alter this year’s expendi-
ture ; the Govt, could have disregarded it and
re-fought the issue next year ; but it was enough
for George Turner that the House had failed
to endorse one small item of his estimates. The
curtain immediately rose upon aConstitoosh’nal
Crisis. When the Assembly met next day,
Premier Turner said the vote must be recon-
sidered, or the Govt, would not carry on. The
House reconsidered, and approved Turner’s
original estimate by 23 majority ; and the
ancient notions of Ministerial responsibility
threw up their hat in triumph. The situations
were not precisely identical. In the one case,
Vic. Assembly practically enjoined Premier
Turner to spend more money ; in the other,
N~.S. W. Assembly refused to give Premier
Reid more money to spend. N.S.W. Parlia-
ment was defensive ; Vic. Parliament aggres-
sive. But the broad lines are the same.
Barring the argument that Trenwith’s was a
snatch vote in a weak House, the trouble in
both places was whether the Assembly or the
Treasurer was to prevail in matters of finance.
Treasurer Turner insisted that the Assembly
should swallow his policy ; Treasurer Reid
swallowed the Assembly’s. In Turner’s place,
Reid would probably have caved. In Reid’s
place, Turner would have seen the Assembly
bio wed first. So that, in politics as in war,
it does not matter much whether you employ
the rusty old coustitoosh’nal weapons or the
new-fangled artillery which shoots in accord-
ance with the idea that Parliament exists to do
tiie people’s w'ill and the Ministry to do Parlia-
ment’s. It’s a question of the Men Behind the
Guns. Was Reid right? Was Turner
wrong ? The Bulletin considers that Turner
in Reid’s place would have been right; but it
cannot say that Turner in his own place was
wrong. Even under the sensible nominee
system—when Parliament elects its own
Ministry as an executive committee, without
binding itself to that Ministry’s “ policy ” or
absence-of-“ policy ” —a Treasurer w'ould have
a perfect right to stand by his own opinion, if
he thought that the result of enforcing Parlia-
ment’s opinion would be disastrous. He would
have a perfect right to threaten resigna-
tion if Parliament insisted—only it would
be merely his own resignation, not his
Ministry's! dissolution, or Parliament’s.
Under any system, nobody wants a
Minister to be an opinionless puppet. If
Turner saw all the evil consequences that he
alleged in Trenwith’s amendment, he was
quite justified in refusing to accept the amend-
ment. The fact that he persuaded the Assem-
bly to reverse the amendment may be taken as
evidence that the Assembly would rather lose
the amendment than lose Turner. Or it may
be evidence that Turner honestly convinced a
fuller Assembly that it had erred. It is
certainly evidence that Turner takes his
political principles seriously. That is why
Turner in Reid’s place would have done
rightly. For Turner’s acceptance of curtailed
duties would have meant that he still saw his
way to make ends meet, and found reasons for
believing that the future might justify the
Assembly’s view rather than his own. Reid’s
acceptance of curtailed duties merely means
that the future may take care of itself as long
as Reid takes care of office. For Reid is a
trickster who does not take his principles
seriously. Only his interest.
♦ ;
Tyson. ’
Old Tyson’s death opens the flood-gates of
anecdotage, and gives the embroidered liar a
rare chance. “ Hungry Jimmy ” and his
millions have focussed Australian eyes for a
quarter-century; and now the earth which he
grabbed has grabbed him, and given 7ft. x
4ft. in exchange for odd hundreds of square
miles. As the old man apparently died in-
testate, the addition and division of his pro-
perty among scores of heirs and heiresses —
chiefly nephews and nieces—will keep the
interest lively for quite a while. If Tyson
had owned a sense of humor, he might
have supplied a secret marriage and a
thunderbolt of a buxoin wife to help things ;
but he wasn’t built that romantic way. Pro-
bably Tyson was the only natural-born Aus-
tralian over 12 years old who never hugged a
woman in his life ; anyway, the woman who
can say Tyson hugged her hasn’t been found at
date of writing. The only goddess he ever
adored was Diva Moneta ; and to her he
clove faithfully. His money may have made
him happy; but he never looked like it.
Tyson never smoked “ couldn’t afford
it ” ; but, when travelling, he always
patronised the smoking-compartment, where
petticoats couldn’t hurt him. The Bulletin
often thought of offering Tyson Is. 9d. for an
article on women (when a man has millions,
you may almost as well offer him Is. 9d. as
100 guineas), but it never acted, and now ’tis
too late. Yet the old man’s speculative clutch-
ings at the skirts of the Eternal Mystery
would have been interesting. He “ couldn’t
afford ” marriage either. He “ couldn’t
afford ” liquor, or theatres, or society, or
a bit on the Melbourne Cup, or any of the
things that the ordinary £2OO-a-year person
takes his pleasure in. He was like the high-
class Maori chief who thoughtfully chopped off
his toes in order to get his fine new European
boots on. Tyson lopped this passion, and
smothered that appetite, and sacrificed yonder
human satisfaction ; but he made money. Six-
foot and a bit he was ; but a pretty stunted
specimen of humanity all the same, Bulletin
reckons. He died so much while he lived
that it’s no wonder he wouldn’t let a doctor
try and deprive him of the economy of
being dead altogether. But he made money
—or gathered dead leaves there was no
difference. In his daily life, and in a
small way, Tyson was a mean man—he
gave nothing for nothing ; but occasionally he
could be generous in a large way —that is, as he
grew older he gave away considerable sums,
and knew' himself as rich as he was before. The
widow who gave her mite was more generous.
Just, Tyson was ; but hard. “He assisted
Queensland by purchasing £250,000 Treasury
Bills ” —at a safe 4 per cent. They made him
aQ. Legislative Councillor (it meant free rail
travelling); and he was merely another nominee
nonentity. Grit, industry—these were his
virtues ; and in reclaiming land and breeding
stock he helped others, but his chief end was to
help himself. Many a millionaire has made
money to spend in noble actions : Tyson made
money to keep it—and he kept it as long as
ever he could. There is need of such men to
enforce the gospel of work in this country of
shirk ; and Tyson’s was not a bad life. But,
considering his powers and opportunities, how
far from the best !
-»
One Bullock.
Another case of wrongful conviction followed
by imprisonment has just turned up at Bathurst
(N.S. W.). In October last Catherine Ahern
was charged with stealing a bullock, and
Robert Hogan with being accessory. A few
weeks prior to this, Constable Reardon had
happened along when Mrs. Ahern had just
completed the slaughter of one of her own
animals. Apparently out of natural suspicion
the constable demanded to see the hide, which
was produced. A few days later he returned
for another look at said hide, which had in the
meantime been cut up for thatching purposes.
This increased the suspicion of the bobby, who
forthwith seized the remains of the bullock’s
cuticle and arrested the two supposed cattle
stealers, alleging that the beast killed was one
that Marmont, a local grazier, had missed some
time previously. At the trial it was admitted
that neither owner Marmont nor one Weeks,
on whose paddocks the lost bullock had
been grazing, had reported the loss of
any cattle, and both of these men swore
that, though the hide produced resembled
that of the absent beast, the feet of the
slaughtered animal were not the same as those
of their bullock. Finally, the nominal prosecu-
tor, Marmont, gave Mrs. Ahern— an old lady
of 68 and a resident in the district for 40 years
■— an exceedingly good character. Neverthe-
less, an astonishing jury convicted them, and
the court sentenced them to 9 months’ and 4
months’ hard labor respectively. A week or
two back Marmont’s missing bullock turned
up from the bush in a casual, cursory sort of
way, and, after due investigation and proper
representation and mature deliberation, the two
prisoners were last week released. There is no
moral attached hereto, nor any warning to be
given ; it is just one more instance of what may
happen to a man or woman—any man or any
woman—who goes about his or her usual work in
the usual fashion. The one redeeming feature of
the case is that there actually was a bullock,
anyhow. For in the ordinary cattle-duffing
case the law generally takes the bullock’s exist-
ence for granted to begin with, and assumes,
without much evidence, that it has really dis-
appeared ; and in most cases the finding of a
hide said to look at all like the one said to have
been on the alleged animal whose alleged dis-
appearance is the cause of the trouble is quite
sufficient to convict somebody. For the accused
is mostly tried before 12 jurymen whose God is
Beef, and their creed is that, the country being
wide and empty, and bullocks being easy to
shift in the dark, it is advisable to convict any-
body as a warning to somebody else.
During the recent trial of a man and a woman
for conspiracy to criminally assault a Sydney
girl named Ida Withey, it transpired that the
girl had been previously assaulted, or said she
had. Yet at the police-court enquiry the police
suppressed all mention of the previous assault,
and told or allowed the girl to suppress it
too; though her “whole truth” and her
complete chastity ” were material to the case.
“ Sergeant Blackburn, who had the case in hand, denied
that he had instructed the girl Withey- to make a false
declaration. lie did not mention the Manly case in giving
evidence, because he thought it would hamper the prosecu-
tion.”
Presumably, the police would go just as far in an
equally laudable effort to hamper the defence.
The accused were discharged. The Bulletin
notices with pleasure that the police-faked case
has been falling to pieces very frequently of late,
though not half as frequently as it ought to.
+
Dear Bulletin.— The fact that S.A. Parlia-
ment accepted by a large majority the idea of
providing for the cut-off-with-a-shilling widow,
against last year’s unsuccessful attempt, had
undoubtedly much to do with the Grotty will-
case. It is the old story that one good illus-
tration teaches the average man, who is
an ass and an M.P., more than 16J columns
of unanswerable logic. Which gives me a
chance to introduce my great national scheme
to the notice of the Australian public, free of
advertisement charges. It is intended to float
a Company for the Speedy and Satisfactory
Accomplishment of Australasian Federation,
the capital, £lOO,OOO, to be raised by subscrip-
tion, £5 a share, amongst earnest Federalists all
over the continent. With this sum I bind
myself to create and maintain in good working
order a first-class war-scare (quality guaran-
teed and no shoddy). Among the pro-
minent features of the plan of campaign
looms largely the charter of a dozen casual
steam tramps, to be turned by aid of
paint and canvas into cruisers. £lO,OOO will
have to go in bribes to Reuter and co. for an
efficacious backing-up in panic-raising cables
(it does not come unnatural to a cable-man to
tell lies), and I confidently prognosticate that
my high-class realistic night-attack on Sydney
harbor, under the Russian flag, will have the
needful unifying effect on Australian politics.
Among my first triumphs, I expect the sudden
demise, from paralytic stroke, of that able
statesman and shuffler, G. H. Reid. Further
particulars on application to the office of the
company, that also holds for sale a highly-desir-
able back-country block as a site for the future
capital. Buyers of 10 shares will receive a
medal describing bearer as a father of the
country, to be worn (not the father) on State
occasions, with a blue ribbon, and handed
dow'n to posterity as a decoration really worth
having, even unto the fortieth generation.
Write at once to the hon. sec., V. KoTZE.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .. “ The Harbour Lights.”
Lyceum “His Natural Life."
Criterion “Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Geisha.”
Bijou “ The Happy Life.”
Theatre Royal “ The Fatal Cord.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Flindbrs-st. Pitch Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Hot crowds hustle each other harder than
ever at the Tivoli doors since Mr. Ajax arrived
without his bones. This filleted hero makes his
first stage entrance inside a big flower bud, which
bursts at a pistol shot and lets out a little bundle,
known to be a man only by its head. The neat-
ness of a draper’s parcel is nothing compared to
the spick and span manner in which the boneless
being rolls himself up. Legs, arms, body, are
creased, and doubled, and folded, and re-folded as
easily as if they were part of a calico shirt. When
the contortionist has entirely upset ail the
arrangements of nature, and has feet sticking out
behind his ears, and hands growing from the
middle of his waist, and one leg is round his neck,
and the other is tied into a true lover’s knot with
an arm, and the place where the spinal column
isn’t has twisted itself into the demesne vacated
by the ribs, and the whole erection quietly folds
itself up backwards, and a smile comes to you
from behind the left ankle in the middle of the
back, a sick desire for an interval seizes even
healthy-minded beings who can watch dogs chew
each other without a qualm. The rest of the
programme includes strong man Sampson, Cora
Caselli (whose high kicking is one of the best
things in the _ entertainment), and The Dazzler
(whose claim to distinction is still clouded in
mystery).
** * *
Various disagreeable things have happened
to Sampson, the strong man of Sydney Tivoli,
since this paper last had the pleasure of mention-
ing him. One of his remarkable feats consists in
breaking shillings between his fingers, and one
night an indignant committee-man, who had
handed over the coin and received it back in a
shattered state, alleged publicly that he hadn’t
got back the right shilling. The uncharitable
inference which some people drew there and then
was that Sampson carried shillings about with
him ready cracked, and broke them instead of the
sound ones handed to him. Sampson decided to
clear his character by a public exhibition of chain-
breaking at the Queen’s Statue, and was allowed
to make a disgraceful blockade of an important
thoroughfare in doing it. The understanding was
that two horses couldn’t break the chain and that
Sampson could ; but the horses did break it. Con-
sidering that the huge mob took a hand in the pro-
ceedings, and walloped the horses into greater
efforts, this isn’t so very wonderful. Then Sampson
broke the chain over again and departed insensible
through over-exertion. About three-fourths of
Sydney is now struggling with the question : Is
Sampson real or is he some kind of a fraud ? The
Bulletin, as its little contribution to the con-
troversy, suggests that it doesn’t matter much. If
Sampson is real then he is a foolish and
dreary individual uselessly breaking _ and lift-
ing property in public. If he isn’t —well,
he is quite as dreary, and the property
is broken or lifted just as uselessly. If the
dreariness is there and the breakage and the lift
are there, it is all this writer asks for anyhow—or
rather it is all he doesn’t ask for. The present
scribe wouldn’t pay to see Sampson if he is all he
professes to be, for then he merely ranks with the
ox and the steam crane and other uninteresting
objects. If he was sure, however, that Sampson
was a sinful fraud then he would pay to
see him—if he could get in cheap. For if Samp-
son is an ordinary weak fellow-creature who can
break things by some mysterious trick, then this
writer wants to learn the trick and break one or
two things himself. He would begin on Mr.
George Pile’s dog and break it in three places.
** & *
That tired and fragmentary feeling which
goes before the season when people eat too much
fowl on an empty stomach is already spreading
over the shows of Sydney. They are sicklied o’er
with the pale cast of duff. Always just before
Xmas there is a dull and unreal period, when few
people go to the theatres, and most people are
saving up their theatre money to buy the great
masses of hot, rich food that they crush into
themselves at the hottest season of the year.
Williamson, the wisest manager of the crowd,
closes his big theatre for the dead week just before
the yearly national drunk and indigestion. The
great “Harbor Lights” spectacle will blaze for
the last time on Saturday night, and then it will
depart with the proud consciousness of being the
very best “ Harbor Lights ” that Sydney has ever
seen, and leave Her Majesty’s in gloom for eight
nights, including Sundays. On Monday (December
26) the pantomime of the “ Forty Thieves ” falls
due, and as there are no signs of any other panto,
in Sydney it should have a large future before it.
* * *
“Robbery Under Arms,” with Dumpier
in his grand old character of the bushranger, and
Maginnis, and O’Hara, and the gum-trees, and all
the rest of the well-remembered and well-beloved
properties, has distinctly retrieved the fortunes of
the Criterion. At time of writing, it had done
good business for 21 nights, and nothing definite
was yet heard about its withdrawal. When it
goes, the gruesome tale of “His Natural Life”
will follow, and Gabbett, who has so often success-
fully eaten his mate in the bush, will again refresh
himself on that misguided person.
The Lyceum, having devoted Saturday to
the tremendous spectacle of Lucifer and Dunn
dragging each other about till far into the night
and well on to the confines of Sunday morning,
didn’t have its usual change of programme on
Monday. But at time of writing (Tuesday) it
was announced that “His Natural Life” would
be in full blast on Wednesday evening, and pre-
sumably by the time this issue appears Gabbett
will be busily chewing his victim in the Tasmanian
bush. Why there should be such a run on that
deplorable man of teeth that two theatres should
announce him simultaneously the present literary
authority knoweth not. In a general way it prog-
nosticates that the Lyceum show will have the
better Gabbett and that the Criterion will have
far the better Rufus Dawes. No one in Australia
can excel Dampier in the latter character, and, on
the other hand, Frank Harcourt, who will be the
Lyceum Gabbett, should put up a record in that
character—always provided he nas the right teeth
I <\W Couß-l"
,?or Sulll- r i*
LUUiMaiKt l YSQN ns a WiTvess'
tS'f'DWfcv
\ IB*V
"'MjLj .
(uud Vod.
•Styim
*av CaV&iu
Utvd.
SW^>
■fayApdLtyXm
.* i
X
Tfe
T^urr-uuut
PgRSiS-fis'^T
'PlLClff. I?
PuV.UrJ'^
Hr* *]
Sh^e.tftpr'f
VJP
Wx. WmiUS
T .3 last Gabbett (Harry Overton) will be long re-
membered for these teeth. They looked like the
contents of a horse’s mouth struck by lightning.
*« * *
Edward Farley is organising a grand opera
co., with Miss Lilian Tree as prima-donna, Leu-
mane as principal tenor, and Rivers Allpress as
conductor; and the new combination will make
its first appearance under the MacMahons’ manage-
ment at Sydney Lyceum on 24th December
(Christmas Eve). “Carmen” will be the first
production, and to follow that are “ Rose of
Castille,” “Trovatore,” “Maritana,” “Bohemian
Girl,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “Lily of Killarney,”
‘‘Martha,” “La Sonnambula,” &e.
Orpheus M‘Adoo’s Jubilee Singers are to
commence a season of old plantation songs and
negro melodies at Sydney Palace on Saturday.
The jubilators left a pleasant memory behind them
the last time they jubilated in Sydney, and if that
city has the craving after good music that it is
commonly credited with, the Singers will be a
great boom. The co. is 13 strong, including five
ladies, and every member of it comes highly
recommended.
** * *
“Fun on the Bristol” is doing a very
creditable revival at Sydney Alhambra, and some
respectable amusement is being knocked out of
Johnny Sheridan’s old comedy.
#* * *
Melbourne seems to have nearly made up
its mind to neglect Brough and Co. at the Bijou,
as it neglected Cartwright and Co., and the
management can only pray for luck with the Xmas
venture of “Madame Sans Gene.” Meanwhile
business is like unto the miserable sinners who
have no health in them, and want to be delivered
f, —t ev ii. “Lord and Lady Algy,” a charming
o >medy in some respects, drooped and pined
after the first night, and gave place on
Saturday to “The Happy Life,” which is
deservedly doomed to a joyless career in
this country. Manager Brough threw away
his sovereigns on the purchase of the afore-
said comedy. “ The Happy Life ”is an un-
real entertainment in four foolish acts. The
situations are jerry-built structures of the
thinnest stage material, bedaubed with grease
paint and streaks of gloom. Some tales of
sham sentiment and forced emotion are toler-
ably clever, but this tale isn’t clever, or amus-
ing (except for ten minutes in the second act).
A girl falls insensible outside the apartments
of a priggish young bachelor late at night,
and he dumps the damsel into his arm-chair,
where she remains limp and speechless for
eight hours at a stretch.
* * * »
Next morning he takes her back to
her people in a cab, and everybody, save
a level-headed Yankee, agrees that it was
a horrible calamity for an unmarried girl to
be insensible in the private room of any
bachelor other than a duly-qualified medical
man, so the bachelor gazes nobly at the ceiling
and undertakes to marry the weeping inno-
cent. After marriage they don’t know that
each is in love with the other until they
arrange to live apart for six months. After
about six hours of this idiotic separation
the girl comes along and groans outside her
husband's bachelor “diggings,” the same as
she groaned in the first act, whereupon they
make mutual discoveries of affection and the
end is peace. A few touches of nature are
put into a casual boarding-house scene. For
the rest “The Happy Life” is a pompous
fiction of the hollowest kind. Also it is ill
suited to the Brough company. The heroine
gets freely referred to as a beautiful girl, and
it is now a matter of common remark in
Melb. that none of the Bijou ladies (bar
Mrs. Brough) look beautiful on the stage.
They are, probably, lovely in private
life, but you don’t notice it when they
act. Mrs. Brough doesn’t appear in this
show, so the task of impersonating youth
and beauty devolves upon an imported lady
who fails to fill the bill. Another imported
lady cuts an unconvincing figure in the part
of a smart ’Murkan girl. Brough, the al-
ways valuable Brough, goes for as little value
as possible on this occasion, and the now
thrice-tested Lovell is for the third time a
disappointment. He talks and acts on stilts,
after the manner of Cecil Ward in his early
newchum days—but even more so. Ward was
never so unhuman as the romantic Lovell.
Messrs. Victor, Percy Brough, Carne, Mario
Majeroni, Miss Thompson and Miss Temple
are successful in sundry places, and the elegant
mounting of the piece suggests an eighteen-
penny oleograph in a ten guinea frame.
** * #
Bland Holt has revived “The Fatal
Card ” at the Royal, by way of filling in the
quiet fortnight previous to the awful festive
season. There are striking moments in this
distempered melodrama, and some of them
hit the audience very hard. One of these
is the moment when Albert Norman, Arthur
Styan and the corpse of Charlie Brown re-
main speechless and motionless together,
whilst Baker, brave and unsuspecting as
usual, talks to the dead body from outside,
on the mat. And again, when Styan vents
an unpremeditated gasp, and when the de-
signing Miss Watson conducts Norman off
the premises. The succession of silent effects
at this point is pretty fine and gruesome.
Likewise the drama achieves a large explo-
sive climax, and the “comic relief” in-
cludes the episode of a nude Bland Holt
hiding up a tree, and becoming engaged
to a cheerful maiden, who squeezes his fish-
ing rod. Altogether “The Fatal Card” is
a drama well worth playing, and the
dulk of the playing is good. 'Arthur Styan, in
particular, is a shining Gentle Jim; Norman
would be capital if he were less fond of the sound
of his own voice, and the minor members of his
gang deserve credit for dividing the spoil in black
belltoppers. (This world’s spoils do mostly fall to
men in black belltoppers and frock coats, the
present writer is thinking). But, on the other
hand, it seems hard to believe that Charles Brown
is “beautifully dead,” although Norman makes
the statement without a smile. One would rather
suppose that the raucous comedian is humorously
defunct.
** # *
Melb. Princess’s is just now closed for
rehearsals of “The Geisha,” which gaudy light
opera will face an expectant populace on Saturday
(17). The Firm promises some necessary additions
to the co. for this costly event. A pair of Misses
Perry have arrived from London and one of them
will take the principal soprano part: also Miss
Rose Musgrove is to appear for the first time as a
full blown professional, and baritone Pauli will
bring his renovated voice to bear upon the subject.
Miss Vane, Lily Titheradge, Laun, Howard Ver-
non, Bathurst and a large array of scenery, ballet
and Japanese effects are included in the bill.
** * *
At the Opera House they are hanging out
the distressful tidings that Peggy Pryde has
reached the “last nights” stage of her rorty
career. Peggy, however, is still going pretty
strong ; likewise Travis, the well-tailored ventrilo-
quist with the automatic, wooden-legged dummies.
On Saturday next, strong-man Sampson will
arrive from Sydney and vary the proceedings by
lifting the auditorium with his left hand, and
other remarkable feats of muscle.
** * *
. Fitzgerald Bros, are returning to Mel-
bourne after an absence of two long, weary years.
On Wednesday, Dec. 21st, those bronzed wan-
derers will open their tent in Flinders-street,
under the shadow of the Australian Church, and
every time that Pastor Strong likens the devil to
a roaring lion brother Dan will stir up his
menagerie and give the congregation fits. The
circus and wild beasts will be the same as appeared
in Sydney of yore, plus some astonishing novelties.
The tawny monarch of the woods, who lately had
a few growls with the elephant, has consented to
express peace and goodwill by devouring his
Xmas dinner on the back of his bulky colleague.
At Poverty Point.
“ J.S.” : The Australian who laughs at foreign ignor-
ance as exemplified in the “ Robbery Under Arms ”
poster has a corrective pill at hand for his hilarity. “The
Firm ” has circulated—as shop-window advts.—large
photos of the deck-scene in “Harbor Lights.” In this
a group of officers and blue-jackets pose around a gun
casement. Now the service regulation re face ornaments
in the way of hair says either full beard and moustache
or clean shave—all or none. In aforesaid picture all the
blue-jackets wear moustaches, a thing no jack-tar is
allowed to do. Also, blue-jackets are not as scarce here
as bushrangers are where that R.U.A. poster was done,
and W. and M. ought to know better.
Miss Alice Simmons, a very melodious singer, of
Rickards’ co., leaves for London, where all good Aus-
tralians go. She is a Ballarat girl, a pupil of Miss Fanny
Simonson and Signor Cecchi, and her voice seems to have
a future before it.
Miss Yirgie Vivienne has gone back to the stage—the
nice girl who leaves the stage almost always goes back to
it sooner or later—and has been doing Hamlet and
Ophelia, and other characters, in the goldfields-towns of
W.A. And the local paper has fallen down at the stately
Virgie’s feet and worshipped her.
“ Trilby’s love-match is now flickering, and is expected
to be extinguished by the divorce court shortly,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “It is said that
Mr. H. R. Irving has not been fully seized of the limita-
tions of a benedict, and Dorothea Baird, who dbbuted in
similar feet, will carry her lathy willowiness before a
tribunal, and ask that the mannerist’s son be deprived of
any claim on even the smallest pink nail of her world-
famous extremities.”
“ Maskelyne, the Egyptian Hall fakir, has been struck
a 500-pound blow in the trouser-pocket by a jury’s ver-
dict,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ The man of mystery has for many years been displaying
a ‘ disappearing-man ’ trick, with the aid of a box, the
secret of the construction of which he twice daily offered
to bet £5OO no one could fathom. Two young clerks
built a box which dissolved a man expeditiously, and
claimed the magician’s solid shekels. But the fakir said
his particular secret had not been discovered, and hence
the law case. The conjuring clerks won, and a big slump
in stage-money challenges may be expected.”
“ Sin and Its Shaddows” was the advertised title of a
blood-curdler recently produced at a Sydney theatre.
Mrs. Keightley, mother of Cyril Keightley, a promising
young Australian actor, and the heroine of an episode
in Boldrewood’s “ Robbery Under Arms,” died the other
day in Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney.
“Stroller” : The dead, black background used by
Dante in some of his illusion scenes absolutely rivets
attention on the performer. Every move and look
becomes intensely significant from sheer concentration of
interest. It shows how much is taken from an actor by
scenery, and suggests the experiment of trying a drama
—necessarily of the emotional class —with such a back-
ground as a measure of the actor.
“Dab.”: Re Walter Baker’s unscientific disposal of
the Bristol Chicken in “Sporting Life.” I was sitting
next to a way-back cookie during performance in Cup-
week, and when the hero administered the coup-de-grace
Hayseed jumped up disgusted. “ D it! ” he said ;
“ I’m off. It’s a fake ?”
“F.C.”: The dreadful Greek gipsies—formerly of
Syria, or Antioch, or Kalamazoo, and latterly of Ballarat
—after camping round various Melbourne suburbs, have
at last established themselves on a vacant block fronting
the esplanade at that holy of holies—St. Kilda. To the
inhabitants of that aristocratic township the visitors are
an expense and a grievance, but the local “ authorities ”
are somewhat chary of moving them on, lest they go and
camp at Toorak, or in the grounds of Govt. House. The
gypsies run a merry-go-round, near which the whole tribe
camps in tents, these being made of bags which the most
God-forsaken Murrumbidgee whaler would disdain, and
the whole outfit is a source of amusement—also of instruc-
tion—to the local youths, at night. It includes
two or three young women, passably good-looking,
of the Madden variety—plump, to wit. These tell for-
tunes—at a penny a tell, more if you feel inclined or are
susceptible. But they are a poverty-stricken, hopeless,
useless crowd, and the difficulty is to know what to do
with them.
Bill Nye and conjurer Hermann met at a restaurant.
Hermann, cutting open a lettuce, found a diamond ring,
and exclaimed, “Ha 1 What have we here?” “Oh,”
says Bill, offhand, “ Those are little things I scatter for
the waitresses.” With that he gave the ring to one of
the girls 1 The disconcerted conjuror had to beg hard to
get it back.
Madame Camilla Urso, the violiniste, has wisely gone
on the variety stage in ’Murka, and is drawing big crowds
and big cheques. Ah, if little, squat, bediamonded Urso
were a beautiful, tasteful woman, what lovely cheques
she would be able to make 1
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ... ... 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq.. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, E.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” andv# Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best
ONINN&
y6vlHoil
5. MACHINES
Write far our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues 1d. f
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Meib. Queen St., Brisbane.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
At the end of November the revenue of five
Australian provinces stood as follows, when compared
with the situation at 30th November, 1897. In the cases
of Victoria, N.S.W., Westralia, and Queensland the figures
show how the revenue for the past five months compares
with the corresponding five months of last year. In the
case of Tasmania it shows how the past eleven months
compare with the first eleven months of ’97 :
Increase over cor-
responding period
of 1897.
Victoria (5 months) £243,663
New South Wales (5 months) ... 234,148
Queensland (5 months) .. ... 122,055
Tasmania (11 months) .. ... 60,739
Decrease.
Westralia (5 months) .. .. 121,527
The S.A. returns are only published quarterly, so the
latest available figures are up to 30th September.
The revenue of each province for the month of
November, 1898, as compared with that for November,
1897, pans out as follows :
Revenue Increase as compared
November, 1898 with November, 1897
New South Wales .. £847,643 £66,120
Victoria .. ... 559,977 45,968
Queensland .. 313,156 31,543
Decrease.
Tasmania ... ‘ .. 80,445 125
Westralia .. .. 200,033 39,352
Premier Reid, of N.S.W., estimated that for
the year ending 30th June, 1899, he would require about
£192,000 more revenue than he received last year to keep
things straight. He has already, with only fix e months
gone out of the twelve, received £234,000 more than he
collected up to the same date last year, and even if the
new tea and other duties hadn’t been imposed he would
have had, in five months, more than all the extra income
he professed to want in the whole year. Yet though
the monthly increase is growing larger instead of
smaller (it was £10,173 in September, £57,055
in October, and £66,120 in November) Mr. Reid still
alleges that he has reason to expect a great decrease
later on, and that the new probate-duties are necessary to
provide for it. Yet, on the surface, it is difficult to see
where the anticipated fall is coming from. At present,
expenditure is only £64,243 ahead of income ; this time
last year the deficit was £211,343.
One thing absolutely certain is that the loan ex-
penditure keeps steadily growing. For the five months
ended 30th November, ’9B, it was £789,590 as compared
with £571,259 for the corresponding five months of last
year. So the demand for increased revenue isn’t because
Premier Reid proposes to charge the mending of the old
bridge, and the new crockery for Jenolan accommodation-
house, and the various unproductive repairs and patches,
to income, as any honest Government would do.
Tasmania’s revenue for the month shows a de-
cline of £125 as compared with the receipts for Novem-
ber, 1897. It isn’t much of a decline, but it is the first
time in about three years that the upward movement in
the public income of Raspberry Land has been arrested.
Undoubtedly this will be the biggest year’s revenue
which Tasmania has ever recorded, but it won't reach
Treasurer Fysh’s estimate of £913,275, unless December
pans out for £90,000 odd, which isn’t likely. And when
Fysh looked far ahead into other years and estimated the
1899 revenue at £907,535 he was a very sanguine Fysh
indeed.
John Forrest, of Westralia, estimated his year’s
revenue at £2,905,350, or fully £150,000 more than that
for year ended 30th June, 1898. Instead of an increase
he is already, with only five months gone, £121,527 to the
bad, and the prospect is that the year’s revenue will be
£500,000 below the estimate. If the drop comes to an
end when the revenue gets down to £2,000,000, Forrest
will be the luckiest Treasurer in Australasia. At that
rate, he will be receiving about £ll per inhabitant, and
the province with the next biggest revenue, Queensland,
raises only £7 15s. 6d. annually per head. The fall of re-
venue in October is the biggest decline in any one month
up to date.
• • • *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) closed its financial year on 30th September, 1898,
with a loss of £3987, the great fire of nearly a .year ago
being, as usual, the cause of the trouble. ' Under these
circumstances, the dividend is wisely suspended. To
meet losses £2500 has been transferred from the reserve
fund, leaving only £12,500 at credit of the fund. This is
the first streak of bad luck in the co.’s recent record :
Profits. Dividends.
September 1892 £4lll Nil.
„ 1593 7139 Nil.
„ 1894 8192 Nil.
„ 1895 8584 Nil.
„ 1896 8790 5 per cent. = £1875
„ 1897 8848 6 „ 2250
Loss.
„ 1898 3987 Nil.
7 years profits £41,677 Dividends £4125
At the end of 1891 the Colonial Mutual Fire Co., then
13 years old, was at the lowest ebb of its fortunes. It
had no reserves of any kind, and more than half its
paid-up capital was lost. Since then it has restored
the £19,911 of lost capital out of earnings ; has created a
reserve which now stands at £12,500 ; written £3OOO off
the assets to provide for depreciation ; built up a con-
tingency fund of £2OOO in case of further depreciation ;
and has still a small profit balance of 1141. Altogether
it has been a most marvellous recovery, and despite the
present year’s misfortune there seems no reason why it
should not continue. If the dividend is kept rigidly
down to 5 or 6 per cent, for another dozen years, the
C.M. should, under the sort of management it has had in
recent years, become one of the strongest concerns of its
kind in Australia. One notable feature is that there are
absolutely no mortgages among the securities, which is
probably all the better for the shareholders; and the
deferred bank deposits have been so carefully written
down that those realised on last year yielded £3BO more
than their book value.
» * * *
The North Queensland Insurance Co. shows a
loss of £2071 on its underwriting business for the year
ended 30th September, 1898, but the receipts from com-
mission, rent, and interest (£3160) cover this and leave a
small profit of £lOB9. It escaped the Melbourne fire of
last year, so the usual excuse doesn’t apply in its case ; 4
very bad year in the always-precarious marine business is
the cause of the trouble. The North Queensland has one
of the largest fire and marine businesses in Australia, the
gross premium income for the year being £107,712. Some
recent results are as follows :
Profit. Dividends.
1892 .. .. £3,920 ... 6 per cent. .. £2,672
1893 .. .. 4,668 ... „ ... 2,672
1894 .. .. 3,399 _. „ ... 2,672
1895 ... .. 3,113 „ ... 2,672
Loss.
1896 ... .. 777 ... „ .. Nil.
Profit.
1897 .. .. 10,688 .. 6 per cent. .. 3,206
1898 ... .. 1,089 .. 4 per cent. .. 2,137
7 years’ Profits £26,100 Dividends.. £16,031
The present dividend, which absorbs .£lO4B
more than the year’s profit, is certainly not fairly earned ;
still in seven years the North Queensland Insurance Co.
has earned £lO,OOO more than it has paid away in divi-
dends, and has increased its reserve from £5OOO to
£15,000, so it shows better results than the majority of
companies which deal largely with marine business. A
co. doing a business of its size wants a much larger
reserve than £15,000; still this institution is only 13
years old, and for its age it has done reasonably well. Its
total funds are £69,371 (capital, £53,438; reserve,
£15,000 ; profit balance, £933). The only objectionable
feature in the accounts is the habit of lumping together
commission, interest and rents, instead of showing the
two latter items separately so as to throw some light on
the profitable or unprofitable character of the invest-
ments.
• * » *
The National Bank (Melbourne) announces that
it will repay in April, 1899, one-half of the reconstructed
4J per cent, deposits still remaining. At the original re-
construction the National locked up £6,844,884, but by
30th September last it had repaid all except about
£1,600,000, and the operation next April will reduce the
balance to about £BOO,OOO.
• * • *
A cablegram announces that the British deben-
ture-holders of M’Cracken’s City Brewery (Melbourne)
don’t see their way to reduce interest on their £500,000
worth of securities below the present 4J per cent., but
that they are willing to extend the time for repayment
till 1918, and take their huge interest regularly till then,
provided the co. calls up another £500,000. The calling-
up of another £500,000 would so strengthen the co. as to
make the debenture-people’s 4J4 per cent, quite safe.
Which is a beautiful arrangement for the 4£ per cent,
debenture-holders. The great overburdened concern
might just get through under these conditions. Its latest
woes were something like this :
1891 .. Profit .. £45,711 1895 .. Loss ..£22,923
1892 .. „ .. 30,345 1896 .. „ .. 35,874
1893 .. Loss .. 4,636 1897 .. Profit .. 1,002
1894 .. „ .. 9,983
It has been decided to call up the £500,000, and if the
money, or a good part of it, can be got in (the
company has hopes of collecting £200,000), and the
£47,000 overdraft, and £99,996 mortgages, and some of
the other liabilities are paid off with the proceeds, and the
price of beer keeps up, and the local thirst maintains its
intensity, the concern ought to right itself and become a
dividend-paying business again.
* * * *
B.S.A. ; A Subscriber : Don’t consider it reli-
able. Better take the surrender value of your policy and
get out.
* » * *
Broken Hill mining divs. for the year—£36B,ooo.
Two years’ comparison :
1897. 1898.
B.H. Prop. ... £240,000 ... £288,000
Block 10 .. 55,000 ... 40,000
South .. ... 20,000 ... 30,000
Block 14 ... 20,000 .. 10,000
Junction ... 20,000 ...
Junction North 13,000 ..
British .. .. 22,000 ..
Totals .. £390,000 £368,000
In addition B.H. Water Supply has this year paid 2s. 9d.
per share (186,500 shares issued), Silverton Tram Co. Bs.,
and Tarrawingee a final Bs.
* » * »
To test practically how the process will pan-out,
the Australian (German) Metal Co., which has taken over
the Wetherill patent for the magnetic concentration of
the Broken Hill zinc “ tailings,” will at once put up, near
the mines, a plant with a capacity of 100 tons daily.
* » * *
British 8.H., anxious to wipe off the deficit
which, according to cables, last half-year’s work shows,
taps its limited carbonate reserves again, and, pending
sales now being negotiated, is stacking the ore at surface.
* * * *
The B.H. Junction Consolidated, an affair
born of too much excitement over the Junction, has
been abandoned, after two years spent in attempts to
put life into it. Mr. H. L. Todd was appointed to do the
burying.
* * * *
George Sutherland, Mt. Adelaide Register
leader-writer, pegs away at the Broken Hill sulphides.
After eight years’ laboratory work, he believes he has got
at something—apparently a process for re-treating the
“seconds,” or metal-bearing particles which have not
been picked up in the first treatment. And as in these
particles about 50 per cent, of the metals is contained (in
some cases, reckoning in the zinc, much more), there is a
big margin to work on. Formerly the outsider who came
along with ore-reducing ideas to the big B.H. mines fell
back suddenly with the fixed idea that he had struck the
Klondyke or the South Pole, or something equally chilly ;
but now when they have to chase hard after a sixpenny
div., the inventor whose eye isn’t quite wild is offered a
dusted chair. Sutherland is smiled upon by the B.H.
Prop, officials, who, so far, put their faith in Liihrig
vanners for re-treating purposes.
* * * *
Some Cobar notes : Cobar Gold-mines (old Fort
Bourke) landing machinery each day. Much of their
splendid cyanide plant on the spot. Hoped it will be
well-managed when in operation. Mine admirably opened
up by manager Fox, who, despite his capabilities, cannot
make much profit by amalgamation. Question whether
it would not be better to go for smelting right away. At
Cobar, Nature provides everything the smelter requires.
-Oobar Chesney still shows good ore, and is prospecting
for ironstone, which it must find soon. Young Australian
mill hung up, and should remain so. Everyone looking
for the mammoth open-cuts mentioned by S.M. Herald,
but not discovered yet. Cobar Great Western about to
part with its mine-manager. Were it possible to choke
off the board of directors, too, this small but valuable
property might have a chance to show its capabilities.
Occidental re-started cyaniding its own tailings after a
short run on Great Western material. The Occidental
will do well to stick to its own ore ; there is plenty to
deal with. Broad bodies of ore at lower levels assay well,
and are being opened up.
• * * •
Grenfell, N.S.W. The progress committee
is endeavoring to get the use of a Govt, diamond drill to
prospect to a depth of 1500 feet some of the once famous
reefs around here.” Babbits! The reefs at Grenfell
failed unanimously at less than 500 ft.
* » * •
N.S.W. ’9B gold production will be in the region
of 300,0000 z. Nothing to brag about, and safe to say it
has cost to produce as much as, if not more than, it’s
worth.
The Kanowna Gold Mines Co. (Kanowna
W.A.) has decided to become a defunct cat. The present
co. has had a tempestuous existence of six months. It
started*with many brilliant reports from “ experts” who
agreed that its riches were tremendous, also _ a mine
manager stated that the supply of loz. stone in sight
was practically unlimited. Other reports talked enthusi-
astically of 2Joz. to the ton. A sample of stone went
80oz. to the ton, but as the Kanowna G.M. Co. promptly
degenerated into a2dwt. show, theco. now concludes that
the sample in question didn’t come from its mine any-
how. Apparently the concern was a salted cat of a very
bad order —one indignant shareholder described it as a
“ putrid horse.” Most of the W.A. cats are dead now,
and the funeral of this lingering feline has attracted com-
paratively little attention.
* « * »
The Western Australian Smelting Co. (Fre-
mantle) sees light ahead again, and resumes the recently
suspended construction work. Smelting will be begun
early in the year.
Some Kanowna and Bulong alluvial-lead finds
were contemporaneous with the Melb. Cup season. And
so there has been a run on Grafter, Wait-a-Bit, Cocos,
and the rest of ’em in the claim-christenings. Time, too ;
for a change in mine nomenclature was wanted badly.
Strange, by the way, how some once-popular old mine-
names have dropped out altogether—Try-me-Well, for
instance.
* • * >
Kalgoorlie mines : —Of late the mines have had
little to do with the market, the latter having been
subject to all sorts of outside influences. First bears,
then war scares, consequently a general weeding-out of
weak holders, which in the end has a good effect. Stocks
in all big mines have been firming for the last six weeks,
and the medium-priced stocks have had some recovery
from the low ebb to which they descended a while
back. There is some concern at the delay in declaring
divs. by the Ivanhoe and Lake View Consols, many
thinking that possibly the assets have been absorbed
in some way or other by the London and Globe. Cable
assurances that this is not true have been received, and
substantial divs. this month are anticipated. During the
slump of some weeks back London absorbed a great deal
of scrip in the good mines. The Adelaide market got a
great shaking, but with much better prices it has now a
healthier feeling. London seems to he able to do as it
likes with the Australian market in these mines. In the
face of magnificent yields, enormous profits, and estab-
lished permanency, Australia finds itself quite unable to
stand up, and is knocked out by the bursting of
Bottomley, a momentary war-scare, or some other trifling
circumstance.
• * * *
“Onlooker”: If the Nullagine (W.A.) “dia-
mond find ” turns out to be worth anything, there should
be a bit of a lift for the Land of Waste Acres. Writer
knew an old digger—34 years in Maoriland, California,
the Cape, and Western Australia —who possessed a fine
8-carat yellow diamond, which he had found about 90
miles east of Marble Bar. When the old boy was asked
why he didn’t look for more he replied, “ Sonny, I’ve got
enough now to buy ’em ; let others look for ’em.” He
was a firm believer in the existence of diamond fields in the
West.
• * • •
Associated Mines: 220 tons of selected ore
sampled, last week, at Wallaroo for 1800 oz. Seems to be
the pick of the Kalgoorlie basket.
* * * •
Lake View Consols, W. A., for November: 6649
tons, 80380 z., average loz. 4dwts. Bgrs. The largest
tonnage yet milled in a month, and a still greater to be
treated this month. But why is the average coming
down in the face of the amazing bonanza, of which so
much was said some weeks ago ? Must be a lot of very
low grade ore in the mine, if many tons of this rich
“ tack ” were mixed with the month’s output.
* * * *
Klondyke, W.A. Dear Bulletin.— What do
you think of the name ? I have not had time to look at
many of the shows here yet, and as they all talk thou-
sands (one claim proprietor talks of £50,000), it will take
some time before I can get around with any chance of
business. So far, they are fair surface shows, nothing
more, and not equal to many I have seen on the Murchi-
son. An example of how some of the old Fremantle firms
still do business. From Condon, the port of this field, a
wire went for three doz. hobble-buckles, and in due course
three doz. galvanised iron buckets were received. Next
sent for three sets of cart harness complete, and the sizes
of the collars were given at 17in., 18in., and 19in. Every-
thing arrived except the collars. The celebrated Fre-
mantle firm sent instead 3doz. men’s collars, sizes 17,18,
and 19.—F.W.C.
• * * *
Tindall’s, Coolgardie, threatens to have a crush-
ing of 500 tons this month. Yield uncertain ; not so calls,
which are made with astonishing regularity. Twenty-
four made to date, and a sudden stop would give holders
too great a shock. If owned in N.S.W., it would have
dropped out long since, but the Vic. mine-owner is an en-
during animal.
* * * *
Each consecutive month for the last four, Kal-
goorlie has broken the record of its gold-yield, and no
doubt, as is usual on most mining-camps, the last clean-up
of the year will be the greatest of all. It is appalling to
imagine what the condition of Westralia would be to-day
but for this field—destined to be perhaps the greatest the
world has seen. Booms come without gold, and slumps
remain in spite of tons of it.
• • • •
Burbanks West—not far from Coolgardie—gone
bung in London, where shareholders are advised to apply
for a compulsory winding-up under official inspection to
see how Bottomley stands in this shocking deal. Shares
were distributed amongst Bottomley’s faithful henchmen
and his W.A. financial companies ; and through his official
organ the public were urged to buy them at a premium
before the prospectus appeared. Eight hundred a year
went in directors’ fees ; £5OO to the Joint Stock'lnstitute
for office accommodation ; and as the directors only had
£7500 to play with, next to nothing was spent on the
mine, the great richness or barrenness of which remains
unknown, just as it was before the co. started.
* * * *
The Mt. Bischoff, on Nov. 26, paid its 200th
div. (ss). To date it has paid £1,524,000, equal to £127
per share. The first div. was declared on Jan. 31, ’7B, and
the entire paid-up capital is £29,600.
* * » *
Castlemaine’s little revival was further helped
on the other day by the “ christening ” of new crushing
and other plant at Spring Gully—a mostly Bendigo con-
cern. Formed in ’94, the co. struck payable gold in
Nov., ’9B, and has since got out over 25000 z. of gold.
The stuff runs nearly an oz. per ton, and looks well ahead.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— What has become of the pro-
mised report on the Mount Deddick alleged mines ?
Messrs. Ferguson, Howitt, and Foster, Government
geologists, were about Deddick from the beginning of
February till the latter end of May. When Mines-Mmis-
ter Foster, and other notabilities, visited Deddick on the
2nd May, it was announced that a full and exhaustive re-
port would shortly be published. Will Ministers Foster
(member for Deddick region) and Peacock (legal manager
for Deddick mines) get a hustle on this exhaustive report?
A pushing crowd like the Deddickers would have moved
Heaven and earth to get the report published long ago if
it was at all favorable, but perhaps they are sending it to
the Bureau of Information in London to give English
capitalists the first chance.—Duncan.
Vic Govt, proposes to spend during the next
three years £20,000 in boring for deep gold leads and coal
seams'. At Ararat, as at Ballarat, a lead is more or less
supposed to get awav under the basalt. Other tests will
be made N.E. of Beaufort, at Pitfield, Mt. Mercer, in the
Murray valley about Wodonga, on the Ovens, in the
Maryborough district, and in the hope of picking up the
Huritly (Bendigo), Avoca, Loddon and other leads. The
coal bores will be put down at Apollo Bay and in S.
Gippsland. This is thoroughly legitimate drill work. In
many of the localities shaft sinking, besides being in
general overwhelmingly expensive, is often practically
impossible on account of the drifts.
Long Tunnel Extended (Vic.): Word from
London that when the mail left the offer of £45 a share
for the mine could not be completed, owing to the dis-
turbed state of finances caused by rumors of war. But
the scare is all over, and shares are selling at £3O ; so it
looks as if the sale was off.
• * * •
Brilliant and St. George (Charters Towers) has
doubled its share-list. It is now divided into 288,000
shares —unwieldy enough even now, but when the inevi-
table rough time comes what a cumbersome affair it will
be. Meantime it goes merrily—latest crushing, 1300 tons,
20360 z. ; Is. div. Kellv's, 250 tons, 4670 z. ; Victoria,
295 tons, 5650 z. : Brilliant, 3253 tons, 32900 z.
Paydawn p.c. appear to have pretty good
thing on ; 250,000 tons of sand and slush to treat, and
last return gives 4800 oz. from 2800 tons sand. Gympie
still dull. Eidsvold lively—for Eidsvold.
* * * ■*
Queensland gold output for November, 1898,
was greater than that for Nov., ’97. More quartz has
been put through, but the results were not so rich as
previously. Nov., ’97, gave 74,5570 z. of gold for 71,569
tons of quartz, while last month only turned 0ut77,0120z.
for 110,556 tons. Mount Morgan, Gympie, Char-
ters Towers each dealt with a smaller quantity
of quartz for a smaller yield. Tailings and con-
centrates, however, came to the fore, 59,175 tons having
been treated on Ch. Towers for 27,8570 z. Total Novem-
ber yield for the province was 80,0760 z. Gympie calls
absorbed £11,995, and dividends only gave £4179. On
the Towers, dividends returned £20,900, and calls were
only £9946. Mt. Morgan dividends totted up to £29,166,
while little Eidsvold called up £537 from investors and
gave £2400 in dividends.
Towers’ return for November was 18,2920 z.
from 16,440 tons. Tailings and concentrates 27,8570 z.
Gympie gave 59670 z. from 6808 tons: tailings 3290 z.
Mt. Morgan treated 17,550 tons for 16,4790 z., while
Clermont’s alluvial produced 24790 z., as against 39110 z.
in Nov., ’97. The Etheridge shows a big drop— giving
only 9130 z. as against 14390 z. for same month last year.
Ravenswood treated 1620 tons for 1717ozs.—to say nothing
of concentrates that totalled 8460z5.
Gympie figures for the last eleven months run
thusiy :—89,185 tons of stone crushed for 93,4660 z. Divi-
dends for that period, £132,396 15s. lOd.; calls,
£114,686 18s. Bd. The chief yields for November came
from the No. 1, South Great Eastern, 563 tons for
13430 z. ; Columbia Smithfield, 1160 tons for 871 oz.; No. 2,
South Great Eastern, 861 tons for 8360 z.
The sale of the cyanide plant a few weeks ago
closed the operations of the Cumberland G.M. Co., on the
Etheridge. The mine in the early 80’s had an output of
about 1000 tons a month, worth over 20z., and was at that
time one of the best-equipped and managed mines in N.Q.
Purchased by the co. at a big figure, about 1888, it shortly
afterwards ceased to be payable—as per usual. Then the
co. spent thousands in vigorous and intelligent prospect-
ing down to 900 ft., without result. Next, cyanide works
were put up to treat the big heap of tailings left over
from the good times, and, when nearly complete, a record
flood washed away the dam and about half the tailings.
The remainder were treated successfully. Now the ground
is abandoned ; everything sold.
• • • •
Mt. Garnet, Queensland, privately floated in
Melbourne ; capital, £200,000. Vendors get £96,000 in
shares and £BOOO cash; 48,000 shares issued and 56,000 re-
served. Regarded by the best of the crowd of mining
experts, who invaded the province in the interests of
copper-mining or booming this year, as a more per-
manent-looking thing than the Chillagoe deposits.
It takes a boom-bred Melbourne man to find a
really up-to-date excuse for going insolvent. The latest
Yarra-side “ broker ” when filing his schedule gave as one
of his reasons, “ having to keep eight children.” The
Court will, no doubt, by-and-bye be asked to grant a cer-
tificate on the ground of insolvent’s having to keep him-
self.
“Shaker”: It begins to look as if snv-dting,
with railway-carriage to port, is going to do great tilings
for the Etheridge. Team-carried parcels lately sent to
Aldershot and Illawarra have given results up to £lO a
ton net profit. All the same, a few mines on payable '-old
below the 300 ft. level would do more.
SUNLIGfHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining* Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
tt
Tbe RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. w
Attwood, Solo Proprietors.
Harrison &
E. W. Carev, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.®
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * * *
Q. gold-total far Nov., ’9B, bettered previous
November’s yield by £)3Boz. A big improvement in Char-
ters Towers is equalised by a big failure in Gympie yield.
Total divs. for Nov., for the province, were £57,000.
• * * *
Definition of alluvial ground in Q. Mining
Bill: “ Ground containing gold found in detritus result-
ing from the disintegration of older deposits whose con-
stituents have been brought into their present position hy
mechanical agencies.” Fancy proffering this to the ordi-
nary cousin Jack or Geordie !
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
Mt. Garnet and Chillagoe Exploration :
“ Developments opening up splendidly. Tunnel driven
lift. ; struck a seam of decomposed matter, anticipate
striking main ore body in few days.”
* * « *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
roi
BLEACHING POWDER, 38 3,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge
CYANIDE OOA 3&S?“
Bone Ash, Zino Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 PUt-et., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ;27 Eagle-street,
Britb. f Lamb ton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.


Society
VERY OLD SPECIETY
"D.C.L."
[?]
This paper will not weep if the N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners do carry out their present
intention of excluding ’buses from Redfern
station-yard when once the George-street electric
trams begins to run. The condition of hundreds
of Sydney ’bus-horses is such a disgrace to civilisa-
tion that the sooner such spectacles are swept
off the face of the earth the better. See the
poor broken-kneed wretches, whenever they have
a chance to stand, trying vainly to rest themselves,
first on one crippled leg and then on another. It
is a sight which ought to hurt the heart of a stone
image.
Present writer was, the other dav, on a Sydney
’bus which stopped to change skeletons. Groom
began to harness-in a “moke,” when the collar
started back, revealing a patch of raw flesh.
Writer pointed it out to driver, who questioned
the groom. “Got to go in,” said that worthy,
“ Bill says so—so in she goes.” “ And I’ve got to
drive her,” said the Jehu, “or out I go. Oh,
well”—and he gathered up the reins—“off she
goes.” And the red-raw neck bent to the collar.
* * * *
The “gentlemanly” masked burglar who
lately broke into the Melbourne residence of
"WHAT’S IN A NAME?”
(A pie by any other name would smell as sweet.)
Mon, what pie is this?’’
“Scotch!”
“ Weel, I’m Scotch meself, , an’ I'll eat it for the sake of me country an’ the siller—but,
losh, mon, it’s verra disagreeable!”
Pastor Bevan and threatened that chubby shep-
herd with a gun to make him part, seems to have
struck a • richer patch than might have been
expected in the home of the humble toiler in the
vineyard. A considerable amount of jewellery
went away with the midnight marauder, part of
it being collected by Mrs. Bevan, who was com-
pelled to emerge from bed in the long pallid gar-
ment of the night, and produce a diamond ring as
a peace offering. When quiet was restored, and
the distressed individual (who said that his five
children had eaten nothing for three days) had gone,
the police were telephoned for. In theory the
reverend gentleman ought to have forgiven his
enemy and gone back to bed, but the toiler in the
vineyard, when his jewellery has been taken from
him, is apt to be very like any ordinary sinner.
• * * •
BEVAN’S BURGLAR.
Good Dr. Bevan’s burglar came,
And woke him from his beauty sleep,
And took (it really was a shame)
His pretty rings and cash to keep.
Not robbery,—oh, no, for see
The visitor explains with qualms,
’Tis charity compulsory—
Benevolence by force of alms !
* * * «
. One very hot day, a few weeks back, a
sickly 60-foot whale looked up the inhabitants of
Newcastle (N.S.W.), and, with very little cere-
mony, dumped itself down on Stockton beach.
Some well-wishing fishermen, with their eyes to
business, helped it further inland, then went away
to borrow a boiler, and ascertain the state of the
“ile” market. Whilst they were looking for a
suitable boiler, the whale, unfortunately, went
mouldy in its “in’ards.” Attracted by the odor,
hundreds of Newcastleites hurried over to see
what was smelling, and crowded 23-deep around
the decomposing mass. Just here, some thought-
less lady-spectator (she wasn’t the only one—by a
hundred) poked the carcase in its mouldiest part
with her parasol; the result was that the very
much dead amphibian went off bang, showering a
large mass of undefinable matter over the whole of
the spectators. When the fishermen came back
with a boiler, the lady with the parasol was miss-
ing, as well as 30 per cent, of their sperm whale,
nearly the whole of the latter being carried away
on the spectators’ clothes or scattered about the
beach. At latest, the whale (what’s left of it) is
dispensing fragrance with a great deal more than
usual vigor, and everything within a mile of it is
beginning to wear a worried look.
* * * *
The law, as laid down in N.S.W. Divorce
Court by Judge G. B. Simpson, is fast reducing
legal practitioners to a state bordering on im-
becility. No one (save Simpson J.) now knows
anything of the divorce law. Once it was possible
for a lawyer to advise a suitor as to his legal
position—now it cannot possibly be done. For
example, what advice can be given to a man re the
adultery of his wife when this judge rules, that if
a man allows his wife to remain at home after she
commits adultery he condones the offence and can
get no relief ; while if he turns her out, he is
“ throwing her into the arms of her paramour,”
and so, being the cause of her further wrongdoing
he cannot get relief then either. This is a fair
specimen of the new Simpson divorce law.
Eucla, about the most lone-
some little city in Australia, has
started a paper. It is reckoned
to be the smallest place own-
ing a paper on this earth.
Eucla is the border town be-
tween S. A. and Westralia.
Going westward, 420 miles of
red dust ends at Norseman—the
first town in that direction, if
lone, lorn, ghostly Norseman
can be called a town. East-
ward 550 miles of brownish
dust ends in the cheerful so-
ciety of the South Australian
salt lakes. Going due north
you can dodge right across
Australia and not strike a
habitation, and on the south
there is the hilarious society of
the great Australian Bight and
the affable South Pole. There
are 29 men in Eucla, four women,
seven children, and a dog or two.
The town exists because two pro-
vincial telegraph systems meet
there, and because, in the ab-
sence of Federation, it isn’t legal
to put 10 tons of pig-iron in a
dray and haul it over the 900
miles of futile dust that separate
the two nearest settlements with-
out paying duty at Eucla in
passing. The only amusement
Eucla had till the new paper ap-
peared consisted of fishing its
blown-avvay hat out of the Great
Australian Bight. So the young
Australiansof the local telegraph
department sent to the nearest
metropolis for the needful type
and a hand-press, and took to
publishing the Eucla Recorder.
The staff isn’t paid ; it turns out
its little paper gratis in the
many spare hours when it isn’t
fishing its hat out of the Bight.
There is very little advertising;
if a man does chance to lose his
dog at Eucla he knows that the
animal has run after a bear out
into the wilderness and lost it-
self. And, as Eucla only gets
its mail from Albany by schoo-
ner once a month, it isn’t worth
while for Mark Foy to put a
big standing advt. in the new organ. So the
Recorder travels on its merits, and exists mainly
to show what difficulties the Archimedean lever
can contend with and survive.
* * * *
Vic. Chief Justice Madden knows a lot.
And he lets ’em know that he knows. Startles
’em out of their sleep of ignorance, and makes
’em sit up and scratch their ears in wonderment.
He did it the other day, when, in the course of a
public deliverance, he remarked that, 2400 years
ago, a number of Spaniards settled in Cornwall.
If he had said 2000 years ago, there might have
been implied an idea of generalisation. But he
said 2400, and that at once indicated that he knew
all about it to a day. Which puzzled a Cornish-
man in the audience, and led him to remark that
men and manners must have changed since those
times. “ Because, yaw know,” he observed,
“ when tha straanger coomes dawn ta Carnwall,
Carnishmen want ta knock un deown, an’ fettle
un’s head wi a brick, or gie un a kick in tha ribs,
yaw knaw.” But it was pointed out that, at the
period of which the Chief Justice had spoken, the
Cornish were barbarians. At which Cousin Jack
brightened up. “Ah see,” said he ; “ta be sure.
An’ we be Christians neow tu. Ta be sure. It
maks a heap o’ difference.”
* * * *
Hamilton, member for Bendigo in Vic.
Assembly, wants the Minister of Education to
have inserted in the School Paper—a publication
intended solely for the young—colored nightmares
of eancered and tuberculous flesh, so that the
children will know diseased meat when they see
it. Why not go one better and send the real
article around as an object-lesson ? Then when it
is a blazing hot day in the galvanised school-
house, and the senior class in diseased meat can’t
stay awake, and has to be kept in along with the
“THE PATH TO GEHENNA” Ac.
“ I've sung myself hoarse, and the little wretch has howled worse
than ever.”
“Oh, you brute; couldn't you see that you were frightening
him? ”
depressing product to learn its lesson ; or the
second class in unwholesome steak has to be caned
for not being perfect in tuberculosis ; there will be
quite a new subject for the local comic paper.
And supposing Mrs. Mulligan assaults the teacher
for whacking little Patrick because he didn’t
know his microbes, will Victoria ever be able to
take its State-school system seriously again ?
Extract from letter by Wesleyan parson
visiting Melb. Benevolent Asylum :
I beg to inform the writer that the late Mrs. Smith was
a member of the Wesleyan Church, BUT being of an
extreme old age, and a colonist of 88 years, and of a
pleasant and grateful disposition, she endeared herself to
everybody. It was the delight of ministers and people of
all persuasions to visit her.
“ BUT ! ” Truth is often more humorous than
fiction.
* * • *
“ C.M.G,” : Saw an interesting mill in S.
Melbourne t’other day. It began with two dogs
accompanying two very dirty small boys. The
dogs started fighting over a bone, and the boys
began fighting over the dogs. A fair man darted
out of a house near, and cuffed one boy ; a dark
man darted from a house opposite, and cuffed the
other boy. Then the fair man struck the dark
man, and the pair “ went at it.” The dark man’s
wife presently joined in with a pot-stick, but ere
she could offer her lord material assistance, the
other man’s wife was in her back hair, and for two
or three minutes the four sets fought like devils
in the dust. The battle ended in a great triumph
for dark man, family and dog, as the fair man
soon broke away and fled, and his wife and son
and dog followed at the earliest opportunity.
* * * *
“Lemuria ” : Sydney Public Library is a
perfect godsend to the young woman who has go
too well-known or hard-up to strdll round the
drapery places and make the attendants haul
down everything, and then buy a reel of cotton.
Watched one such float in yesterday with a huge
note-book, and two ocher tomes in a carrying-
strap. She sank languidly down, rang the bell,
and requested the attendant to bring her three
huge volumes that made the man stagger. She
looked at the title pages, and then, when he had
gone, drew out a “ Princess Novelette,” read that
for ten minutes, and then rang the bell again:
“ Take these away,” she said, weariedly, “and
bring me—let me see—yes, the 3rd, 7th, 11th and
12th volumes of the ‘Enclipedier Britanniker’.”
A BROKEN WEB
A spider floated a silken thread
In the grey of a misty morn
To fetter a rose to a rosebud red,
A bloom to a bloom forlorn.
The dews brought diamond gifts to leave,
The winds of the dawn crooned by,
And the spider toiled with a heart to weave
A web that would fill the sky.
The sun leaned out of the lifting mist
And laughed to the silver threads,
And wherever his passionate lips had kissed
Burned beautiful blues and reds.
But the maiden came with a sunny face
And a butterfly-net in her hand,
And shattered the web in her reckless race—
Too happy to understand.
And she danced away to the garden-door
With the wreck of her hands unseen,
But a rose will swing to a rose no more
With a silver chain between.
The rose is our garden ; each rose a heart,
And the sunlight your dear grey eyes ;
And Love’s are the fetters you burst apart
For your lovers—the butterflies !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
IN AN OLD GARDEN.
This is a shrine that held one sweet saint only ;
Now that she’s gone, with light and loneliness,
Sad is the garden, and the rosewalk lonely,
Gone the laburnum’s drooping golden tress.
Thou who was spirit of this sunny pleasaunce,
Breathe on ine with the lilac’s faint perfume ;
Come ! make the garden gladder with thy presence;
Come ! move, a sunbeam, thro’ the orchard-gloom.
She will not come ! Night’s shadow creeps and crosses
The opal splendors of September skies;
Heedless of me, and earthly loves and losses,
She walks the garden of her Paradise.
M.L.
DORA WILCOX.
r
CL
ORIENT
"---x CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, ,455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
PREMO ~SjT.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Queensland
Branch:
64 QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane.
Melbourne
Agents :
CRAVEN & CO.,
179 Collins St.
THERE'S NO CONNECTION BETWEEN
XMAS & X RAYS,
but there is a pleasure to be derived from being a PHOTO-
GRAPHER, especially when you are out enjoying yourself
during the
XMAS HOLIDAYS.
Be prepared in time with gord Apparatus and Materials,
and you may rely on what you purchase from
HARRINGTON & Co. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Illustrated CATALOGUE Mailed Free on Application.


The attendant brought them, and when he had
retired she resumed her novelette. Ten minutes
later she again rang ; and this time she wanted
the original of the “ French Revolution ” by
“ Mooshie Theirs,” and half-a-dozen German
works. Attendant brought them, and was again
retiring when he was recalled and requested to
bring an Italian version of Tasso. When I left,
half-an-hour later, she was still going strong, and
the attendant was in a state of frantic delight.
* * * *
If that terrible man, Potts, “ the Dental
King,” were registered in Westralia, the superiah
Dental Board was going to resign bodily. And
when Judge Hensman ukased in favor of Potts’
registration just two of the members threw up
their seats—and allowed themselves to be nomi-
nated again and re-appointed.
* * * %
Item from the published balance-sheet of
the Bendigo branch of the Bible-in-State-Sehools
National Scripture League : “To Bendigo Minis-
terial Association donation, one stamp, 2d.” And
when the rising generation is saved from godless-
ness and the devil, the Bendigo Ministerial Asso-
ciation will doubtless wear the piously satisfied
expression of a toiler in the vineyard who did it
all.
* * * *
The printer’s ink is scarcely dry on the
description of the Warrnambool suicide, where a
man feared to cut down the hanging citizen lest
he should be prosecuted under that strange, imagi-
nary statute, or legal bunyip, which never had
any existence ; and another case of the same sort
happens right in the city of Melb. A despondent
Dane swung himself from a beam in the bath-
room, and was found a few seconds later by a
super-sensitive person who sent for the police to
cut the man down, and did nothing vehemently
until a big copper arrived, to find (of course) that
the hangee was quite dead. This person also
didn’t drop the suicide on the floor because he was
afraid of being severely punished for interfering
with the body before the police arrived. Nobody
seems able to trace the origin of that strange de-
lusion about the sanctity of anything human that
is found bobbing at the end of a rope. Probably
it goes right back to the days when the law hung
people promiscuously on trees and elsewhere, and
it was inadvisable to interfere with the late sus-
pended till one found out that he was a suicide,
and not an execution.
~ * * *
In a Melb. suburb, a three-year-old boy
slew himself with a nobbier of whisky. His
mother thought he would sleep it off, but it was
the sleep of death.
* * « *
In Sydney, the other day, a Hindoo haw r ker
bit a man for refusing to buy a red silk handker-
chief. Our mild and peaceful brown brother
again.
The front and
back door endea-
vors of N.S.W.
solicitors to in-
duce Govt, to ap-
point members of
their order to the
Stipendiary
Benchis in effect
a surrender of the
claims which so-
licitors of a de-
cade ago boldly
made for a share
of the appoint-
ments to the Dis-
trict and Supreme
Court benches. In
Wentworth’s ear-
ly life, solicitors
and barristers
were one, and
were equally elig-
ible for court ap-
pointments.
When the di vision
came the solici-
tors still main-
tained their right
of advancement to
the Bench ; and
now, when practi-
cally a man may
be a solicitor one
year and a barris-
ter next, or vice
versa, the equality
of right to judi-
cial appointments
seems incontro-
vertible. Yet just
at this pass soli-
citors are found
baiting the N.S.
Wales Minister
for Justice and the Attorney-General to have, not
the Supreme Court, but the stipendiary magis-
trates’ bench thrown open to them !
* * * *
Evidently Melbourne is developing an
indestructible of brain. The other day a
man visited the local hospital in a desultory, un-
obtrusive sort of way, waiting around casually for
his turn, and than asking advice re a “ bit of a
tap on the head.” The doctors examined the “ bit
of a tap,” and found a depressed compound frac-
ture of the skull with much splintered bone. Yet
the bit of a tap had happened to the recipient 60
hours earlier, and meanwhile he didn’t think it
mattered, till his wife found a depression in his
head large enough to contain a medium breakfast
egg-
The prosecution of Norton on a charge of
shooting at Meagher in Pitt-street, Sydney, failed
through the attempt to prove too' much. The
charge was shooting with intent to do grievous
bodily smash, which is a crime that carries very
heavy punishment, if proved. Also it is very hard
to prove. A man who is wildly excited and par-
tially irresponsible through unexpected wreckage
of his head, may shoot without really knowing
what he is doing or what his own intent is. The
f ac k that Norton’s bullet didn’t go anywhere near
the bulky ex-solicitor, who was then running for
his natural life up the street and presenting a
splendid target, but, only hit the pavement, was
a P olnt m Norton’s favor; the jury probably
reckoned that a man with any very definite intent
would have got nearer his enemy than that. If
Norton could have been surgically opened inline-
dlately after the episode, and the intention,
which might then be still in him, taken out and pub
°> C ° dry ’ $> ho f ?} lght h i ave ***“.
a charge of
° ff hreworks in a public place,
' * >y gn ing a severe shock to people who
""V i'?” adjaceilt ’
the best way to get a sure
.7afa^-n
who dropped his beer through sudden fright at
±’ wo , nld liav f a c ;V vil . remedy agamat
Inin for the replacement of the lost drink. Bub
these are mere F ide issues .
* * * *
“ Lemuria ” : Was on a Sydney’bus the
other evening when a well-dressed Chinaman
climbed up and sat to windward. The smoke of
his cigar drifted into the ladies’ faces, and when
the heathen noticed it he gravely raised his hat,
and deliberately dropped overboard his newly-lit
smoke. Just then a white “gentlenian”scram-
bled up, sat beside the Pagan, lit a short briar
that stank like Tophet, puffed like a young vol-
cano, and gaily expectorated over the heads of
the fair passengers on to the pedestrians below,
„ * , „
Melb divorce-
„ extract irom evidence in a Melb clivorce-
collusion case. ’ You say your wife induced
y° u to commit miaoonduot with Nellie? Then
are a " 10 ‘ b « trasted w, . th a . l,ttle
& ,rl? .. 1 can be trusted Wl th a girl as far as
other man. / m not made cf tm. How
shocking that must have sounded-in a divorce-
court, where the juaw seems to require every
husband to be a tin Joseph. Not to be a tin
j u jg to deserve the execrations of his Honor,
and ;d [ y our other virtuous fellow-men—in a
divorce-court. The only possible immoral persons
within that temple of humbug are the unfortu-
nates who have been bowled out.
* . * ,
„ . , .. TT
• Oldglove tells me it s all over. He
saw the girl, with the other fellow, looking at a
bed in the window of an upholstery-shop.
THE BILL.
CONVALESCENT: “ I say, doctor, you know, it's about six months since you per-
formed that little operation on me, and I still feel some pain noiv and
then. How's that? ”
DOCTOR: “ Ei — well, it's a peculiar circumstance, but in operations like that
the pain never entirely leaves till after the — er — bill's paid."
Recent Sydney advt. :
TOMB STIFF.— At Hanover Mills, Moorilda,
Bathurst, on 9th ult., by the Rev. Alfred Stanhope
Swift, Wesleyan minister, Blayney, Robert A.
Tomb, of Balmain, to Ida Edith, daughter of the
late George Stiff, miller, Moorilda.
Only na tural that the stiff should go to the
tomb.
* * * *
ml ~ , >. i„i ra
lh ey apparently don t take any three-
years-for-a-tin-qf-baking-powder ris s a j ■
Hill, Judge Gibson s biggest court-town ; and
“ not guilty conies fiom the juries wi l a inos
startling regularity.
SO LIKE A BRIDGET .
ANNOYED MISTRESS : “Bridget, this state of things
cannot go on; I really must have a change.”
BRIDGET (failing to grasp situation): “ Why,
lor, mum, where be it yer thinks of going? ”
Dear Bulletin.— Re, yam (B. 12/11/’9B)
ibout 20 barrels of cement being found in Deem-
ing’s former house at Southern Cross, W.A. Nob
more than half-a-barrel was on the premises ; and,
as to the stuff being used for a local ci'icket-pitch,
why, 20 barrels would make a pitch from The
Bulletin office to Deeming’s present residence !
The cottage can lay claim to being the most-
photographed building in Australia. Even now
scarcely a week goes by without someone having
a “ shot " at it. —Dix.
• * * *
When Lord Canterbury’s game was played
out, as Governor of Victoria at ,£lO,OOO a year, he
wanted to give his paymasters something to
remember him by. Thinking hard over this
matter, he remembered an old armchair at ’Ome,
in which his noble grandfather had sat for 50
years in the British Parliament. When he got to
England he shipped this reverend relic to the
Victorian Govt. The Vic. Govt, wasn’t taking
old chairs with traditions at the time. So the
furniture was put away in the cellars of Parlia-
ment House. A Queenseliff barber heard about
this, and wrote the other day to the Premier,
offering to buy the historical chair for a pound.
Turner didn’t entertain the offer. Yet they still
call him a financial genius, and a whale at raising
money !
* * * *
In every Australasian province, as well as
in every other English-speaking community, the
law has a certain kindly feeling for the brutal
assault and bash person. As a curious instance
thereof : In Wellington (M.L.), lately, five
hoodlums considerably battered a young woman—
said to be a nocturnal cruiser of the Flossie per-
suasion, though that fact doesn’t seem to have
been any too clear. They were fined 405., and the
bench added that, if the battered lady had been
“ respectable,” it would have taken quite a serious
view of the case, and sent them to gaol. But,
supposing these five ghouls had forged a cheque
or done a big embezzlement. Would the law have
taken into account the fact that the person who
lost the money bore a bad character, and miti-
gated the sentence accordingly? Not much !
Would it even have allowed the bad character of
the robbed individual to be put in as evidence for
the defence? Not in all the creation of cats ! The
law’s capacity for finding excuses for the rowdy
hustle-and-stoush brigade is simply illimitable,
and the only possible explanation is that the
average administrator of the law is a brute, though
he probably doesn’t know it, with an unconscious
sympathy for brutality.
* * * *
One of the Melb. pious workhouses notifies
that “no diet is given which fires the passions.”
Referring not to alcohol, but meat. Immortal
Bumble !
'An old N.S.W. rail-
railway-ganger, who has
taken unto himself a
second wife per matri-
monial agency, was
asked, the other day,
how the new wife was
going. “No dam good !
I wish I’d remained a
widderer. I was swind-
led by that there agency.
They said she was young
and had a fortune, but
devil a bit of her bronze
have I seen. Don’t be-
lieve she has any ! ”
“But she is young,
isn’t she ? ” was asked
next. “Young?
Why, my good man
—she remembers the
Ballarat mots 1 ”
Ed. B/—What
do you want to
bother about an
Australian repub-
lic for? W e’d
have to revise a
lot of our slan-
guage. Milton’s
“in regal mode ”
would have to be
“in Presidential
mode.” “Queen-
ly ” would be-
come “ Presi-
dent’s-wifely
in writing up a
banquet we
could not sum up :
“after the loyal
toast had been hon-
ored.” Also the squashed loyal
party would howl with a more
fatiguing noise then than the un-
squashed repub. party howls with
now. I’m too tired. We’re all too tired.
Please let her rip. On behalf of several
thousand other you n g Australians,
“Rex” (shorter than “President.”)
Names of certain high and influential
Q.N.B. overdrafters were suppressed during the
recent trial on the ground that it was unwise to
“pander to public curiosity.” The other day a
man went into a Brisbane pub., and tore two
leaves out of Bung’s ledger. Twelve months was
the sentence awarded for this summary method of
“wiping out an overdraft.” Name in all the
papers, of course. When was any common name
like Billjones ever suppressed for fear of pander-
ing?
Though the late James Tyson was the boss
misogynist of Australia, his nephew namesake was
the direct cause of the firmer ri vetting of the mar-
riage-bonds in New South Wales. His celebrated
divorce-case of 1891 created a scare that the
majority of most marriages were invalid through
lack of “ declarations ” or “affirmations.” Parsons
and priests had been lax in requiring or in keeping
said declarations, and so the Legislature passed a
short, retrospective Act validating any weddings
where they had been omitted.
* * • *
One recent morning Gisborne (M.L.) was
struck by eight earthquakes, and four earth-
quakes struck the peaceful little town of Napier ;
also a number of usually tranquil volcanoes
started to fizzle. Maoriland is a tremulous and
tottery country at all times. Some day it will
probably be struck by a bigger earthquake than
usual, and then a town or two will be missing,
and the result will be mentioned in the Respect-
able press as a horrible evidence of the results of
socialistic legislation.
* * * *
“Did she look innocent? Rather. She
looked as if butter would have congealed in her
mouth. ” —Lance Lenton.
YE DAMSEL DEBONAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In morning glow I see her trip
The garden path adown,
I mark the merry twinkling feet
That flash beneath her gown ;
The roses watch with envious eyne
And whisper low “ Beware !
She comes to cull that heart of thine—
This Damsel debonair ! ”
There sings a bird within my breast,
A bird upon the tree,
And both are big with charm fed song—
What may this magic be ?
Why should a murm’rous melodit
Make fragrant all the air,
Because her silv’ry laugh is heard—
My Damsel debonair !
There hangs a dewdrop on the spray,
A glitt’ring silver ball,
And, weary of his dainty dance, ’
He fain would droop and fall;
She comes—and lo ! the cunning wight
Hath found a pillow rare,
For he hath kissed her gentle cheek
—The Damsel debonair !
And many a morn when skies are dim
And mists are ling’ring low,
When down the dell I wend my way
With moody step and slow,
I hear a sound of tripping feet,
And lo ! the Day is fair,
And every warbler pipes to greet
My Damsel debonair!
Q-
P. LUFTIG.
ipTu
l/ff^r
ill' l
CM
a
k
s®
Y ou
Fn D gotten
I'Mni’i’ii
Keep Cool
Sydney [ayer Bier
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Eubgant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
definitely cure hydatids, skin eruptions,
BOILS ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
mcket Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elg'in-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, G'land.
SoftCaO'/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per 54-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State hei»ht, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PUCE HltOl'HEItS
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole a»-ents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk. °
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
tt_ _i i 178' Will iam-st., Melbourne
Xly. Maikwaid, U Pitt-strcet,Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 13, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
To see society eating potatoes out of soup plates,
and digging its own fork into pickle bottles with
the naturalness of a cow-boy, gives away the Vere
de Vere legends that surround our nicest people.
The lunch-room at Rosehill races last Saturday
revealed a few sad, plain truths anent the manners
of Potts’s Point. For instance, I sat opposite a
gilded hopeful in marvellously correct stripes,
and, fascinated, followed his knife along a circui-
tous track from his plate to the butter, then away
to the bread, then an interval in his own mouth,
then off on a skirmish with a round of beef, into
the butter again, into the salt, a plunge into a
potato, another interval behind the waxed mous-
tache, finally a gracious hewing of the beef for
a society maiden. Really, it’s quite cruel of Rose-
hill to put Potts’s Point in the way of such inevit-
able revelations. Half-a-dozen extra waiters
might save a score of reputations. As it is, the
lunch is the sort of thing a farmer flings before his
ploughboys in a bam.
Sartorially, everybody was put into the shade by
the large heroine of a cause celbbre, gowned in a
braided coat and skirt of light dirt color, and
capped with a toque of appropriate azure. This
large person sported a miniature dogcart, thereby
enhancing her romantic value in a mysterious way
peculiar to this particular vehicle. Miss Char-
lotte Osborne’s smart white dress, well ventilated
with val. stripes, was one of the prettiest frocks on
the not-too-festive lawn. With her was Miss
Irene Marks, in fawn cloth, with red roses against
her sunny hair. Another noticeable garbing was
the ivy-green muslin of a dentist’s wife, strewn
with life-sized roses, after the manner of the recent
race frock of a well-known Melbourne beauty.
Also, a youthful dandy mustn’t be omitted from
my dress par, although I couldn’t see anything of
him when he put his stick in his mouth.
This week things are very quiet, nothing giddier
than school break-ups and head masters’ and
missuses’.speeches being provided. I went to the
Boys’ Brigade entertainment on Saturday night,
but found the evening suffering from the big
exodus to Bowral and thereabouts. By the way,
the Victoria Hall, situated upstairs in the New
Markets, isn’t the pleasantest place to reach after
dark on Saturday. The swarms of Saturday-
nigh ters that blacken the streets in that vicinity,
and throng in and out of the Markets, appear to
have a prejudice against bare-headed ladies in
white opera cloaks, and cutting sarcasms are
hurled at you as you wait in the middle of the
crowd for the lift that leads to the hall.
The chief part in Saturday’s entertainment was
played so persistently by a wicked echo that I
could not hear a word from any speaker on the
Elatform except Laurence Campbell. There must
e something very wrong with the acoustics of a
hall which won’t even allow you to hear that the
next item is going to.be omitted. The most satis-
factory items were those which had nothing to say
or sing, such as George Taylor’s clever lightning
sketches, and three telling tableaux, “The New
Mamma,” “Britannia,” and that one about Faith,
Hope and Charity, arranged by Mrs. Playfair.
The engagement of that pretty young heiress,
Miss Olive Flood, to Mr. Harley Hixon, brother of
Mesdames Geoff and Jim Fairfax, is the latest
summer fixture. Rumor is also busy reporting
and denying alternately the coming marriage of
our cleverest soubrette to a fashionably world-
worn Sydney man. And a very aesthetic affair
indeed is the engagement of a society soprano to
the very newest thing in baritones.
Popular John Bennett’s benefit came off a week
or so back, and ought to have been a booming
success financially. At one time Mr. Bennett was
as well known in this city’s theatrical circles as the
only Williamson, and was particularly noted for a
huge benefit which he worked up for the poor
Jews. I didn’t notice a Hebrew element at his
return benefit, however. A full Kerristian dress-
circle heartily enjoyed the Tivoli’s forbidden fruit,
but what a cruel disappointment is the Dazzler,
Miss Florrie West. She turned out to be a heavy
lady in a baby’s bonnet, with a raspy voice and not
even the average amount of loaded skittishness. I
tried hard to be dazzled, but there wasn’t one single
spark from her singing or dancing that a red-
haired person like myself need have evaded.
A young amateur, Miss Mercy Murray, opened
the programme with the “Hunchback,” and
played the coquettish cousin with a brainy ease
and understanding that would have been startling
even in a pro. Some weeks ago Miss Murray,
who is a graduate of Sydney University, gave a
dramatic recital which I wasn’t able to attend, but
in view of the one promising glimpse which I had
of her capabilities I would like you to hear what
the carping, critical A.N.R. of the Wilson Barrett
controversy has to say about the recital.
I went to the entertainment with the misgiving which
one usually feels on these occasions ; I have heard the
usual young lady recite before. My forebodings were
quickly removed. I know nothing of Miss Murray or of
any of her friends and therefore I write without prejudice.
In spite of the faint praise of the morning papers I expect
great things. I remember the debut of Miss Essie Jenyns,
and have seen no one here who gives greater promise
than Miss Murray. Moreover she has good looks, grace
ot figure, and of movement, and a voice which, if wanting
in power at present, is sympathetic and has a good range.
There can be no question about her dramatic force. From
the one example given, her comedy promises equal
excellence with her tragedy ; and some of her work was
fairly astonishing, when one considers the unfavorable
conditions for purely dramatic work of a simple platform
and a first appearance. Of course she has some of the
faults which always accompany inexperience. She leans
backward at an apparently dangerous angle, and she
sometimes hurries dialogue into monologue. But I am
confident that she will “ arrive ” very shortly, and that
when she has arrived she will go very far.
“ Harbor Lights ” is still booming away at Her
Majesty’s. Lilian Wheeler, whose advance has
been particularly rapid, plays Dave’s sweetheart in
a gold wig, and is unique in looking prettier
through the glasses than to the naked eye.
Nothing very smart adorns either Miss Wheeler
or Miss Ferrar, but the piece doesn’t depend on
dressing, which is almost an inevitable adjunct to
the dialogue play. Ada Ferrar, in terra-cotta
cloth, tight-fitting and plain, dresses her fair hair
low on her neck with much success. By the way,
nobody wears her hair in the same way two days
running nowadays. A wicked uncertainty as to
the correct spot where the knob should nestle
keeps women in a perpetual state of change.
Latest London news says that the little pig-tails
you see all over Sydney are absolutely impossible,
and that the greater part of the dressy women are
wearing their knobs on the top of the head, just
a little lower than last season. Only beauties
patronise the coil on the neck, a hint which people
with profiles like a piece of string in a fit would
do well to consider.
I nearly forgot to tell you that the wonderful
white silk wedding-garments were won by a blush-
ing young priest. Fearful agitation at'Manly as
to what he will do with them. One unthinking
person said inspiredly, “ Oh, you can give them to
a nun, ” which made him look more and more hope-
less. As it isn’t an unusual thing for priests to
win raffles, I really think someone ought to advise
the brotherhood not to take tickets for such incon-
venient things as ladies’ trousseaux.
This gloomy office hardly knew itself one night
last week when Mr. L. Hopkins gave a little
private rehearsal of a picture show, interpolated
with light art talk. Later on “Hop’’intends to
take the lecture and the pictures touring, and the
party was chiefly intended to find out-—in the
words of the shopman—what length you require.
Everything went off admirably, the ancient
Egyptian explaining to his mother-in-law that he
had been out to see the Nile rise, and the B.C.
mother-in-law- caustically observing that there
wasn’t any Nile mud on his sandals, being es-
pecially well illustrated. Acetylene lit up the
clever cartoons, and the evening jovially con-
densed itself into coffee and ices.
The dear old motherland seems to give Austra-
lians and other aliens a much better show of earn-
ing their humble crust at their own trade—what-
ever it may be—than does the Sunny South. Lily
Dampier and husband Rolfe are now getting good
engagements regularly in London, and, although
anxious to return to her native land, Lily is
strongly dissuaded from doing so by Papa Dampier
when he writes her, as there is much more money
in the biz at ’Ome than here.
Latest invention for a ladylike self ad: —
Mrs. wishes to thank those who contributed so
largely to the brilliant success achieved at her (whatever-
it was).
I merely re-publish this because I think it’s neat
enough to be imitated.
Perhaps one of the best instances of the “awful
double-entente ” was that which a Sydney lady of
exalted position uttered in perfect good faith to
the late Henry Parkes. This lady headed a depu-
tation to the then Premier, asking for some con-
cession to the Women’s Industry movement, and
to the mingled horror and amusement of her
female companions, prefaced her remarks with
these words: “ You know, Sir Henry, that though
I come to you on behalf of the Women’s Industry,
I only do so because I was asked—not because I
have any sympathy with the movement. I do not
hold with the modern idea of women’s work and
independence. In my opinion, every man who
can afford to marry ought to keep at least two
women ! ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“I never saw so many pretty girls as on the
last day of the wheel-races. At Flemington dress-
parades, one’s attention is centred on recognised
society leaders —dashing matrons in the thirties
and upwards. M.C.C. skirts, for the most part,
clothe belles from 14 to 22.
“On Saturday white muslins were frequent.
Lady Brassey grows gay and Australian in her
dress tastes. Her Saturday’s gown was vivid
pink, with black lisse sash and hive-shaped
sunshade, while her little girl wore white
muslin over forget - me - not blue. But
the place to see babies in their glory was that
charitable fete, in the Robert Harper grounds, at
Toorak (Sat., 10th Dec.). The ‘naicest’ infants,
with their nurses, always do congregate at garden-
fairs, and ride the donkey and pony regardless of
expense. Janet Lady Clarke, who ‘opened’Satur-
day’s function, was in black with white fixings,
as usual, and one of those big dangling gold medal-
lions, inscribed with facsimile of donor’s hand-
writing. Her youngest daughter and two kilted
step - grandsons hardly got off the merry-go-
round all afternoon, and a two-year-old scion
of the clan was the dressiest juvenile on view.
“ Judge Madden’s recently-married daughter
Sylvia goes home with husband Yalange to his
country place at Brackley, Northamptonshire.
She will have as a near neighbour a nephew of old
man Brassey. Lionel Brassey, a son of one of Uncle
Tom’s younger brothers (now dead) lives at
Charlton Lodge, only a few miles from Valange’s
place. It is a nice part of England, within easy
reach of London, but far enough away to be quite
rural in that ‘ dewy morning breath ’ fashion that
makes the English midlands so delightful.
“ W. J. Lormer, the gassy little man who poses
as the apostle of temperance and virtue in Mel-
bourne, has been telling an audience that he knows
why Hartley Williams was passed over and John
Madden appointed Chief-Justice when Higin-
botham died. The reason is, says Lormer, that
Lady Williams had stated that when she got to
Government House as Acting-Governess, she
would exclude all members of Parliament whose
characters could not bear inspection. He says
that he had this ‘on good authority. ’ Well, his
‘ good authority ’ was no good at all. If Mrs.
Williams said any such thing, she was a very
foolish person to count her disreputable chickens
before they were hatched —before even she knew
that she would have a chance of ‘ sitting on ’ them.
Her husband says she was not such a snob as to
say anything of the sort. The truth is that Shiels,
who made the appointment in question, did so
because (as he has several times explained) he
thought Madden was not only the most brilliant
member of the bar, but the most accomplished
man in the legal profession, on the bench or off it,
and he thought that Madden would be ‘ an orna-
ment ’ to the position.
“‘Old families,’ ‘ancestral homes,’ and what
not are distressingly common in Victoi’ia nowa-
days. After Rupertswood, the most would-be
venerable estate is the one where the son and heir
was sprinkled not so long ago midst bonfire-blaz-
ing and beer-drinking by the tenantry. The
infant hero was saddled on that occasion with
some high-sounding names, ‘ hereditary bequests
from his mother’s ancestors ’ —heavy swells in the
Stuart period, doncherknow !
“ So surgeon O’Hara’s daughter, Eily, is engaged
to the eldest of the Andrew Rowans, a cousin of
her bosom friends, the Madden girls. The bride-
elect is a large, rollicking colleen, with dark hair
and one of those bright, irregular Irish faces. Her
captive is dark, too, and built on an equally large
scale.
“Another rumored engagement is that of clever
Doctor Syme to a Miss Berry, whose people live
out Camberwell way in a house abutting on the
famous ‘Cole estate.’ The deceased Cole, by the
way, was a nursery gardener in a large way, with
a fancy for land investment, and when he died his
heirs came in for quantities of bush-land, still
known to local residents as ‘ Cole’s paddocks. ’
Another souvenir of the departed was Cole’s ‘bull,’
which for long enough defended the landed pro-
perty of his late owner from juvenile trespassers.
Some of these forest enclosures are still m their
virgin state, owing to a testamentary provision
postponing sale, etc., till coming of age of de-
ceased’s grandchild.
“Re sisters-in-law, that wealthy Mount Mor-
ganaire took his deceased wife’s sister for better
or worse early this month, thus ending the weary
waiting and wondering of local matrimonial pro-
phets. Reports of the smart wedding feast re-
ferred to the juvenile bridesmaids every time as
‘ bride’s nieces. ’ Why not ‘ the bridegroom’s daugh-
ters ’ ? Anyway, the re-edited Benedict gave his
chicks ‘daisy-pendants’ of pearl and turquoise.
Another sister-in-law’s small boy acted as ‘ page ’
and got ‘gowan’ links to match the pendants.
The bride’s name is Daisy, hence the design of the
wedding trinkets. All her sisters, too, came in
for handsome souvenirs of the auspicious event
from the jubilant bridegroom. So they should,
for their square-headedness in holding on to a
good thing when once they’d got it.
“ H. H. Champion, having disposed of his not
too successful venture in sassiety journalism, put
his head into the noose of matrimony on Thurs-
day last. The bride, Miss Elsie Goldstein, took
the vows in her father’s drawing-room in St. Kilda
in a plain short cotton frock, without any of the
consolations of orange-blossom or wired gardenia.
Dr. Strong did the needful. Heretic or not he
manages to tie the knot quite satisfactorily for
many of the culchawed outside his own fold. The
household pot will still be kept boiling with the
aid of the Age, whose columns have been greatly
brightened by H.H.C.’s writing.
“A Melbourne reporter saw an eminent politician
from a Western province in Collins-street lately
and informed his office, suggesting that the
eminent one might possibly be interviewed on the
political and federal situation. ‘Was he alone?’
asked the experienced editor. ‘ No, he had a lady
with him.’ ‘Let him alone then,’ replied the
editor, who knows the politician well; ‘it wouldn’t
be fair to mention the fact that he is here.’
“ Mrs. Brough still looks just as nice off the
stage as on. In fact, her natural color manages to
assert itself when away from the glare of the foot-
lights. On the boards she is pallid, and appar-
ently prefers to dispense almost entirely with
make-up. These hot Saturday mornings down
street she looks cool as cucumbers in snowy linen
skirt, white blouse with scarlet pin-spots, and red
hat. Miss Temple, who helps her to shop some-
times, dresses quietly as a Sunday-school teacher,
and affects unworldly costume touches, such as
skirt drooping a mite below belt, etc.
“ Even when they were playing ‘ Lord and Lady
Algy, ’ most of the women didn’t strike one as des-
perately tidy. Mrs. Brough’s own things looked
self-respecting and accustomed to hang up o’
nights. Her fancy costume of ruby velvet, with
three-cornered hat and silver-headed whip, made
her sister masqueraders seem third-rate and down-
tailed, though Italia Conti, as the philandering
wife, was pretty enough.
“Considering a comedy isn’t a burlesque, that
fancy-ball scene in ‘ Lord and Lady Algy ’ was
too farcical. Hardly a character present was sane
enough for a nervous partner. Lord Algy was
drunk; his jockey pal, as ‘ Young Pretender,’ was
dumb to all outward seeming, and besides, had
forgotten his garters. An archaic marquis skipped
like a young kid of Lebanon ; and that jealous
maniac in the mask would, in real life, have
started a wild panic, first glance. The fat mother-
in-law in shepherdess dress, lugging round a toy
lamb, and pleading vainly to be suppered and
danced with, was pathetic. Other frights, frumps
and caricatures rambled aimlessly through the
bone-boiler’s halls.
“ One ungallant Paddy, at all events, lives in
the person of cross-patch parson Rentoul. In his
recent oratorical onslaught on lone spinsters, this
gentle shepherd endorsed that Scotch definition of
a ‘ Miss’ —‘ a woman with nothin’ to do, and who
hasna’ got a man.’
“ Next, the speaker ran amuck of ‘ women to be
found on the block.’ He ‘can stand the young
ones,’ it seems, but not ‘the middle-aged ones,
who try to look young, with hair, teeth and com-
plexion not their own. ’
“Misguided mannikin! Would he like them
any better if they went about bald and toothless ?
These sympathetic references to lorn females, fol-
lowed by a sharp dig at nuns and priests, led up
to praise of the Wesleyan sisterhood. And it is
little wonder that his unchivalrous reverence com-
mends those winsome Methodist sisters. With
their demure bonnets and blue gossamer haloes
they might do blessed work, indeed, as they trip
in and out of city police-courts, only for their
proneness to matrimony. Men who know no
better ask why all women don’t wear those duckv
deaconess bonnets. That’s easy. They wouldn’t
suit everyone. But they look nice on the average
wearer, ’cause the blessed call only comes to her
whose face goes well with the bonnet.
“ Simple Simons, prattling of the alleged ‘dress-
economy’ practised by natty nurses and sich,
blame society butterflies for spoiling their matri-
monial chances by palpable extravagance. Which
is sheer ignorance. The pretty Puritan doesn’t
look dainty on the cheap any more than the smart
sinner. Some of the bonniest girls in Melb. are
to be found on the Homeopathic Hospital nursing-
staff, and their fixings of white-and-lavender make
ideal settings for beauty. But let the man who
yearns to enshrine a pinnied saint, ‘ ’cause she’ll
make such an economical wifie,’ take careful note
of the saint’s laundry-bill before he does it. Then
there are the belt-buckles, sleeve-links, etc.,
donated by ‘grateful patients.’ Would-be hubby,
as permanent substitute for ‘grateful patient,’
must count the cost of such items.
“Take her altogether, the worldly woman is as
cheap a line as most. Even the gruesomeness of
a real nun comes expensive, as many a pa knows to
his cost. Not long ago, a devout R.C. family in a
Melb. suburb spent some hundreds of pounds on
festivities in honor of their daughter’s ‘ Heavenly
bridal.’ The vestal’s costly nuptial robes went to
the Church ; so did her long hair. All non-con-
ventual guests at the marriage-feast took a honey-
moon trip to a mountain resort at the expense of
the ‘ bride’s ’ parents.
“Mrs. Palmer’s concert panned out well, the
beneficiary profiting to the extent of £250 clear.
Maggie Stirling’s will be the next benefit. She
goes 'Ome next year for extra voice-culture. With
an invalid husband and young children depending
on her exertions, a singer can’t afford to lag behind
rival artistes.
“It is wonderful how the plain, squat, stodgy
truth will sometimes peep out under the cloak of
loyalty. Sculptor Bertram Mackennal is doing a
statue of Her Gracious for Ballarat, and the
Argus reports that the sculptor, ‘while preserving
the likeness, has struck a nappy medium in im-
parting a due dignity to the figure.’ ‘Paint me
warts and all,’ was the injunction of honest
Oliver Cromwell to the painter. But the flatterer
of Queen Victoria has to ‘ strike a happy
medium ’ in order to give dignity to her figure.
It must require a lot of happy medium too.
“The ‘Christian Scientists,’ who have been
brought so prominently before public notice by the
death of Harold Frederic, run a Sunday show
somewhere in Bourke-street, _ Melbourne. The
soulful are indiscriminately invited by weekly
advertisement.
Y ours affectionately, Gouli-Gouli.
“Onlooker”: A few momentous fights
out of the long list of Sunday battles : Tours, 732
A.D., saved Europe from the Moslems. Started
on a Sunday, and lasted right on till following
Sunday. Hastings, 1066, known to most people.
The Armada fight also lasted from Sunday to
Sunday. And last, Waterloo.
Artesian boring in the far north of South
Australia has been set-back by the effects of the
water from Kopperamanna bore. The supply is
good, but instead of enriching the Lutheran
mission station, which it serves, the water, which
comes up 4000 ft., is so heavily charged with
mineral that it kills vegetation and petrifies most
things with which it remains in contact.
GOOD
BOOTS for
Ladies and
Gentlemen.
Callaghan & Son,
Kindly provide Yourself
Boots fo/xma? G °° d 395 George Street, Sydney.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
or Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL A CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
“ Our Teeth
CatapfjoreSiS
in Connection with
DENTISTRY.
BY this PROCESS, TEETH can be Prepared
and Filled absolutely WITHOUT PAIN,
even if the nerve be exposed, thus
PREVENTING the
EXTRACTION
of TEETH. All Particulars published in Book
Form, a copy of which will be posted, Free of
Cost, upon application to
CNARLCSI. HARRIS,
DENTIST,
St. James’s Chambers, King St.
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue),
SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have 110 Eqnal
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Does Premier Turner take off his specs in
swimming ?
“Spacious in the possession of dirt.”—
Shakespeare on Tyson, Hamlet, v., ii.
“Melb.”: Tyson might have walked
Collins-street for a month without anyone know-
ing him.
In 1880, Mr. Dalton, P.M. at Forbes
(N.S.W.), left home on a visit, and was not after-
wards heard of. The skeleton lately found under
the floor of a room at a Murrumburrah hotel is
supposed to be his.
“ Melb.” : In a bookshop I see a surviving
copy of “Married in Black and Other Poems,”
by Newton Goodrich, a Collingwood pawnbroker.
IREDALE, 196 (N.S.W. v. Tasmania.)
Last time I saw him he was on a jury, with a
yellow bandanna over his head, and one eye
asleep.
The keenest criticism ever passed upon the
alleged meanness of Jas. Tyson was by an
aborigine who came to Homebush once in com-
pany with the millionaire. Said the blackfellow,
“ He wouldn’t give me tixpence to get my foto-
o-rnnh tn i„ n » °
” " '
Matthew Davies has been elected to the
committee of Vie. Law Institute. TheLawlnsti-
tute it is which looks after the morals of the pro-
fession and hauls up defaulting sharks before the
court, to be struck off or suspended until they pay
their creditors
A. H. Landseer, father of S.A. Assembly,
who has sat continuously for Mount Barker since
1875, is so ill that it is unlikely he will ever
appear in Parliament again. He has had two
strokes of paralysis within the last few months,
and he is 70 years old. Landseer is the beloved
of the Hansard reporters, because he can always
be written-up as he speaks ; and, in the whole
of his long political career, he has never once
complained of being misreported.
“ Cornstalk ” : A well-known Mel-
bourne litterateur once told me his
version of Purves’s success as an advo-
cate in jury cases. “ The fact is, l’urves
is a most consummate actor,” said my
friend. “If you watch him closely you
will observe that he always ‘makes an
effect ’ upon entering the court, or does
something very soon which attracts the
attention of every soul there. He em-
ploys facial as well as ejaculatory com-
ments upon the proceedings as they go
on. He sneers, laughs, frowns, pretends
impatience. He interrupts and inter-
jects. When he examines or crossex-
amines—well, you know what he is then.
The result is, he becomes the protagonist
of the trial. All eyes watch him.
Whenever anything happens, or the
evidence or trial take an unexpected, or
even an expected, turn, everyone looks
to see the effect upon Purves. Whatever
the trial may be, whoever the Judge may
be, whoever the prisoner may be, the
person who, sooner or later, becomes the
central and commanding figure in court
is Purves. He overshadows the bench,
the bar, and the dock. He is, as I have
said, a consummate actor, and, in more than one
sense, a powerful hypnotist.”
Another idyll withered. A brother-in-
law of the deceased Mrs. Keightley states that
the lady did not ride that weary sixty miles into
Bathurst for her husband’s ransom as alleged in
“ Boldrewood’s ” romance. Also, that she did not
ride back with the historical £5OO. Point of fact,
she was very prosaically driven to her father’s
house at Blackdown by Doctor Peachey, where
she remained, the doctor and another man carry-
ing the ransom back. What a slump in romance !
Mr. G. P. Murray, appointed the other
day senior P.M. of Brisbane, was lieutenant of
native police in the bad old Q. “ dispersal ” days.
He was suspected at one time of being one of the
parties who carried on the anonymous newspaper
war which contributed to the final extinction of
the then malodorous black-trooper system. Mur-
ray, with his black regiment, established a fortified
camp on the edge of a scrub in Capricornian
country, whence he used to sally north and west
when duty called. The site of that camp and its
surroundings is now Rockhampton.
Stated that when Hori Grey went to M.L.
a Maori woman said she recognised in him her
long-lost son. Grey’s power with the natives is
alleged to be a consequence of the belief that
he was a reincarnated Maori.
TYSON.
So narrow was his groove that he,
Contained within this tiny tomb,
Will wish no more society,
Nor feel a lack of elbow room—
For all his life, to make and save,
He spent pent in as small a grave.
Of Mat. Harris, the great statesman who
represents Denison Division in N.S.W. Assembly,
it is said that his greatest, longest, and most tell-
ing speech in the two Parliaments he has infested
was to an official: “ Shut that door. lam getting
a cold in my back.”
The late Constable Hoey, or-
derley to the now-departed Mel-
bourne coroner, Youl, had a deep-
rooted contempt for “side.” One
day he had a beautiful row with a
potentate who tried to sit on Hoey
as a mere policeman. “ Look here,
me bhoi,” said Hooey, “ don’t get
on the high horse because you’ve
got a few halfpence. Yer not dead
yet. I’ve seen many a one that
thought almost as much of himself
as you do, and had a bank-account
as fat as a bull-pup; but I’ve squirted
the last tbruppenny-bit out of his
weskit-pocket in the morgue with
the hose! ”
“ Dick ” Thatcher was once
got on a lovely string in a M.L.
town. He had lampooned nearly
everyone in the place, and it was
decided to announce a dinner to
Dick and the presentation to him of
a gold watch, as a “ public benefac-
tor.” Tickets were £1 Is. each, and
everybody rolled up. Mayor in
chair, and Dick in full dress. The
chairman made an appropriate
speech, and handed Thatcher a mo-
rocco case. Dick made suitable
acknowledgment, and sat down, un-
suspecting. Then someone called
out “Put it on, Dick,” and Dick,
opening the case, found a penny toy
watch. He looked round for a mo-
ment, exclaimed “ Sold, by — — ! ” and joined in
a roaring laugh at his own expense. Then began
the slaughter of the “marines!”
Died recently at Hobart, Sketon Buckley
Emmett, aged 89. Arrived in las. from England
P 6 * Re j? al . la m 1819 j w « a luck y Be " d !f^ d,gg ?s
V? the hftles ; a mate of Hargreaves, N.S.W gold
d ] s^f ’ also of Philosopher Smith, hnder
of Mt. Bischoff. Was also a pal of Baron von
Mueller’s; and himself first found gold on Tas.
N.W. coast, and the tin deposits at Whale’s Head.
„ • . , n , ,
. 0 c Archei recently executed
was an instance of a. man who traced the beginning-
bJs doom to a Melbourne Cup day. Ratty
Rentoul on the horrors of horseracwi, before Melb.
Presbyterian Assembly. Archer, in his confession,
traced his fall from the Cup Day of 1897, but he
did not go to the races. His case, in fact, is a
burning and glaring example of the terrible folly
of not going to Fletnington on Cup Day. Had he
gone to the races, he would not have met his Eve,
and there would not, according to his own show-
ing, have been any fall at all. The Bulletin
hopes young Presbyterians will take warning from
this shocking case and never neglect to goto the
races.
THE H.S. WALES v. TASMANIA CRICK KT-MATCH.
(Highest score in an interprovincial match , 839.)
“Viator”: Rougemont’sturtleback steeple-
chase is borrowed from Waterton’s ride on a
crocodile, in South America. It is generally
accepted as true, and will be found in his old-
fashioned autobiography. He twisted the forelegs
over the back for reins and watered at a good bat.
Pity the art of appropriate epithet isn’t
studied in the N.S.W. Assembly. Willis, anxious
to wither Price the other night, was reduced to the
feeble expedient of calling him “ a cowardly
ruffian.” Fancy R. A. Price a cowardly ruffian !
The dapper little man couldn’t be a ruffian if he
tried.
Late Melb. Coroner Youl
used to tell how, when his
father was parson at Launceston
(Tas.), in the early part of the
century the congregation was
summoned to service by the
striking with amalletof an iron
barrel s wung to a post. When
the parson made his periodical
visits from George Town he
used to announce his advent
by walking through Launces-
ton in full canonicals. One
day a youngster ran in and
told his mother that a man was
in the street in his night-shirt.
Rev. Youl used to officiate in
the courthouse, and sometimes
there would be men or women
outside in the stocks.
£. £. Smith, Melb.’s
advertising medico, relates how
he once (probably desiring to
investigate the ways of other
people in the healing business)
disguised himself in a flowing
beard and specs and visited a
medical clairvoyant. To the
latter he described “symptoms
akin to the above.” The rival
at once assured him that the
case was a very bad one—so
bad that he was the only man
who could possibly cure it;
and then he grewjwarm and
said that such a case in the
hands of a rascally impostor
like £. £. Smith always ended
fatally. Also he went into a
trance and got spirits to cor-
roborate his statements. Just
here Smith quietly deposited
his hair and spectacles on the
table, and smiled on his collapsed rival. “ I
won’t pay you this time, old man,” he said affably,
“but I’ll tell you what I’ll do. When you want
some advice, come to me and I’ll treat you for
nothing.”
W. R. Merry, Victoria’s boss litigant,
turned up in court the other day to show cause
why he shouldn’t be made insolvent over an unpaid
bill of costs. Merry was the contractor for a
Victorian railway some time just subsequent to
the lamented dampness mentioned in Genesis,
and certain claims of his connected therewith have
raged unsuccessfully in the Vic. courts off and on
till no man now living can quite remember the
beginning of them. The old man was a born
fighter - one of those who would spend half-a-
million in pursuing all over Australia if he
thought he had a right to the and he dropped
a big fortune one way and another into the hinder
pocket of the law.
The lees of the Norton-Meagher fracas
seem to have settled—at some considerable cost
to N.S.W. of men in wigs and blue uniforms hired
to arrest the combatants, or to try them, or to
prevent them from calling each other unpleasant
names in a court-room. Meagher, for assailing
little Norton with a whip, was fined £5. Norton,
on a charge of firing his pistol in the direction of
Meagher’s running legs, was acquitted—a sympa-
thetic upshot to his downshot. Norton seems to
have been acquitted so many times in the last few
months, on so many charges, that the business of
chronicling details grows wearisome. The Bul-
letin respectfully suggests to the Crown law
authorities that it would be cheaper to charge him
with all the crimes in the calendar in a lump,
and acquit him once and permanently. Then
Attorney-General Want could give free play to
his enthusiasm for Federation.
Walter William Begg Bentley, having won
a libel-action in Brisbane, in which he conducted
his own case, proceeded on an electioneering-tour.
He is “ stumping ” the Carnarvon electorate, with
a view to displacing Home-Secretary Fox ton at
the coming general election.
“Old Jack”: Story told of late N.S.W.
Attorney Rodd. A man in the Lands Office was
bothered by a money lender named Aaron. Went
at last to Rodd for advice and help. The lawyer
heard him through ; then he said : “Pity ! He’s
been here and instructed me to prosecute you.
I’m Aaron’s Rodd.”
THUMPER, 292 not out (W.S.W . v. Tasmania).
At Campbelltown, N.S.W., on Nov. 21,
Michael Goulding died, aged 83 years. He had
lived at Campbelltown for nearly 50 years, having
left Ireland “in a hurry” in 1848 after the arrest
of Smith O’Brien and others of the Young Ireland
Party. In Campbelltown cemetery are buried
several of the 1798 men, who settled in the district
on arrival.
Johnson, the architect, who died the other
week en route from Groperland, and was buried at
sea, met the fate of which he had a morbid dread.
Said to a friend some time back that he would
have left Perth long ago but for the fear of dying
on the way and being buried in the ocean. Many
men, many minds. It is not long ago that a resi-
dent of Napier (M.L.) devised his money on con-
dition that his heirs should take his body out to
sea and sink it in many fathoms of blue water.
Lormer, the turbulent Melb. J.P., comes
out with a wild yarn to the effect that Justice
Williams lost the Victorian Chief Justiceship be-
cause it was known that when his wife came to be
Acting-Governoress it was her intention to knock
many and various Parliamentarians off the deputy
vice-regal visiting list. Said Parliamentarians
heard of it, and influenced all they knew to upset
Williams’ chances. Justice Williams, being inter-
viewed on the subject, declares in the name of his
wife that the yarn is a devilish fable. Lormer is
likely to be heard from again ; he is that sort.
Only one thing is certain, and that is that a story
attaches to the manner of Madden’s pipping Wil-
liams on the post, which story has yet to be told.
“ Man in the Lalang ” writes :
Re par. (26/11<’98) as to death of mine-manager Bibby
in Straits Settlements. No such news has yet reached
Brisbane, therefore I take it that the Bibbv to whom par.
refers must he •‘Bill ” Bibby, eldest son of Raub manager;
he was killed nearly three months ago, through falling
down mineshaft or winze in Negri Sembilau. Make no
mistake as to either of the Bibbys having “worked for
Australian syndicates’ mueh-talked-of, but generally
unfortunate, mining claims.” The present price of Raub
Aus. G.M. Co.’s shares, about S3BTO-100 (s3B)—shilling
div. just declared on 200,000 shares—shows this venture
should merit a name other than “ unfortunate ” or
“ mueh-talked-of.” This is the only mine which Bibby,
sen., has managed in Malay peninsula, and that since
about ’BB. Bibby, jun., deceased, has managed two or
three ventures for Singapore people, notably a tin-mine
at Hun hi, on E. coast of peninsula, with a fair amount of
success.
The sad case of editor Winspear is clamant
for sympathy. The unfortunate fellow, as is well-
known, found journalism on behalf of the
humanity that had lost its birthright only a slow
albeit certain mode of suicide. In desperation he
turned his attention to some sort of derelict trade
in s -cond-hand goods. Among the contents of
his shop the Sydney police found certain things
which represented portion of the “loot”.of a
burgled house, or something of the sort, and
Winspear was sentenced to a term of imprison-
ment. His poor wife, maddened by the disgrace,
thereupon hanged herself,.leaving seven children
to the tender mercies of a world that had proved
too hard for their parents. The Bulletin knows
nothing of the facts of the police-case which re-
sulted in Winspear’s imprisonment; it only knows
of Winspear as a clever, foolishly-generous enthu-
siast, zealous to the verge of madness on behalf of
the needy and the oppressed. His children
should not be allowed to starve.
The tail-end of a left-off rumor about
the exploded Rougemont still occasionally comes
this way. Lately the London Chronicle inter-
viewed him about his alleged identity with Grin,
and the weary, wrinkled Crusoe hung on by his
last tooth as follows :
“ I have a double. The double is Grin. It was he who
had the diving apparatus, the experiment with which
failed. I only took it on afterwards.”
“He is like you '! ”
“ Exactly alike. His own wife would hardly know one
from the other. It is the more extraordinary because he
is really a younger man than I am. I have frequently
used bis name.”
“ Can you mention an occasion when you were both
present at the same place at the same time ? ”
“Certainly I can. On the boat, when the diving
apparatus was tried. By the way, that diving apparatus
did not cause a man’s death. He had a diseased spine ;
he would have died if he had jumped off a chair. Yes, I
and Grin were both there. I was using his name at the
time, and we were exactly alike.”
Which suggests a very awkward situation. If
Rougemont and Grin were in the same boat, and
concerned with the same diving apparatus, and
they looked exactly alike, and Rougemont was
calling himself Grin, and Grin was calling himself
Grin, anybody might become confused.
siyrnKE
THREE CASTLES
CBSSies
V*
K®
Kir
CIGARETTES.
CAN
Cocoa
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOCoyT-miEii
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 George-st., Sydney.


Aboriginalities.
When the railway was first “ laid on ” to
Condobolin (N.S.W.), the preliminary trips were
rendered exciting by a grizzled old cocky and his
four sons, who, armed—the old man with an
ancient muzzle-loader and the boys with stones—
used to lie in wait for the train and bombard it
as it passed. One theory was that they took it
for a new species of wild animal, and were deter-
mined to defend their hearth and home till death.
But probably it was only their way of expressing
exultation, tempered with beer, at the progress of
ihft dUf-rinf- ’ 6
m '
*.* * *
An eccentric gentleman was Spondulix,
accountant of the Mucki branch of the Mullock
and Mud Bank. Spon. was no end of a pistol-
shot, and every night ere turning in he used to try
Miss HELENE BURDETTE (Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
a few shots out of the bank revolver at a cigarette
advt. stuck up on the wall. Growler lived next
door, and Spon.’s bullets used-to go through the
weatherboard wall of his (Spon.’s) domicile. Just
as Growler would be dozing, a bullet would—
plunk !—flatten against his brick wall. Somehow,
all Spon.’s most trifling movements seemed to be
known to the district inspector, and Spon. gave
Growler credit for carrying tales, so decided to
try him. Spon. prepared a fishing-line by cutting
all the strands bar one, and invited Growler
to a night’s fishing in the river. They went,
and at the first cast Spon.’s line carried away
and he lost his sinker and hooks. A new
hook was snoozed on, but a second sinker could
not be found, so Spon. pulled a bunch of keys out
of his pocket and fastened them on for a sinker,
“ Don’t be a damned fool,” said Growler. “ Sup-
pose yon lose them, a nice fix you’ll be in.” “I’ll
chance it,” said Spon., and out they flew halfway
across the river. The line did carry away—at
another place where Spon. had nearly cut it
through—and then he bound Growler down by
sundry oaths not to tell a soul how he had lost the
bank keyS- Next day, up came the district
inspector, post-haste, with the duplicate keys in
his pocket, and asked Spon. to open the safe and
allow him to count the cash, and his jaw dropped
when Spon. strolled over and opened the safe. Of
course, it was a useless old bunch of keys that was
lying at the bottom of the river, and Growler was
badly bowled out.
......
« Wel]j sir> .> sa j d Spon>j « j> m sorry you should
have had your trip for nothing, but if you’ll wait
t** l tke afternoon, we’ll try for a black duck or
two—they’re pretty thick down the river just
now -’, T*' Ins had the reputation of being
a crack shot, and m the afternoon they went about
a mile down the river, in the bend of which Spon.
had during the morning moored an indiarubber
decoy-duck, which looked lifelike. Inspector was
® rst to see the duck and, crawling through the
ferns to the brink of the river bank, let drive.
Under went the duck, and as he came up smiling,
the other barrel went plump irrto him. Up he
came to time again, and the Inspector dropped in
a couple of fresh cartridges and gave him bang-
hang, but still the decoy toed the scratch. “ Well,
I’m hanged,” said the shooter, “ I’ve put enough
lead int « t £ at bird to km elephant, and he
hasn’t a feather ruffled. ” By this time the water
was getting into the shot holes, and duckie was
sinking low, but just before his head disappeared,
another couple of shots tore the water up like a
dose of grape, and Mr. Inspector tells to this day
of that wonderful duck.
* * * *
“WPS”’ Wan lnnninor trees in winter
, vv.H.S. . Was lopping trees in winter
for f c< ? ws - *fft my thick, woollen coat (cigarettes
Tnat , ches and " ot , e : bo . ok in ?° cket) , on st f V m P
y a " ds aw ‘7‘ Notwed one old cow leave the herd
a ? d 'T ander °, ff Y ffc ? r lo PP’ for about 20 m, «‘
»tes, happened to look round towards my coat
1 was S on ?’ but something dark was hanging out
ot old cow s mouth. Ran over but was too late.
She had eaten one sleeve and all the top part,
cigarettes, note-book and matches included.
Same cow used to wander round the kitchen in
search of brooms, which—and also the hair of
blacking-brushes—she would devour with a relish,
* * * *
Telegram from coun-
try storekeeper (visiting
Sydney at Jubilee time)
to his way-back partner :
“ Wildest exciting prevail.
Splendor sigh ts. City
ablaze. Eggs firm.”
* • •
“Yang Anyut ” : Re
immunity from snake-
poisoning (B. 12/11/’98):
Have never known im-
mune person, but have
heard of many claims to
that effect. Three times
have seen snake charmer
allow snakes (cobra, uler
blian, and cobra de ca-
pello) to bite him, but
found that in two cases
the poison-bags had been
removed, and that in third
they were empty. In last
case I permitted snake to
bite me, without ill effect,
but when three days later
I allowed same snake to
bite a fowl, it died inside
three minutes ! Since have
been bitten more than
once by so-called deadly
snakes and have resorted
to whisky, and plenty of
it. Again, I am not af-
fected even bycontactwith
freshly-cut bark of the
runyas (fabled upas-tree—
Antiaris toxicaria) though
most men are affected with
slight fever, accompanied
by blister-like rash upon
coming close to a newly-
felled runr/as. Have known
carpenters exhibit severe
symptoms of poisoning on
cutting up rungas wood,
even after tree had lain
over two years seasoning.
From this tree is obtained
the deadly sumpitan ar-
row - poison, to which I
and perhaps 20 natives
whom I have known were
quite immune, though very many are so in less
degree.
* * * •
“Asmodeus”: At South Creek, near Mul-
grave, a “green” fisher landed a big flathead.
He had never seen one of the species before, and
looked at it askance as it writhed at his feet,
Asked old hand, adjacent, to diagnose forbidding
thing. Old hand classified it as a “ water-
gohanna very dangerous to handle. Undertook
to remove and destroy it. Did so accordingly—in
his own frying-pan.
, , „ „
, ,
‘‘ B. 1. : Recently watched goanna tackle
crows’ nest. Old crows made desperate resist-
ance, and eventually pulled the reptile out by his
tail, when he fell to the ground, and I settled
him. Inside him I found three young nearly-
fledged crows.
THE ACCURSED SMALL BOY.
LITTLE BOY ON THE FENCE: “I say, mister,
keep his tail up or his eyes’ll drop out!”
“ C.C. ” : The katipo spider is not the only
venomous creature in Maoriland. The hideous-
looking weta which bores holes in the Makomako
shrub and lays its eggs there is quite as poisonous.
The Maoris are more scared of it than of the
katipo. Once saw a young pakeha chase a Maori
with one he had lassooed. The Maori fled, yelling
“ Taipo, taipo” ; met another Maori, who likewise
fled. Joker kept going till he had the whole hapu
in flight. But he had to make a hurried exit that
night, with his tent burning behind him.
• * * *
Some years before the discovery of tin on
the East Coast, Tas., there came to the hut of
one Daniels, a selector, a tramp named Edwards
looking for work. Daniels put him on, and he
became so essential to his boss—and to Mrs.
Daniels—that he was still there when the news of
the brothers Krushka’s find burst over the dis-
trict. Shortly afterwards Daniels’ section was
found to contain tin, and he was at length pre-
vailed upon to part for a good price to a tin mag-
nate who paid him the money in hard cash. This
was the last ever seen of Daniels. Edwards, who
reported the departure of the couple to the main-
land, followed soon after, alone. Then trouble
arose as to the boundaries of Daniels’ old lot.
The surveyor was dead, and the only man who
could throw a light on the matter was Daniels.
Enquiries were set on foot, and at length Ed-
wards and Mrs. Daniels were discovered. The
latter declared that she and her husband had
quarrelled, and that she had not heard of him for
12 months. The search broke down at that.
Edwards was one of those who wrote their names
on their billies in a bad mining accident on the
mainland, and whose bodies were found by the
rescue-party. About this time, writer, who was
on the spot, was shown a skeleton unearthed close
to the site of Daniels’ old hut. The bones were
those of a small human : and Daniels was a small
man. Now, who could tell the best yarn—Ed-
wards’ coffined remains, the skeleton, or Mrs.
Daniels ?
• • • •
S.A. still has its ostrich farm. J. H. Angas
is one of the biggest and most interested share-
holders in the proprietary co. The number of
birds is now 560 ; the annual expenditure runs to
just over £lOOO, and in the last half-year the profit
was below <£loo—but it was a bad season. The
little industry has been running nearly a score of
years.
Bulloo Downs and Careary, the two big
Q’land cattle stations whose stock are best known
down South, have listened to the complaint of the
tanners, and brand now the one on the thigh
and the other on the forearm. The question is
being seriously considered whether in these times
it is worth branding at all. Many American
ranches don’t.
' A black-tracker on one of the Northern
.N.S.W. rivers died recently, and the body, after
being coffined by the police, was handed over to
his tribesmen for burial. About a week after, a
po 1 iceman met one of these and asked if they had
buried Tommy all right. “Oh, yes, boss.
We bin bury ’im all right. Wrapum ’im up
a’onga blanket an’ put ’im in ground. My
word, that fella box make um good boat
duck-shootin’.”
“ Melb. Townsman”: I think
we need an Act of Parliament to
prohibit publication of weather
prophecies by aboriginal
blacks and other bush autho-
rities. Sixorsevenmonths
ago I bought a new
macintosh and a pair
of very weighty
boots on the nn-
derstanding
that the ants
in the Victo-
rian wilds had
started crawl-
ing up the trees
to escape
floods. It was
to be the flood-
iest winter on
record, yet it
went near to
endinginpray-
erforrain. And
later, ere the
gold was off
the wattle, &c.,
we had voices from the interior proclaiming
that the snakes had crawled forth in their
thousands to give notice of a phenomenally
early and hot summer. Whereupon I invested in
a job lot of white linen rairnent, which is thus far
a ghastly mockery of the average temperature. If
people up country have any belief in the wisdom
of ants and snakes, let ’em keep it to themselves,
I say. Seems to me that the insects and reptiles
are imposing on their ignorance.
• * * *
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) still talks of Gov.
Carington’s never-to-be-forgotten visit. One of
the district magnates—we’ll say Kerfupps—living
out of town arrived in Coota. rather late, and had
just time to rush into an hotel for a bath and
hurry down to meet H.E. Whilst in the bath
some wag stole his socks, and Kerfupps, rather
than risk missing the show, pulled on his boots
without his “Matildas.” The Gov. was duly met,
and in his usual off-hand style was “ shouting ”
freely at Solomon’s Hotel, when Kerfupps went
to the door, and seeing several of the townies out-
side cried, “Come inside, boys, he’s not at all
particular who he shakes hands with.” The
“boys” went inside and after a few drinks a
couple of them started an argument. “I tell you
he don’t,” said one. “ Oh, rot! ” said the other.
“ Well, I’ll lay you drinks all round,” said No. 1,
“hedon’t.” “ Wager,” replied No. 2 ; and turn-
ing to Kerfupps he said, “ Look here, Kerfupps,
the fact is, this man says you never wear socks,
and I’ve bet him drinks you do. So, just flash
’em and let’s have the liquor. ” And before the
victim could reply he had dashed at Kerfupps and
pulled up the leg of his trousers, showing the bare
pelt. Ah 1 old Coota. was a live town in those
days.
* * • *
“ 0.P.” : About time somebody spoke up
against the revolting ram-operation known as
“crushing.” Like speying cows, I think the law
prohibits “ crushing ” ; but, for all that, it is still
largely practised in N.S.W. When rams get too
old for stud-purposes, instead of being killed and
thrown to the—ugh !—pigs, they are “ crushed ”
and turned out to recover and fatten. Then they
are killed and sent to the men’s huts, where that
awful creature —the modern station-hand —eats
them without a whimper.
* * * *
“G. 8.” : Re ’roo’s tail touching ground :
followed track of one last Sunday, on a road with
nearly 3in. dust on it, for a mile-and-half.
Measured his jump (10ft. Sin. on average), and his
tail only touched the ground in two places in all
that distance.
* * * •
“ J. 5.8.” : Re reptilian life-tenacity. Once
stiffened black snake and threw him into hollow
stump. Nearly five months later looked in stump,
expecting only to see skeleton, but, to my astonish-
ment, the snake looked as good as new, and, when
poked with a stick, began to wriggle about. Also,
once shot away hinder portion—including both
hind legs—of a goanna, and, six weeks afterwards,
he gave evidence, when disturbed, of being still
on “this side” by dragging what remained of
him along by fore legs, although the ants had
cleaned the flesh off much of that.
* * * *
“ R.S.” : Re Australian blacks’ powers of
mimicry. Once saw a young gin imitating a
buffalo drinking. Going down on all fours, she
imitated the burying of the huge head almost to
the eyes, the occasional stamp of a forefoot, the
throwing the water back on the belly first with
one foot then the other, the turning to lick the
shoulders, the scratching of the ribs with the hind
foot, and, lastly and most wonderful of all,
she gradually swelled herself out till she was like
a huge pumpkin, and had to give in, laughing.
* * * *
The bush dandy is an interesting study.
Writer knew one who always carried a small flat-
iron among his belongings, wherewith he carefully
did up his shirt-front on festive occasions.
* * * •
A squatter, noted for closefistedness and
prayer, went out recently to pass a Chow neigh-
bor's work, and found numbers of trees untouched.
“ O, dat fella no matter,” said the Chinky, “me
worky welly fast, no see him.” “ All right, John,
when I pay you, I count very fast—one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven penny one shilling,
eh ! —you savee?” “No, no, no. Me savee you
dam logue.”
THE BUSH TWIST.
’Tis strange, but surely shackled I must be,
For though I strive to fix me, yet in vain ;
Full twenty times I’ve passed one standing tree,
And never once have known that tree again !
Gray grassy flats that sweep from granite hill
And drowsy brooks I never viewed before,
All seem familar to my mind until
Unwittingly I come to them once more.
I hear my fainting heart go pit-a-pat,
I’m dizzy with the never-ceasing strain
To separate the dim-lit places that
Go swimming in a whirlpool thro’ my brain.
Tho’ I survey the landscape, view the sun,
And carefully by these my bearings take,
’Tis strange my course is ever over-run
With duplicates of objects in my wake.
At last I shout with all my failing force,
And soon an answering shout comes ringing back :
Anon a dusky damsel on a horse
Puts me upon an old familiar traok.
I follow it the way she tells me to,
Convinced the other is the right way still,
And marvel much to see when safely thro’,
The creek reversed, and running up the hill I
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
“LACHLAN-JACK.”
Axemen ? Gippslanders and Tassies ?
Sonny mine, you make me smile !
To those chopping- 11 guns ” you mention
“ Lachlan-Jack” can give a mile !
What was that you whispered, sonny?
Where the devil were you dried !
Never heard of “Jack the Axeman,”
Over on the Lachlan-side ?
Jack was bred on Weddin’-Mountains,
And from Grenfell out to Bourke,
To him nought can hold the candle
When it comes to timber-work 1
Gidya, myall, box and jarrah,
Ironbark or mountain-gum !
He goes through ’em like a saw-mill,
And he downs ’em as they come 1
Saw him chopping for a wager —
lie has not been beat as yet—
It was raining cats and dogs, and
We were getting soaking wet.
But Tie swung his seven-pounder,
And he caused the chips to fly
In such lightning-like succession
That they kept him snug and dry 1
N.Q.
6X8
“ THREE GOOD THINGS ”
. . . Made in England . . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Pure Malt Y inegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce HAS BEEN AWARDED MORE Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY -‘PURE MALT."
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY.


Most of those start-
ling feats of fence-climb-
ing which rabbits are
credited with are per-
formed by does about to
become mothers ; and it
is pretty clear that they
do these things in order
to get out of the way of
the other sex. A down-
south pastoralist lately
told a Parliamentary
Commission that he had
actually seen does drop
part of their litter while
attempting to struggle
over a 4ft. netting.
* * •*
“ S.S.”: Once, When
harvesting at Cardigan,
near Ballarat, had for
hut - mate a long, thin
German, who extempo-
rised a mattress from a
couple of wheat - sacks
sewn together at the
mouths and stuffed with
hay. Herman stuffed
them himself in the
morning. During the
night I was frequently
awakened by my mate
cursing pathetically in
guttural German. “Dot
vos a tarn pad ped,” he
said in the morning. “ I
haff to alter heim, he vos
like he am stuffed mit
rope.” But Herman did
not alter his bed, and on
the following night I
rested as badly as before,
and Herman rolled about
and breathed bad lan-
guage. “I alter me dot
ped dis time, sure
enough,” said Herman
when he turned out in
the morning; but he
had to be reminded of
it later, and then he
ripped up the sacks, and tumbled the hay on the
floor, and two dispirited four-foot black snakes
flopped out, and meandered for the door. I slept
peacefully through the following night. Herman
was in hospital, suffering from shock.
* * * *
“6xB” discourses on derivations :
I agree that ringer derives from the old phrase, “ rings
round him”— i.e., easily beating an opponent at sport or
battle: E.g., “ Samuels could run rings round Malone.”
A ringer is by no means the fastest shearer on the board.
Very often there ar! several who can beat the ringer for
a given time. He is the most constant and hardest
worker, and puts out the most sheep during the season,
and, of course, gets the biggest cheque. The cheque
decides the ringer.
Drummer is not necessarily the slowest shearer in the
shed. He’s more often the laziest, and gets the least
money on pay-day. I don’t think the position of drums
in brass-bands (“ Mungundi’s ” suggestion) has anything
to do with this term. In olden days (old shed habits and
practices are fast dying out) the man with the smallest
amount of sheep to his credit on cut-out day used to be
drummed out of the shed by the rouseabouts.
Cobbler need not be the last or any other sheep in a
pen. By cobbler shearers mean a dirty, sticky or matted
and wrinkly sheep—one that is hard to shear. Two men
catching out; of one pen naturally avoid bad sheep—i.e.,
cobblei-s—as long as possible ; and pens not being refilled
until the last sheep has been caught the last sheep is
more often a cobbler than any other. Some pen-mates—
especially shearers of even speed-don’t select, but take
as they come. In their pens cobblers are generally the
A FELLOW - FEELING.
f ?hint ked ’ and the ood sht ' e P left till last. The term,-
cobbler ’’• C «h eS - fron \ the 01(1 Proverb: “As dirty as u
C h l S ? ? ?! an «- is practically uniform in all
fished inlther he ri S- Here are a few mol e ol<l and estah-
amilied?n of tS - Horse =crocodtle (shortened to croc ) first
common 1 J 2? w ? nd ° ld horse?: now generalised. The
baffle the ntn i° f ?P e in » Hie abbreviation crock— might
bait Hun ph'htlogists of 2000. Looking for shearing—
a cut - Cut stands for shed-job. There are
I n i *T ro . v f h cut?- In the former the boss is particular,
how aL'ii! 1 * ls enien l’ and shearers can shear anv-
the niia- Hein* e| an for fine-cut is pm kin’ ’em—showing
haw kin n— 0 S r', u? 1 r flugh-cut, an alternative is toma-
was chm-mori rc? 2?ffhly-sheared sheep looks as if the wool
niand ° ff ,ts back .with a tomahawk. A repri-
Hann-ino- mnL 0 ' j Discharge— sack, shot, or spear,
tor a <lrnf?, md ? shed 111,4,1 someone is sacked— waiting
who can uh’o„ fl an means, generally speaking, a man
Monaro nm,!!” 20 9 P e F da 3’i though in some parts
are unknown°o nt on nS ’i° r lnsta .nce where high tallies
plies to lparn!i? n ®®" a ' da J' man is a gun. A snagger ap-
loppies and / ei ’?l7 unclel ' 50 '?-d a .V nten. Rouseabouts are
teVers are bit er T cfc *’ ~i n shed Phraseology. Mus-
musterers Jhn'r. a , r ’? ,f^ ads (°nfrfnally applied to slow
the shearine- h °Kn U dn 1 kee ? up the sheep and stopped
who are shprifii^ 0 '!!? enela tci m )- Rosellas are sheep
The missiic won? 4heir wool. They are easy to shear,
pearanoe in,J ln . P laces > gives them a spotted ap-
qlers ar ’ 4ba t of the spotted rosella parrot. Stray-
Thev are mnti sb ® e P. niissed in the general shearing.
3 re mustered afterwards, and shorn at the second
LEON CARON.
Photo., The Alba Studios.
or straggler-shearing. The pack-saddle is called the
peter. A public-house—a rabble; in later vears, the
joint-can. Ratted or robbed is meant by raddled. Be-
fore the Union was established, squatters used to raddle
—i.e., mark with red or blue raddle —any sheep they
didn t deem satisfactorily shorn. Whole pensful were
often thus turned out, and not paid for. Hard-uppish-
ness a shearer confesses when he says he’s stiff, or broke,
or stoorned, or stoney, or fly-blown.
**’ * *
“Bogan ” : The accepted belief that black
duck always builds on ground is wrong. Shooting
recently out Nyngan way, saw black duck flutter
out of hole in big box-tree. Climbed tree 8 or
9 feet, and found nest with 10 eggs. .Not wood-
duck or widgeon—real black duck.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be ta/cen or communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Frank G. : There is probably less chance of work
in W.A. now than in most other provinces. The water
scheme will be started right enough, unless the British
money-lender absolutely shuts down J.H. : Of course,
heisent'tled to what he receives. We know that this
country is not so well managed as the hotel in question.
Competent hotel-managers are scarce ; so are competent
Premiers B.S.P. : Hard to get racing experts who
do not bet Haresfoot: Why is Irving’s business career
over? Probably he needed an illness to make him strong
again F. : Yarn about Kennedy and the Salvationists
and the removal of “agonised subjects’’ is largely un-
true on the face of it. To be untrue without being
humorous is a deadly sin in any yarn.. Edvardus:
Bathos about the Wyges of Shyme ... H.G. : Nothing new
and startling in suggestion that elderly virgins at
Y.W.C.A. meetings tend to turn the milk sour! They
have been known to have a baneful influence upon the
buns .... L.L. : The Tola means “ the Image ’’—any object
of religious worship. Buddha is “Tola” equally with
Christ Remo : Story of the sanctimonious legislator
and his lady-friend at the Parliamentary garden-gate is
very vague. Give details showing where the wickedness
comes in C.S.: Some people seem to regard The Bul-
letin as a medium for puffing Melb. pressmen . .. F. :
True impiousness, as The Bulletin has previously re-
marked, is notso much disrespect for religion as disrespect
for the blessed “ cloth.” To poke borak at Rentoul and eo.
in their reverend capacities is the greatest of all sins
Y.A. : You recall the unconscious female humorist who
used to put crabs and lobsters into cold water to boil “ so
that the poor things wouldn’t feel the shock too sud-
denly.” Trotter B. : Don’t exactly know how to drag
it in .... Sydney M.L.: No thanks. And we put no comma
after the No Prayers for Rain : Are we swine, whose
owner will not feed us till we squeal? Arch. G. : Too
domesticated for Bulletin F.W.K.: If by “tubular”
you mean cylindrical, that is only form in use for long
ranges. (Lee-Metford kills 3000yds.) If you mean
hollow-pointed, that form only in use for severe “ smash-
ing” at ranges not over 150yds. 4. Various. 5. No steel
—nickel or lead ... A.M‘L. : “The very first Jewish sol-
dier since the days of Josephus.” Why, wasn't Massena
a Jew—and Kellermann? 70 x3O : Can’t be done. VVe
don’t run this paper “for the good of our health.”
Ed. M. (Ballarat): One or two may serve E.K. : Jibe
not even original. The late eloquent John M’Elhone
used to say he “ could buy any journalist for the price of
a leather sandwich and a pint of soldier’s joy.”
11.M.T. : One or two may possibly serve A.M.D. : N.S.
Wales Labor-party says it is the tail that wags the dog—
but it is always careful to ascertain which way the dog,
in the person of G. H. Reid, wants to go before it wags to
any extent. Also, whenever said tail does try a little
wag “ on its own”—as in the Suffield case—the aforemen-
tioned dog has only to growlandthe wagging soon stops....
G.H.B. : What a tame bird will or will not do is no test.
Sivad : May possibly use N.N.N Wani-ura-ura :
Cannot possibly tell you. That is an office secret H. :
Why should not the hanged be cremated ? To go further,
why shouldn’t every corpse be interred in quick-lime ?
No reason except sentiment L.8.E.: Don't understand
reference to “ Quinn.” Which Quinn? Aorari: That
minor Judge is clearly unfitted for his position, inasmuch
as he brings the law into hatred and contempt, whereas
the law’s administration should be such as to secure for
it the affection and respect of all good citizens Jack S. :
That Tarbeaux matter all appeared in Bulletin long ago'
Euler : Laboriously unhumorous Miner’s Right
(Dundas): Would read too much like a puff for the pro-
perty. We don’t care to puff individual mining
properties, but are always glad to hear of and mention
places where men can get a living. Rewi W. : Old Maori
objected to survey, and then withdrew objection. How
wildly exciting! Jumbo: Both too trivial Jep :
Dull snake-perjury Long-Un : “ Warrigal,” good
Tin Lip: Yes; imitated from Cockney “isophonic”
slang D. P. Steele: “ Hallucination ” we don’t labor
under James B. (M.L.): Well, “ the dry bones are
rattling”—in your verse! Hugh V. : Good yarn, but
barred by fact of its having appeared elsewhere, in any
guise —Rex : Makes us feel like regicide Shainus : No,
thanks W. Perry: Well-invented; sorry treatment
leaves much to be desired Marsyas : You don’t quite
deserve the fate of your protonym Boro :An absolute
nothing! Rip: Well-versed, but otherwise hardly
class enough ... O. Gordon : Can’t say. The girls always
kiss us . ... John C.L. : Metrically impracticable! Bogus :
Well, we wouldn’t have quite called it that.. .Eric M. : Not
sand enough ... Ed. Lord : Out of the question for “8.”....
T.V. : “ Why is the hospital-nurses’ garb so much sought
after by women?” Probable reason is that woman knows
the effect of a uniform on herself “ Leges ” : Your
dogma that a criminal should unfold his guilt to his bar-
rister is unsound. Take the historical case of Courvoisier,
for murdering his employer, Lord Russell. How much
more effective Barrister Phillips would have been had he
doubted in his own mind. The knowledge of a client’s
guilt must depress the advocate. . Viola : Nothing to
distinguish it from 20,000 similar yarns, except that the
idea of an Australian blac.kfellow shedding “ tears of con-
trition” and beating a remorseful breast is quite too
funny for anything Frank K. : “ Ranges” pretty, ac-
cording to regulation pattern Fred. W. H. : Not
wantonly “ rough ” on anybody. It might make a par.
P. Pirie : Too flimsy. Phil.: The style would
strangle the story —if there were any story!. .
Sendo: The only Department in N.S.W.‘directly and
solely responsible to the Governor, and not to Parliament
or the Ministry, is that of the Mint. The Governor, as
Commander-in-chief, is also head of the army and is
phrased as having sole control of its discipline, but as the
expenditure is in the hands of a Minister the phrasing
doesn’t amount to much P. : Bruce Smith is not now
in Parliament but sticks to his bar-practice : the other
man is in Westralia. Haven’t heard of Luscombe for a
long while ; he was appointed Inspector of Scaffolding by
the Dibbs Govt., but lost that position by reason of his
age Sandgroper : Our “candid opinion” is that it
won’t do P.M.D. : There is no question whatever as to
the bower-bird being a most excellent mimic .... Pat. M‘D.
(El.): Thanks S.J.C. :To hand. A. 0.8. : “Is orange
wine alcoholic?” Dunno. Probably. Diink keg aud
report. W.M.B. (N.T.): Glad to hear from you
again Onlys: Will consider what you send
J.W. : Painted - spider yarn pre-historie ..Archie:
Would all go in six lines Margaret A. : No time to
decipher A.A.A. : Promising liar ... F.J.M. : Too
trifling W.D.11. : Stiff and dull A.H.T.: The white
scalded the black, and the black murdered the white,
and the Judge said “ Bravo !” Not much !.. . Tampan :
Too roughly put together Pelican : Better have re-
mained in the wilderness Cass Andia : Will read, but
Xmas No. was already completed Verity : Lies no
interest merely as lies Dit: Could not deal with till
out of date Jim : Too casual and inconsequent
Flux (M.L.) : Never heard of “matai beer,” though, no
doubt, something like spruce-beer can be made from the
matai 7x7 : Receiving-warder story a chestnut; law-
yer yarn unprintable ; fencer item probably libel
Fact (W.A.) : Rather too undressed C.P.N. : Un-
available ... M.M. : Utterly hopeless . Totara : Yes,
M.L. stamp will do.. The Cherub : You write, “ The
following is an extract from,” &e. ; why not begin “ Ex-
tract from :—” ? No room in this paper for daily-paper
phrases. Without becoming telegraphic, boil down by at
least 70 per cent P.O.F. : You send us some red-hot
and cowardly libels : then, next day, write saying you
don’t want your name to appear. When your libels go in
your name will accidentally go in too . Scotty : But you
send no verificatory cutting. Also, at best, we have only
the sly-grog supplier’s own word that she provided the
liquor without any idea of payment, and that the money
was “ thrust into her hand.” Of course, if the facts are
as alleged by her, the action of the police is infamous
Rollo : Plain dead digger at Kalgoorlie and plain girl weep-
ing because he doesn’t come back. All very plain indeed..
Pop (Tas.) : Can recommend a trustworthy patent-agent :
but it means money- say 150, unless you can persuade a
robber-syndicate to stand in. By the way, how loim have
you watched the 50-year clock? J.W. :No fun in that.
Will Ogilvie’s charming volume of verse,
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” is now ready. In
case of any local difficulty or delay in supply, the
best plan is to order direct from The Bulletin,
enclosing 4s. 6d. in stamps or postal notes ; and
get the book by return post.
Dear Bulletin. —Some folks in "Victoria
are very wrath with little Ben Tillett because he
has said in England that the poor old folks in our
Benevolent Asylums are very much worse treated
than the poor in English workhouses. Well, the
present writer, who has been over a good many
English workhouses and is able to make com-
parisons, says that Tillett is perfectly light.
Remember the English workhouse of to-day, under
strict Government inspection, is very different
from the workhouse of the Dickens period. The
arrogant, patronising, purse-proud insolence of
the benevolent persons who talk about their
generous treatment of the poor in Victoria, makes
one feel ill. Tillett knew what he was talking
about, and he spake the simple truth. A
“ pauper ” in an English workhouse is infinitely
better off than an “ inmate ” in, say, the Mel-
bourne Benevolent Asylum.— Bumble.
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c-., &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
Tyson items from Toowoomba Chronicle :
A Toowoomba gentleman suddenly asked the question,
“ Look here, Mr. Tyson, do you believe you were destined
to be a millionaire—that God intended you to be one?”
“ I believe that God plans everything,” was the calm
reply, and, after a few moments’ silence, he continued, in
an indescribable tone, “ I firmly believe that I, James
Tyson, have a mission from Providence ; that I was sent
upon this earth for a special purpose. I believe I have a
special mission from Providence to improve properties on
the earth of this land of ours, and to make them produc-
tive. AH my life has been devoted to that object."
“ But, when you are dead, what then of your properties
and you: wealth?” queried his friend. “I have no fear
on that score,” replied Mr. Tyson. “ When lam gone,
God will fix matters up.”
Predestined to “ improve properties ” ! And—
in the Toowoomba Chronicle of April 2, 1887,
appeared the following advertisement on behalf of
Tyson:—
PRACTICAL DOMESTICATION.
A person who does not wish his name or his residence
to be known, is so impressed with the idea that the
traininsr of young women of the present day is not such
as to fit them for the position of good housewives and
mothers, is willing to give two prizes—first prize, £5O ;
second, £2s—to be competed for by the young women of
the Darling Downs district. The qualification to be aa
follows
1. Age, from 15 to 21 years.
2. Figure strong, well-grown, healthy, with good
carriage.
3. To be able to read English well aloud, to write a
decent letter according to grammatical rules, and per-
form on some musical instrument or sing moderately
well.
4. To be able to cut out and make their own dresses
and underclothing ; dress ,to be neat, no artificial means
(such as pads, steel hoops, high-heeled boots, &0., &c.)
will be allowed.
MUST DIET HIM.
PRINCESS BANG-BANG (to her royal brother, who
is feeding the fatted calf): "Ugh! Don't
give him pine-apple. You know how the pater
hates pine-apple. If he tastes it in the
preacher on the great feast-day your head
won’t be worth a cocoanut.”
5. To be able to cook a good meal and also prepare food
for a sick room.
6. A thorough knowledge of all household duties (and
likely to establish her own home in after life).
This prize-girl competition was the fun of the dis-
trict. The fun chiefly came in over article 2
“ figure strong, well-grown, healthy, with food
carriage—beg pardon, good carriage.” A dozen
girls were ranged up like show-pigs for in-
spection ; and how, asked the wicked wits,
was the decision reached ? Obviously, you
couldn’t guarantee a girl’s figure with her
clothes on; and So much ridicule was
poured on Tyson’s brilliant idea that the competi-
tion, which was intended to be an annual affair,
was promptly ended. And Tyson retired in a
huff from the field of “ practical domestication.”
Amongst the many amusing reminiscences
of Leon Caron, whose genial countenance adorns
this issue, is one to the effect that once, when con-
ducting an Emelie Melville operatic season at
Brisbane, he made a bet with since-deceased tenor
Harding that he, Caron, would appear at the
theatre that night without his beard. “In the
afternoon, accordingly, I had the beard removed,
and then secluded myself in my room till theatre-
time arrived. When I presented myself as usual
at the stage-door, however, I was refused admis-
sion—‘ No strangers allowed behind, sir’; and it
wasn’t till I assured the. janitor that I had a very
important message for Miss Melville that he let
me pass. By this time the musicians were seated
in the orchestra, and when I took my place at the
conductor’s-stand, they were obviously wondering
who the devil this was. Nor did they guess until
the middle of the overture, which, through the
librarian forgetting to put my conduct score on
my stand, 1 had to conduct by memory. Then
they knew it must be me, because I knew the
opera by heart ; and they began to laugh so much
that they nearly collapse.', dropping their instru-
ments one after the other ; while on the stage
Miss Melville, who had just made her first en-
trance, was suddenly convulsed with laughter at
the sight of me. Then everybody joined in, and
the performance had to come to a stand-still until
company and audience had their laugh out.”
Probably the most beautiful collection of
diaries for 1899 is that issued by Messrs. Collins
Brothers and co., of 69 York-street, Sydney.
They are of about two dozen varieties, ranging
from the plain, cheap, useful, and enormous
down to dainty little things in beautiful binding
for the individual whose diary is a luxury. They
are in all colors, as well as in all sizes, bound in
every possible style, gilt-edged and otherwise,
plain and fancy and miscellaneous. Whoever
wishes to keep a diary for his sins, so that he can
look back in astonishment at the end of the year,
and discover what kind of girl he was engaged
to at the beginning, should try one of Collins’
manufacture.*
Be female chemists, talked of in late issue.
A London Queen, lately to hand, urges dispensing
as an occupation to which women should look for
more than average success. Lightness of touch,
love of order, and a few other things are men-
tioned as all in woman’s favor in this calling. It
is added that, though so far as can be learned
only three females hold big dispensing billets in
the kingdom, many uncertificated country doctors’
wives make up hubbies’ prescriptions.
“ The Sunlight Year Book for 1899 ” is to
hand, with rather less information than an ency-
clopaedia, and ever so many hints, tips, and
notions about all manner of interesting subjects.
The volume would be still more useful if it were
deliberately constructed for Australian readers,
instead of for English.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
FASHION
ClarpoGrS
thei'efn,-J 0 r ( P ', eser ! ts in Perfect Taste-ami Good. We
Limieioie stork th»m —ji .... c.™ ».->
SOLID
SILVPi? h “"“V 1 ' them in endless variety,
~ 1 ran Hin» from 5• to 20/- each. '
hasi,mdiT,°ii L - E T ® E( J ui SITE and NICK-NACK that Art
8 p,odu<ed is to be found in our Stock at
LONDON CASH PRICES.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellers in Sydney)
23 Hunter Street (only),
- . • SYDNEY J
5/9
Solid Silver
Pin Tray.
5/9
We find pleas-
ure in sending
Goodson appro-
val to the coun-
try, and also
Catalogues.
This Year
SILVER-
DA INTI KS
are lower than
ever before.
§jß?*!
Rtna-ji’iiH
GO TO HELL-
KiOr.AN l> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Flizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
EXQUISITE! ”
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.


(2). This is the silly season. -The silly season is w’en mmnbers
of Parliment go about on free-passes doin’ nothin , and ge
week for doin’ it.
(?) Answers - to Correspondence.— Furioso : You did right. If a friend
hosswhips -you with the wrong end of a hosswhip, and he is a bigger man than you, 1
it is legal to shoot him with a lethal weepon, and the lethaler the better. That’s
the law.
THE UNEMPLOYED.
!f day u mornins the Premier'promised a
-puiation .hat the Government would put in
hand some, tontative work to provide employ-
ment tor a number o£ men who are idl* and
t 0 ear - n f“ ou sJ» money ft see
them over the Christmas a'nd New Year weeks.
I (4). “ Tentative work ”is French for sand-shiftin* George Reid has been
| learning French lately, you understand.
(I). Old Hop. has gone away for his
"olidays and left me to do all the work.
I’m bus understudy ; and here you see me
trying to think of something funny It
ain’t so easy as it looks.
(7). The Drought.—This
is the weather prophet what
prophesied rain, but kept on
using his garden hose, I
notice
(5). Here’s a p’liceman takin’ his ’olidays in plain
clothes. He thinks nobody would know him for
a policeman in that rig ; but you can allways pene-
trate a p’liceman’s disguise by his feet.
The editor says this sketch reminds him of Phil
May. If so, it’s unconscious celebration
(6). No, he didn’t leave no money to pay'
; bills with, and he took the key of the safe
iwith him.
(8). Old Hop. has gone
to Hobart hosstensibly
for a change ; but I’ve-
got suspicions that' he’s
gone to London, to get
the Agent-General, so no
more at present from his
dutiful pupil, Hop’s Un-
derstudy.
A TEMPORARY ABSENCE-HOP.'S UNDERSTUDY RUSHES INTO THE BREACH.


'os?
**>#
•*-**£3
.*«**■«■»*■ *sl* it&** eW ■
'SSfSSS“- w
to c° *
„ 17
Christ Ohtirch.'jSopth .Yarrb, was burglarA
tlduSl.T ehtere^-.dijriug. Wednesday night or )
I&.e early hoUrs of yesterday morning, and the
.crime of sacrilegg was committed under sln-
loathsome circumstances. The crime
,:\vas discovered’ Tjy Mr. Matthews, the ver- -
j; ger’s sop, who on paylpg an ehrly visit to.
vhe. church, found, a pair of boots In the
ftbrch. The ; door of the edifice was locked,
add Mr. Matthews opened It and entered.
All yvps silent Inside, and nothing seemed
ou£if harder, till 'he'.apprbached the pulpit,
whefj.'fhe sound of Bhprmg reached his ears,
his steps towards the spot
.whence’the noise cable, he found a shabbily
dressed, boatless .man at full,
length on the floor* Beside hiuf
a bottle half full df SacramCntal wine,
a silver commupioxv sendee, several .onvcf-
opes and $9Ol <> wax'topers reefing on q pieefe
of napeav
('fefrijeW'werJ / /x Jour*
r'ejpaficl fir Auw/fgp So -f/eefly, f
\ Vforp^so/oyes. A usefu.l poc/TeS— I
\ #yif e —y iuTp do JV/of" j
' \3/c[de lyfi c\vp ofyourirofler- l
(op/efR
iy hoKiy^
dT I?is> owr; 2^4
sjJeej^o^;
1 i' u7~£ it—
cv
i »S &*PI oi
I K <tv°VV Ht fe **
' e
vo-
*J e
;—-Jufe\s if°gV\
4ey Could e *p ec \
jo l f>(rfilioy'\r'oy
-fye yorK butelper^
Jfj/ou /fee M you* fee
» Sggg few S*«fi latest-
you <74? do-for/pe Sf Jjnfejou *?y-7fc/Ce7r"
Owyerof 'oss : J^/e/erC^dtod^e
4% 7?W %7. <=^>
if y^v/4 5 qo s'fe»C'f?>s
Ab°u-T KrJjA^eTTW/
s\yc[ ctjUTT? V) V/ifo'lizjpCOcK^Zf^iyy
roe ! Jjifey/l l^ e -io
jgjVe. i* l ? p "& cJ»<Kb§e,
Vs Vse»4-
e ff ed^
Wh* 'iy yoar T?ecl(, Sir
mjs&s.Tr>\ eryfur^er-‘ —
HI ,lVe Wj° stiffs
HL -*?y sipc© Cri^i^
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


GRAPHOPHONE.
50/j P
ißt
RI
GRAS
The Superior
talking
•MACHINE
TALKS 1
LAUGHS I
SINGS I AMUSES 1 and
ENTERTAINS l
PRICE (including: Repro-
ducer, Horn, and Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 Kingr-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Importing Representa-
tives for Australia. Agents wanted where we’ are not
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets, Musical
Instruments and Music; also for the best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. 6d. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
)\y-
IS
■tAKL tltVATon
I*ITT Street
E^D
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Caliinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Honey Order 01 London Draft.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
3* THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLO ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i -, and 2/- each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TH.I.OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
Dorth Queensland Insurance
Conipaoy Linjitcd.
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th. September, 1898.
Cr.
£ 8. d.
& 8. d.
To Capital Account—
-Ist Issue 100,000 at £1
each, £100,000; less un-
called £50,000 60,000 0 0
2nd Issue 13,750 at £1
each, £13,750 ; less un-
called, £10,312 10s. ... 3,437 10 0
~ Reserve Fund
„ Amounts owing for Reinsurance
~ Agency Drafts
~ Sundry Creditors
~ Unadjusted Claims
~ Revenue Account
63,437 10 0
15,000 0 0
3,498 14 7
8,750 0 0
679 14 4
402 11 2
8,070 16 3
£84,839 6 4
& s. d.
By Deposits at Call
~ Fixed Deposits
„ Freehold Property
„ Mortgage Loans
„ Debentures
„ Queensland Government
Savings Bank Stoek ...
~ Cash on hand and at
Bankers
£ s. d.
6,0 U 12 6
13,704 3 2
27,874 8 8
1,123 7 6
7,620 0 0
6,092 18 6
1,797 9 9
~ Sundry Debtors
„ Bills Receivable
„ Branch and Agency Balances
~ Premiums Outstanding
„ Reinsurance Claims and Return Pre-
miums Outstanding
r- Office Furniture
63,227 0 0
3,195 17 8
465 15 0
5,016 18 2
4,083 19 11
8,072 8 10
777 6 9
£84,839 6 4
REVENUE ACCOUNT.
£ b. d.
To Losses 32,807 10 6
„ Reinsurance and Return Premiums ... 68,216 10 10
£ s. d.
By Premiums 107,711 16 11
„ Commission, Rent and Interest 3,160 1 1
~ Charges (including Salaries, Rent, Direc-
tors’ Fees, Agency Commission, Legal
and all other Expenses) 18,758 14 6
„ Balance carried down 1,089 2 3
£110,871 18 0
To Balance ... ... ... ... ... 3,070 16 3
£3.070 16 8
£110,871 18 0
1,089 2 3
1,981 14 0
By Balance brought down
„ Balance from last year
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance 30th September, 1893
£
... 15,000
£15,000 0 0
Sydney, 24th November, 1893.
op
By Balance at 30th September, 1897
„ Profit and Loss
£ s. d.
10,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
£15,000 0 0
CHARLES DANVERS, General Manager.
I, the undersigned, certify that, having compared the balances with the amounts shown in the books, examined
all vouchers and securities, find the above Balance Sheet and .Revenue Account to be correct.
A. R. TROUP, F.5.1.A., Auditor.
OASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Kestorative.
QAVADUQOC’O Full directions.
UnVAriLUUL O All chemists,
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
CAPSULES
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
. . SEND FOR . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies\ Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
OUIBELL’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
A. Saunders.
8 Lore Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 209
Plain Birds, 13s Gd ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
r6c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
43 5s ; 6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
18c. Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds, 410.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
16c. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 IBs.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
Otr
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
l!io Gold, .42. Diamonds, 42 10s -ind P S.
'Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; l'earl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Sounders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Snunclers.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Long; Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 iOs, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, f 4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold, extra Strong
and Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 IDs., £3, £4.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Doub.e Cut
Diamond, £5 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
oc. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
oc. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
15c. Solid Gold, Hand-made Brooch,
60 Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, £l5 15s.
68 Diamonds, £2O.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
CTJO
SQJQ
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ ~ 455.
i assess
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 16a, £2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s;
16a Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
a. Saunders.
H s«nH and Keepers,
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7a 6d, 10s each ; 15c. G
16s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18a Gold, 20s : e
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card
150. Solid Gold Hand made Bracelet, 27 Diamonds,
Extra Strong, £22 10s.
20s.
0
©
0
4fAG^
©
a>
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,5, and
6 years' guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
□
Extra Strong, 15c. Gold, Hand-made, 2 Heart Bracelet,
40 Diamonds, £22 10s.
25 Diamonds and 15 Rubies, £l6 16s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Solid Gold Hand-made Brooch,
21 Diamonds, £lO.
Very Pretty.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney,


u
1
*z
'//*
A
S
S>/s.
r
»7
*L
v
#1
m
\
'
(.
I
N
5*
Yt
m
*
V
\
1A
v
r
s
y’J^'
£te MORE Bf QU;R .STRgHGTH
When you’re OUT OF SORTS, you can’t GO for anything that will
SET YOU UP so well as
FISHER & COMPANY’S
***“-« ZMZia-HT'X' c ALOK ’ <*—*
and
(»m FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC <»*»>
Freshly prepared from the celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata). Gold Medal at the lioyal Agricultural Show,
Sydney . First Prize Medals at all other Exhibitions .
IN THE MORNlNG—
before taking
Fisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Madame ALBANI ,
THE QUEEN OF SONG, AND
THE FRIEND OF HER
MAJESTY THE QUEEN
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
WRITES UNSOLICITED
THE FOLLOWING TESTI-
MONY :
The “Australia” (Hotel),
Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs. —I shall be much obliged
if you will send me two bottles of
your preparation “ALOK.” I am
very glad to tell you that this Tonic
was of great service to me on the
sea, and in helping me to recover
from the effects of my long voyage.
IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT
IN STOPPING SEASICKNESS,
AND OF GREAT ASSISTANCE
TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATI-
GUING WORK TO DO.
I am, yours very truly,
E. ALBANI GYE.
There is no greater believer in
Mighty “ALOK” than Madame
Albam. It is her constant com-
panion.
MIGHTY “ALOK”
Leaves a Good Impression.
Scientific
Examination of
Mighty “ Alok.”
By the most Eminent Authority in
Australia, and for many years of
Sydney University, Dr. HELMS,
M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and
Analytical Chemist.
G Bridge-street, Sydney,
February 1, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Gentlemen. —I have examined
your preparation, Mighty “ALOK,”
and find that it contains, besides
Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs,
having well-known Tonic properties.
—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
GUARANTEED NOT TO CON-
TAIN QUININE OR IRON,
OR ANY INJURIOUS IN-
GREDIENT.
IN THE AFTERNOON—
after taking
Fishek and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
SPECIAL WARNING TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS
Tiru. n • , w . A a• - f 'Brewers or any Wholesale House, be sure that you receive FISHER & CO’S. Some merchants buy up cheap imitations at a very low price,
and •J’fISSfSS JiSSy &*&' them full pr.be, and stating that they are just as good asjfhe original. Beware of these unprincipled men, and insist upon receiving FISHER 4 CO’! not
Fisher', or any other „,lojable imitation. only difference being that it is more palatable.
It £?h^reate^t° Pksk-me-up in the world. Mighty “ ALOK,” with cold Sodawater, is a most refreshing and beneficial dnnk in the mommg-Cleansmg the Palate, Clearing the
Brain, doing the Liver good, and strengthening the whole nervous system.
To he obtained at all Hotels throughout Australia, with Sodawater, 6d per glass. 2/6 and 4/6 per hottle. ■ All Chemists.
When the bottle is placed before you, be sure that the name FISHER & CO. is on the same. ABSOLUTELY REFUSE any other, for they are base imitations of the genuine article.
Pharmacy: 337 George-street
(nearly opposite\
G.P.O. )
Sydney.


POLITICAL
POINTS
It is reckoned that every qualified old per-
son in Maoriland who has taken the trouble to
send in his claim, will enter on his pension on Ist
January, 1899.
Whispers are afloat that William M‘Millan
is likely to be the next N.S.W. Agent-General.
At any rate he is wanted out of the way by the
Reid Government.
W. H. Groom, the patriarch of Q. As-
sembly, has promises equal to a majority of votes
assuring him of the Speaker’s Chair in next Par-
liament, vice Cowley, the detested.
Premier Reid, of N.S.W., says “ he would
like to bring in an Old Age Pensions Bill next
session if he has sufficient revenue.” But he
never will have sufficient revenue unless he pro-
vides in the Bill for raising it. The revenue won’t
rush at him.
S.A. Democrats endeavor to put it into
the heart of Premier Kingston to secure elective
Ministries. It would, they urge, renew King-
ston’s own long lease of power, and Holder’s, and
probably Butler’s ; but Jenkins and O’Loughlin
would probably go, and Tom Playford would step
in.
The Kingston (S.A.) Govt, goes on acquir-
ing good blocks of country for close settlement.
Mt. Browne, near Wilmington, one of the most
fruitful districts of the northern agricultural area,
has just been bought for £2 ss. per acre ; and now
the Government is negotiating for Koonoona, near
Farrell’s Flat, 70 miles out from Adelaide, on the
North line.
In drowsy December they divide S.A. As-
sembly members into the Asleeps and the Awakes.
As, for instance: Asleep—Holder, Jenkins, Butler,
Copley, Randell, Coneybeer, and Roberts.
Awake —Kingston, O’Loghlin, Glynn, Batchelor,
Downer, Brooker, and Solomon. But, for all
that, some members don’t, sleep half enough for
the progress of reform.
It becomes more glaring every day that
the cry of the Dickson faction for next elections
will be “a comprehensive railway policy ” and a
loan for a few millions. This would just suit Oily
Jimmy, who helped to engineer the great finan-
cial drunk of ten millions through Q. Assembly in
’B4. A big loan is the only thing in politics Oily
James knows much about.
After years of persistent agitation, a com-
bination of the Croydon News, the local member,
and “ the white party ” in the Mongrelian Parlia-
ment has at last succeeded in replacing the Chinese
curator of Croydon courthouse by a white woman.
If it requires such herculean effort to shift one
miserable Chow, Scalyland is doomed to one day
become part of the reconstructed Chinese Empire.
The Vic. police, whose proposed rise of
fid. a day nearly upset the Turner Govt., have a
minimum wage of 425. per week and quarters, or
48s. without quarters. They are the only public
officers whose regular (or irregular) increases
haven’t been stopped in the recent hard times, and
the only ones who get pensions, the State supply-
ing seven-eighths of the pension fund. It is a joy-
less billet to be a drunk-catcher on these terms,
yet the Yic. policeman hasn’t suffered quite so
much as other branches of the public service at the
hands of the hard-driving Turner.
Political Labor organisation at Broken
Hill (N.S.W.) was, a few years back, the envy of
most industrial centres ; but, unfortunately, from
a variety of causes it has latterly gone to pieces.
After getting the four Assembly seats in the
hollow of its hand and seriously threatening
Speaker Abbott in Wentworth, it began to get
hold of the municipal council as the seats fell
vacant. But there it started to call different parts
of itself an ass and ask it to come outside ; and
now the municipal Labor-party.consists of just two
members, and one of them has been dodging a
libel-writ or something which a former member
has wanted to serve.
N.S.W. Leg. Council demands as its little
amendment that the Federal capital shall be in
Sydney, which is going a step further than the
Assembly—the Assembly only demanded that it
should be in N.S.W. Still, both Houses are quite
solid that the capital must be in N.S.W. ; they
are both grabbing with the same mean, hungry,
selfish grab to get all the profits of union for
“our” province. Even the Labor-party, which
believes so much in the rule of the majority, sees
nothing remarkable in the idea of 1,300,000 people
of N.S.W. fixing the capital to suit themselves,
and about 2,300,000 people in the other five pro-
vinces having no say in the matter at all.
Indications that Premier Kingston is be-
coming pious and orthodox accumulate every day.
At two recent elections the Govt, nominees were
anti-tote men and rabid teetotallers, and advo-
cated policies of the Sunday-school variety. Has-
lam, defeated for the Leg. Council, is a local
preacher who would close up every public-house
and compel weary citizens to drink nothing but
sad, brown tea, and generally is such a gloomsome
person that the electors would sooner have elected
a hearse. In the recent mayoral contest in
Adelaide the contest was between beer and piety,
the pious candidate having the Govt, support.
Many of Kingston’s still faithful supporters, who
loved him for his failings in the good old days, are
tearfully asking if he contemplates joining the
Church.
Democratic Maoriland has
in places strange blue streaks of
Toryism. It still imprisons
people for debt: when the credi-
tor is a Shining Light, with a
church reputation to preserve,
he doesn’t get his debtor im-
prisoned directly, but sells his
claim to a collecting-agency, and
if it can’t get its money it jugs
defendant as a warning to the
next one. Premier Seddon
lately proposed that no order
for the imprisonment of a debtor
should be made by any amateur
J.P., or be made where plain-
tiff had bought the claim from
the original owner thereof. This
would at least have the advan-
tage of making the Shining
Light persecute his debtor in
person and take the obloquy
himself—and the Lower House,
by a majority of two, refused
even to allow the Bill to be in-
troduced !! It was the loudest
and most sudden bump Seddon
has received up to date.
Maoriland started the com-
pulsory purchase by the State
of big properties for closer settle-
ment purposes in 92, when
=£50,000 a year was set apart for
the purpose. By ’94 it was so
gratified with the result that it
increased the vote to .£250,000
a vear. In ’97 it felt so much
more gratified that it raised the
vote agai n—to .£500,000 a year.
But the Stagnant Party in Vic-
toria goes on denouncing Minis-
ter Best’s land - resumption
scheme as a perfectly new re-
volutionary horror just the
same. And unless someone gets
it down and communicates
all the particulars into its ear with a foghorn,
it will go on knowing absolutely nothing about the
Maoriland system till further notice.
John Downer solemnly told the S.A.
Assembly the other day that he does not intend
to stand again for Parliament. The general im-
pression is, however, that he is angling for a big
requisition which shall induce him to change his
mind. He played the same game over the Federal
Convention election two years ago, and the scheme
worked very well. Nesbit, Q.C., will in any case
run for Downer’s district at Barossa.
G. D. Carter, a most awful failure as vie.
Treasurer, and one of those supercilious people
who, by dint of impudence and a turn for satire,
get the reputation of possessing exceptional intel-
lect, opposes the Immigration Restriction Act.
Says that while the Empire is trying to force an
“open door” in China, it will make us ridiculous
to close our door against Chinks and other aliens.
And he also says that to do so will be acting in
violation of the laws of nations and the laws of
God. Australia doesn’t accept whisky-merchant
Carter as an exponent of the laws of God.
The S.A. Immigration Prohibition Bill has
a clause to prevent the entrance of ladies of the
Flossie persuasion. “ I suppose,” sneered Solo-
mon, “that the Treasurer or the Premier will
examine all women passengers so as to decide who
are virtuous and who are not.” “ Oh, no, ’ cheer-
fully responded Kingston; “we have power to
call in expert evidence.” Mr. Glynn thought it
would be difficult to differentiate. “ Surely, _he
said, “ a few of those natural little indiscretions
which are apt to occur on shipboard, will not be
counted against the lady passengers.” “ Natural
little indiscretions” isn’t a bad way of putting it.
WHAT ARE YE?
P.M.: “ What is the area of
the land?”
WITNESS (a little deaf) :
“ Yer ’anner?”
P.M.: “ The area of the land
what area.?”
W.: “ A Scootchmon, yer ’anner.”
As against the so-called “Natal Act,”
which forms the basis of projected anti alien
legislation, it was objected in the S.A. Assembly
that if some of the local J’s.P. venture beyond the
province they would never get back again. Under
the proposed law, the stranger banging at the
gate may be called on to write correctly at dicta-
tion 50 words of English from a standard author
or from the S.A. statutes. Quite a lot of J’s.P.
couldn’t do that to save their lives.
The stupid Federal amendment of Premier
Reid, providing that the rights of each province as
regards “inland rivers ” should be more clearly
defined, met with a shriek of well-merited derision
in the Council. As all rivers are inland the
Council wanted to know what the Reid Govern-
ment meant, seeing that its amendment seemed
only to refer to some specially inland variety of
river—some kind that is more inland than the
average. And Attorney-General Want could
only say that he didn’t really know what his own
Ministry was driving at.
DISTINCTIONS WITH A DIFFERENCE.
DRILL-INSTRUCTOR (disgusted with awkward squad) : “ Corporal
Smuff, take those three men to your right—Private
General Hone, Private Major Duff, and Private
Colonel Giggs —and give them three hours ‘fatigue’
duty at the camp fires.”
Dear Bulletin.—They say the Labor-
party has got Premier Reid at its mercy. God
help him ! One of the big guns of that crowd once
invited some admiring friends and constituents to
stay at his suburban residence during their trip to
the “big smoke.” They accepted joyfully, but
left next day, utterly disgusted at the awful
manner in which the great man yelled at his
trembling wife to clean his boots.—Lehuria.
The defeat of Haslam, Govt, nominee, by
squatter Tennant for S.A. Northern Leg. Council
election recently, is believed to sound the death
knell of the Household Suffrage and one or two
other important democratic measures now before
the Upper House. Haslam’s candidature was a
huge mistake from the first. He was a strong
opponent of the totalisator, which is immensely
popular in the north. The annual agricultural
show went bung years ago in S.A. for want of
something agricultural to show in these dry times,
and to abolish the tote would be to deprive the
crow-devourer of his sole remaining joy.
When the N.S.W. atmospheric gas swindle
was exposed, Neild, M.L.A., declined to refund
.£3OO which he had earned by helping to float the
bogus company, and refused to be held liable,
morally or legally, for the losses of others, on the
ground that he had acted as an ordinary broker
in an ordinary business matter. The Illawarra Har-
bor scheme promoters somewhat short-sightedly
secured Mr. Neild to father their little Bill in the
Leg. Assembly, and when the Labor-members
learned that the “Colonel” was interested to a
considerable extent in the company, they thought
they smelt an escape of gas and promptly sat on
the measure.
Dismemberment is not inimical
to vitality. Nature compensates the
legless with extra strength of arms,
the armless with stronger legs.
Therefore, as N.S. Wales Opposition
has had its tail cut off, its head
should be much improved. Not
swelled —Reid has appropriated all
that kind of thing !
Curious fact that there is
veritably an American House of
Lords, consisting of the descendants
of 12 persons upon whom Janies
11. conferred certain
lands, with a right to them
and their heirs to style
themselves “Lords.”
Campbell, the thick-
est-hided fatman of them
all in Vic. Leg. Council,
refused his valuable sup-
port to Wrixon’s “amend-
ment ” of the Plural Vot-
ing Abolition Bill. As
soon as it was carried
Campbell came along with
his own little amendment
of Wrixon’s clause 4 : “No
person to vote more than
once at any Assembly
election.” The irrepres-
sible old man moved that
the word “once ” be altered
to “twice.” But the Coun-
cil by this time had shut
down on the dual vote,
and Campbell was gently
requested not to be inane.
Vic. Assembly fully realises how difficult
Turner would be to replace. No other Premier in
Australasia could turn a bad defeat into a majority
of nearly 2 to 1, despite the desertion of some of
his own customary followers, merely by the
announcement that the Government must have a
majority or it would go out. Even the Gillies
party, when it found it had to support Turner or
give its own Duncan a chance to form another
Ministry—well, a good deal of it supported
Turner.
The avowed reason why N.S.W. Labor-
leader M'Gowen “allowed” Premier Reid Id.
duty on tea was that it would improve the quality.
He instanced a case where a cargo of tea was
shipped to Melb., condemned there, and dumped
over to Sydney. But the consigners knew that a
duty was charged on tea in Victoria before they
*sent their loathsome consignment there. And as
they sent it all the same it wasn’t the duty but
the careful inspection which kept the stuff from
getting into the local stomach.
VVith the death of popular Premier Byrnes
the great opportunity of the Q. Labor-party has
arrived. But is the party equal to the occasion .
Most of its members are decent fellows, and fairly
straightforward politically, but not one of them
is capable of stirring up any enthusiasm in the
breasts of the people. Herein there is a mournful
similarity between Govt, and Opposition in
Queensland. Property-owners, however, dont
work on enthusiasm, and don’t particularly need
it, but Democrats can’t afford to dispense with it.
There was a man in Queensland who roused
genuine enthusiasm in the ranks of Labor, but
he, unfortunately, went to Paraguay with a bee
in his bonnet.
Bananaland has a Public Service Board
(cost .£3500 per annum) specially designed to pre-
vent political intervention in civil service appoint-
ments. T’other day Ministers Dickson and
Foxton, trying desperately to escape the odium of
poor old Papa Pinnock’s promotion, laid the blame
on the shoulders of the late Premier Byrnes.
According to Foxton, Mr. Byrnes personally
directed the position to be offered to Mr. Pinnock.
Cry rose at once, “ Where was the Public Service
Board ? ” Ministers wriggled and writhed under
the imputation conveyed in Foxton’s blundering
speech, but the admission had been made that the
Board was only a tool of the Government, and the
public said, with a grin, “ We always thought so.”
Says a Melb. daily of P.M.G. Duffy :
There has been nothing but promises and dilatoriness
for the four years of Mr. Duffy's reign. The public
patience is now about exhausted, and everyone has had
enough of the spirit of exquisite fooling in which the
Postal department has been administered.
Everyone has had more than enough, but The
Bulletin can’t say that that will make any differ-
ence to Duffy. Victoria in general is disgusted at
the mismanagement of the Postal dept., the same
as it was disgusted at the bank scandals —and
there the matter ends. When public patience is
exhausted—well, the public becomes impatient.
The public impatiently sits still and does nothing
suddenly in a great hurry for ever after.
The fatuity of the theorist ! A Mr. Bil-
linghurst read a paper in London recently on
“ Colonial Indebtedness,” and advocated, as a re-
medy, increased immigration. Which would cer-
tainly reduce the national debt as per head, but
at the same time it might just as easily swamp the
country with unemployed, and very likely make
the actual state of affairs worse than it is now.
If Mr. B. sent 10,000,000 immigrants intoN.S.W.,
that jolly and fat province’s indebtedness per head
of population would appear very insignificant in-
deed. Also, it would have to borrow at once about
.£200,000,000 to keep said immigrants in sand-
shifting jobs and similar remunerative employ-
ment. Billinghurst ought to come out as speedily
as possible and run the finances of this benighted
country.
Lieut. Skene is a Vic. soldier who desired
a vacant appointment for which he was technically
qualified. One of the regulations bearing on the
appointment said no applicant was to be more
than 25 years old, and Skene was about 23. Lieut.
Lilley, whom the Little Tin Gods favored, was
27 years old ; and the authorities altered, the
regulation to suit him, and appointed him. Lieut.
Skene had a chance of filling a similar vacancy
until the authorities, having appointed 27-year-
old Lilley, suddenly lowered the age-standard to
22—which killed Skene’s chance altogether.
Skene protested ; and the facts and figures came
out to show what a truly beautiful thing is the
Vic. military service. Now, by way of promoting
peace, it is proposed to put the age standard far
enough up again to let Skene have the appoint-
ment he has otherwise qualified for. It is better
to do that and let him in than to have him making
an unpleasant row outside.
“ Anarchist " to The Bulletin :
“ How many anarchists are there ? ” The answer de-
pends somewhat on definitions. The broad principles of
anarchism are anti-authoritarianism, anti-officialism,
anti-monopolv, anti-commercialism, individual liberty,,
and inter-individual solidarity. But those only who give
these ideas a particular application in a particular social-
political platform are usiTblly called anarchists by them-
selves or others. These have special journals with a
normal aggregate circulation of 100,000, but the papers-
of a country or language have had their circulation quad-
rupled in times of enthusiasm ; and, making allowance
for overlapping and copies bought by the curious, it seems
that the anarchists, so designated, number about a quarter
of a million, or, reckoning their families in, a million.
Other adherents to the principles, without the name and
platform, are several times as numerous. Terrorism-
the creed of “dynamite and dagger”—has no place in
the general philosophy or policy, and is indeed contrary
to strict anarchist notions; nevertheless, t here are occa-
sional terrorists. The theoretical terrorists may number
1000. In Australia, journalistic experiments show that,
with adequate branch publishing arrangements in all the
capitals, a purely anarchist paper would obtain a settled
circulation exceeding 500, hut not exceeding 1000. In 13
years there were three known terrorists, other than police
pimps and amateur fizgigs, and one of these was away
before the third appeared.
G. H. Wood, Esq., J.P.,
MANAGER OF THE
WEST END CLOTHING CO.,
dunedin, N.Z., EXPLAINS.
The many old friends of G. H. Wood, Esq.,
ex-J.P., in Queensland and N.S.W., as well as the
newer ones of New Zealand, will read of his good
fortune with interest and pleasure. In a letter
dated Dunedin, 'sth July, ’9B, he says “ I have
much pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficacy
of Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills. Over five
years I had suffered from derangements of the
liver and kidneys, so much so that at times I felt
unfit for business, my whole system being affected,
but more particularly my head. Sometimes I
thought I had congestion of the brain, and then I
was told I had Bright’s disease. Eventually I
found my liver and kidneys were out of order, and
that was the cause of my troubles. I was recom-
mended by a friend to take Warner’s Safe Cure
and Safe Pills. After the first four bottles I felt
as well as ever I did in my life. lam quite confi-
dent of the good effects it has had. I take this
first opportunity of sending an testi-
monial, of which the proprietors of Warners Safe
Cure can make whatever use they choose.”
HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TBA.
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is. he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend.
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES XHGKLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agents for “White Heather” Whisky,
gran uina and Fodah Porridge Meals.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY/ CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianoiprtes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.


“N.”: In a Christian line, the U.S. Con-
gress ought to have prayed for Spain during the
war. Praying publicly for a “stricken nation”
after having stricken it is a low-down hypocrisy.
Old James Service intends to retire from
the Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords and
from politics generally. He is 75 years of age,
and has been in Vic. Parliament off-and-on for 41
years. He had a portfolio in Nicholson’s Ministry
in ’59 ; but after that he was nobody in particular
for 24 years till he became Treasurer in Kerferd’s
Cabinet of 1874. Then he was Premier for five
months in 1880, and again for three years—
-1883-86. After that, the intermittent old
gentleman dropped out of the front rank and
held no more portfolios. He used to be called
the best Treasurer his province ever possessed,
but he held the cash-box in pleasant times, when
money was plentiful and it was hardly possible to
be a very bad Treasurer. The fact that he was a
cordial supporter of the Gillies boom policy sug-
gests that he wasn’t much of a financier after all.
btill it should be remembered to his credit that
he twice refused a title, that he once tried to re-
form the Upper House, that he passed the useful
Torrens Act, and that he was largely responsible
for the creation of the Federal Council—which
fell into a state of incapable flop through causes
for which Service wasn’t responsible.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S rr AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and. Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
West Australian and Industrial ** Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
IF YOU HAVE SUFFERED for 20 YEARS,
VITADATIO WILL CURB YOU,
VITADATIO WILL CURE YOU,
and don’t forget it (without operation), even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other part
of the world have failed; be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption, Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or
Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Indigestion, &c.
VITADATIO.
Mr. F. W. HOHNE, who has been a clerk in the employ of Perry and Co., timber merchants, 150 Lonsdale-
street, for eight years, sends his photographs to show what “ VITADATIO ’’ has done for him. He says : —“ For
the last five years 1 have been a great sufferer, and I did not know what it was to be at work for a month without
having to have two or three days’leave of absence. I became so despondent at times that I began to think of
‘suicide,’ as life was only a burden to me. I consulted my lodge doctor (I am a prominent member in the
Druids' Order), who said that I had very bad bilious attacks. When I had the last, attack of my trouble, a par-
ticular friend of mine (who is a great believer in VITADATIO) came to see me, and would not go away until I
promised him to go in for a course of VITADATIO. I did so. I purchased six bottles, and before I had finished
the first bottle I got so bad that I consulted a doctor. From what I told the doctor on that occasion, he said,
•i
t ■
m
m
.-f.
■
BEFORE TAKING “ VITADATIO.
i
■
i
AFTER TAKING “ VITADATIO" for 10 Weeks.
‘Why, man, you are suffering from hydatids.’ I said, ‘Oh, well, that is all right; I have got the cure.’ He
said, ‘What is it?’ I replied, ‘Vitadatio.’ The doctor said, ‘I have heard some very good reports about that
remedy.’ After persevering with a course of the medicine (which I took in ten weeks), lam thoroughly restored
to perfect health, which, if you judge between the two photos., you will see for yourself. I will be glad to
answer any inquiries about my case, addressed in care of above firm.—Yours very gratefully, FEED. W. HOHNE,
District President Druids Order, No. 1 District.”
For Testimonials of others that have been cured, write or send to the agent, S. A. PALMER, 45 and 47
Bourke-street, Melbourne. A Thorough Cure is Guaranteed. The sum of £5OO (five hundred pounds) will be
paid to anyone that can refute any testimonial in circulation about VITADATIO.
The Price of this Valuable Medicine and Tonic is: Large Size, 5/6; Small Size, 3, 6. Ask your
Chemist or Grocer for it.
S. A. PALMER, 0m%%. 45-7 Bourke-st-, Melbourne.
From the Mayor and Justices of the Peace and the Rev. Mr. Jones, of Invercargill, New Zealand, where Mr.
Palmer lived about 25 years. Read what they say
“ THIS IS TO CERTIFY that we, the undersigned, have known the bearer, Mr. S. A. Palmer, as a resident
of Invercargill, New Zealand, for a great many years. We know he has been a great sufferer during the past 14
years, and he never was expected to recover. But, as the result of taking a course of Vitadatio, he has quite
recovered his long-lost health, and now appears to us to be quite a new man. We have pleasure in recommend-
ing him to the public, wherever his lot may be cast, as an honorable man and worthy the confidence of all with
whom he may come in contact.— John Sinclair, Mayor, Invercargill; Jno. W. Mitchell, Merchant, Invercargill;
Peter Wriuiit Jones, Primitive Methodist Minister, Invercargill; G. Froggatt, J.P., Invercargill.”
BOOKS you WANT!
Telephone 2216.
WILL
ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
IMPORTER
n n
CHEAP
BOOKS
ANDRADE
Wife’s Guide and Friend ;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the right to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is 2d.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Tokology, illustrated—a book for every woman, 10s 6d
post free, 11s.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 8s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Edu-
cate One’s Self ; post free, Is 6d.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette : post
free, Is 3d.
Gustave and His Loves, by Paul de Kock: post free
Is 3d.
Sexual Physiology for Boyz, Is 6d, post free. The
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
How to Dance. Is, post free.
Dr. Beanby’s Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
Don Juan. Is, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made, is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition, is;
post free, Is 2d.
Rosario, the Female Monk. Post free, 2s.
Best Way to Get On : Guide to Money-making. Is 6d
post free.
Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Maria Monk. Post, Is 9d.
The Art of Ventriloquism. Post free, Is.
How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is 6d.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere .
WILL ANDRADE,
201 Bourke Street, Molboiim©.
opp. the Waxworks.
Tbe ACME-
Artistic Excgllcpcg-
PALING’S
PIANOS,
ORGANS, and
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
YOU CAN BUY
BETTER AND
CHEAPER
AT
PALTNG’S.
M
wMmMmzm
'-■=* •&
BEST QUALITY,
LOWEST PRICES-
Violins,
Mandolins,
Banjos,
Guitars.
ALL
STRINGS and
FITTINGS
STOCKED.
W. H. PALING >1 CO. Ltd.^
ABE BY FAB THE LARGEST IMPOBTEBS
OF MUSICAL GOODS IN AUSTBALASIA.
BAND INSTRUMENTS.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
... IN ENDLESS VARIETY.
IT WILL REPAY YOU
TO SEND for —.
Our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
Mailed Free.
Thoroughly
Fir3t-Class
In Every
Respect.
All Instruments
Can be Purchased
on Time Payment
System.
W. H. PALING & CO. Ltd.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Branches at
NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE, &c.
&UNLOPS
fgST
IN
1555
fo Ren
°ST
eveß^
siNce
'/a
8
Dunlop tyi^es
THE BEST KIM IS
THE DUNLOP
WELCH-MM
Tbe First Step
a Cyclist should take when purchasing his New
Machine is to examine the Tyres and see whether
they are
, PUNLQP IVRES~ )j
to*.
13 Lf K/ti
PJ OlO»&
ygujiLijip
@um
m
If not, don’t accept the
machine until they are
fitted, as “ Dunlops ” are
the only tyres that
stand the Australian
roads.
They are also guaranteed
to give satisfaction for 12
months, which is a big item
to any cyclist.
Beware of Imitations.
None
Genuine
Without
This
Trade
Mark . .
II
Dunlop -v\
tyres \\fe
Perfected
torCarriages/L
\OFALL KINDS>®S^
First in 1888. Foremost Ever Since,
pneumatic Tyre (Jo. [td.
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY;
and at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. >
Dunlop
A\IDGE.T
REPAIR,
OUTFIT


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
mill. Wont lie Piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEXLEAG-H ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
MtJVSm
'tt
HEAD OFFICE
Intersection Hunter, Bliqh and
Castlereagh Streets.
• SYDNEY ->'
Established •‘ISIS.
IfylimAunWiP:
OFFICE IN AUSTRO*
Ann ua l Income ahd In vested
fuNDs Exceed JgpO,ooo Sterling .
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £‘200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PIHE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability ..
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S.' D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
.. £500,000
.. £38,000
£213,260
The Bank of flertb Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL • £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CEUUR
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
HIEINEH
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
USB" CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Qavid graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King -st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Vest Free, securely packed.
When ordering', send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes : “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TN Trustees, €*€C*itorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaov Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.300,<100
Paid-up ~ .. £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esn., J.P.; lion. VV. 11. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Instectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘NaII, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers ; Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjiee: 1 Jii.shopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assisi an r Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deucbar.
Haymarket, Gosfonl wit i asrency at, Wyong\ New-
castle; with Bra'ches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
■-Tim-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. .1. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, 4.2,153,342.
Policies issued, 70,743 assuring £23,360,41)0.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, P1,<123,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling’. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOUHNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. IJd. o/ Condon.
Fidelity Guarantees. I inp. laanilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Mili.an, M.P., A. W. Mkkks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Pkaohky, L. A. Jnssor, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. G. Hassali, ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE. 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
IV ational trustees,
11 EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.Ci (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eaeharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G. P. 0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLTR.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE KH MARK
BRAND
GIRL
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 17, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Dec. 24,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Dec. 27, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, Dec. 27, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 17, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Dec. 20, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 24, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &e.
Leura, Saturday, Deo. 17, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Monday, Deo. 19, 5 p.i
Tyrian, Sat’day, Dec. 24, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FAKES TO ALE VO RTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Vi'm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
I ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
J by the
Australian-&-American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other inf wmalion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of R.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AMD
J 4f*
'^/V
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TYESPATCH the following PASSENGER
J ) STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
T tisiness Announcements.
sfkin Widea6e4.
s'9leu) WidcoCery
“*£iymo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OE SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir. —For years past (about ten), I have been
trouble with “Acne” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene ”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Salts ” and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligmolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pm
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro
fessor M’Call Anderson and other eminent derma
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
vour ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon ,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat, Vic.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5s and 7s 6d. each.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO~
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, Friday. December 23.
S.S. Pilbarra, Tuesday, Dec. 27.
ALBANY, A
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Wollowra, Friday,
December 23.
S.S. Pilbarra Tuesday,
December 27.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Roekton, Saturday
December 24.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage ticket® are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUJLL AND CO., I.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, t'6s to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Che'ap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIEJL MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(H‘|luiraith,D| < Eacharn& (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotaiions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEK, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
' Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s! Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA Weekly.
Passenr/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine uit rivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.LT.S.N. Go. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


I SltlfEß Ilium FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 605.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE ii
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your ‘letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed'envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to youi
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
p
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 15
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Publishers’ Notices.
Just Published. Price, 5/-; posted, 5/6.
With Rabbit Map of Queensland and
Numerous Plates.
—THE—
By C. L. MORGAN, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board-
Watson, Ferguson & Co., Brisbane,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashtulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you oan find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-Amerioan Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing.
T L LUST RATED AUSTRALIAN THEATRICAL
x ANNUAL and GALLERY OF CELEBRITIES.
Price, One Shilling ; postage, 4d. extra. Contents :86
pictures by Falk, Talma, Newman, Johnstone O’Shannes.v
and Co., etc. Three New Theatrical Stories : “An Aus-
tralian Flirt,” by Emily Soldene ; “ Quiet Lodgings,” by
Bert Royle ; “ The Prompter’s Revenge,” E. Lewis Scott;
and a New Song, full music size, “She Was True,” by
A. W. Juncker, the celebrated composer of “I Was
Dreaming.” Wholesale Agents: ROBT. A. THOMPSON
and CO., 180 Pitt-street, Sydney; and Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Capetown, and London.
“I Only Live for Xbee.”
Words by Edward Oxeneord ; Music by E. J. Emmerton.
Sung by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat,
F and G. Published at 2/-. Intermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz”), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2/-. Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Other
Years, Rose of the Morn Waltz, and many others. Of all
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. W.
PAXTON &. CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 1000 Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
TXENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
J ~ L and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
inose wno nave taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation m the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose J s generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a had attack
oi Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
oi different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
Dottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
Alter taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
° VV ln S' ood health, for which lam truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
tr SMITH > Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
Alter suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
b^ n T under a great many different treatments,
benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
La. A |ter taking three bottles of this medicine,
• rld the Asthma, and since then, which was
° f . lm < u years ago, I have not had the
t ?^ est le turn of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
a nttyruj crlvr/', pl f asure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
Woo-., 6 ’’ *r> e un( iersigned, have had occasion to obtain
fpntitr^^Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
nnrii an d rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtediy prove its distincthealingpower.” Signed by
ntwi!^- John .? lnclair > Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
_ ? °»'y an< f sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
Sn ni? ’• W ’o G - , HEA RNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
medililf 8 ’ 2s L 6dL ; lar g e > 4s - 6d. Sold by chemists and
when not obtainable I Si""'"' bj “” y * ddre ”
ON€ HONCST MAN
-D E E : f n fc,lE, >~ Pleas e inform your readers that,
letter thp e ”i to c °nfidentially, I will post in a seale
b V which I was permanent]
of sutler! J f T ° HEALTH and Manly Vigor after yeai
have fr ? m Nervous Weakness and Debility,
stret.™ °T blnff to ® e ’ hut. being now well, vigorous an
kn river,' to 'I! iulx '°us to make this certain means of cui
Known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY. j
The Australian UJidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
L transacting- all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
wmcn issues special Policies granting-
IT 0 ? °t Proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
ii. A Paid-up Pohoy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors:
ti rti J 3oo ' Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
non. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O,
c cumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
n e for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
The
GRAP
GRAB
M
JUST THE THING FOR"^
A CHRISTMAS BOX
The GRAPHOPHONE
A marvellous instrument, reproducing the music of
great military bands, the voices of famous opera
singers, and celebrated comedians in laughter-making
monologues, on the stages of the world’s chief cities.
It is simple to operate, and will not get out of order.
Unequalled for home amusement or exhibition pur-
poses. If we have no agent in your town or district,
write us at once. The trade supplied.
United Importing Co.,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious tcall kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
. Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
Dr. TARRANT,
P.it.C.S.li., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
Wo Man or W Oman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels • Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr’.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely Wo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula. Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr’. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please, mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 <>. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR !-— l5OO
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
I t*e t*m* f-r e*e*y*o’y I
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
tha,t you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co ,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Watches and Jewellery!
GRAND XMAS PRESENTS.
Gents’ Solid Silver Keyless Hunters, 19s 6d ; Lady’s
Solid Silver Hunters, 17s 6d; Silver Alberts, Lady’s or
Gent’s, 5s 6d ; lovely Solid Gold Brooches, set real stones,
8s 6d, 10s 6d; Lady’s Gold Watches, 35s. —written guar-
antee given with all Watches sold from our establishment
for three years. Engagement Rings, set real stones, 10s
6d, 15s, 20s ; Waterbury Alarm Clocks, 2s 9d ; Gun-metal
Watches, 7s 6d—guaranteed one year ; Gold Sleeve Links,
10s 6d, Hall-marked. Orders by Post sent same day
•FRENCH’S.
632 George Street,
Sydney.
Cramps
Colic,
Colds,
Cronp,
Coughs,
Tooth-
ache,
Cuts,
Burns,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'PainKittev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
wholesale agents,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
The Editor
The goyal (Magazine
Henrietta Street, London, W.C., England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
... Good Pi’ices Paid ...
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE.
Anything of Interest Accepted will be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
CAUTION TO WOMEN!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY'S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE
HOUSE.
Clarkson’s
Re-Invigor ator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8 ; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1 ;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11 ; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 111 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. —*
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Reauisites. Cut-Rate List on application.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melb. Bicycle Club —proverbial for the ex-
cellent management of its cycle race meetings—made a
hideous bungle on December 3 over the Austral heats,
and, in consequence, Seharp, who would have possibly
won the big event, was debarred from starting. Accord-
ing to the rules of the Vic. League of Wheelmen, the
handicappers allot the starts and arrange the heats.
Drawing the heats by lot is an arrangement that would
be utterly unworkable in cycling events where pacing is
almost everything, and leaving sports promoters to fix
them up means (in the country, at all events) that
local men are given soft and early heats, while the half-
dozen hottest strangers have to fight out the last heat,
and the winner has to come out for the final without a
rest. As somebody has to be trusted, the League elects
to trust its handicappers.
This time the heats were arranged, and left in
the hand of the M.B.C. secretary by the handicappers, it
being understood that only the four men knew the
arrangement. Then, says the M.8.C., rumors arose
that the bookmakers had got hold of the heat allotments,
and that, as Seharp and Wren Matthews had been placed
against second-raters, the books were laying accordingly.
Satisfied that all was not square, the M. 8.0. thereupon
placed Seharp and Matthews in different heats, on which
the handicappers reported the matter to the league, and
that body demanded an explanation. The club gave
none, but guaranteed it would act legally. The result
was, Seharp came out first for the heat the handicappers
had placed him in, and was ordered off the track. He
obeyed, and later on came out for the heat the M. 8.0.
had placed him in. To the astonishment of all, he was
again chucked.
To explain how the best interests of the sport are
conserved by taking a man’s entrance fees, letting him
train three months, and then calmly handing him back
his money at the last moment, requires a lot of
M.B.C. logic. In the first place, the assertion about
the leakage is a trifle overdrawn, seeing that despite all
the vaunted secrecy of the allotments they appeared in
the Australasian on Thursday morning ; and, secondly,
the M.B.C. behaved in a most lamentable spirit in back-
ing down before the League and making the wholly inno-
cent Seharp the sufferer. It has, so it is pleaded, the
right to return any entrance fee, and legally it would
appear so from the rules, but the moral right to block a
man who has spent pounds in training fees simply to
save a row with the handicappers will meet with little re-
cognition. If the M.B.C. was sure of the position it took
up against the handicappers, it should have started
Seharp as he was placed on the programme and fought
out the question, instead of making a buffer of the unfor-
tunate rider. Anyway, the little business cost the M.B.C.
£3OO damages to Seharp.
Though Seharp would have undoubtedly carried
off the heat (won by Brooker) in which the handicappers
placed him, he would have had a hard fight with Tom
Relph had the programme been carried out. Kelph won
his heat from 90yds., catching the field two full laps from
home, and turning off the two miles in 4.31 2-5. There
were only three faster heats than this, the cracker of
all being 4.30 1-s—not so very much faster—and those
races were won after much harder riding than Relph’s.
Matthews bolted with his heat. Starting from 260, he
left the field further behind him at every pedal’s turn,
and won by a street in 4.37 2-5.
Walne seemed out of form on Deo. 3, his fall in
training having apparently left him with a good deal to
pick up. In the mile-scratch final, he just got home in
front of Barker, while W. M‘Donald, a dark outsider in
black and gold diamonds, reminiscent of Bravo, romped
in by three lengths.
“ Bravo ” M'Donald, who was a Dunolly miner,
like the Middletons, has been in the West for two years,
and evidently picked up speed there, for he made hacks
of acknowledged champions, and brought out applause
which has never been heard on the ground since Megson
won his race in 1894. In his heat Elliott ran him wide,
and he was left fully 30yds. behind when the bell went.
McDonald made it up, though, before half-a-lap was
scored, and finished 10yds. in front of everybody.
The Austral final (Dec. 10) brought out all the
natural weakness of bicycle racing as a sport. Tom Relph
was a 4 to 1 favorite at the start, little Gargurevitch was a
newspaper tip, and “ Newhaven ” Jackson, at 8 to 1, must
have carried £5OO, or more, of public money. For all the
chance that the public got to win their bets by Relph,
Gargurevitch, and Jackson, the three men might have
been jointly and severally as stiff as the proverbial
crutch. They were “ loafing,” in bike-race parlance,
when they ought to have been doing their hardest to
overtake the vanguard. Lap after lap was registered on
the board, and still this fancied trio, together with A. E.
Tame, pedalled along in the hopeless rear. Relph turned
his little cocoa-nut head to the right or left occasionally
as though he were anxious for somebody to take up the
pacing job, but he never gave any other evidence of
desire to reach the front. At last, when the race was
practically lost, Tame went away on his own, and then
the multitude could see how easily Tame’s companions
might have followed suit. But they didn’t, and their
backers were, to all intents and purposes, thrown over.
In excuse for the absurdly feeble performance of
Relph and Jackson (Gargurevitch improved his position
in the last lap) it is said that they rode without judgment,
or they rode with judgment re the hopelessness of
attempting to struggle along unpaced. The public are
left to assume that a couple of experienced riders didn’t
know enough to arrange beforehand for a fair go among
themselves. Also, the public must assume that neither of
them felt capable of an effort to reach the front unpaced,
and that they couldn't have got there had they tried.
The Bulletin will not go into this complicated question.
It will merely say that the term “Newhaven” is a
ghastly satire on the Jackson who rode in the Austral.
The winning Finnegan’s time was only 3-ssec.
faster than the time in which Relph won his heat a week
earlier, on a slower track. It was one second slower than
the race which Kellow won, from the 15-yards mark, two
years ago. There is, then, no getting away from the
argument that Relph, on his latest “form,” ought to
have raced faster. Granting that he owed his defeat to
honest circumstances, Relph’s backers may very well ask
themselves whether the cash results to them would have
been any different if the first favorite, and the 8-to-l-
chance Jackson, had conspired together to go “ cronk.”
Nearly six feet high and weighing 12J stone-
Finnegan has the build as well as the name of a police
man. He is comparatively aged for a racing cyclist,
being 26 years old and a married man, and his pre-
vious record merely consists of two small wins at
Sale, Gippsland, and a second in last year’s Mel-
bourne Druids’ Wheel Race. Finnegan is a native
of Gisbourne, where there is a regular colony from
beyant, and has done a little boxing—of course, for Gis-
bourne racecourse is scene of many a gory encounter
between the spielers of the city and the long-lipped
spud-chasers of the soil.
Finnegan is the same man who had his ear torn
clean off during a fall at the Melb. Exhibition track last
year. The scrap was picked up, sewn on, and is now as
good as new. The man who has his ear ripped off and is
plucky enough to stick to the game deserves a big win.
Who is to swear to “stiffness ” in the riding of
the back-mark men as long as they glance at one another
in apparent expectation of the pacing that doesn’t come
to pass ? Back-mark or front-mark men are said to sacri-
fice their chances to selfishness, if they don’t take it in
turns to help one another along. Draw a distinction
between the outward signs of selfishness and artfulness in
this matter. If you can’t draw a satisfactory distinction,
don't put your coin on any bikist who races inconsistently.
Bill Martin of old managed to be pretty consistent in his
plugging, and Walne doesn’t give his backers much cause
for grumble at any time. As for the others—well, even
an Austral prize is only £240, whereas the betting this
year was so big that any fancied rider might have sold
himself for £lOO.
Sweet betting it was. 6to 1 (4’s at the start)
against Relph, 6 to 1 Finnegan, 7 to 1 Morgan or
Matthews, 8 to 1 Jackson, “ 10 or 15 to 1 the others.”
This for a field of 16 runners, with all the chances of the
pacing game and probabilities of accidents thrown in.
Oddly enough there was noj accident in the Austral, but
the second and third men, Middleton and M’Gibbon,
collided after they had passed the post.
Everyone was glad to see A. B. Crisp, the Tas-
manian (an ex-Austral winner), take the Victoria Mile on
Saturday. Crisp is a plucky, straightforward straggler,
and a gentlemanly visitor who blows his nose into his
handkerchief. Some of the visitors and many of the local
men blew their noses into space, so to speak.
* • • »
Tasmania’s cricket contest with N.S. Wales was
as hollow as an empty hole, but the island team’s, weak-
ness helped to give the public a display of brilliant,
record-breaking batting by N.S.W. men. The Tasmanians
seemed hopelessly overmatched, and could only make 130
in Ist innings, while N.S.W. broke the interprovincial
record with 839—every man but Howell double figures,
and Trumper and Ired'ale 292 and 196 respectively. The
Tasmanian 2nd innings was worth 222, so N.S.W. won by
an innings and 487.
* ♦ * *
The N.S.W. Association might well have copied
the Victorian practice of opposing the Tasmanian visitors
by a “ second team.” Firstly, to even things up more ;
and secondly, to give rising talent a show. The paralys-
ing combination of absolutely the best available team
which met the “Tassies” destroyed all interest in the
match, as a match.
• • » *
Victor Trumper’s 292 (not out) for N.S.W.
against Tasmania was a great performance, but it was
hard lines on the youngster his skipper deciding to alter
the usual routine of his going in first. Had the usual
course been followed, he had a good show of smashing
previous bests. However, he" might have lost his
wicket had he gone in earlier, so perhaps it was all
for the best. Remarks are made as to Trumper’s fresh-
ness at the end of such a heavy innings, but athletes
allege that youngsters of Trumper’s age do not tire like a
set man, if untrained. George Seale and “ Griffo ” never
seemed to tire when boxing in their boyish days, although
untrained, but, when they got on in years, they found it
necessary to train like other men.
* * * *
Coningham had two strokes of bad luck last
week. He lost his place in the representative team by
the inclusion of R. A. Duff, and in the same week a fire
destroyed all his household effects.
• * * *
S.A. puts the same team into the field against
N.S.W. this Friday (16th) as played Victoria, with the
exception of Peters, who gives way for Darling. The
wheatfielders should make a better show ; but, all the
same, the match looks a good thing for N.S.W. Darling
made 70 on a bad wicket against E. Adelaide the other
day, and his batting should make S.A. much stronger.
George Giffen, by the way, has not handled a bat since
the Vic.-S.A. match.
* * * *
Darling has already been chosen as one of the
Australian Eleven selectors. The other two will probably
be Trumble and Gregory.
# # * ♦
The prospect of a good bit of sport filled the
Lyceum Theatre, Sydney, on Saturday night last, when
Harry Dunn and Lucifer met in a wrestling match for an
alleged championship. The attendance was large, and the
show spread towards the small hours of the morning. Lu-
cifer is a contortionist, and when the pair met in the first
event, Grseco-Roman style, he immediately assumed the
defensive by making his original “ split” bridge. Dunn
commenced to worry him like a terrier with a rat, but
the unusual position non-plussed Dunn, and for a solid
hour and a half did that aldermanic personage sweat, and
the audience sorrow, before he got the hang of Lucifer’s
tactics and brought him over on two shoulders.
Most of the time he was busy lifting Lucifer
and dropping him again in sore disgust, and between
times he would stand off and scratch his head
and inspect his enemy. The next spell was catch-as-
catch-can, and as catching hold of the legs is allowed in
this style, it gave Dunn a better opportunity, and he was
not so long in getting the second fall. The next style
was Cumberland, Dunn’s particular love, and the pair had
scarcely got a “ holt ” before Dunn had gained the fall
and the match. The show was disappointing, as Lucifer
knows little of the game and Dunn was out of his element
in the ground-worrying, Graeco-Roman business. The
possibilities in Australia for good men at the game were
shown by the filling of the Lyceum from floor to ceiling ;
and it may be the means of enticing across the ocean
the terrible Turks and gruesome Greeks who are
worrying and strangling each other in the States and dear
old Hingland.
* • * *
In addition to the big crowd at the wrestling
match on Saturday night, the National and Golden Gate
clubs (Syd.) were both well attended. At the former,
Jack M‘Kell and Gaffney fought 15 good rounds. At the
outset, Gaffney brought M'Kell down, but he came again ;
and, as no knock-out blow got home, the lads were both
on their feet at the end of the 15 rounds, Gaffney getting
the decision in his favor. lI.M. navy was well-repre-
sented at the Golden Gate in the amateur tournament.
Mulross banged Rayner, of the Mildura, on the point,
and knocked him out as effectively as a cannon-ball
would have done. Another Mildura man, Taylor, showed
that turkey and champagne, and the other rich food
served out to the private tar, are bad things to train on,
as his condition gave out in the sixth round, and Doran
was declared his victor.
• * * •
Boxers Jim Barron and Herb. M‘Kell, for the
third time in little more than a few months, met at the
National Club, Sydney, on 3rd December, to decide the
lightweight championship of N.S.W., but a more unsatis-
factory display has rarely been witnessed. There was
plenty rough-and-tumble, any amount of harmless clinch-
ing, and a deal of close missing, but no hurt came to
either. The writer made a note on his cuff of the good
blows struck, and a reckoning up at the termination of
proceedings disclosed the big total of four. Barron cried
enough directly the 25th round ended, saying his hand
had gone—he prepared everybody for this by announcing
from the ring, before starting, that that member was
liable to go back on him. It is to be hoped now that
Barron will adhere to his stated intention to retire from
the ring for good, and that M‘Kell will, as announced, go
to South Africa at once.
* * * *
When all Sydney was flocking madly up King-
street to see Sampson chain-snapping, and one of
the main city thoroughfares was being turned into a riot
and a pandemonium, the bell of St. James’ was calling the
righteous to prayers. Apparently the crowds were
scurrying to the bell-clang, and a stranger noting this
remarked he was glad “to find Sydney so godly a city.
It was pleasant to see so many citizens of all sorts hurry-
ing to church in the lunch-hour.”
* * * *
“ Turns ” Cavill has lately been taking most of
Sydney's prominent swimmers down in a novel manner.
Recently, he made a match with “ Sid ” Davis (ex-cham-
pion of" Balmain and a speedy performer), conditions
being that “Tunis” should swim with his legs hobbled
while the other man should have his limbs free. A fiver
aside hinged upon the result, and, after leading all the
way over a 33yds. course, Cavill won by a yard.
* * * *
Boat-sailing is different from every other class
of sport, in the fact that its exponents do not go off with
increasing years. A quarter-of-a-century ago the crack
boat-sailers of Port Jackson were George Montgomery,
George Ellis, George Fletcher, and Tom Colebrook.
Montgomery, the best of them all, is dead ; but the other
two Georges and Colebrook are still the cracks of the har-
bor. George Ellis sailed the Keriki to victory on Satur-
day last as well as he ever handled a boat in his life.
* * * *
It looked like old times on Saturday last when
the Keriki, Vigilant, Wonga, Plover, and Etfie, the crack
22-footers of the harbor, started in a spanking southerly
breeze for their trip round the Manly course, to decide
the championship of the Sydney Flying Squadron. The
Keriki was rigged for the day, and bore out the character
given her when on the stocks by the writer. Keriki and
Vigilant sailed pretty level to Manly, but, when sheets
were flattened down, the former travelled like a witch,
leaving her field hand over fist, and eventually winning
from Vigilant by 4min. 35sec. A big blow and rough sea
will always be found Keriki’s strong point.
* * * *
Though first acceptances have been declared for
the big events to be decided at Randwick (N.S.W.)
Summer meeting, but little straight-out betting has
taken place, backers doubtless remembering the way
they have before been “taken down.’’ The Villiers
Stakes looks well for Alemene, Akarini, Wahine, Satan or
Carbierra, whilst for the Summer Cup Clarion, Kallatina,
Charge, Plutus, Phillip and Woodlark appear to have
good chances. In rich December Stakes Beaulieu, Con-
diment or Dewey should be returned the winner. The
Carrington Stakes may fall to Moorefield, Burleigh or
Beaulieu, and Tatt’s Cup looks a good thing for Phillip
or his stable companion, Clarion.
* * * *
Westralia’s most important racing event —the
Perth Cup—seems likely to fall to one of the N.S.W. cast-
offs, of which a fair muster will appear at the post—
Brayleigh being apparently the pick of the bunch.
Tramp may be written a most unlucky horse, as
besides running into places in various other events, he
has filled second position in two Newcastle Tatt.’s Cups
and one Newcastle Cup -the winners being Old Clo,
Raven’s Plume, and Oban respectively. On December 3,
nothing in the paddock at Newcastle races looked better
than he, but Oban, a 100 to 3 chance, got away directly
the machine rose, and led from start to finish.
• * * *
A B.H. tote the other day (during the V.R.C.
meeting) paid £l3 2s. Bd. for 2s. 6d. The bookmakers’
limit for the same race was 10 to 1.
* * *
A bit of the sweep was not forthcoming in many
cases at Rosehill (Sj'd.) on Saturday, and what pro-
mised to be a record field of 70 or so in the Rosehill
Stakes dwindled down to 31. Betting was pretty brisk,
but those who wanted to.put a trifle on an outsider
wished for the totalisator. Betting with the “ books ’’ is
not what it used to be, arid it now takes a very small sum
to bring a horse’s price down. The writer was standing
near one of the biggest “books" waiting to put a trifle on
Lee Morna. He was forestalled by a man who put two
pounds on at 20 to 1. That couple of “ quid ’’ brought
the price down to 14 tol—and this from one of the biggest
books in Australia. Although Strathroy looked really a
good thing, 6 to 1 was a Short price to take in such a field,
but he pulled his backers through. Yet it looked none
too good till the post was passed, as Djin Djin came with
a phenomenal rush, and had she got the chance to make
her run a bit earlier would have about won, instead of
finishing half a length to the bad. Thoughts of Caul-
field arose when five of the field came down in a bunch
just before the horses entered the straight, but no great
damage was done. The Nursery Handicap was won by
the unbacked Oceanic, a filly by Erridsford out of New-
haven’s dam Oceana, trained by Martin Payten, a brother
of Tom of that ilk.
* • * *
Broken Hill t’other day saw the unusual sight
of the court-house turned into a Tattersall’s club. A
bookmaker doing business over the Melbourne Cup
wasn’t on deck when settling-day came round. He
was in Adelaide, and, as his clients didn’t hear from
him, a warrant was issued, and he was hauled back to the
Hill to account for some of the money invested with
him. Judge Gibson, as soon as the case was entered
into, wanted to know if any of the bettors who had
started the prosecution had demanded their money from
him. None of them had, for the very simple reason that
he was in Adelaide when the time came for “demanding,”
and when he returned he was in custody. However, the
point was deemed fatal; and on the book stating (through
his solicitor) that he had only gone to Crowland to bor-
row money to pay his debts, he was released on condition
that he paid-up. (It was also stated, rather irrelevantly,
that the bookie’s father was ill in bed.) His was the last
case on the list, and, as soon as the Judge left the bench,
all clients who demanded their “oof” were paid in the
court-room. But only the money they had invested. One
poor beggar who had backed H.vinettus and the Grafter,
£lOO to 2s. 6d. (and had spree’d a portion of his pros-
pective winnings on the night of the Cup) looked canni-
balistic on receiving back his half-dollar. Memo. : The
tote never has to go to Adelaide to borrow the money to
settle with, and its father is never ill in bed. That auto-
matic betting-machine is fatherless.
*' * * »
Tod Sloan, the ’Murkan scientific jockey, seems
likely to have imitators in conservative England. One
trainer already professes to have proved, by experiments,
that the Sloan system of riding “on the neck” takes
fully a stone “ off the back ” of the horse in a inile-and-a-
half race. Sloan, apparently, has improved upon the
monkeyish tactics of several previous experts—George
Fordham and Fred Archer in particular. Their ugly,
cramped style of riding was often said to lighten the
horse’s b uden, but, on the other hand, easy, straight-
backed jockeys, like Tom Cannon and Watts, rode with
almost equal success.
“ Dabton ” : Was at school with the son of one
of our wealthiest hotelkeepers. He had attained nis
majority, and was being prepared for matnc. it
just before the dread ordeal, and our history-master naa
been explaining for quite half-an-hour the position >
William of Orange before he ascended the throne oi
Britain. “Now, Jones,” said the prof., in conclusion
“ what option had the Prince of Orange in taking t
Crown ? ” “ Local option,” promptly warbled Jones, ana,
as the roar subsided, he added, as explanation an
apology, “ Well, that’s the only option I’ve heard pi
Of course, he came down in every subject, but Ins tmca-
ness of head has not interfered with his eyesight or
nerve, for he is now a crack pigeon-shot.
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. will
put on a wood-chopping competition next show, ana t le
chips will fly to the tune of £5O for the Ist prize-winm i.
Fred Webster, the energetic secretary (he is going t >r
Parliament shortly) loves to see Young Australia with
sleeves up and axe in hand doing hard yacker, while the
public pays nimbly at the gates to get in.*
* * * *
“ Albert Macdonald of Orroroo,” an attractive
pamphlet issued by the Austral Cycle Agency, records
the pluck of the young Australian who cycled from Pott
Darwin to Melbourne, 2596 miles, in 33 days sh. 30min.
* * * *
Another Austral Wheel Race is over, but even
with the greatly -improved riders of to-day, all mounted
on the latest 1898-9 model bicycles, they have beeni unable
to equal the great ride of C. B. Kellow, who, in 1896, won
that classic race in the world’s record time of 4mm.
29sec. Kellow started from the 15yd. mark, and was
mounted on a “Bed Bird” of 1896 model. The manu-
facturers of this famous machine always contended tnat
their “ Red Birds” are two years ahead of all others, and
we think, from the above comparison, together with the
world’s competition mile record which is still held by VV.
Martin, this wheel seems to uphold their claims.*
Prevention of Seasickness. —Extraordi-
nary interest has been aroused by a large number
of letters appearing in the Evening News and
Stab testifying to the efficacy of the new remedy,
‘‘Seajoi.” The Mayor of Annandale, Mr. Allen
Taylor, writes that hitherto he was “ always sea-
sick,” but took “ Seajoi ” on a recent journey to
Port Macquarie, and “ was enabled to enjoy the
trip without suffering any of the previous discom-
fort.” Another interesting letter was from Mr.
Alex. M‘lntosh, of the North Coast S. Ship Co.,
Grafton. He wrote : “ I and Mr. Me—— each
took your preparation, and I have now the pleasure
of informing you that neither of us had the
slightest sympton of sickness on the voyage to the
Clarence.’'’ “Seajoi” is one of several valuable
remedies prepared and sold by Mr. Albert Sharp,
of 257 George-st., Sydney. (In bottles, 2s. bd.
and 4s. 6d. ; posted to any colony, 4d. and Bd.)
The Kingston Govt, had to abandon the
State Life Assurance Bill this session. “Swept
into 1899 by an avalanche of loquacity was
Premier Kingston’s way of putting it.
That amiable whisky, “ Teacher’s High-
land Cream,” is winning its way to the position of
first favorite in New South \Vales. The whisky
is controlled by that progressive firm, Plummer,
Love and Co., who are being congratulated on all
sides for introducing such a splendid brand to the
local market.*
“N.”: Apropos murderer Archer. An
Italian priest having mentioned that he had been
praying for the souls of some people killed by
brigands, who were executed, an English tra-
veller asked whether he. prayed for the brigands.
“ Oh, no, they were penitent, and saved.
A pretty girl’s affection is worth striving for,
fighting for, dressing for, and to dress for her is,
perhaps, the surest way to win her. lhe tailor
makes about 75 per cent, of the man ; and we pro-
vide, at the most moderate prices, all the essen-
tials to the smart appearance which spells success,
Write for particulars of clothing, suits, head,
neck, foot-wear, etc. Eerne and Co., London
and American Supply Stores, Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
One of the first Democratic measures to be
thrown out by S. A. Legislative Council was that
for compulsory early closing of shops. Strangely
enough it was rejected by the vote of E. 1.
Smith, the wealthy brewer, now. on the Tory side,
who was first president of the Early Closing
Association years ago, and who made his first
political start when he got into S.A. Assembly
on the early-closing ticket.
During the month of last Sept, the New
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.
supplied the German warship Falke with 0000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the
voyage to Samoa and Ayiia. During the vessel s
stay in our harbor 600 gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to the
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Svdney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
%
i
i
The Austral Wheel Race
WAS WON IN RECORD TIME ON A
- RED BIRD.”
C. B. KELLOW still holds the record for that famous race,
starting from the 15 yards’ mark on a “RED BIRD,” and
winning by yards in the record time of 4min. 29sec.
Kellow does not now ride a “ RED BIRD,” nor do we em-
ploy racing men to ride our wheels.
We put the money which other firms spend on racing men
into the quality of our Bicycles. That’s why the 1896 Model
“ RED BIRD ” is faster than the 1898 model of other firms,
as proved by the above event.
Our New Models will open your eyes on Cycle construction.
Don’t let silver-tongued salesmen persuade you to purchase other
wheels until you have seen ours.
The Qoold jjicfale (Jo. Qimited.
Salerooms: 64 King'-st., Sydney.
*
*
*
*
*
Agents in Town and Country.
USB THE
Sunlignt in Your Homes.
New Sunlight Incandescent Burner ■
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, (is. del.


WE WISH YOU
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
.... AND ....
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Can you think of any gift which
will bring its recipients greater joy
or which is calculated to add more
to their health and pleasure than an
easy-running, high-bred
IYIASSEY-HARRIS
BICYCLE ?
Our new 1899 Models are
now on View at all our Depots
and Agencies—not old stock, but
*99 Models. Please bear in
mind that this is the first time
that the Bicycle business has been
so far advanced as to make
this possible. New Models
have never before been ready
in time for Christmas,
Established 1847.
MASSEY. HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.
TORONTO, CANADA.
Aubtbalasiah Head Quarter* i William Street, Melbourne.
Bbanohes : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—N ortbam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. . A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
‘ Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
prank firimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here Xo-d.ay!
Yegterday !
and To-morrow f
TXTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ” We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
B3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“DOWKLDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
if. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden City
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.
Frank Grimley
{
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E TalkiQg liacbiO? Depot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Salande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
' ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ EU*»’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
MELBOURNE.
FEDERAL
. . PALACE . .
HOTEL
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 80s. to £3 Bs.
FEDERAL
. . PALACE . .
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Blissing Friends.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY.-HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
RE PATRICK CASS, DECEASED.
WOULD JOSEPH PATRICK CASS please
communicate with G. Archer, Solicitor,
Benalla, Victoria, re his interest in estate.
Business Announcements.
H ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
.. Self-Measurement System..
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
iiiH
7
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread bj' placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get" a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
635 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
second-hand
” AND
NSW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.) ( SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
a
m
\
at
VER
PRICE LIST
‘Swift’ No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ Lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral ‘Swift’ Road Racer £2O
SOLE AGENTS
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency [td.,
391 George Street, Sydney .
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Bendigo,
Warrnambool, Hamilton, Hobart, Launceston,
Christchurch, etc.


Ayer’s Hair Vigor
/
&&&Z*gSSBte
ssKsk
What does
it do?
It causes the oil glands
in the skin to become more
active, making the hair
soft and glossy, precisely
as nature intended.
It cleanses the scalp
from dandruff and thus re-
moves one of the great
causes of baldness.
It makes a better cir-
culation in the scalp and
stops the hair from coming out.
It prevents anti
it cures baldness.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will surely make hair
grow on bald heads, provided only there is
any life remaining in the hair bulbs.
It restores color to gray or white hair. It
does not do this in a moment, as will a hair
dye; but in a short time the gray color of
age gradually disappears and the darker color
of youth takes its place.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayek &, Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
D.S.MAIR
REPAIRS
Mainspring:, 2/6 ; Cleaning:, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2 6, Jewels,
2/6; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 oaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Au»>
tralia for all Bair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. V/igzsll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNF.v.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps lot full Price List.
Prompt attentioifgivgii to Country Ort«*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All for SALOONS and
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS! Engaged for the Country.
News wanted of Samuel Dalziel, of New-
townards, Ireland, last beard of about 17 years
ago in both Melbourne and Adelaide. Believed to
tie about Melbourne now. His letters were ad-
dressed to Adelaide P.0. His brother Hugh
anxiously enquires. 103 Smith-street, Gowan hill,
Glasgow.
“C.F.” : Re pre-natal influence. In Sara-
wak, a young married woman who had been badly
scared by an orang-outang kept tame about .the
“ kampong,” bore a child covered with coarse red
hair to such an extent as to cause the real old man
to kill both the wild man of the woods and the
unfortunate woman. Tradition fails to account
for the child’s end in a credible manner, but there
is ample proof of its savage nature and bestial in-
clinations. The Dyaks laugh to scorn the pre-
natal explanation in which the whites believe.
Similar cases have occurred in China, and physio-
logists are not agreed as to cause. Again, know
of fox-terrier bitch which, having joined in wild-
pig hunt when pregnant, had a litter, still-born,
bar one with a distinctly porcine appearance,
including corkscrew tail.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Re W. J. Lyne’s jury-yarn. At an inquest
out-back, 11 were for a verdict of wilful murder,
and the other stuck out for manslaughter. They
were locked up for the night. It was bitterly cold,
and there was only room for three at the narrow
fire-place. One man tramped about in the back-
ground, and as his temperature fell his temper
rose, till he blurted out —“ And they call this
British justice—shutting a man up in a wretched
barn like this all night ! To with it! But
it’s not British justice : it’s that filthy, beastly
Jones.” (Jones, the recalcitrant juror, was
notorious as the dirtiest man between there and
Sydney.) Then the band played, and if two
able-bodied troopers had not been roused by the
row there would have been another inquest.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
A Novelty for a Christmas Present.
The Calendar (Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address —THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH 00-, LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPYHE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
MICK SIMMONS.
» -
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
+
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest CGt Pricss-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES,
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most
CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BAT?.—Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) ...
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
~ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ..
„ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
„ Duke's P.K.D., 5s 6d; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney) ..
CRICK KT NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
... 5s 6d
7s, 7s 6d
9s 6d, 12s 6d
... 12s 6d
... 4s 6d
6s, 6s 6d
i, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
... 10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6(1
6/6, 9/6, 10 6,
„ Feltham’s ditto
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special)
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle
~ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic)
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller)
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver)
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle
GATJNTLE PS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pail
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair
„ Black Rubber, ventilated(Backs) per pair
Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair
BATTTNG GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
Surrey Shields ...
ABDOMINAL GUARDS
SCORING BOOKS
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown
Wisden’s Match
6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d,
6s 6d
10s 6d
16s 6d
15s 6d
12s 6d
16s 6d
16s 6d
15s Od
8s 6d
6s Od
Ss 6d
8s 9d
9s 6d
10s Od
6s Od
7s 6d
2s 6d
6s Od
~ „ 3s 9d to 4s Od
Coinpo.—Nicholson's, 3s 6d ; Eclipse 2s Od
~ Match, SJ/>oz., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is Od, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; M ■ n’s, 8 3, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES C!ON the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST 1 RICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 Greorge-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
/\ c%ic- for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
TJOOK of nature
-* * —and —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them : everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its passes. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by I»r. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
Tiie Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
1 Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Rom ance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s • post 2s (id. Florence Baton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is (id post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, ilb.s., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing' all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 31-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dore. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest ilius. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
Clieap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
ROYA.L WARRANT ODF* APROIKTTMRKTT TO “THE QUREKT.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky ai)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO DR WATER, &c.
Ask for
Brafydy agd
‘Scbwcppe’
TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
SUPPLIED
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lalce 111 awarra), near SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
ISfiSS
MAKERS OP
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARB.I”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD, j
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LIAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbekg, Manager, The Smelling Company of Australia, Led., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H <rr ßaSSn)OSSei)’s Alfalioe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL BEMEDY EOE EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Tlxera.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving- of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda
JOHN KEAY.
Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, - It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow- work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completety cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood 1 ills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but w-as getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very.grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
m n t . „• , Boulder City, W.A.
C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
lIERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonder/uf Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press, notices agree as to the skill he. possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing- botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not he out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen lias now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express iny thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
fQission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold, Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all vour Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVK€ FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long' standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Slood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i pughs, Colds, ( onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength,and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Rassmussen’s A.I-DF’-A.XjillxrE: ■\7‘X'T PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequa’led for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassniussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head ©Hice : - 547 Ctaorg'e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: *
KAI.GOORI.IE Hannan-st. (next Itindell's, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FRE MANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


As The Bulletin goes to press the latest
is that Neild—Majah Jawbone Neild—goes to
England for a year as N.S.W. Agent-General.
Neild never got anything in particular till he
began to judiciously totter in his allegiance to
Reid.
The hospitable Union S.S. Co. celebrated
by a very successful luncheon the arrival in Sydney
of its fine new steamer, Mokoia. Capt. Sinclair,
of the Tarawera and Monowai, who brought the
vessel out direct from Glasgow, speaks in the
highest terms of her comfort and capacity ; and
the visitors to the vessel unanimously commended
her as in many respects the finest yet placed in
running for the interprovincial trade.
The old Hereward, which has lain for the
best part of a year on the Maroubra beach, near
Sydney, perished last week as a solemn lesson on
the cussedness of inanimate objects. For months
and months tugs hauled at her in vain. Then one
night she slid off quite casually when there was no
tug about, and before one arrived a gale sprung
up, and ended the long suspense by bumping her
to death on the beach, and came near to drowning
everybody on board as well.
A new kind of apparatus for freezing ice-
cream is being introduced by Messrs. Brandt
Bros., of 236 Pitt-st., Sydney. It is a cylinder
made of tinned iron, japanned. Inside is a per-
forated zinc gallery which carries a small quantity
of ice ; in the bottom, salt and water is placed in
given quantities. In the centre of this is another
cyclinder, which is the ice-cream holder, the con-
tents being frozen in a few minutes, entirely doing
away with the turning of a handle. Moreover,
this should find favor, for it will also do for freez-
ing jellies, butter, aerated waters, &c. By this
means the cost is reduced to a minimum.*
Details received by mail from Wellington
regarding the burning of the Roman Catholic
Cathedral state that the large bronze statue of the
Virgin fell some 60 or 70 feet but was not injured.
Some years ago, when repairs were being made to
the building, the local paper sent one of its young
lions to write a par re the alterations and improve-
ments, &c. The paragraph duly appeared, and
after detailing various architectural features con-
cluded with the statement that “ over the Eastern
doorway there is a finely executed statue of a
woman with a child in her arms.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
Hancock, M.L.A., got a nasty slap in the
eye from murderer Archer, whom he sought to
save from the gallows. Agitating for a reprieve
in the Assembly, Hancock referred to the fact
that Archer had gone into the country and drunk
large quantities of strong tea—which was worse
than whisky—and, in consequence of that, if
nothing else, his mind was probably affected.
The reprieve movement collapsed with the an
nouncemerit of Archer’s confession, and on the
morning of his hanging the convict walked to his
death without breakfast, but after swallowing a
quart of strong, milkless tea.
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “ D.G.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind, it preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“ D.C.L.”
On another page is an advertisement relat-
ing to photographic supplies by the well-known
firm Harrington and Co., Ltd., whose goods being
so well-known that it is only necessary to direct
attention to the announcement. Amongst photo-
graphers the name of H. and C. has become a
household word. The stock of cameras, apparatus
and chemicals is most extensive, and anyone can
be suited with an outfit in accordance with their
means, from a few shillings up to fifty pounds.
The firm deserve the support of all photographers,
they having done so much to popularise the art by
supplying up-to-date appliances at popular prices
and through the medium of the “ Australian
Photographic Journal,” a publication which has a
wide circulation in all the colonies.*
A Victorian grand-jury has found a true
bill against the detective who hired, with the
‘Crown’s money, some alleged abortionists to per-
form an illegal operation on a widow, also hired for
the purpose with the Crown’s money, with a view
to trapping them in their illegal work. It has
also found a true bill against the widow, and the
pair will presumably be tried for conspiracy. But
what about finding a true bill against the Crown,
which furnished the cash, and apparently initiated
the wretched idea? The Crown is, technically,
Queen Victoria, and, unless the Melbourne grand-
jury commits Queen Victoria for trial on a charge
of conspiring to procure abortion the proceedings
won’t look complete, anyhow.
“ APENTA,”
The Best Natural Aperient Water
For continuous use by the constipated, the gouty
and the obese. Sole Exporters : The Apollinaris
Company, Limited, London W.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
irjfe
o
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
£~\UI HELD’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Visor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season. 1898-9)*
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
. Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Lai get y and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
±> e
c/2
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
TX/HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
’ LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says : —“By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
&
52
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20/9,97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 65., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
aNvnoH -a
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
RONISCH
ROM SCTI
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS:
KTICHOLSOKT &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
XMAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties.
OUR LATEST “ REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
REGS
14s. 6d.
“Solid Gold”
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 60.
BESS
Solid
Gold.
Without Pendant,
13a. 60.
Hew Bird Heart
and
Bell Brooch.
Remarkable
Value,
IBs. each.
fr bN®$
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
„ Heart, 7/6 ~ „ 5/6
„ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3,6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/-
GoW Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Our New Wild Boar’s Tusk
Brooch,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, ss. 6d.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. 6d.; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Real Amethysb
Sutton Book.
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
Our New
Twin
Bird,
Brooches.
Plain Gold,
78 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
18s 6d pair.
NOTH—Our ONLY Australian Address —QQ KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
. . Fitzgerald’s , $
Htige cotpbipgdSboWs,
*—INCLUDING— *
OARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direot from Hamburg. OPENING
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Looation),
Wednesday , December 21st .
Watch the Lion-Elephant Tricycle Act.
XTKLt MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
TH€ • HARBOR • LI<3NTS.
BOXING NIGHT, MONDAY, DEO. 26,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Speo-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss„ 35., 25., and la.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
ALFRED DARCPIER.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING 1
. . . Grand Revival of . . .
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS-
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, £1 Is ;Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
"PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. O. M. McAdoo.
NEXT SATURDAY and EVERY EVENINGI
Grand Return Visit for Limited Season Only.
McADOO’S
ORieiniE JUBILEE SIM
and Virginia Concert Company.
Quaint Jubilee Choruses, Old Plantation Songs, Glees,
Part Songs, Solos, Quartettes, and Humorous Items.
Madame MATTEE ALLEN McADOO, the Only Lady
Tenor in the World ; Miss SUSIE B. ANDERSON,
America’s Black Melba : Mr. ORPHEUS M.
McADOO, the Marvellous A Flat Basso Profundo.
Prices — 3s, 2s, and Is. ... Plan at Paling’s.
CLIFFORD FERLEY, Advance Agent.
Representative, WM. H. NOTT.
ALHAMBRA. The Coolest Theatre in Sydney.
Sole Lessees, Percy St. John and W. J. Wilson.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
...0f...
THE FAMOUS MUSICAL COMEDY,
“FUN ON THE BRISTOL.”
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is and SIXPENCE
Doors Open 7.16; Overture 8 p.m.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrt Rickards.
MONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and .. Bros- Lorenzi-
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
Miss CORA CASELLI, POPE and SAYLES,
The BOVIS BROTHERS, FLORRIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, FANING and DEVOE, and our Grand
Double Co. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Lieutenant Frank Travis-
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
SISTERS CLARENCE. CHAS. W. COGILL.
Miss IDA ROSSLYN. Mr. SYD DEANE.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
P
iti A CESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musorovb.
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER.
First Production in Australia of the Famous Japanese
Opera, in two acts, entitled
£he <§eisha: <A (Story of a <§ea (House.
Book by Owen HalL
Lyrics by Harry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tbe Bro6gb Cotijcdy Coy.
First Production in Australia of THE HAPPY LIFE.
SATURDAY, Dec. 24, First Production in Australia of
MADAME SANS GENE (by special arrangement with
Sir Henry Irving and Mons. Sardou.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
TN€ FATAL CARP.
A GRAPHIC DRAMATIC STORY OF REAL LIFE.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Interpreted by Mr. and Mrs. BOLT and their
Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan'!,
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE
THE AQUARIUMI
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
Hollow G&ounu
Razo*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
M IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, BARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W.


TEIMIS
A. H. MOORE & CO.
416. 418, 420
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/-ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERKCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, Gd. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is tlie Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled,'per doz 7/6
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
C. H. Smith i Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Pointers !
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIItNS),
3XT ortli Queensland..
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
** of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Publications, etc.
Mrs. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
s#
X!
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting; her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
Books
Books
Published Second
Rand.
BOOKS
Price.
Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, last edition,
10v015.,1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 0
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator. 6 vols 4 00 1 00
The Home Physician 2 5 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates ... 4 0 0 1 5 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255, verv suitable for a Christmas
present. NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS . . .
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan —all very racy, each post
free ls6d ; The Ballet Girl's Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard,Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. liindlv write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All book: sent post free.
■R TAT STfTNTMPP New and Second-hand Book
J-b. VV. tOlV±l\ IN Arcadej 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Telephone, 3043. Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormrnd's ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTEKB,
12 of the bent
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAPPS. Bs.-— —
SECRET
Photos,
(2 1 Is.
LOVERS {’«
{Continental Supply Agency,
j Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies
£3TSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/G,
post free.
By the death of Baden Powell, the vapid
.bores who profess to know all about everything in
Australia are less by one. The taste of Victoria
he got as Secretary to Gov. Bowen never left his
mouth ; to whisper “ Australia ” was to start him
on on a tour of dogmatically-expressed opinions
bn its affairs, past and present. He was nimble,
not active ; smarty, not smart. He had the names
or Leichhardt and a score of other explorers by
rote, and threw them about so with his tongue
that many regarded him as himself a distinguished
explorer. He was held in similar estimation as an
Australian historian. He was a blend of Hogan
and Henniker Heaton without the justification of
either for his cocksure assurance. He was a mode-
rately good photographer and water-color painter,
and, had he stuck to these branches, might have
done something worth notice. But to gas about
Australia was his ruling passion.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“Jep” on the vegetable-choV contro-
versy :
The Chow is encouraged in country districts to grow
and sell vegetables by the dirty pride of the cocky, which
prevents him (the cocky) from growing greens even for
*V S ov^ n use / Tinkering- about a cabbage-garden is
thought undignified and lowering to one vvho aspires to
the name of “farmer” or “agriculJurist,” and scorns
that of common “ gardener.” Therefore, the cooky grows
not the greens. If—as is often the case—he cannot afford
to buy from the vegeiable-John, he goes without, and
subsequent indigestion is relieved or increased by un-
limited consumption of pills. I don’t think you’ll find
one cocky vvho doesn’t pin his faith to some piil or other
as a cure-all. It’s a characteristic. Even the plain spud is
grown feebly and under protest, as a vegetable which
tends to lower the “ farmer’s ” dignity. Cocky selects
worst patch of paddock, and in spare moments roots it
up with plough, harrows it a bit, and ploughs-in seed.
He then hands the success or failure of the crop over to
Providence. Friend of mine was on a Vic. mountain
selection where vegetables were unknown. When a hag
of potatoes did happen to meander there the “ Missus ”
was within an ace of throwing’em into the “ crick” as
too troublesome to cook, but my friend interfered, pro-
mised to cook them himself, and they lasted till he left.
Handsome NicVel Puzzle Matchbox.
| Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
w’Jk IL
f
A
# l*
i With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post. Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil paintings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3 l. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber; 0 Ball-pointed Pens;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
; To every purchaser
[of one of our 2 6
| “ Burmese ” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present ori
payment of 4-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
jruarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessinsr about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hansr on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
3«fl0 VWHiSV
GRIMAULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Couchs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold b.v all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For- Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card,, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of th° unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
vour address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers. 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lbar-
Morm & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s ({d and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
. TO ALU
A
HU\ AN IM A ls/S.
V
’DESTROYS'
ALL .
NOXICU3
INSECTS
HARMLESS
. TO ALL
/
E^>animal£<j
v
V
"DESTROYS*
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
. TO ALL .
\domestic A
i^ANIMALS/^S
IKU
*/
V
- 1
C 7
1 X > -I
’ 2 n ©
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
■
Death
eoines a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
co n scious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, be -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture be-
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
[ tonic —something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable. ”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes :—“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure. ”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes :—“ It is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
FeLlheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
>9 T.
“ I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
■’rice, IPs. (id.
Sole Agents :
/S < i
jm
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo■ n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple anr) inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KKLLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
OUR
SPECIAL BELTfobLADIESi
REALLY a M ARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, end never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man - Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
II NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
est.ore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ng current that can he felt
v the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
lie Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what tfe promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), "ivm-r illustrations 01 different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address i— —■
GERMAN ILE;TRIC APPI/ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor ■
GENTLEMEN is SIMPLYaWONDER
runkenness
•>V
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
‘mans
The CELEBRATED and onlv SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the Use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknow ledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’;
Friend
yo/}
SK/rfMEASBf
/STive pilis
A*" 1 FOR SKIN DISEASES,
AND ALL D/SOPDFRS OF THE
STOMAC/■/ & LIVER .
OP ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. SRIDPORJ.
ANO WOUANOS
OF £ VERY
DESCRIPTION
MELBOURNE.
A
®ke?
POST FREE V"c*»
MwtcHes-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
wedding z Presents
H NEV/MAlVl■ 1755177-Fl IZARFTH Si*
opposite: G:P.O. »
MK I. BOURNE.
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
;vg
14£
§
iVfF
V\
V<v
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
| the languid, for the
[ run-down system, for
[ those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
tha,t braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention—Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a GRAND REMEDY
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, warming, invigorating- current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures w hen medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE. —If Ruptured, send also for “ Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W- H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should he w ,tn-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at. the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address-
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crpbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €ri)brocatioO-


Christmas Presents. Tew Tear Gifts.
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 176 a.
18ct. Gold Band Ring.
21s to £2.
Gent’s 18ct. Gold Ring 1 ,
3 fine Diamonds, £2l.
No. 171.
18ct. Gold and fine Opal
Bing, £2 10a.
18ct. Gold and fine
Diamond Bing, £25.
No. 40. 18ct. Gold Elnjr,
6 Diamonds and 6 Rubles,
£l3 10s.
No. 172. Gent’s 18ct. Gold
and fine Diamond Bing,
£lO.
No. 168 a.
18c<i. Gold and Diamond
Ring, £3.
No. 107. 03t. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Brooch, 17s 6d.
No. 102 a.
Oct. Gold and Pearl Brooch, 14s 6dL
No. 110.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, 13s 6d»
No. 113.
9ct. Gold Brooch, Diamond centre,
17s 6d.
No. 196 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15ct., £ll6s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 194 a. Set Links.
Oct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 392. Set Studs.
Oct. Gold, 14s ; 15ct., £1 s#.
Silver, 4s.
No. 193 a. Set Links.
Pet. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £ 1 6s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 198 a. Set Links.
9ct Gold, 15s 6d ; 15ct., £l los.
Silver, 4s.
9*
No. 121 a.
15ct. Gold Bar and Anchor Brooch,
£1 10s.
No. 117.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby Brooch,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 129 a. IBet. Gold and finest Opal Brooch, JE2 lOs.
No. 104 A.
9ot. Gold Trace and Shoe Brooch,
lla 6cL
No. 149 a.
15ct. Gold Band Bracelet, set fine Diamond, £5.
No. 134 a.
IBet. Gold and fine Opal Hall-Hoop Bracelet, £lot
HMH I
No. 141 a.
Sot. Gold, Pearl and Ruby Buckle Bracelet, £2 10s.
*
No. 122 a.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Sexagon Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
No. 115 A. Oct. Gold Brooch, with Amethyst
Centre and Heart, £1 6s.
No. 1111. Oct. Gold Safety Pin Brooch,
with 15ct. Heart, set with Pearls,
£1 la.
No. 116 A.
Set Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
18s 6d.
No. 124 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 261. Medal.
9ct. Gold .. £llO
15ct. Gold .. 117 6
Silver .. .. 0 3 6
•GiSOi
s«
No. 231.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
3 Diamonds, £4 10s.
JL
warn
No. 263. Cross.
Oct. Gold .. 8s 6d
16ct 17s 6d
No. 230.
Oct. Gold Compass,
16ct. „
Silver, 6s 6d.
£1 6s
£2los
No. 262. Cross.
Oct. Gold .. £llO
15ot „ .. £1 16 0
No. 231 a.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
8 Diamonds, 4 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 265. Medal.
Oct. Gold, £1 10s; 15ct., £2 15s.
Silver, 6s.
No. 128 a.
TBot. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. 673.
Fine Diamond New Moon Brooch, £3O.
Others in stock, £6 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2los.
No. 268 A.
Set of Silver Manicure Instruments in case, 17s cd.
S'EWART OAWSON i,
LONDON
No. 336. Twelve Silver-plated Tea Spoons and
Tongs in case, £ 1 7s 6d.'
No. 1174.
l»st. Gold “ Merry Thought” Brooch,
Mb Pearls, Sapphire, Ruby and Diamond,
£3 7s 6d.
BE
No. 296. Silver-plated Napkin Rings.
2in case, 8s 6d ; 4, 16 s 6d ;6, £1 6s.
KOb 128 a. 16ct. Gold and Diamond
Set Swallow Brooch, £4.
I
6TLWART DAWSON & G
No. 819. Silver Button Hooks and Shoe
Lift in case, 16s Cd.
No. 802 a. Two Solid Silver-mounted
Brushes in case, it'& 3s.
HUSSr’*-- ■
No. suja." Combination Case, containing
best Silver-plated Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon, Pickle Fork, Sugar Tongs, and
Sugar Spoon, £1 6s.
No. 1171. Case, containing Solid
Silver Shell Butter Dish, with Solid
Silver Knife, £1 ss.
No. 880. Case, containing Solid Silver Sugar
Sifter, Jam Spoon, and Butter Knife, ill 6*.
No. §O4. two Solid Silver Bair Brushes
and gilver=tttoaated GenA, is ease, M.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
the new and exquisite character of the foods, any of whieh will be
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LOUDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


In One Skin!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ How do, Hudson ? Not looking quite the thing,
I fancy ! ”
Dr. Parrott pulled up, and held out his hand to
the curate—running his professional eye with ap-
proval, at the same time, over that young man’s
bodily presentments; ample trunk, capacious
chest, and the long, powerful arms which, in con-
junction with a certain inadequacy of lower limb,
mark a distinct physical reversion towards a
simian—or, at all events, an arboreal—ancestry.
The shortness of neck also, and the somewhat acute
facial angle continued the analogy; but the Rev.
Francis Hudson’s jaw was not unduly prominent,
and his alert grey eyes were separated by at least
the average distance.
“ Oh, nothing much ! ” Parrott continued in
answer to the curate’s unspoken question. “ Go-
ing my way ? Jump in then, and we’ll talk ! ”
“What is it you note amiss?” The big cleric
looked down at the terrier-faced little doctor, as
they rattled off together. “ I feel pretty fit! ”
“ In body—yes ! Machine’s all right, I don’t
doubt; but there’s something amiss with the
engineer ! ”
“Engineer? Oh ! the mind, you mean?”
“Ay ! You’re looking badly worried ! ”
“Look here, Parrott,” the curate answered,
after the long pause of a man who is making up
his mind —“ you have a reputation for candor.
Be candid with me. Should you call me a good
man ? Good, I mean, technically ; ‘ ornament of
my profession,’ and so on.” The curate’s laugh
had an edge to it.
“ Hum ! You’re not compliment-fishing, I
know. Yes, I should call you a good parson, de-
cidedly—as distinguished from a goody one.
What’s your own opinion ? ”
“My own opinion—l will be candid in turn—
is Dr. Parrott ” —Hudson interrupted him-
self with a snap - “ I am a hypocrite—a miserable,
cowardly hypocrite ! ”
“ Pooh ! it’s liver, after all, then ? ”
“A cowardly hypocrite,” Hudson repeated,
looking straight before him ; “inasmuch as I—a
minister of the gospel, a preacher of the doctrines
of Christ—am, in secret, a gross and, I fear, hope-
less offender against the most vital of His teach-
ings ! ”
The man’s tone carried conviction. “ Either
his head’s wrong,” thought the surgeon, “or he
really has a secret weakness for —which of the
three ? Hudson,” he added, aloud, “ I see there’s
more in this than hypersensitive self-torturing.
Tell me just as much or as little as you please,
when I come back. I make a call here. Take the
reins, will you.”
In a few minutes the doctor came back, accom-
panied to the gate by his patient’s husband—an
immensely large, hard, red-headed Celt, with a
good-humored blue eye that belied his scarred
cheek and fist-flattened nose.
“ Tough customer, that, I should think ! ” The
curate’s eye had an interest that surprised the
doctor. “Out of your line, all that ! ’’ the latter
said, as he scrambled in again. “ That’s Costigan,
the quarryman. As harmless as he’s big ; until he
has got outside half-a-foot of whisky—then it’s
‘ stand clear ! ’ For chaps of my size, at all
events ; a fellow of your scantling might have a
show. Now, about this trouble of yours. Can I
help you in any way ? ”
“ I don’t see how you can. Unless, indeed, a
systematic lowering of the system might affect the
position.”
“Ah!” The doctor winked his off-eye. “That
eliminates gambling ! ” he said to himself. “ And,
of the other two, it can hardly be liquor. So, I
suppose it’s the old, old story ! Yes ; that’s it !
The man is simply overflowing with masculinity ! ”
“I see,” Hudson said, presently, “that you
pretty well guess my secret. But you mustn’t
think I haven’t struggled— ”
“ I know you have, Hudson ! You’re not the
sort to give the Old Adam his uninterrupted fling.
You have the strength of your weakness; and
that is. what distinguishes him who is merely a
man, in this respect, from him who is also a
beast! In a word—l am no moralist ! —the fault,
if fault it is, appears to me to be so essentially
masculine a characteristic— ”
“ Ah | ” Hudson cooled a little in his manner.
“That is the voice of the Tempter! We must
crucify—but noprofessional commonplaces for you,
I suppose. I get down here. Thanks ! ”
“ Oh, there’s no fear for him ! ” the doctor told
himself as he drove on. “ He’ll keep himself in
hand all right till .he gets married, and then, I
suppose, like all the rest of the holy men, he’ll
take good care not to neglect the * increase and
multiply ’ injunction.”
* • • *
Timotheus Costigan, Esquire—not yet sur-
charged with his national kill-or-cure—made
Saturday-night progress adown Coorabinda’s one
considerable street, and found no man to say him
nay ; for Tim’s most dangerous condition was half-
cargo. Loaded-up, his offensive powers were
seriously hampered ; the means defeated the end.
“ Divil shoot me ! ” muttered Tim as he rounded
the corner for home, “if I see Buckley’s chance
of a shindy to-noight. Be me sowl, man ! ” —with
a sudden ascension of voice—“ d’ye think it’s
belangin’ t’ yerself the road is ? ’’—and Tim
diverted his course to shove rudely against a per-
son coming in the opposite direction. Which
person, stepping back for room, promptly pro-
jected an extremely “ dirty left ” into Mr. Costi-
gan’s eye, swung him an equally unladylike
“right” under the ear, and laid that astounded
warrior most unequivocally out. The moment he
arose, proceedings recommenced ; and in about
ten minutes’ time the stranger faded away into
the darkness, leaving the badly-bashed Costigan
in rapt contemplation of the stars from the broad
of his back.
* * V *
“ A bit of an artist, this was, Tim.” Dr. Par-
rott was engaged, next morning, upon some neces-
sary repairs to the person of the vanquished..
“ He must have upper-cut you in tip-top style.”
The doctor—like so many other harmless little
men—was something of a virtuoso in pugilism.
“ And you’ve no idea who he was,'you say ? ”
“ Bad luck to the bit! A stiff-built chap, he
was, an’ middlin’ tall; but he niver opened his
mouth, an’ ’twas too darruk to make out the fay-
tures of ’m.”
“ Devilish odd ! Looks almost as if he’d come
to Coorabinda on purpose to take you down a
peg.” But just then the doctor received a note
which gave him weightier cause of wonderment.
“ As I have already told you so much,” wrote
the curate, “ I will now confide to you the real
reason of the resignation which you will hear of
publicly in due course. It is, simply, that —
struggle as I may against the degrading pro-
Density I hinted of to you, the other day—some
accursed strain of the beast in my nature is too
strnnw for mp Last I nave way again—
d'Sd my Christian profeS*o» through the
Sol my brutish personality 1 As a medical
man vou mav possibly find more excuse for me on
the score of tlian l dare make for myself,
But a hypocrite at all events, I will no longer
r> ~, p
*“ Poor chap!” The little doctor carefully ap-
plied a match to the note. “ There’s better stuff
in him, after all, than in half the smug young
snufflers who think iPs virtu© that’s th© matter
with them when it’s only anaemia ! ”
* • * *
It was nearly a year later that, amongst the
crowd pouring into a Sydney “ athletic hall,” Dr.
Parrott caught sight of the ex-curate.
“The world, the flesh, and the devil ! ” said the
little man to himself. “He’s going in for the
whole contract, apparently ! Hi !—Hudson ! ”
—but Hudson had disappeared into the adytum of
the establishment. Knows some of the pugs, I
suppose ! ” surmised the doctor, as he seated him-
self amongst the spectators. Daresay 111 catch
on to him after the fun s over.
The event of the evening-afinishbetweentwo
well-known punchers—was to be preceded by a
10-round go, gentlemen, between your old
acquaintance, Foxy Blogg, and a clever gentle-
man-hamateur ! And when the pair came on,
the doctors jaw dropped, for tlie gentleman-
amateur was the ex-Rev I rancis Hudson !
*<rri? reat S f ot^ ; m £ tter ? d A 1 *® j» '
The young fool. A chopping-block
And, for the first couple of rounds, it certain y
looked a good deal that way ; for the professional
—though slightly inferior in „ a b K
seemed to get home pretty much as he liked. But
in the third round exchanges were pretty even;
and then, suddenly, in the fourth, Hudson came
JriTm to «»* JS32h5 S bom
fighter—still with a lot to learn in skill—but
physically and mentally of the stamp that no
training can ever manufacture-the stamp that
revels hardly less in the receipt of punishment
than in its infliction. The professional put forth
all his resources as a boxer; but as a fighter he
was hopelessly outclassed by the younger man,
and went to sleep over a terrifio right-hander on
the jaw in the sixth round.
• • • •
“My mistake was a very natural one,” the doc-
tor said, as he and Hudson strolled away from the
place together. “Nobody could have supposed
that expressions of such bitter self-contempt
referred merely to a predilection for fisticuffs.”
“ It’s more than that! ” Hudson said, gloomily,
“It’s bloodthirst!”
“Well call it what you like. What did you
mean, by the way, when you said in that letter
that you had ‘given way’ the night before, and
soon? That referred to some specific act, didn’t
Hudson smiled for the first time. “ I should
think that big Irish quarryman found it decidedly
specific. What was his name ? ”
“Whee-eep!” whistled the doctor. “ Costi-
gan eh! How did you manage to fall foul of
him ? He took a deal of mending next morning.”
“I put myself purposely in his way, so as to
sret some of my steam worked-off. Steam’s the
only thing I can compare it with. When I’ve
been a certain time without a fight of some sort,
the thing simply takes possession of me—l must
either have a scrimmage or burst. But, though
the one part of me absolutely can’t help my-
self, the other part of me still considers me to*
great a brute to wish to continue any of my old-
time acquaintances. Good night! ”
“ At first,” muttered the doctor, staring after
him, “I was inclined to think it a simple case of
atavism—the man’s physique is obviously in-
herited from a fighting breed ; but, when I take
his extraordinary self-reproachfulness into account
I begin to think there’s something, after all, in
the notion that one skin may hold two men.”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
Visit to Australia talked of for Duke of
Connaught, who, for various reasons, would be
more acceptable to the less flunkeyish part of the
community than either Tummy, or Alfredinburgh,
or Son York. Connaught is a soldier who has
seen some active service, is less virtually Deutsche
than any of the others, and is credited with much
plain sense and dislike of “ frill.”
The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
There was grievous uproar in a Westralian
hash-factory recently. The culinary department
was run by a good-looking girl upon whom the
youngest boarder was badly mashed. One even-
ing she told him she had “got notice” because
the grass-widow of another fellow had undercut
her wages. Said grass-widow was old, straight
up and down, with a face like a rock-oyster. The
youngest boarder was in despair, and laid a plan to
reinstate his girl. The new cook started opera-
tions Sunday morning moulding the duff for
dinner. When it appeared in a dish of sauce the
youngest boarder turned pale,. and when the
carver tried to open it out with the carving-knife
and failed the youngest boarder turned guilty red.
The 38 boarders suggested maul and wedges,
crosscuts, dynamite, &c , and the athletic boarder,
standing on the chair to get a better leverage,
tried to work the bread-knife into it. The wet
duff only slithered off the dish and up the table,
and the boarders, being afraid of their best
clothes, dragged cloth and everything else with
them in a frantic endeavor to get out of the road.
The athletic carver fell into the dish, which he
broke, and the duff from, the overturned table
rolled heavily across the floor and thumped solid
into the wall. Most of the boarders had fallen
over something or other in the lOsec. scuffle, and
more damage was done than the cheap cook could
pay for in six months. Supper was engineered
that night by the reinstated girl. And in the
dead of night she and her fiance, the youngest
boarder, emptied the bag of flour over the back
fence. It was mostly plaster-of-paris.
Arnott’s Living Pictures.
vsem
'■
\ _ .. *• - ■■ .\.X
» ;-S '->V' V t
k
:
'
TESTIMONIAL.
To MR ARNOTT.
Dear Sir,
I am sending you the photo,
of my baby, six months old. She
has been fed on your Arrowroot
Biscuits from Birth.
Yours respectfully,
Mrs. J. ELLIOTT.
No. 21 Paternoster Row,
Off Union Street,
Pyrmont, Sydney.
Baby ELLIOTT, aged 6 months— Fed since her birth on
ARNOTT’S Milk
The Children’s Food of Health.
Arrowroot Biscuits!
Always ask for Arnott’s when purchasing.


The Two Souls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two souls went sweeping wide in space, two
spirits outward bound ;
A hissing comet raced them ’tween the planets
wheeling round :
They felt the flame of liquid suns, through voids
unmeasured fell,
Where.dead worlds turned and no light burned,
and one said this was Hell.
The one pale soul, a haunted thing, was gripped
with mortal awe,
And, terror-cold, it shuddered at the God Al-
mighty’s law.
But one soul rode in bluff content above the
shining bars,
And seemed to jeer each spinning sphere, and
beard the hoary stars.
Joe Paul had been a wayward man, a man of
simple worth,
Who called not on the name of God when walking
on the earth,
Nor made loud prayer in kirk or cot. The good
deeds done abroad
For men were done, and never one to glorify the
Lord.
And now flung out, a frenzied spook in deeps
eternal spun,
He knew his fault, and wept for that his earthly
course was run.
One only hope he had to join the ever blessed
host
By stealing in a shade of sin behind the goodly
ghost.
For Nahum Benn had mighty been in piety and
zeal.
He smote the child of wrath and ground the Devil
’neath his heel.
He laid a hand across the weak, and bent them to
the rod,
And, high and free, translated he the word and
will of God.
His voice was loud, his brow was grim, his body
tall and broad,
His eye was lit with flaming fire, his tongue was
as a sword.
He called the people from their joy, his gospel
fidtee to tell—
If one denied in holy pride he flicked him into
hell !
He knew with hot conviction, and each message
was a blow :
‘"The Lord says this ! ” “This is His wish!”
“The God will have it so / ”
They said Jehovah spoke by him, the dull-lifed
toiling horde.
“In truth,” said they, “a prophet! Yea, a gaffer
for the Lord!”
And now these twain from flesh absolved, with
earthy longing spent,
All through the starry vortex whirled, up to the
judgment went.
Between the gates St. Peter stood, the streaming
ghosts to scan.
The hand of Paul he took ’fore all—they met as
man and'man.
“Come in,” he cried, “you’re welcome, mate!”
and drew him up, and then
The pale ghost hid his face and said : “Thatxs
tlie soul of Benn.”
St. Peter paused, and backward looked with eye
and brow austere:
“ We know him not, and this I wot, we brook no
strangers here.”
St. Peter passed the otlier in, a soul serene, elate,
But left the ghost of Nahum Benn low whimper-
ing at the gate.
Then Paul knew how the love of God had saved a
soul in ten ;
The other nine won grace divine by simple love
of men !
EDWARD DYSON.
A Circus on our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dave had been to town and came home full of
circus. He sat on the ground beside the tubs
while mother and Sal were washing, and raved
about the riding and the tumbling he had seen.
He talked enthusiastically to Joe about it every
day for three weeks. Dave rose very high in Joe’s
estimation.
* * • *
Raining. All of us inside. Sal on the sofa
playing the concertina; Dad squatting on the
edge of a flat stone at the corner of the fireplace ;
Dave on another opposite; both gazing into the
fire, which was almost out, listening intently to
the music; the dog, dripping wet, coiled at their
feet, shivering; mother sitting dreamily at the
table, her palm pressed against her cheek, also
enjoying the music.
Sal played on until the concertina broke. Then
there was a silence.
For a while Dave played with a piece of char-
coal. At last he spoke.
“ Well,” he said, looking at Dad, “ what about
this circus ? ”
Dad chuckled.
“ But what d’ y’ think? ”
“Well ” (Dad paused) “ yes ” (chuckled again)
—“ very well.”
“A circus /” Sal put in—“a ■pretty circus
yous A. have ! ”
Dave fired up.
“ You go and ride the red heifer, strad-legs,
same as y’ did yesterday,” he snarled, “ an’ let all
th’ country see y’.”
Sal blushed.
Then to Dad :
“ I’m certain, with Paddy Maloney in it, we
could do it right enough, and make it pay, too.”
“Very well, then,” said Dad, “very well.
There’s th’ tarpaulin’ there, and plenty bales and
old bags whenever you’re ready.”
Dave was delighted, and he and Dad and Joe
ran out to see where the tent could be pitched, and
ran in again wetter than the dog.
♦ * • *
One day a circus-tent went up in our yard. It
attracted a lot of notice. Two of the Johnsons
and old Anderson and others rode in on draught-
horses and inspected it. And Smith’s spring-cart
horse, that used to be driven by every day,
stopped in the middle of the lane and stared at it;
and when Smith stood up and belted him with
the double of the reins lie. bolted and upset the
cart over a stump.’ It wasn’t a very white tent.
. It was made of bags and green bushes, and Dad
and Dave and Paddy Maloney were two days put-
ting it up.
We all assisted in the preparations for the circus.
Dad built seats out of forked sticks and slabs, and
Joe gathered jam-tins which mother filled with fat
and moleskin wicks to light up with.
Everyone in the district knew about our circus,
and longed for the opening night. It came. A
large fire near the slip-rails, shining across the lane
and lighting up a corner of the wheat-paddock,
showed the way in.
Dad stood at the door to take the money. The
Andersons —eleven of them—first arrived. They
didn’t walk straight in. They hung about fora
while. Then Anderson sidled up to Dad and
talked into his ear. “Oh! that’s all right,” Dad
said, and passed them all in without taking any
money.
Next came the Maloneys, and as Paddy be-
longed to the circus they also walked in without
paying, and secured front seats.
Then Jim Brown and Sam Holmes, and Walter
Nutt, and Steve Burton, and eight others strolled
along. Dad owed all of them money for binding,
which they happened to remember. “In yous
go,” Dad said, and in the lot went. The tent
filled quickly, and the crowd awaited the opening
act.
Paddy Maloney came forward with his hair
oiled and combed, and rang the cow-bell.
Dave, bare-footed and bare-headed, in snow-
white moles and red shirt, entered standing
majestically upon old Ned’s back. He got a great
reception. But Ned was tired and refused to
canter. He jogged lazily round the ring. Dave
shouted at him and rocked about. He was very
unsteady. Paddy Maloney flogged Ned with the
leg-rope. But Ned had been flogged often before.
He got slower and slower. Suddenly, he stood
and cocked his tail, and, to prevent; himself fall-
ing, Dave jumped off. Then the audience yelled
while Dave dragged Ned into the dressing-room
and punched him on the nose.
Paddy Maloney made a speech. He said:
“ Well, the next item on the programme ’ll knock
y’ bandy. Keep quiet, you fellows, now, an’ y’ll
see somethin’.”
They saw Joe. He stepped backwards into the
ring, pulling at a string. There was something on
the string. “Come on ! ” Joe said, tugging. The
“something” wouldn’t come. “Chuck ’im in,”
Joe called out. Then the pet kangaroo was
heaved in through the doorway, and fell on its
head and raised the dust. A great many tigly
dogs rushed for it savagely. The kangaroo
jumped up and bounded round the ring. The
dogs pursued him noisily. “ Gerrout /” Joe
shouted, and the crowd stood up and became
very enthusiastic. The dogs caught the kangaroo,
and were dragging him to earth when Dad rushed
in and kicked them.in twos to the top of the tent.
Then, while Johnson expostulated with Dad for
laming his hrindle slut, the kangaroo dived
through a hole in the tent and rushed into the
house and into the bedroom, and sprang on the
bed among a lot of babies and women’s hats.
When the commotion subsided Paddy Maloney
rang the cow-bell again, and Dave and “ Podgy,”
the pet sheep, rode out on Nugget. Podgy sat
with hind-legs astride the horse and his head lean-
ing back against Dave’s chest. Dave (standing
up) bent over him with a pair of shears in his hand.
He was to shear Podgy as the horse cantered
round.
Paddy Maloney touched Nugget with the whip,
and off lie went —“ rump-ti-dee, dump-ti-dee.”
Dave rolled about a lot the first time round, but
soon got his equilibrium. He brandished the
shears and plunged the points of them into Podgy’s
belly-wool—also into Podgy’s skin. “ Bur -ur-r t ”
Podgy blurted and ’struggled violently. Dave
began to topple about. He dropped the shears.
The audience guffawed. Then Dave jumped ; but
Podgy’s horns got caught in his trousers and made
trouble. Dave hung on one side the horse and the
sheep dangled on the other. Dave sang out, so
did Podgy. And the horse stopped and snorted,
then swung furiously round and round until five
or six pair of hands seized his Load and held him.
Dave didn’t repeat the act. He ran away hold-
ing his trousers together.
It was a very successful circus. Everyone en-
joyed it and wished to see it again—everyone but
the Maloneys. • They said it was a swindle, and
ran Dad down because he didn’t divide with
Paddy the 3s. Gd. he took at the door.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
Advance Australia ! Two Melb. small
boys, aged respectively 13 and 14, have been
arrested for forgery, and also found guilty of a series
of well-conceived and smartly-executed thefts
from city warehouses. In one instance the
youngsters, having stolen the keys of a tobacco-
factory, drew upon the stock at leisure, but broke
open a window and made nail-marks on the. sill,
and thus befooled “ the law ” into the belief that
it was a common burglary. The province will lose
two good policemen' if these youths take to
politics.
Beautiful sentiments from actual address
of N.S. W. country candidate for aldermanship :
I am in favor of a man having full local option of taking
his glass of beer at all hours and at all times, whether he
is able to pay for it or not. I am in favor of settling all
disputes, by strikes—never bandy words; strike, your
opponent and strike hard—with a stick. lam in favor of
extending the franchise to every woman and child in the
colony. I believe in rain-making by dynamite in our dry
town, and would like to be employed at the job. In fact,
I am a grand man. I feel convinced that I will top the
poll.
He didn’t!
In an up-mountain train several passengers
were pestered by a young fellow with continual
remarks prefaced with “Suppose.” Glancing out
of the window he noticed the fearful fall one
could have, and enquired generally: “If the
train fell over, what do you suppose would happen
tous?” Then an old Yankee drummer spake ;
“ Look a-here, young man, ‘ s’posin’ ’ you was out
on the prair-rie, and ‘s’posin” you met a fierce
kan-ga-roo ; and ‘s’posin” she jammed you in her
pouch. Now, ‘.s’posin’ ’ your head stuck oiit, .and
‘s’posin” that ’roo was chased by a pack of
dingoes, what do you ‘ s’pose ’ you’d do? D’ you
‘s’pose ’ you’d slink in, d’ you ‘ s’pose ’ you’d siink
out, or d’ you ‘ s’pose ’ you’d bite that ’roo’s tail to
make her go faster?” Then the youth ceased
supposing.
A noted fact that people who do like to feel
comfortable generally buy their Summer outfits at
Hordern Brothers’ Establishment in Pitt-st., Sydney.
For instance, their Tennis Jackets and Trousers (made of
Flannels, Series, liharki, Assam Silks, Grass Cloths and
Crash), in all prices to suit everybody's pockets, are made
larae and roomy for the tropical weather. Tennis Shirts
to match, in all the most effective colorings; with and
without collar. No description would convey an ade-
quate idea of our marvellous stock. We send these {roods
free per parcels post anywhere ; send alony any order,
lanre or small, and we will surprise you with the value
we forward, or write for price-list. ’ Hordern Brothers,
Pitt-st., Sydney. (Cash Buyers and Sellers.)*
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
. . A BLOOD PURIFIER AND CURE FOR . .
Sick Livers, Sick Kidneys, and Female Ailments.
Death Stared Him.
HIS COMPANION-SEIZED BY A SHARK
-THE SHOCK, COUPLED WITH AN
ACCIDENT, LEFT RICHARDC. BROWN
A WHECK—DOCTORS FAIL. BUT DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS SCORE
A VICTORY.
Having heard of an experience which few are
called upon to undergo, a reporter was despatched
to learn the true facts of the case, and on being
interviewed, Mr. Richard C. Brown, a store-
keeper at No. 7 Burton-street, North Sydney, re-
lated the following particulars: “One stormy
night, whilst employed upon the Government
steamer Fitzroy, I was ordered to form one of the
crew called out to communicate with the sand-
pump Doris. Upon reaching the bar our boat
capsized, and Martin Gunner and myself
attempted to swim for shore. Gunner disap-
peared—seized by a shark. My blood ran cold.
I turned to get back to the boat, when Captain
Grant cried, ‘ Brown, for God’s sake try to come
back.’ After a desperate struggle and sinking
twice I reached it, though I was as one dead. The
captain then swam ashore, and we were eventually
rescued by the Trial Bay convict lifeboat. That
night at Seal Rocks Dr. Kelly sat at my bedside
trying to ease my terrible pain. James Anderson,
who accompanied me to Sydney Hospital, knows
what I suffered ; but after four weeks I started to
improve, when I was ordered to join the Rhoa at
Cape Hawke. From there I was transferred to
Manning River, where I met with an accident
while heaving one of the doors at the depository
ground, one of the handles flying up and hitting
me in the chest. I was carried bleeding to the
Taree Hospital, and was in a serious state for
many weeks. Doctors informed me my chances
of recovery were doubtful, and the Railway
Medical Officer certified I was unfit for duty. I
was offered one hundred pounds compensation by
the Government, which I received. I was a
physical wreck, when a relation asked me to try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as they had cured
him. I purchased some from a chemist close by.
At this time 1 was unable to walk a hundred
yards without the aid of two sticks. My liver felt
as if a knife-blade was sticking in it, my back was
dead, and I continually vomited blood. I had
only used three bottles of the pills when the pain
grew less and I ceased to vomit blood. I could
feel myself growing stronger every day, and the
chills disappeared. My friends saw the change,
and knew that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
wrought it, for I used no other remedy. 1 con-
tinued their use a few weeks, and now I can
truthfully say that I am entirely.cured, and never
felt better in my life.” Here Mr. Brown opened
his shirt, saying, “ All that remains of my suffer-
ings are these old scars. There are hundreds
know my case and miraculous cure.”
; ♦ :
O’ershadowed by Death.
DR. MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
SAVED HER LIFE.
The following truth is told by Mrs. M. Mitchell,
Carp Street, Bega, N.S. W. :—I have been suffer-
ing for a long time from some complaint, which
caused me severe pains in the back and head. I
accidentally came across a Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pill pamphlet, and after reading I resolved
to try the pills. I was at this time as ill as I could
possibly be and live ; indeed, my friends thought
I would not live the week out. I have taken one
bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and they
had a most beneficial effect upon me. They have
done me the most good of anything I have ever-
taken, and I believe them to be the best patent
remedy that is sold, and I take pleasure in,
recommending them to the public as such.”
A Lady Rescued.
Bourke, N.S.W.,
Dear Sirs.—Your Dr. Morse’s Indian Roott
Pills have cured me of a weakness females are
troubled with. I used the Pills five weeks, four
bottles in all, and they have cured me. Formerly
I was very pale and weak, but at this writing the-
color has returned to my cheeks, and I am gaining
in strength and weight. Yours very truly.
Mbs. R .
A Crimean Hero.
HIS REWARD A PENSION OF DISEASE.
Mr. Michael Dwyer, Fernmount, N.S.W., re-
lates:—“ For many years I have been a victim to
severe, indigestion, dyspepsia, and loss of energy.
I tried many medicines. Some would make lim
feel well for a day, and then I would be as bad as
ever. There was a constant mist before my eyes
and like a ball of fire in my breast. I gave up
trying remedies, and made up my mind to have
nothing more to do with them ; but I was induced
to try one dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and I can inform you I was agreeably surprised
in finding that they acted unlike other medicines
taken so 'Dften by me. I immediately procured a
bottle, and since taking them I can speak from
experience, and now recommend them as a certain
cure for i ndigestion. They do not cause griping or
pain, and. seem to build up the whole system, at
the same time clearing it of all bad substances. I
am cured, and my sight clear as of old.”
A Woman’s Agony.
UNABLE TO TAKE FOOD-SO REDUCED
IN FLESH HER BONES COULD
ALMOST BE COUNTED. EXCRU-
CIATING PAINS—HER EYES AND
CHEEKS SUNKEN-THREE DOCTORS
FAIL TO CURE—MEDICINES PROVE
USELESS-BUT DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS EFFECT A COMPLETE
CURE.
The following facts have been fully investigated
and found to be true in every particular Miss
Eveline Griffin, whose home is situated at 45
Raper-street, Sydney, tells the story of her re-
markable restoration to health and strength : “ I
have much pleasure in adding my testimony to
the benefits I have derived from the use of your
most valuable medicine, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. About three months ago I strained myself
lifting. My symptoms were as follow :—Severe
pains in both sides, which would continue day
and night; pains would catch me in the shoulder
blades. I lost my appetite, and would be for
days at a time without eating anything. If
I did fancy any kind of food it would be brought
to me; I would taste it,' and then start
vomiting. I got so thin that almost every
bone in my body could be counted ; my eyes and
cheeks fell in, and I was as white as a sheet. If
I walked a short distance I would feel fairly
exhausted, and would have to stand for fear of
falling. I was under the treatment of three
■doctors, but they did me no good. At last my
father, who had great faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, told me to give them a trial, which I
am very pleased to say I did. From the first few
doses I began to obtain relief, and before the
second bottle was finished I was a different girl
altogether. It is now six weeks since I left off
taking the Pills. The pains have all left me, my
appetite returned, and I can walk any distance
without feeling the least exhausted. lam positive
the Pills alone cured me. You can use this testi-
mony as you please, as I would like other sufferers
to obtain relief in the same way as I have done.
Coughing His Life Away-
Mr. Francis Butler is an old resident of Ulla-
dulla, of twenty years’ standing. Having suffered
for nearly the whole of that period with asthma,
he asked Captain Wilson, of the s.s. Peter-
borough, to procure him two bottles of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills in Sydney. He took
two bottles, and now helps to swell the universal
praise of this popular remedy. Previous to
this he had tried every remedy which he
could procure, but they did him no good. He
says that everybody in the Ulladulla district
knows the extent of his sufferings, but since tak-
ing these wonderful pills all this has changed, for
they instantly relieved him, causing him to expec-
torate large lumps of phlegm. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills alone have made life pleasant
for him, his days contented, and his nights peace-
ful.
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills
HAVE CURED
THOUSANDS, AND WILL CURE YOU.
One of the roots from which these Pills are
made is a sudorific, which opens the pores of the
skin, and assists nature in throwing out the finer
parts of the corruption within. The second is a
plant which is an expectorant that opens and un-
clogs the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a
soothing manner, performs its duty by throwing
off the phlegm and other humors from the lungs
by copious spitting. The third is a diuretic,
which gives ease and double strength to the kid-
neys ; thus encouraged, they draw large amounts
of impurity from the blood, which is then thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water passage,
and which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a Cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while en-
gaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser particles
of impurities, which cannot pass by other outlets,
are thus taken up and conveyed off in great quan-
tities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a perfect blood
purifier, curing boils, blotches, pimples, sallow
complexion, jaundice, eczema, and ail skin
diseases, and a positive cure for sick headache,
biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia, constipation,
shortness of breath, flatulency, liver complaint,
kidney and female troubles. Sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, price Is. l|d. per bottle, or six
bottles six shillin gs. If not obtainable from your
chemist or storekeeper, same will be forwarded
upon receipt of price. Sole Proprietors—THE
W. H. COMSTOCK CO., LIMITED. Austra-
lasian Branch —58 Pitt-street., Sydney, N.S. W.


BLOOD PURIFIED. WEIGHT INCREASED.
Health Completely Restored.
Col. Jas. H. Carmichael, * Distinguished member of the Staff of th*
Governor of Massachusetts, and whose portrait is hers reproduced,
Yijpq.rtny recommends Ayer s Sarsaparilla.
r><
m
\ r
M
C'. i
I
•B3W
'oi
%
V
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with markedly beneficial results.
When 1 began using it 1 was very much out of health, and had lost a good
deal in weight. My blood was in an unhealthful condition, which was mad »
manifest in several unpleasant ways. Soon after commencing the use of
the Sarsaparilla I began to improve, my weight increased, and before ver '
long my health was completely restored. I heartily recommend AYEB’o
SARSAPARILLA.”
The above testimonial from the gallant Colonel, and the many thousands
of others received from all parts of the world, are incontrovertible evidence
of the wonderful efficacy of AYER’S SARSAPARILLA as a blood purifier
and health restorer.
«Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worthless
imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— is on the wrapper, and blown
fa the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
Prepared toy Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Kan., U, S. A.
Oh, the Multitude Who Say It!
Speaking of another world than this, a certain
Book, from which so many draw comfort in times
of trouble, says: “ The inhabitant never saith., 1
am sick.” But in this world the air is full of the
weary, wailing cry, “I am sick,” “I suffer so,”
“ Can nothing be done to rid me of pain ? ”
Here is another case of it another out of a
number beyond all counting or imagining. Yet
this one got well. Do you want to hear about it ?
or do you know of any pain-racked mortal who
might like to hear about it? Then read, either
for yourself or for someone else. We give the facts
exactly as they were given to us.
“ In the early part of 1889 I began to suffer from
illness. I had at first a bad taste in my mouth,
and belched up a sour, gaseous fluid. My appetite
was poor, and, after eating, I had a burning pain
at my chest, and palpitation of the heart. I had
also a gnawing, grinding sensation at the pit of the
stomach, with a feeling of sinking, as though I
were being bodily lowered into a pit. My food
never seemed to settle, but repeated, and I had to
spit it out; this going on until my stomach was
empty. . ,
“ I lost a deal of sleep at night. I got very weak
and thin, losing over a stone in weight; I was so
feeble that I could hardly drag myself along. As
time went on I grew irritable and nervous, and
took no interest or pleasure in anything.
“ Sometimes better and at other times worse, I
continued in this way until August of last year
(1893), when I had to give up my employment as
collier at the Waterloo Main Colliery, where I
had been at work for seven years. At this time I
had got so bad that I sat in my chair from morn-
ing till night, too weak and prostrated to go about.
When I did venture out I dare not go alone for
fear I should fall down in the street.
“ At times a strange feeling came over me, as if
my heart had stopped beating ; and on one of
these occasions I felt as if I were dying, and said
to my wife, ‘ Lass , it’s all up with me.’
“ During my long illness I consulted several
doctors, and they all said my heart was sound,
and that the trouble was all from my stomach and
liver. They gave me medicines and recommended
a change of air. I therefore went to Blackpool,
Scarborough, and Whitby, but. was no better either
from the change or from the doctor’s physic.
“ One day a book was left at my house telling
about Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and I
thought it might possibly help me. So I got a
bottle from Mr. Webster, chemist, Green Road,
and when I had finished that bottle I found relief,
for my food no longer repeated and the pain at
my heart was easier. I kept on with the medicine
arid soon my appetite returned, and I Gould eat
without feeling any pain or distress. Gradually I
improved! getting stronger and stronger every
day. I can now eat anything, and do my work
with pleasure. I feel quite a new man, and con-
sider that Mother Seigei’s Syrup lias saved my
life. Yours truly, (Signed) George Hopton, 25
Bayswater Terrace, Ftoundhay Road, Leeds,
February Bth, 1891. ”
No words of ours c»n add an ounce to the
weight of this plain and manly letter. From it,
as from a hilltop, we can see the sad picture of
those four years of misery. The discouraged and
suffering husband, the patient, burden-bearing,
helpful wife. Heaven be praised that it all ended
as it did —in renewed health —instead of as it
night have ended. The disease was that insatiate
fiend and monster —indigestion and dyspepsia;
cunning as a fox, destructive as a man-eating
tiger. In this case, as in so many others, Mother
Seigel’s Syrup demonstrated that power which has
made it celebrated all over the world—in palace
and in hut, wherever the inhabitant saith, I am
tick. If you are one of these, try it now. If you
are healthy and hearty, thank God for that, and
pass the news of George Hopton’s illness and re-
covery on to any who need to hear it.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchase*.
FREE [COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
w
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the bouse for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QTJINT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
VolGnjes 13 ai)d 14 of
BEECHAM’S—
... MUSIC . . .
PORTFOLIO
WOW READY,
Each containing 30 Different Songs and Pieces,
Price 2d. per Volume.
Beecham’s Music Portfolio is beyond contradiction by far the
Cheapest and Best Collection of Music ever published ! It is printed on stout
paper from well-engraved plates, and is edited by an eminent Professor of Music,
thus guaranteeing perfect accuracy, The Songs have all the Original Sym-
phonies and Pianoforte Accompaniments in full. Volumes Ito 12 have been
issued during the past ten years, and are still in print, and the proof of their
popularity and superiority over similar cheap music may be gathered from the
fact that
Over One Million Books are Sold Yearly.
Ask your Bookseller or Newsagent for a
List of Contents; Published by . . . ,■
Thomas Beecham, Pr °C m.
ST. HELEN’S, ENG.
“ LIBERTY BELL ” (Grand March), by the Composer of
the celebrated “Washington Post,” is in Vol. 13.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
* 214 George Street, Sydney.
Cures While Sleeping.
nisTm
TESTIMONIAL.
Adarostown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Being a sutlerer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything X
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified. ’
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bennington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTFTVTA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THF
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung ComnWs
tending to CONSUMPTION. ljUng Complaints
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNXNGTON’S.
Bonningtons Fills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION FLATTT
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAIN&


iiai TH u UROE srt
AKERs
UND E RTHEB R m^ ENT S
-^- rit «sh flag
HIGH-CLASS
MASSEY-HARRIS Cd LIMITED
Head OJtre and Factoriet - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Hegdq’rt’rs, 168-169 Willi am-st. MelK
New South Wales Address I
36 Broadway, Oeor-n St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue l'ree, on application.
Establishes
1847.
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, PX S„ Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
<£>
ECZEMA
Self Applied.
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10 U
depots;
Sydney— M. H. Hobwitz, 84 Pitt St
„ Adelaide— Harris & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne— Fred. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St
WortbiQgtoi) POnjpiQg Eogii)€ Coropaoy-
(Australasian Branch,) JDSOITI - (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH I NGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns- t, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Jiept in SJ-fcoolac..
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
DYEING
E LADIES.
w. O. ZEXjIDZRariDGKE] &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOliK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS
George and
Market-Sts.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff—B/- per Day. |
tfsas
PATENT
i. -ti ' ">'< \
FOR
HOUSEH
USE
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
MINUTES!
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
[ Iced Water produced at a cost of 2/~.
50a.
BRAN
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
xsnraxs nxzavzrri m pm
-7
.V'l
V
What is Health?
Sciatica,
- - Fumbarjo, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA ItKICJt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZEOY. Send for Treatise on
"these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
83tr- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
« J
the Country Milk Trade ; the Jptctory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Tee-making.
WW®
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
THE BEST i
AGENTS KVKI! V\V II EHK.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
tV'
Hi
-r
m
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
... Sole Agents for . . .
The 'Newlngersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Inger soil-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho’s
Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co
Melbourne, Gumnakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OP THE STOCK 14 D,B. Breech-loading' Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
VB, reduoed <£2 17s fid each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap act* walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. USual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Pod. Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
m
n H.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS CO MPA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes tall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butied Spokes, plated all over, Perrv’s
8 3 gross. IT W SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. , Guaranteed to supply 26
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYKE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, §, *9, £10;' £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED -GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER Til iX ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA. f
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
f/A
mmi
SHUTTLE.
KORTING'S INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors
Mason’s Steam and Water Reducing
Valves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
“ Midget” Steam Traps
“Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Valves
Richards and other Steam Indicators
Revolution Counters, Jenkin’s Valves
Every description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mountings and Supplies
