

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
B. <3-. WJLTKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—tor—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS »re FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAT THE COST OP MAKfNG UP A NEW DRESS.
Look foi our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Hummer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
cmd Storekeepers,
Sbecp Braodiog Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
iffl
Over 2200 Hydro-Extract rs Sold and at work
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss Pitt
Street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENTS
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
for Colonial-made Wire Netting'.
And. see that you get ±t>.
4m
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices —Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
pvOfc;
PROOF
h?w
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
Toronto Hotel,
LaJce
Macquarie •
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parte of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive pr ompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
— zm, —
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
CCUIh a/l,
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICiIc SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Becom mended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
\ ———
Highest Awards wherever Exhibited..
VAndyck
CIGARS
TT<5
iWTS
8
lf@E Is
RRUOTWSmitYi
The Bulletin
Vol -19.—No. 967. J
[Saturday, August 27, 1898.
registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"DY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY TH
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. OROTAVA.
at i? m P S ?< n ’ s ,- Chemist Companions, 4s, post 4a 6d
Stephen s Studies 0 f a Biographer, 2 vols., 12s, post 13s
Pamelys Colliery Manager, 4th Edition, j>s, post 26s
Campin s Iron and Steel Bridges, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Ed
wards Mechanical Engineer, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Cripp’
Ovariotomy and Abdominal Surgery, 25s, post 26s
Webbs Modern Industry, 7s 6d, post 8s ; Macaulay’s Eng
land, vols. I. and II. (Albany edition), 3s 6d each, post is
People of the Period, 6s, post 6s fld ; Wells’ Inotganh
Chemistry, 7s (id, post 8s ; Weils’ Qualitative Analysis
7s bd post 8s; Taylor s Formulas and Earthwork, 7s 6d
post 8s ; Escott’s Personal Forces of the Period 7s 6d
P|8s4Rbots’ Tariff and Trade, 1897, 12s 6d, post
13s 9d, Goulds Landed at Last, 2s, post 2s 6d ; Life'if
n y 2s 6d an<l 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Rus
sell s Convict Ship, 2s, post 2s 4d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
_ ABISHAG THE SIIUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Telemachus ”).
IS, FEDERATION OCR TRUE POLICY ? OR,
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO HIMSELF
10s 6d. Post, 11s 3d.
Just Published.
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
_ _ _ OPERATIONS.
By Wm. H. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Cr. 8vo. 7s 6d, post 8«.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal notes, or postal order, to “The
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, and
hooks will be forwarded by return
POST free at prices given.
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems, by Victor J.
Daley ■ 5s.
tajT 1 ’iumph of Death, by Gabriele
D Annunzio. Paper, 3s.; cloth, 4s. This is
the most powerful and interesting novel pub-
lished for years. Vide Red Page notice.
Evelyn Innes, by George Moore. Paper, 3s.;
clotn, 4s. Moore’s new book, and his best.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
Way-Back People far from book stores may
order any book desired by sending pub-
lisher’s price and postage < which may be
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a 2d.
stamp. Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
A G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
f*-’ Georp-street North P.O., Sydney, has applications
troin reputable London publishers for Australian novels
anu books of short stories. Advice arid assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) oi applica-
tion. Reference: The Editor, The Bulletin.
READY.
Anthony Hope’s Great Novel,
“ RUPERT OF HENTZAU.”
Sequel to
“ THE PRISONER OF ZENDA."
Paper Covers, 3s.; Cloth, 4s. Post Free.
W. W. PEARSON, Bookseller, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
PEACE HAS BEEN SIGNED
between America and Spain.
of pe'xoe* It** n' 6 , stron y est Victors in the consideration of the question
Ot peace was the simple introduction of a- box of CAMEO CHSHRFTTFC
What about yoor history ? Are you leaving behind you
InThort- S JUdgment > refined taste and critical knowledge ?
Do you smoke Can>eo Cigarettes ? If not, your history will be a fiction.
THE RED RAGE.
Arthur A. 1). Bayldon writes regarding Byro
and JLionel Johnson’s review—
In spite of an obvious parade of culture and
style declamatory rather than critical, Johnson
review of Byron is excellent. In his eagerness t
be felt, however, he is narrow. “Emphatically
Byron was no poet ; not if Shakespeare and Milton
are poets. If poetry be the product of imagina
tion, Byron has certainly produced it—of which
anon.
* * . ,
Johnson has raised a swarm of critics about him
most of them puny but virulent. He is abusec
for a candid criticism which, with some deductions
to which I shall refer, will be the final verdict for
Byron. With the false Ruskinism and the pelting
of garbage to which Johnson’s critics have de
seended, I have nothing to do. A critic has
right to be heard, whatever his opinion, providec
he is competent. Many of Johnson’s critics are
incompetent. Their style is as barren as their
thoughts. What have we to do with the strangled
howl of mountain torrents, with sti earning clouds
and shadows, and all the theatrical imagery of
mountain looming in solitary grandeur above some
insignificant mime picking pebbles from its base
We want facts not hysterical fancies: plain
prose, not long lumbering sentences clipped of
riiyme. Why shouldn’t a critic rub it into
Byron if he deserves it? And even if Byron
doesn t he would get only what he gave others.
He condemned Wordsworth and reproduced him •
sharpened his intellect at Shelley’s grindstone
and kept a stolid silence as to his genius : hit off
Heats with a pungent couplet that slandered him •
poured out the vials of his distempered vanitv
over Coleridge ; and was most objectionably insin-
cere and heartless with his friends. It is very
well to read Moore’s life of him—but what of his
treatment of Hunt? But it’s not of Byron the
man, but of Byron the poet, that Johnson writes.
How is Byron s day of reckoning, and he is fear-
lessly weighed in the scales. Moreover, because a
cntic dabbles m verse he is no less a critic. And
Johnson s criticism of Byron is the subject of dis-
cussion, not an invidious comparison betwixt the
men as poets—which fact Johnson’s critics should
remember.
* * • *
Johnson says Byron could do many things, but
could not sing. This is true, but pushes nothing
against Byron as a poet. ’Tis strange what be-
trayals of ignorance about the distinctions in verse
one finds among even good critics. A singer is
not necessarily a poet, nor a poet a singer. A
man can be an excellent craftsman and be neither
poet nor singer The greates t poets have the three
faculties in perfection. Burns will ultimately be
dismissed to the choir of singers : he was really
not a poet at all, but a great humorist and satirist
fiVdistincSs 18 not r6ady f ° r such
* * *
. pn,r 'w-Iv h !\ morist > a satirist, an orator and
t T ~ lth . tbe exc ?Ption of that episode of
Julia and Don Alfonzo in the first canto of Don
J uan, he showed no dramatic instinct. His vocabu-
lary was copio us, his selection often inartistic. Asa
rhymester he has no rival but Swift. He was
shrewd not subtle—his subtle passages can be
traced to the influence of Shelley. His love of
Nature was that of the athlete delighting in his
strength rather than of the dreamer. Whenever
he is caught up and becomes a part of the universe
as m the third canto of “Childe Harold,” we re-
Webowhv Juitern Abbey ” and are suspicious,
cann T 7 admired that poem, and
De fore" “ d H re P rod uces it No poet,
WnrZw n Abbe y, spoke of Nature like
Y\ ordswoith. It was a revelation to the world a
sun-burst of speech from the gods. It has since in-
fluenced every English poet and painter. Shelley
worshipped Nature as a goddess; Keats adored
ki n and lf ISt T S ’c Wordsworth clambered to her
w£< th f Tw r f ? r hls “ ot her. Byron’s attitude
"intern Abtay o^ WOrth ' °° mp “ e thi * *“»»
n- t 7-7 '^ ie bounding cataract
Haunted me like a passion: the tall rock.
%hll^° V f taln ' ar ? i , the dee P and gloomy wood,
Their colours and their forms were then to me
An appetite, a feeling and a love . .
I have felt
A motion and a spirit that impels
All thinking things, all objects of all thought,
A.nd rolls through dll things .
With this from Byron—
I live not in myself, but I become
Jrortion of that around me, and to me
High mountains are a feeling
Are not the mountains, waves and skies a part
Of me and of my soul, as I of them ?
Hwl the love of these deep in my heart
W ith a pure passion ...
W ti' Dr T de % whom he admired and who warmed
but slowly, Byron was at his best when kindled by
lZtv C h°f al 6Ve^ t - Ind eed, there is much sinm
lant y between them, tho’ Dryden is the more
sane and masculine. Both had their feet <sb
stmately glued to earth when their wings were
outspread. Both were satirists of the bludgeon
lines loVed the metallio rin S of resounding
Silent in smoke of cannon they come on
rings out Dryden.
And Freedom's fame finds wings on every wind
wi a R aCk vo j ce of Byron. It is interesting to
8 fond ? e fu f ? r contrasts : Gulnare fnd
rdanZS am ; Adah and Aholibamah;
storm m I al ‘ni, a m d lt eles ?? s 5 the calm before the
storm m Childe Harold”; the hush before the
deluge m Heaven and Earth; ” and others I for-
* * • *
< < hns ° n doe « not mention Byron’s best love lyric:
Though the day of my destiny’s over. ” There is
ahir Sy R Wmgab u Ut xt ’ and its sentiment is admir-
able. Byrons best work is “Don Juan,” mst
because we get from it all that was in him. It il
fLT f he r i ever fimshed it, as there is a drag in
the last canto. He was burning his candle at both
ends, and was getting perilously near the middle
* • • .
Byron knew much of philoso-
phy. There is little m his work, and that is of the
S m ° w 611 ! 6^ 0 ? 1 - He was clever enough to
* skit at Berkeley Had he possessed a faculty
able Berkeley s, “ Cain ” would be more read-
* * * ,
The popularity of Byron is akin with the
popularity of Longfellow. Both appeal to the
half-developed, and these, of courseware in the
majority. Longfellow, with his moral tags, and
room'd' th hIS f ? am r nd f “y and reckless dis-
conventionality, are the poets of the
forWZZiV k he ? ne fo ™ be sittin &-room, the other
bG fo b d "v ai n ber ‘ , Pllose diseased creatures of
his fancy—his Conrads and Laras, his Alps and
e»otW; ar f tbe P R tS ° f over " l ' owri school-boys and
egotistical neurotics, who nibble at Swinburne and
condemn Wordsworth as milk-and-water. The
same readers who go into hysteria over “The
Sign of the Cross, and cannot understand a rene-
Bomans. ymi hy f ° r those poor Nazarene-bored
* * * *
Nevertheless, though one sees through the trick-
ster one admire the trick. It is im-
possible to read The Bride of Abydos ”or “ The
biege of Corinth” without feeling their glamour?
The descriptions, without ever passing into poetry
have a transitory force—they are invested wittWa
Byromc something. They are more energeticthan
Wordsworth s when he is not possessed, but not so
Mature. And tliatßyronics imethingentered
in ? l wngByron wrote. Wefind it interwoven
i' y sc®? 3 and character; m his rant, in hisde-
claniations in his -poetry, I was about to add
noetWfr n absei W- In , certain m °ods all great
8?i ffii 6 ' i jVen ! be £ ohoice of words is
similar. With apologies to Matthew Arnold and
dvinfciHT A C °f s i der Ws Passage On the
dying Uadiator his finest, I prefer the
boldness of this line on Satan : ° 1
And ■ where he gazed a gloom pervaded space.
Now I consider many lines and passages to be
poetry m the true sense of the word, and as a set-
off against Johnson’s dictum that Byron is no poet
I will cite a few :
When the poles clashed and water was the world.
When France got drunk with blood to vomit crime.
A whirling gulf of phantasy and fla me.
A noble wreck in ruinous perfection.
She. walks the waters like a thing of life
And seems to dare the elements to strife.
There, too, the Goddess loves in stone and fills
1 he air around with fm-uty.
A big bright tear
Came o’er that eye of blue,
And then melhought it did appear
A violet dropping deiv.
I am sorry Byron did not condescend to write
more sonnets. I say condescend, since he affected
f he “i St , r •V Ctur £, probabI y because Words-
r, ■ p was f° n d of it. The several readings of his
Ghillon sonnet show he could be a partaking
TWnn Wl ? bed - 1 cou ld say so much about
„V* 1S T, Se , t 0 (,< ! lrie t 0 a elos e and leave
bira ™ su ch capable hands as J ohnson’s. In mv
stripling days Byron was the greatest poet of the
universe He is now as a blue leap of lightning
when it twists to strike, startlingly vivid but in?
stantaneous—a literary force that compels but not
subdues me to its will,
-
writes of “ A Pa gan Moon ”in
The Saturday Review of June 25 —
In utmost leisureliness the great sun droops
towards the horizon. With ruddy opulence he
fe Slot t d ° Wn to tbe ver fe re through a cloud-
less sky. For a moment he poises himself on the
far edge of the world, while here the placid fields
T° S ! W iu Wlth an exquisite soft radiance,
I rom the slanted beams this meadow-grass takes
a faint rose-tint; the hedge-row trees
torches on the sunward side; thin shadows lif
S W eatbwa f land ; the couchant kine
uplift meek heads unwitting of their coloured
splendour Behind the thick leafage of yon elms
the church windows send forth an intermittent
white dazzle: at intervals, also, the gracious notes
of the organ float hither on the still air. And
now the sun has gone, but the western sky is still
abrim with his mo ted beams as the worshippers
trickle forth from the stifled church into the clean
and sacred out-of-doors. Across the benign field-
paths the people straggle with an air of relief yet
each one, despite his devotions, takes
a grotesque and persistent shadow.
* * * »
Night, the stately and simple night, now passes
over the land Westward, the thrSbbing gold has
become a dead waste of pallid sky ; the pile rose-
passed from the grass; the flame in the
Stches • - 6d 5 u th i 6 kI T gammer in dusky
patches, the thin shadows have crept noiselessly
from every field. But now that the eye is dis?
oouraged by the increasing darkness, the I wakened
ear takes up the tale. Quick and varied sounds
enter into the vague landscape with arresting sig-
nificance. Down this lane, under the murk
hedges, there is a stealthy rustle, where the tribes
£lnn™ a^ e a-prowl. Above, in the menacing
gloom of the hedge-row trees, there is a soft, con?
tmuous patter, like unto falling raindrops. From
yonder spinney comes the abrupt hoot of an owT
while a bat winnows softly across the wan sky
from gioom to gloom In distant fields the faint
rhythm of voices-the voices of happy lovers-
spreads a mild enchantment. It is good to be
here To loiter down this lane, enfolded by the
friendly dark, is to be overtaken by an incom-
ETSEngIS H for month " J ““
*
Until now, Venus has been alone in the soft
dusk of the sky. Her light is tnere for the whis-
theF?i^ Who - haUnt fche field-stiles, but nowin
the East there is promise of richer wizardry It
comes and goes in the low tent of the night like
white breath; then little wisps of light float out of
the enclosing dark; while in the south a bank of
Wto ?i ? erS t 0 ltS6lf a Pale magnificence. At
Jen o th the crimson moon creeps slowly, inch
by inch, into the welcoming heavens. A round
luscious moon; a warm, enticing moon; a
So P V traym ! lOVerS - one bas to
rndvW, o see her swim upwards into the
Mnd y the ftll i Sh i e kindl es a silent fire be-
hind the tall hedge, and discovers the amazed
trees where they stand in tremulous desire.
And now this wonder has topped the hedge, like a
flushed goddess escaping from a thicket, while
against her exceeding brightness every twig and
leaf leaps out m solid blackness. This is aimEng-
thJlWlrifi 0 r CI she .P eers i yet for a moment
the Emlish prudishness is pushed away with the
church-spires into the outlying dark. For this
without doubt, is the forthcoming of Astarte
glorious and pagan as when she ruled the night
above the hot fields of Syria. g
* » » '*
And who shall say that this fair moon has not
k!ii d fl VO i e !f even T w ? Xt is lon 8 since vesper-
bells floated across these fields in the seemly Eng-
lish fashion, and the church doors are closed yet
Thevm? PP i-r ° f i an ° lder faith are still afoot,
Ifiey make themselves narrow altars on the field
stiles; they pass in procession slowly, with
tw'lmif?’ through the green-vaulted lane;
they loiter to bestow the lass of love where the
blossom in the hedge hangs silver wreaths in the
moonlight. And ever these worshippers hush
their murmured litany while that bird of passion,
wood nig Th ngale ’- *8 ,ts - mate from the copse-
wood. The quick challenging love, love, love, is
followed by gayest trills, by triumphant roulades.
Not a single note of melancholy is in this song;
rather, it is the proud voice of a passion that has
ful lest acceptance. When the bird ceases his song
a soft sigh passes over the fields ; when he again
flings Ins piercing joy into the hush of the land
the very trees lean and listen. And still in the
east rises that pagan moon to make light the gloom
for the children of love ; ancient she is as the
heavens, and yet as fresh as the May-blossom that
sends its fragrance into this amorous night.
wlv P ' ’/../f’W 08 your school-book article.
Watching children coining'out of school, have just been
rhUdren'nf tt } e f. wful . s . fll P !( lity of “'primary'instruction.”
Ch hen of a 1 dispositions, ■.. pacifies, and future oppor-
tunities, jumbled together n n., mat with an at,on,in-
win C h°" Co «i'. or .i ?*. "'ut'lity [ Friend Noah might just as
iav ? h l c IIS saveloys, and expected his
whoie a,""! al cargo to live on ’em. Here we have Johnny,
with the big eyes, bnlgipg forehead, and pipe-stem legs,
wifh * r/l 'T I,ne for che “ Tave over a “noun, common,
with a singular person, ’ instead of pelting peewees in the
crick, and otherwise developing his frail little carcase.
Next comes ‘ Stinker ” Jones, with a scabby face, and one
sock down, and a head like the dome of a locomotive
S’.S olle^ rt ,r iBt ! l . e useof trying to stuff Stinker
withalgebia, 01 telling him that the earth revolves round
the sun in an elliptical orbit? Ills troubles ! Better till
nun up with Australian geography, and turn him out a
bagman or a bullocky. Men mostly stick to the groove
they happen first to fall into, hence the necessity for
getting them into the rightone. And with girls (who are
mostly destined to provide children and fry chops), what’s
• kn . oVVl . n^the height of Mt. Blanc or the length
of the Mississippi ? Much better teach ’em that pepper is
good for laying hens and soda-bread bad for the old man.
THE RETURN.
Now at last I am at home—
Wind abeam and flooding tide,
And the offing white with foam,
And an old friend by my side
Glad the long, green waves to ridei
Strange how we’ve been wandering
Through the crowded towns for gain,
You and I who loved the sting
Of the salt spray and the rain
And the gale across the main !
What world honors could avail
Loss of this—the slanted mast,
And the roaring round the rail,
And the sheeted spray we cast
Round us as we seaward passed ?
As the sad land sinks apace,
With it sinks each thought of
Think not now of aging face;
Question not the whitening hair :
Youth still beckons everywhere.
And the light we thought had fled
From the skydine glows there nowj
Bends the same blue overhead ;
And the waves we used to plough
Part in beryl at the bow.
Hours like this we two have known
In the old days, when we sailed
Seaward ere the night had flown,
Or the morning star had paled
Like the shy eyes love has veiled.
Round our bow the ripples purled,
swift tide onward streamed
Through a hushed and ghostly world,
Where our harbor-reaches seemed
Like a river that we dreamed.
Then we saw the black hills sway
In the water’s crinkled glass,
And the village wan and gray,
And the startled cattle pass
Through the tangled meadow-grass.
Through the glooming we have run
Straight into the gates of day,
Seen the crimson-edged sun
Bum the sea’s gray bound away—
Leap to universal sway.
Little cared we where we drove
So the wind was strong and keen.
Oh, what sun-crowned waves we clove!
What cool shadows lurked between
Those long combers pale and green ! ■
Graybeard pleasures are but toys;
Sorrow shatters them at last:
For this brief hour we are boys ;
Trim the sheet and face the blast j
Sail into the happy past!
L. F. Tooker.


D“ imi
> & WAUACE
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN! . !
Will you allow yourself to fall into j
this miserable state of Nervous Debility j
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-A _ man who fo?iKy of
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or Now, the experience of 20,000 men
life, should, without delay, consult these emment op - ly endorsed the treatment of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they nave ope j
u
which has restored them to « perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “gJrifiS all motoUeelingfto'prove
tfetThis sho„ld g take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
Stf ff ftS K' S= ft
WALLACE.
single man,
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor l
Have you no vital energy.
Do you have sick headaches /
Is there nausea after eating?
Do vour hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes?
i Do you feel unfit to marry i
Correspondence
Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
Pnor
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
aee thankstothatunique^instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would he im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter for speed, legi-
bility and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from persona
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PABCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
m
£? c-
- "w=a<sss:: vsss^sr^
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please mention this Paper when writing. Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
SK* -S o 4! fe:
ReSctied at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates is now
ready Every Miner, Mariner, 1 anner—m fact, af>
classes and condition of men-should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
s
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a l?Lysioi.Tii
and Surgeon received his education in the English and Scmt ish umv. rs. us an
Smpffi bi.Sie. m the leading ho.pitnl, of F.nrope. He he, made » Me-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young" Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who,
from
ness,
ness
cold
ness
as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
any of the following symptoms, namely frequent l > gidd
drowsiness in the daytime, irregular.ty of the bowels, feei ng of lull
after eatimr specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
hands and feet pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
[f the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleepf palpitation o'ft'he heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the hack, chest, legs, or face, failmg
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consu It h mor he is now
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
aversion
dreadful
memory,
enabled
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
;>nd should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the .Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBI ONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescri'x s Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention tins paper when wn
CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
ting.] CONSULTATION FREE.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS 1
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l— which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of e
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, w'hen I will assist them by e\ e „
means in my power.
! Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
TRADE
MARK,
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kicmd,
Kostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all the
desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the kind,
and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
use of which does irreparable harm by laying the
foundation of stricture and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of ti.e blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swellings of the joints, secondary
symptoms, disease of the bones, sore throat, and ah
diseases for which it has been too much a fashion to
employ mercury, sarsaparilla, &c., to the destrumioi a
of the sufferer’s teeth and ruin of health. I his
preparation purifies the whole sjstem through the
blood, and thoroughly eliminates every poisonous
matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
cmlsequencefawsinl
from early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates &c. It posessses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
may he procured
at 2/9 & 4/6 pet
package, of the principal Chemists and Merchant*
throughout the World. In ordering, the purchase-
should state which of the three numbers is required,
and observe above Trade Mark, which is a fac-simile
of the word “Therapion” as it appears on theGovem
ment Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed
to every package by order of Her Majesty s on
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Me-
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
AddreSS "sydnymrmac?, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY
U
Tales of the System.
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries ot
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EIIEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
in IVIenN
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address
. J. HINTON” WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool Sts., Melbourne. A
OH, MY BACK!
X
IT PAINS IF I BEND OVER.”
IT PAINS IN THE MORNING.”
IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
. WEAK BACK is a very aggravating CO ™P 1 I f in *'
V makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
• thev know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, if
, a t a ll. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
m-oner remedy for all such distressing complaints,
arms the hick and kidneys with a gentle glow gives
, muscles an elastic feeling, and cures penmuienUy.
m will never need another plaster if you try I fc.
-sssstSS
vS U |oUL’lTcaris8 C Pitt : st-t’ s ’YDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
• • • Monster Prize List.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
METROPOLITAN S, September 13.
50,000 Subscribers a.t 5.
Address
DEMONSTRATION H
October 3.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _ L. shares in the above.
Name.
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name
.shares in the above.
Address
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
—shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race.
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name_
£
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee Reducers
‘friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-date (Derehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. , .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
“Built Like a Watch."
STERLING CYO.CS.
AT BRUSSELS EXPOSITION the
GRAND PRIX was awarded to the
STERLING against all European and
American Manfacturers.
Chicago Road Race.
This, the Chief CYCLE Contest of the
Year, fastest and fourth - fastest time
were done on Sterlings, off one minute
and scratch marks respectively.
Write for Catalogue with full description of
Morse Pivot Chain
fitted to Sterlings (since riding which SUTHER-
LAND has won all championships in New Zealand.
Absolutely no friction, no stretching.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
STERLING DEPOT,
75 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Country Buyers mention Bulletin when writing.
i
mm
v\s^n-r\ j
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of X 2 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d.; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 6s.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT."
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
North. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see am
° of his West Australian and North Queensland friend’s
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
OUIBELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 121 d., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 16id., London, ’9B—both greasy.
HEB&39
EMUMBffI t
CTvrWWVPtJi
GO TO HEX.L-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Gd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis . -
Precl Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.9.W.
m . m m + m + | Established 1849.
llOstraliao WCitCial Provident Society
ink The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ w vnu *
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary :
Annual Income .. .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
T ASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head. Office : 37 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary. .
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIER,, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s. ,
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest*
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation :
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. ..
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
QjLi iAsi CLAi €.
,-tn
‘Uu. &Jb-ot
°U; hujOfue Vhji, 'fajxQi ,
Jhs^rv^yUi '■* ip/U/w'^, t?
* ,» £\ teXC^wC
yU €*.44
AaJ^Q'^v^
v(//<
Eradicates Scurf and Dan.’rff, Prevents Hair Failing, Promotes
unique Testimonals prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preeara
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating, i -, a 6 & 4 6 sizrs
Stores &c. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD., 16, Bevis s!a r'ss
; Growth, and its
tion for the Hair.
, of all Chemists,
LONDON, ENG.
, Tr „ 7/ . ?77 „,.rnmmodate 500 persons.
& atio Complaints) only
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney,
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tub Banks op Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing' Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot. Salt,
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating X
TERMS : From 25/- a Week.
Plum
zJ%t
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial This razor is superior to any other. It is sped ally-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rines like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, « e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
oi yeaxs, oa J The «, Plum » R azor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
{single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® m beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY".
We beg to notify customers that by buying irom us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash hoards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £0 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.- All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
LOOK A.T OXJR PRICES !
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash »
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address :
Send
N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
for Our Xlluatxated Catalogue.
Spring-time Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Spin of the Coin.
The Spring is warm and waking, and the wattle’s
bursting bud,
And the longing of the rover makes a fever in the
blood ;
The grass is growing swiftly in the sheltered river-
bends,
And the Bush, our old coy lover, waits to kiss us
and make friends ;
And the yearning is upon us to be somewhere
and away,
If it’s but to tilt at windmills, as a careless
Quixote may.
And since it matters little if we ride to North or
South,
To the reeling desert dust-showers or the rocking
harbor mouth,
Let’s toss our last half-sovereign and the spinning
coin shall say:
If it’s heads, we start to-morrow;' if it’s tails, we
start to-day;
And heads shall be for Sydney Heads, fair wind
and ocean tide,
And tails for tailing weaners on the Diamantina
side!
For Spring is close and coming : you can hear her
rustling wings
And her thousand-throated murmur—never music
like the Spring’s !
Her hand is in the rover’s and her lips to his are
pressed;
She is all a-fire and eager, and she will not let us
rest
Till our hand’s upon the bridle and our foot’s upon
the bar.
And our face is to the freedom of the storm-wind
and the star 1
Long luck to every rover—to the west or Sydney
Side,
With the blue Sea for a lover or the brown Bush
for a bride.
If they mount with merry laughter, may they
never taste of woe !
If they take the track in sorrow, may they gladden
as they go !
There's a free lance down the Lachlan with their
roving ranks will join
At the bidding of the Springtide and the spinning
of a coin !
N.S.W.
WILL. H. OGILVIE.
Your Hand in Mine.
Melody mingled of shadow and sheen
Over the fields of our fairyland rung,
Laughter came liquidly welling between
Converse of love as we wandered and sung,
Crowned with the crown of a dalliance divine,
Heart of my heart —with your hand in mine !
Murmur of mountainous thunders afar
Broke in a peal o’er our path as it rose ;
Steep was the stair of the hills to our star,
Keen was the blast as it blew from the snows ;
What did we reck—we were drunk with Love’s
wine,
Heart of my heart—with your hand in mine !
Even comes now in her garment of grey,
Tenderly greets us descending again.
O’er the brown hills we have battled our way
Down to the verge of the Ultimate Main ;
Hark to yon call in the breaking of brine 1
Heart of my heart —is your hand in mine ?
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Foot o’ Velvet.
Foot o'velvet, foot o'velvet, foot o’ velvet comes the
Spring /
By the running creeks and, rivers, where the
mountain-waters sing
And the dandelions sleeping dream awhile of
blossoming,
Foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet, foot o' velvet comes the
Spring /
Foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet comes
the Spring
As a monarch to a kingdom with his heralds
trumpeting;
For across the hills and valleys new-fledged choirs
a-carolling
Gladly to the heart of Nature in their sweetest
love-songs sing—
“ Foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet, fool o’ velvet comes the
Spring l ”
Ah, the tale is growing hoary
In the book of Father Time !
But each year with verdant glory
Sings the Spring his youthful rhyme}
And we know that where he goeth
Down the pathway of the old,
All our better nature showeth
Through an aureole of gold ;
Still the thoughts of youth and maiden
To the old, old story cling,
And its message, perfume laden —
Spring is Love and Love is Spring /
Foot ■o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet comes
the Spring!
As a maiden greets her lover when, in youth’s
awakening,
Floods of passion tints of ruby to her firm white
bosoms bring—
so the trees, aglow with glory, all their young
breasts blossoming,
. Vhisper to the yearning sunlight—“ Foot o' velvet
comes the Spring ! ”
Foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet, foot o’ velvet comes the
Spring 1
By the running creeks and rivers, where the
mountain-waters sing
A.ni the dandelions sleeping dream awhile of
blossoming,
j Foot o’ velvet, foot o' velvet, foot o’ velvet comes the
Spring l
V.
MILKY WHITE.


@53
BAKING
|»M»]
Washington H.SouuC 0 , Pitt St. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL CROCERsT& STOREKEEPERS " "
Rates i2/&!£?«upmds
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
H.Edwin Moore,
) MANAGER.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean ; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
mtv
Hi
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELTDOF SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARL TON ALE.
TATTERSAEE’S HOTEL & CAEE,
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
BSB Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.F.Q.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF: -
Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
OR. S. LEVER,
raduateiri Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
J 'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODEM*
surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means a Jirid//eu ork.
Hold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE
1 lease Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
08 King-st., Svclney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE
Telephone 2615.
Ladies.- call and
see our OIIHAP
:'i A CHIN NS,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs; parts, fittings,
etc.
S. KOWLEY & CO,,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
erg 01
CHWH
MPA
' LIMTf
EDINBURG
«»oe tAv'tf ma«»
5e Distillers ConRANYL" 1
gU EDINBURGH.
ijy - O'* '('l.ASl"
i. ■'
& (yju ,&<& f
Drink
Ploderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ for thestomaeh’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
o drink the very best
m can get. “D.C.L.”
scotch is the best. One
'lass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
< ti T 9
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ;
per Post Is. 3d.
ger and Bock Bier,
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
CHEAPEST
- Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney,;in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
-bottled .Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Am. J. Usa See., T. H. JT«L*.
Brewed and
Bottled by
ill
mm
-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 19.—N0. 967.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1898.
Price, 6d.
A DIRGE in three fits by Hop.
SYD. SMITH.
i Wdttmoaft; MihtitiMi,
y cuitth&tL spud
In, ihdj of iJct Mb afkUhml by,
Hi S tnutvt/ poutedforth akrmj jlood ./
qa | w thus hmwkcl. — # J
0. aiM Any of/afcfut aspiration -1
Tfliis! wis j/earnwg to few mWoh^
(stop champion of Jjotafo CidtimUotu
Ijns fillen*di)ns of 'fuesatiori
tl w skh.erun^tluui!
Spu-d,
Jake: (mw
KtK, 1 -f rntu tlte clotsEtr'A sbdtssf
75 So and of hJoc- •
/ Wliy t?«j» fey so -
pfese Setters afftiTlruJk from (ku>& tilt dark?
jijcjcl-fmwiy Jcfe
fjcts 30 1' fe sh-akc-
He'll stmi fa seeds of ifeW fat tui mi .
&ee|i kb clrobb’d H s from fa School -
\f house floor-
hecu' f n. Will'dit^o!
(^OULJ).
Dolhjustite ulet|? 1 one euej
5k mg HvaT biwii Ik ojEer is Quite dnj .Jj
‘1 kerquo’ sk hltiiUfoyiog wWUrtye,
look upon, his lihe agui^anik^
1 new shaft ■'
A.,
•f
<% . >£
'Oivotimk
Diamonds are reported to have been found at
Henderson, in the vicinity of Auckland.
ib f Will f>le-ci)fc Setui fhemfr
> fk-is office . Oar artist [osfi
them ere yecirj
onfjis To Syclay -
Chi jooi'ue, an Shit digging' Wes in firs
6mifk*s WcK yard m-Perffj pirospectiiifjor
infant's - Oj/- Does Tf/is come underfill'
P|i lU&jJ' Oft Priifc Drtrperfify hc\ •
of M- 5- h) IqdejatMclmt 'laijjj.
J)r- Creed iuoiWii 'vied tkat ttiatvy u)ho no iJ rtqard Cremation,
wil£ prejudice, might yraducdlij be brought round. toafuJorabh tied.
V.
J/iSihtLi'chs dijiitj kW 5 _. v -^
* " England if in danger of beiny Ulzcl^ecLn)
SetVteij flje ( Jrenc-/j fjGi'je and ttjeKussian
ELepha.nf '
Jf so, Somebody /s gomgfo gtff
bitten, by J l
fl'BHjier Turtve-r a. netJ Ijatitj Sycipey
k& * He fa jefifcliea). oi) at-
Cou.qf'of 'free -Trade, hut found it JusTas
dear ayij fjelhuoLr^e. He srljvulclljcufe
Cjot Premier Rsid fc tjo rfijtj tjii-rj to f>oii) r
Owf fljp Cljfajj jblacej yiflfa irjayiufy'njq
HOP.
ON THE WING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly .... ... ... 0 .12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to yon every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
Whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Sc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.—CAas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
W estralia and iffnor Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l jot. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1898.
Australia versus Reid.
Colonel Crockett —the man the coon came
down for—had a hustings story of a plough-
man whose master instructed him to “ plough
across the field to the red cow.” He began
to plough, and she began to walk ; and he
ploughed all morning after her. When the
farmer came to see how the work was getting
on, he swore at the man for going so crooked.
“ Well,” said the man “ I ploughed straight
for the red cow ; but she always kept moving !”
And that’s precisely what’s the matter with
Australian Federation. We have all of us
•—New South Wales, Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, Westralia, Tasmania ploughed
straight after the Reid cow ; but she always
keeps moving !
• * * »
So the Federal track is like a corkscrew in
convulsions. Premier Reid has decided at
different times that there ought to be no
amalgamation of debts and railways, that
debts and railways should certainly be amal-
gamated, that debts and railways ought only
to be partly amalgamated, with numerous
drawbacks and conditions. Having changed
from an open enemy of Federation to a
lukewarm friend, he now announces himself
a life-and-death ally, and proves his good
faith by attaching himself to the self-styled
“ arch-destroying angel of Federation,” and
refusing to let go on any account. Having
declared that “this great question” must
be approached in the true spirit of concilia-
tion, he translates the “true spirit” into
assertions that if New South Wales doesn’t
get her particular wants satisfied she can't
federate, and into friendly declarations that
the delegate of another Federating province is
an old fool, with other nice, amicable remarks
of the kind. Approving “ simple majority
rule,” he defies the 5000 majority which New
South Wales gave at the polls; and, in
order to carry out “ the will of the greater
number,” he proceeds to alter the Bill to
suit the supposed wishes of the minority.
Because the Convention Bill was unsatisfac-
tory he voted for it, and now that he has
voted for it he finds it bad beyond redemp-
tion. Because but it is needless to con-
tinue : who can put faith in such an
obviously insincere trickster ?
* * * *
The mischief of it is that to this trickster
we are tied. Federation or confederation
without New South Wales is practically im-
possible ; and, while the vote of the whole
province would have unquestionably returned
Barton to lead the federal cause in New
South Wales Parliament, the vote of King
electorate returned Reid. There never
was a better illustration of Hare’s
thesis that the small - electorate system
means the triumph of small minds
and mean motives, the glorification of
the huckster-politician at the expense of the
patriot. And the small-electorate system is
responsible for the continuance of the Reid
Government in office, though there was cast
against them a large majority of votes.
Clearly New South Wales Assembly does
not adequately represent the opinions'of the
electors. Nevertheless, Premier Reid, as the
representative of the minority, will—thanks
to the splitting of Opposition votes in the
small electorates—usurp the functions of a
majority-representative ; and in his nominal
headship his actual position at the tail of the
elections will be forgotten. And this is
Representative Government !
* * * 9
There is nothing but to make the best of
it. Likely enough Premier Reid will im-
prove his position as Parliament continues.
At his command he has the ..immense force
of Ministerial patronage—and a trickier
diplomacy than even Parkes’s. For while
Parkes occasionally forgot, in pride in him-
self, or in contempt for others, or in the fas-
cination of a great idea, the petty arts neces-
sary to conserve and increase a majority,
Premier Reid never forgets. Like the ser-
pent of Eden, on his belly he goes all the
days of his life—flattering here, bribing
there, never making an enemy, never mis-
sing an opportunity of. turning an enemy
into a friend. The Labor-party claims to
exact “support in return for concessions,”
though all the concessions it has gained
from Premier Reid are Dead Sea fruit—an
inadequate Factories Act, an emasculated
Navigation Act, a reform of the nominee
Chamber which began with “ practical aboli-
tion,” and is whittled away to unimportant
alterations of office-tenure. Premier Reid
is only too pleased to give such “conces-
sions ”in return for support. Were he com-
pelled, he would go further, and give real con-
cessions, if he could in no other way maintain
himself in office. But he recognises that
there is no use in waking sleeping dogs when
the Labor-party is satisfied with the pretence
of it. Having achieved office, to stay in
office is the end to which Premier Reid
wriggles and crawls and subordinates every-
thing. At the bottom of his mind he has
something which he calls “my princi-
ples,” but they are so vague and
elastic, and defer so accommodatingly to
circumstances, that they might as well be
cold pudding. .Understanding that, with
one-man-one-vote in force, the trend of
policy must be Liberal rather than Conser-
vative, Premier Reid is a judicious Liberal;
but he has learnt that, like the Labor-party,
the people may be fed on ten parts of pro-
fession and theory to one of practice.
Really, the only important result of Premier
Reid's four years’ tenure of office is that
Premier Reid is still in office. For, though
he veer like a weathercock or the Yicar of
Bray, he is absolutely determined that
“ still I will Premier stay, sir ! ”
* * * »
And upon this “rock”—this quicksand,
this quagmire, this thin crust of ice labelled
“Jolly and Fat—the Australian people is
asked to build its Federal church. On
Premier Reid everything hinges. . Having
wrecked the Convention Bill in New South
Wales apparently through jealousy of
Barton, to whom he played second fiddle at
the Convention election and in the Conven-
tion ; for if Reid had no personal motive
his contradictions are incompatible with
sanity Reid proposes to re-create the
measure his own hand destroyed. (There
can be no doubt that, had Premier Reid
spoken as he voted—had he even spoken to
the New South Wales electors as he spoke to
the Convention—the majority-vote would
have reached the figure prescribed by Par-
liament. But Premier Reid made assurance
doubly sure : he drowned “ Barton’s Bill ”
by agreeing to the 80,000 minimum ; and he
knocked it on the head at the polls). So
that we have the singular spectacle of this
eye-glassed trickster—this dignified Premier
who raves “You are a lot of skunks ! ” at
his opponents —this representative of a mass-
electoral minority— defying the majority-vote
of all five provinces, and proposing, instead
of the majority-Bill, to ram down the throat
of Australia a Bill with his own image and
superscription !
* * * *
Premier Reid is the man who killed the
Commonwealth Bill approved by a majority
of electors in six provinces. In its stead he
is conceiving—what ? He did not tell the
New South Wales electors ; he did not tell
Parliament in the Governor’s speech ; but
his amendments to the Commonwealth Bill
are to be so obviously just, are so obviously
to improve upon the wisdom of the Conven-
tion, that the Government of every province
will have no hesitation in quashing the
majority-vote at the Referendum and sub-
mitting the amended measure to the elec-
tors. And the Parliaments which ap-
proved another Bill are to approve this
one; and the electors who voted for
another Bill are to vote for this
one ; and the “ just rights ” of New
South Wales, as understood by Premier
Reid and a minority of New South Wales
electors, are to be admitted by every other
province and bya New South Wales majority-
vote without quarrel or dissent. It is not
to be wondered at if this marvel has cost
Premier Reid some pangs. The birth is
fixed for the end of the debate on the
Address-in-Reply—and The Bulletin, in
going to press on Tuesday, August 23,
awaits the event with hopeful despair.
The A.J.C. and Pony-Racing.
The A. J.C. has been in existence over 70 years—
it was established 1828. Its ruling spirits have
always been prominent among the Tory Cab-
bage-Tree mob. Until actually compelled, such
a body will not try to move with the times, and
then the attempt naturally ends in ludicrous
failure. At the Club’s recent annual meeting,
regret was expressed that “ the character of
the sport it was established to uphold ” had
deteriorated, and the blame was put down to
the proprietary clubs—with “ two honorable
exceptions,” about which there has never been
anything exceptional, as the S.M. Herald,
The Bulletin and other papers have already
shown. He who lets the rill trickle past his
feet must not attempt to dam the navigable
river. With foresight the deadly upas-tree
which cumbereth the ground may be nipped
in the bud. All these proprietary clubs, when
they have been recognised at all, have grown
up with the sanction, not the encouragement,
of the A.J.C., which, in now condemning their
shortcomings, merely testifies to its own folly
in the past.
* * * *
Pony-racing, denounced as the- source from
which all the turf villainy of the present day
has sprung, was virtually unknown in Sydney
10 years ago. Sydney Driving Park was pro-
fessedly more devoted to trotting than to any
other branch of racing. Kensington, Rose-
bery Park, Lillie Bridge, and Brighton clubs
were then undreamt of. What is more, they
have never been under A.J.C. rules, nor have
they ever wished to be. Why do they now
attract the reforming zeal and virtuous indig-
nation of the boss club? Everyone admits that
there are too many race-meetings and that
the multiplication of clubs has aggravated the
evil. But. is it not a fact that the A. J.C. itself,
instead of curtailing, has been the chief sinner
by adding to the number of its own racing
dates ? It is suggestive that not until “ money
had been lost on the ‘ off’ meetings” and “ the
club’s meetings on the whole had been carried
on at a loss during the year,” did the senior
body rise against the rival caterers for gate-
money sport and denounce their iniquity. This
railing against the “ sport of spielers,” and “a
degraded form of racing ” now smacks of
jealousy and disappointment. Having vainly
reached out for some of the spoil without which
pony-racing would not last a month, the A. J.C.
cries “ sour grapes ! ”
* * * *
Whatever its motives, the A.J.C.’s proposed
methods must prove abortive. Finding itself
impotent to act directly against the pony-
racing clubs, it announces its intention of get-
ting at them through the trainer and the,
bookmaker, thus crediting these hitherto
despised classes with being the real props on
which rests the sport of kings—and other
thieves. Briefly, the new rules say : “(1) -Amy
trainer of a pony shall be disqualified from
running under A. J.C. auspices. (2) No book-
maker, under pain of disqualification, shall bet
at a pony meeting.” With the experience of
the land laws and licensing Acts before them, a
set of schoolboys, not to speak of men who
must possess more than an average know-
ledge of life’s seamy side, should see the
futility of such regulations. Let them
be enforced, and the present partnership
between the “noble owner” and the
astute trainer will be instantly dissolved. The
“noble owner” will become trainer of his
own “ horse,” while the acute trainer will
own ponies and give them undivided atten-
tion. The Bulletin’s friend, Ikey Mo,
will resolve into his component parts— lkey
attending to horses and Mo to ponies—
taking care, however, that the gains in one de-
partment of the partnership shall counter-
balance the losses of the other. The regulation
extends to bookmakers’ clerks—presumably to
prevent Mo, Ikey’s clerk at Randwick, from
taking the bag and giving Ikey the pencil—
directly they cross over to Kensington. But
clerical labor is the cheapest of all in the
market, and this limitation will have little re-
sult.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
No More Minimum.
Premier Reid declares, first, that there must
be another Referendum on Federation; and,
second, that at the Referendum the issue will
be decided by a simple majority—there will be
no 80,000 minimum majority next time. So
that, if Premier Reid can formulate his altera-
tions in the Convention Bill—and it is very un-
certain whether he can, seeing he does not know
his own Yes-No mind for two weeks together ;
and N.S.W. Parliament accepts them; and
IE the other Parliaments decide to override
the popular vote, and deal with them, and
accept them; and IF, by a miracle, N.S.
W ales electors are put before a new
Convention Bill in the same way as they were
put before the old one, and with the same
powers, and the same understanding with the
other provinces;—then Premier Reid announces
that if one vote more is given for the new Bill
than is given against it, the Bill will be carried,
and N.S.W. will federate gladly, while stout
little angels with stubby noses sleep all over
the premises in token of heartfelt con-
gratulation. At the original Referendum
71,000 electors voted for the Bill and 66,000
against it; and Premier Reid and Sydney
Telegraph declared with a loud voice that the
Bill had been hopelessly damned by popular
disapproval. At next Referendum, if 66,001
electors vote for the new Bill and 66,000 against
it—or if 100,001 vote for and 100,000 against—
or if only 50,001 vote for and 50,000 against—
Premier Reid and the Telegraph will fall
upon the neck of N.S.W. and declare the Bill
triumphantly carried by the vote of the Demo-
cratic majority. The fact that the Democratic
majority clearly signified their wishes last time,
regarding another Bill, and in the way which
Premier Reid now approves, will not be taken
into consideration. Jim Crow has jumped, and
everybody else must jump along with him. It
is true that this is only Premier Reid’s this-
week attitude, and his next-week attitude will
probably be something altogether different.
But, till further notice, that is the beautifully
Democratic position where ’e are. :
An Upper-House Poet.
Many a man who subtends a large angle in
the public vision and enjoys an easy frequency
on the public tongue, only needs to put pen to
•paper to make a holy show of himself.
“ Brains, has he? ” says the experienced editor.
“Urn!—let me handle his screed!” When
N.S.W. legislator W. T. Trickett (M.L.C.)
set out, the other day, on a S.S. Islands
pleasure-trip, and was, in virtue of his bulk
and “dignity,” elected Grand-Panjandrum of
the company of 120 “ nice ” people. He
“went-down all right” as long as lie
stuck to his accustomed field of talkee-
talkee. But pride goeth before destruction ;
in the intoxication of success the wretched
man took unto him a loaded pen, and—in the
guileless phrase of Sydney D.T.’s “ special
correspondent ” “ composed the attached
poetry ” :
Since the melodious Trickett, however, is a
member of the Upper House, it is perhaps un-
reasonable to expect figs from thistles ; and, in
herewith redeeming this noble effort from local
obscurity, The Bulletin places it on record,
not only as a sample of the Colossal intellect
that marks the auguster end of the legislative
machine, but also as yet another example of
what may happen to a man who doesn’t “ lay
to his book ! ” That W.J.T. lamentably lacks
verse-skill is nothing—many an ass can rhyme
and tinkle, but that a maker of this “ great
country’s ” laws should be willing thus to
parade his penury of ideas is a matter for the
prompt interference of his friends—if, after
such a metrical outburst, he happens to have
any left.
4.
Marshall-Hall Resigns.
There is little doubt that Marshall-Hall’s
resignation of his professorship of music at
Melb. University was practically forced on him;
and, if so, the University Council does not
come creditably out of the broil. Marshall-
Hall’s offence was an error of taste, an error
in judgment; but it was a venial offence, and
might well have been condoned and forgotten.
The accusation of “impiety” and. “inde-
cency ” displayed a bigot’s ignorance, and was
levelled with a bigot’s characteristic malice.
Marshall-Hall has a right to hold what
opinions he chooses ; and there was nothing in
the manner of expression of his opinions which
could gravely offend any literate or fair-minded
person. The sole issue was whether his Uni-
versity professorship should have restrained his
hand; and on this point Marshall-Hall
argues plausibly that the theoretical University
should be the greatest champion of freedom of
thought. Very likely ; but it is the practical
University which is in question, and the prac-
tical logic of things as they are. Given even
that all Marshall-Hall’s opinions are solid
and valid, they are a generation ahead of the
mass of opinions in Victoria ; and if Melb.
University goes ahead too fast it will probably
after all make less progress than by going
slowly. To many Victorians Marshall-Hall
appears a hare-brained, harum-scarum kind of
professor. Would Melb. University profit if
brought into perfect conformity with the
ideas of Marshall-Hall, and recognised
as a hare-brained, harum-scarum kind of
University ? Would Victoria profit ? The
Bulletin does not think so. This paper is of
opinion that, to reach its maximum of useful-
ness, a national educational institution like a
University should give their due to both
Orthodox and Heterodox ; and, while honoring
freedom of thought, should restrict its own
freedom of action so as not violently to ruv
When our good ship’s far at sea,
And her strong prow cleaves the main,
Three hundred miles each day we go,
And think of friends and home ;
We think of the lands we’re going to,
And the dear old lands we’ve lost,
And we think of “ terra firma ”
When we get a little tossed.
Our captain is a master hand,
In skill and manners too—
A wise and careful pastor of
A brave and able crew.
Waikare is as good a craft
As ever ploughed the sea,
Although she rolls a bit too much
For landsmen such as me.
We’ve lawyers and we’ve doctors,
And men of each degree,
Yet never has a passenger
To fork them out a fee.
Our tables have a generous spread
Whene’er we go below ;
Our “Beveridge ” is the very best
Upon the Union Co.
Among our list of gentlemen
Are seen much more than one
Of monster men that ever yet
The sun did shine upon.
Our pretty girls they gambol
As sweetly on we go ;
There never were such darlings yet
Upon the Union Co.
Then here’s to ship and captain,
Our officers and crew,
And here, my lady passengers,
A double praise to you
Who cheered us on by smile and song
When we were not “ so-so” ;
We’ll ne’er forget what you have done
Upon the Union Co.


counter to the ideas or prejudices of the people
whom it aims to benefit. Quite possibly
Marshall-Hall could establish a better case
for another kind of University which would be
a pioneer of thought—not a translator, accumu-
lator, and conservator ; but it would not be the
University we know, it could not be the Uni-
versity of Melbourne.
Tlie New Guinea Steal.
Premiers Reijo, Byrnes, and Turner, in con-
ference in Sydney, have decided to protest once
more against the New Guinea steal. Chamber-
lain now cables that the steal is consummated,
and it is too late for disallowance ! Since the
Premiers have already used their thunder and
failed to move the man from Brummagem, pro-
bably a more effective protest would have been
to pass a condemnatory address to the Queen
through four Parliaments, and cable the joint
resolution. '1 hat course would so impress the
English newspapers that Mr. Chamberlain
might be persuaded to bend his stiff
neck. The admonition of the Premiers
has nob quite Parliamentary force, and
may be disregarded. It certainly will be dis-
regarded if there is the least excuse for doing
so. The Influence behind the grab is appa-
rently the biggest Influence in Britain, bar one.
Chamberlain’s wishes were conveyed to Gov.
Macgregor almost in the form of a command.
Lowles and Somers Vine had Australian vice-
regal backing ; and Nelson was talked to in
London. Some amount of information he
could hardly avoid giving to his colleagues ;
but he gave them as little as he could. Ex-
Premier Nelson’s whole conduct in the matter
was the shady conduct which, since the
Q.N. Bank scandal, the public have learnt
to expect from him. And the matter
still rests in suspense. Whatever the issue,
the whole question of the relation of New r
Guinea to Australia needs to be considered.
The present control —under which the contri-
buting provinces pay that foreign syndicates
may have the privilege of looting the country
at the expense of Australian pioneers—is radi-
cally unsatisfactory. Premier Byrnes suggests
that New Guinea should be handed over to
Queensland. Unluckily the present Q. Govt,
does not inspire confidence ; and its planter-
friends are firmly wedded to the idea of swamp-
ing Queensland with black New-Guinea labor.
New Guinea may profit at the expense of
Queensland. Besides, Queensland is over-big
already. If she cannot satisfactorily rule the
North, how can she rule a country farther away
than the North ? The alternative, that New
Guinea should become a Crown colony, seems
even less desirable. Pending Federation, pro-
bably the best thing to do is to continue the
present control, with alterations that will
make it thoroughly effective. After Federa-
tion, could not New Guinea become a Com-
monwealth colony ?
Britain and Europe.
The British Empire, it would appear, is near-
ing the zenith of the hyperbolic curve of its
destiny—the keystone of its welkin, so to
speak. Then must follow the downward,
earthward, spent-force collapse. Empires can’t
overcome the law of gravitation, or the limit of
vitality anj r more than can individuals. . The
events of the last few' years point unmistak-
ably to a hostile concert against the mother
country. The “ dogged, cold, exclusive temper
which has accomplished so much has at the
same time estranged the friendship of her
neighbors. She is the bond-holder of the
W’orld, the centre of a bowelless commer-
cialism, which has neither body to be
kicked nor soul to be damned. Her
world-wide interests, the very strength and
extent of her imperial dominion, impede her
action. It is the corpulence of pursy pro-
sperity. And round her are waiting, hungrily
watching for spoil, the mailed fists and pre-
datory eagles of Europe. Englishmen laugh
at the idea of a hostile combination. They
point to the “silver streak,” they insist on
the hopelessness of reconciling the race-hatreds
and traditional feuds of the continental powers.
But no thoughtful observer can be blind to the
fact that if England is not involved in the
family jars of Europe it is because she has
come to be looked upon as outside the family,
as at best “ a bad European,” a greedy inter-
loper, a disturber of the balance of power,
against whose unwieldly bulk may well be em-
ployed the swarming battalions of Europe,
finding as rich a prey as was found in Spain by
the mediaeval buccaneers. It has been pointed
out that the history of the last few years shows
a succession of hostilities against England from
all sides and in all quarters, none the less
aggressive, none the less dangerous, than if
they had been conducted in actual war-
fare. Look at the intrigues of France
in Egypt, in Siam, in Nigeria, in Mada-
gascar, or the Nile; look at the en-
croachments of Russia in Persia, Afghanis-
tan, the Pamirs ; look at the charaeterically
prudent and cautious, but none the less real,
hostility of Germany in the Transvaal, in Zan-
zibar, in Samoa j look to-day at the unanimous
exultation of the Continent at the blows which
are being struck at the prestige and commercial
interests of England in the East. Everything
seems to show that England must either make
ignoble submission to a European aggressive-
ness which seeks to bleed her by fair means or
foul, or take the risk of financial ruin, of possi-
ble effacement as a first-class Pow r er, in a
desperate contest with the monster armies of
her neighbors, to whom she appears as the one
great obstacle to their designs. It is a choice
between swindling and highway robbery.
Beak-made Law.
The report of N.S.W. Inspector-General of
Police on the licensing business transacted in
the metropolitan area during the year ’97 show s
that while the number of publicans’ licenses
remained stationary there was a large increase
in native-wine licenses—a very healthy sign
from a temperance as well as asocial and econo-
mic standpoint. At the close of the year the
publicans’ licenses in existence totalled 789 —
the same as in 1896 ; colonial wine licenses,
292—an increase of 26. Instead of rejoicing,
the powers-that-be are doing all they can to
restrain this healthy change in public taste
the Sydney Licensing Benches have decreed
that no more new Australian wine licenses
shall be issued except to grocers and res-
taurant-keepers! This move seems to have
been made for the purpose of protecting
the British race from the competition of tlie
“ dirty foreigner ” who sells fruit and con-
fectionery, and, acting according to his tradi-
tions, wants to sell wine too. Dozens of
applications have been refused during the past
year, and hundreds, probably, have been
deterred from making application at all by ie
knowledge that to do so would be useless. As
Thu Bulletin has already noted, Brick,
M.L.A. and solicitor, in his legal capacity,
pointed out, last April, that the object of tne
Legislature was clearly to offer all reasonable
facilities for—nay, to actually encourage—the
consumption of locally-grown wine, and lie then
promised to do his best, in his leg's a IV ®
capacity, to make the intention of Parliament
more clearly understood. Meanwhile, Parlia-
ment has proposed, and the beak disposes.
*.
The Vic. Mine Tributor.
There are nine-and-sixty ways of solving the
Vic. mine-tributing problem, and every one of
them is wrong. The \ ic. Parliament incor-
porated about half of the nine-ana-sixty in the
Mines Act of last year, and some people com-
pute that already the number of unemployed
ex-tributors at Bendigo alone exceeds bOO. the
boss body of the Miners’ Association, looking at
the matter theoretically, decided some time
back to approve the Act, and to thank those
who had secured its passage ; yet now the Ben-
digo branch of the Miners’ Association can pi in-
duce only two men to speak in its favoi. Bo
sooner have you got your solution ready than,
no matter how finished an appearance it has,
some poor, forgotten fossicker in the recesses of
the Poverty Extended feebly complains that
you will surely flatten him out ; or the
Poverty Extended complains on its own account.
Tributers are of all sorts ; and so are tributois.
The brainiest of miners, and the most experi-
enced and most active and most vigorous of
them, work this w'ay ; and so do the most
foolish and inexperienced and slovenly and
lazy and broken-winded. The latter work on
tribute simply because they can't get wages-
work to do ; the others work that way because
wages are not enough for them. So also some
tributes are let because accidentally a fraction
may be left to the company which knows very
well that the ground cannot be profitably
worked on wages ; while others are let because
it seems the cheapest w'ay to get intelligent
prospecting done. But at all Limes the tributor
is a speculator ; for the time he takes over part
of the risks and part of whatever prospective
profits there are from the shareholders. As to
these shareholders the same problem which is
now worrying the tributors long ago cropped
up ; and the State, while not professing to solve
it, threw them a sop to end their clamour.
That sop is the Prospecting Vote. The
State will not, however, go so far in its rela-
tions with the tributor ; but in Victoria it says
that, when the tributor gets very poor results,
he shall be entitled to all the gold he wins up
to <£l 2s. 6d. a week. “ With the prospecting
vote,” it says, in effect, “we help you when
you, our lessee, get in low water ; now you
help your sub-lessee (for the tributor is in that
position) when he gels in low-water. It seems
a fair arrangement so far, anyhow. But, then,
the lessee has to incur actual expense foi
hauling and so on—through the employment of
the tributor ; while the State is not put to any
expense to speak of through the working of a
leasehold. Besides, before a grant is made
from the prospecting vote the claim is inspected
by a Govt, expert and its prospects are con-
sidered ; if they are not good enough, the
money is not “advanced.” At least, that
is the theory of the thing. With tributes,
though, the lessee goes to no such trouble;
all that he satisfies himself about mostly
is that the particular block will not pay
him to work on his own account. The tributor
takes the block either because he thinks he
knows more about it than the lessee does, or
because he must get some sort of a living some-
how. If the lessee had to certify that more
than £1 2s. 6d. per man per week could be
made (and that is about what the sustenance-
wage provision means, unless he is prepared to
do the hauling, &c., for nothing), he would do
two things : first pick his men, and then pick
his ground. This is just what he is doing.
The provision in practice amounts to one fixing
a minimum wage ; and that tributors are specu-
lators, who hope for reward far exceeding the
average wage, is a pretty fair argument against
the application of a minimum wage in their
particular case. After considering all this, and
a good deal more, The Bulletin then comes
to the conclusion that there isn’t any solution
to the problem at all, chiefly because it isn’t
one problem, but about as many problems as
there are tribute “ pitches” in all the mines or
blocks that might, in certain conceivable circum-
stances, become tribute “ pitches.
Bias problems suggested by the Marshall
Hall case :—Should Murray Smith, a trustee
for the Argus proprietary, sit in Univ. Coun-
cil in judgment on a man whom the Argus has
so truculently abused that the failure of its
attack might mean a great financial injury to the
paper ? Is a functionary who has been mor-
tally offended with a teacher for an explana-
tion of a school-exercise given to the function-
ary’s daughter, and whose nephew has written
a bitter letter to the press denouncing said
teacher for another, but distinctly analogous,
matter, competent to sit in judgment at any
stage of proceedings in reference to the last-
mentioned matter 5 Is a University council, m
which church colleges are over-represented,
and in which Bishop Goe has a seat, competent
to decide whether certain verses in a volume
are immodest, when a large part of the volume
is devoted to trenchant criticism and contemp-
tuous pasquinading of Christianity ? I s a
council, which professedthat it couldnt consider
the question of dismissing a professor for alleged
long-standing drunkenness, competent to dis-
miss a professor for alleged impiety ?
The more the Vic. Intestates Widows Relief
Act is studied the more sterling a piece of un-
pretentious but radical legislation it appears to
be. It is, indeed, probably the porch to the
temple of free justice. Under it public officers
aive all the advice necessary without fee or
reward ; ample directions are given by them as
to the proper manner of filling up the necessary
forms, which forms are provided by the
State ; the applicant herself or any
who can write legibly may fill up t e
forms, and, finally, probate or letters of ad-
ministration are issued to applicant without
the intervention of any variety of shark at any
stage of the business. The only fees payable
are the duty on the estate, the cost of swearing
the necessary affidavits, and, if the applicant
doesn’t do the engrossing of the probate per-
sonally, a small charge for that purpose. An
estate valued at £3OO will go through for about
j6l 11s 6<1.; whereas under the old system it
would be somewhere about £22. Is the private
lawyer necessary in any non-contentious legal
matters ? W ould not the State stop an enorm-
ous waste of hard-earned money by undertaking
all such business ilself?
+
“ Lignum” writes re the unemployed :
The present N.S.W. Government takes credit to it-
self that its era of Jolly and Fat has much reduced the
number of the unemployed so far as they appear in
latest report of the Labor Bureau. Having just returned
from a lengthy trip through the North and N. W. dis-
tricts, writer has had many chances of gauging the feel-
ino’ of employes and employers towards the Bureau. I he
former, especially bush-workers, regard the Bureau
stamp as “ pauper, scab and loafer hence the fact that
the country branches show comparatively few le-
gistrations, and certainly none from local unem-
ployed. Employers are down on Bureau labor as
being incompetent, and station managers “ pass it
on sight indeed, at two large stations are to
be seen notices —“ No Bureau men wanted. _ Taking
these facts into consideration, the Bureau statistics, as
indicators of the state of the labor-market, are worthless.
An advt. in a daily paper for labor is a better criterion
any day. The Govt. Labor Bureau, started by George
Dibbs as a means of bringing employer and employe
together, without the intervention of rapacious agents,
has altogether failed to benefit either party, and labor-
agencies thrive as of old. The only real service rendered
by it appears to be to country members, who occasionally
find it useful as a means of shunting impecunious con-
stituents back to their electorates on the fossicking
ticket. Another reason why the number of applications
at the Bureau is bound to diminish is that the man who
is helped out into the wilderness by that institution is
not eligible for further aid until he has repaid his railway
fare. If he hasn’t managed to do that then he has to
stay away, and thus help to reduce the number of appli-
cants, and to show how N.S.W. is prospering.
A Bill to make the ipse dixit of ignorant
“ honorarium ” justices the law of the land in
the majority of civil matters under £5 is being
introduced into Vic. Assembly by M‘Cay and
Gaik, each of whom ought to know better, and
by Outtrim. The intention is, of course, good
—viz., to prevent the unnecessary piling up of
costs in small matters not involving substantial
points of law or questions of jurisdiction. But
this end could be readily reached, without in-
justice, by limiting costs in such matters, both
at the hearing and on appeal, to an amount not
exceeding the sum recovered. (As a matter of
fact, the costs in all appeals by way of order to
review are disgracefully large, being seldom
less than £2O). But the cure proposed by this
Bill is worse than the disease. The number of
dishonest and utterly incompetent J’sP. is so
large that it is utterly unsafe to allow them
an unappealable discretion even in paltry
questions of fact. The right of interfering
with their decisions in matters of evidence is
seldom exercised ; but the whip is there, and
it prevents discretionary outrages. Take it
away, as this Bill proposes, and justice will
only be got in small civil matters when it
happens to coincide with the prejudices, busi-
ness interests, or social predilections of this
class of justices.
Should the Chinese embroglio culminate in
war, and Russia choose to make Chowdom the
seat of strife, what are England’s chances?
Russia has merely to pour troops through
Siberia and (provided China remains com-
plaisant) let an army of vast numerical strength
await the coming of Britain’s handful, already
thinned by the necessity for looking after
India and fifty other places. Siberia is now
one of the world’s great wheat-producing
tracts, and there would be little need for Russian
oversea transport. To fight in China is almost
out of the question ; Russia is a compact empire
without distant possessions to save ; and the
only alternative is direct attack upon her
shores. But she is steeled by constant inter-
national bickering, and is not likely to have let
her vaunted Kronstadt fall into decay—and
Bull’s only hope of successful attack from the
north would rest with Kaiser Wilhelm the
Mad. The late cheerful Bismarck measured
the value of that hope when he said that it
wasn’t Germany’s business to take a hand if
England was squashed between France and
Russia: she could afford to lie back and
“ watch the stiff-shirted lord howl for help to his
God.” And to the south the “sickman” would,
probably, reverse the old order, and Bull might
this time have to fight his way into the Black
Sea. And, even then, he would have no
greater hold upon the coveted Celestial empire.
Also the time will come when Britain, after
profiting more than once by international al-
liances, must herself fall victim to combination.
+
What a document might be made of a Go-
vernor’s Speech if a capable Premier chose !
Conceive the stir of a Declaration of Independ-
ence every three years —a.recital of endeavor,
a trumpet-call to action, a manifesto ablaze
with earnest, honest zeal for progress ! And
from such an ideal —to drop to the timid little
time-serving plaster issued by Premier Reid
last week ! An assurance that the Ministry
will strive for Federation—discounted by the
qualification that Federation is to be “on fair
and just lines,” which means anytliiug, every-
thing, nothing ; the reformation of the Marine
Board —which is obviously necessary and popu-
lar ; the milk-and-water draught for the Legisla-
tive' Council—which needs prussic acid ; the legal
practice Bill—which already the lawyers are
jeering at (though that may be a recommenda-
tion) ; the old local-government stalking-horse
and a new land-law stalking-horse ; Savings
Bank amalgamation (George Dibbs, in a pre-
carious billet as boss of one Savings Bank,
js Chicngned if he can see Reid's majority);
relief to aged poor, compulsory arbitration in
industrial disputes, and some stock measures ;
—total, the biggest sop to the constituencies
which circumstances permit of, soaked in Labor-
party gravy.
♦
The position of N.S.W. Agent-General in Lon-
don is practically vacant—piteous accounts are
printed of the physical decrepitude of locum
tenens Cooper —and there is some talk of send-
ing to fill it one of. the discredited ex-Ministers
who lost their Parliamentary seats at the
elections. If Premier Reid attempts this it
will be a disgraceful job. The two ex-poli-
ticians mentioned— Smith and Gould —are
Dull and Insignificant, and, having lost
all political credit for themselves, could
not possibly gain any for the Agent-
General’s position. Awaiting the happy
day when all the Agent-Generalships will be
rolled into one, and efficiency increased while
money is saved, the representative of a pro-
vince in London should be a shrewd, cultured
business man of good position—not a mere
party hanger-on needing solatium for his woes.
Let Govt, study the interests of the country,
and leave the ex-Ministerial hacks to the ob-
scurity to which they have not been consigned
one moment too soon.
4.
One wealthy defeated Sydney Parliamentary
candidate is, The Bulletin hears, taking his
wipe-out very badly. Whilst he was a member
he travelled on his charity, and, in refusing a
subscription the other day, he referred the
applicant to the new member. The F.lectoral
Act bribery-provisions might well be extended
to prevent members from subscribing otherwise
than anonymously to any local clubs or chari-
ties ; the length” to which this is now carried
amounts to a public scandal, and defeats the
object of Payment of Members. A wealthy
member cares nothing for the ,£3OO a year ; it
is the etceteras that he wants, and by judici-
ously expending £4 or £5 a week on charities
as insurance premiums on his seat, lie can make
a big charitable splash at next election ; whereas
the poor member, if he succeeds in wresting the
seat, has to expend most of his parliamentary
pay in this way, and battle for a living other-
wise as best he can.
N.S.W. Divorce- Judge Simpson is reported to
have said lately that any woman who succeeds
with her petition for divorce will, if she asks
for it in court, be granted reasonable alimony
while her husband lives. This, on the face of
it, would be monstrous ; for a woman fre-
quently gets a divorce to marry again, and that
No. 2 should be kept on the alimony supplied
by No. 1 was surely never contemplated by
Parliament. Divorce—which takes away a
husband’s rights —should take away also his
responsibilities. Probably Judge Simpson re-
ferred only to cases where the husband was
badly in the wrong, and the wife had to pro-
vide for children. But, even so, the knife
should cut both ways. If a wrongdoing hus-
band should support his divorced wife, then a
wrongdoing wife should support her divorced
husband.
The Powers which originally joined to finance
British Papua were Great Britain, Fiji, Victoria,
N.S. Wales, Queensland, S. Australia and West
Australia. Of these Great Britain, New South
Whiles, Queensland, Victoria and W 7 estralia still
stand in. Westralia, whose contribution is
only £lOO, has tendered a formal concur-
rence with whatever rules and regulations
for the management of the territory the eastern
Provinces may draw up. These eastern Pro-
vinces may be called on to pay up to £5OOO
per annum. Great Britain pays £3,500 per
annum and maintains the steamer Merrie
England, or, say, another £lOOO a year. If
England dropped out and S. Australia and Tas-
mania came in, Federated Australia could take
over Papua at very little additional outlay. In
fact a gradually diminishing grant might be
started forthwith, for the sum of £30,000, re-
presenting accumulated savings, already stands
to Papua’s credit, and under a Federation com-
mercial expansion would be a certainty.
measures Premier Reid was
about on the assembling of N.S.W. Par-
he practically threw to the wolves. He
- nt j niate p that he would allow the House to treat
tbem as p willed, and would afterwards do his
besfc to gj ve e ff ec t to this will. If a Cabinet allow
Parliament to emasculate or direct its Bills, tim-
vvay i s a t once cleared for the election of the
Cabinet by Parliament. The essence of the exist-
ing system is that a Cabinet comes down with its
proposals and says— These are our measures;
reject them, or materially interfere with them,
an d we resign.” Reid’s plan is to retain the office
and emo l,imeiits attaching to the existing system,
to h a ndle his Bills as if Parliament elected his
Q ab ; net _ jj e j s patriotically preparing us for the
abo ption of Govt, by Contradiction.
ooffin . ship queB tion at San Francisco,
. T A nrints this ._
S.F. Call of June lo prints this .
AGAINST THE DEATH TRAPS,
OOMMEROIAL MEN ASK FO r REGULATION OP
A ll SAILING VESSELS,
At the regular meeting of the directors of the Chamber
0 { Commerce yesterday the matter of enacting a law for
securing the safety of sailing vessels was discussed. A
short time ago the Board of Supervisors of this city came
to the conclusion that there should be some law by which
all saiHng vessels should be inspected by Federal officers,
and any found un tit for the transportation of freight and
passengers could be condemned. To this end a commit-
tee was appointed, consisting of Supervisors Clinton
Morton and Lackmann, to confer with the members of
the chamber of Commerce and the Collector of the Port,
The conference was held at the meeting yesterday, and
as a result the following resolution was passed, which
secretary Scott was directed to telegraph to the Pacific
ooast Repi . esen tatives at Washington
whereas, Tiiere does not appear to be any law,
national or State, covering the inspection and supervision
of sailing vessels engaged in our coast-trade, applicable
either to the construction of the vessel, manner of loading
or ability to carry passengers ; and whereas, owinsr to the
deficiency, we believe many sailing vessels have left Our
ports during the past season which were unseaworthy or
dangerously loaded, particularly those destined for Alas-
kan"ports/ notably the bark Helen H . Almy and the
ac hooner Jane Gray, which were lost and many lives
sacrificed. Be it therefore
Resolved, That we earnestly request and respectfully
urere upon our California Delegation in Washington to
take immediate steps to induce Congress to pass such a
j aw or j aW s as will give to the proper United States
officers full control of all sailing vessels carrying passen*
gers out of our ports.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
MyftteLife OffiTL the A W»ld T ' ES ° n eVe,y Sb *" d " d ° f vataatio ” LARGER than tHtof
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M L,A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. '
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDARIES Etc.,
177 Pitt; Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cut or repair any Stones.
Bonn—A. BERTHOLD.<
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
TICHT^)'
running
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
' Jl
m
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “One of the Best.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Harbor Lights.”
Theatre Royal “ Round the World in 80 Days.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bijou “ Fun on the Bristol.”
At Her Majesty’s that doughty body of
red legs, “The Yeomen of the Guard,” stepped
into the “ Gondoliers ’ ” shoes on Saturday. The
pensive, low-toned gravity of this comic opera
leads to a belief that Ye Merrie Gilbert and
Sullivan wrote it after Xmas pudding. This
scribe maintains that it was either conceived in
the melancholy that follows boiled plum-duff, or
before dinner one Sunday after church, and he
inclines to the former because he wouldn’t like to
charge Gilbert and Sullivan with church, and
because the plums in the play are so large and
solid. Everything at this opera goes against the
regulations of other opera coniiques. The right
people don’t get their deserts, the funny man dies
of a broken heart, the love affairs that entangle
themselves in the middle of the play as furiously
as all well-conducted love themes should don’t
come at all right at the end, and for these reasons
“The Yeomen of the Guard,” with its lovely
music and fetching costumes, has never gripped
the public’s heart "with the wild, fevered clutch of
the “Mikado” or “Gondoliers.”
* * * *
The present cast isn’t the Samson of the
old days. Too many knock-kneed people wander
in and out, and neither Miss Yane nor Miss
Darley has that subtle supremacy of charm that
covers a multitude of discrepancies in the rest of
the co. Mr. Kenningham takes the longest strides
towards improvement as Colonel Fairfax. The
sweet, light voice is supported with some spirited
bursts of acting, and there was one time when he
got the whole of the cast on their legs again after
a dreary downfall into spiritless action. The big-
gest bit of fat in the play falls to Howard Vernon
as Wilfred, the jolly jailer with a face like a back-
door that has been out in the sun. Lauri in
Elton’s old part as Jack Point, the jester who died
for the love of a lady, hung fire occasionally, but
bobbed up serenely in “ I have a song to sing, O.”
Dorothy Vane also seemed to have a weight on
her chest, playing prettily, but without the sparkle
that was expected of her. Mabel Darley, as Elsie
Maynard, was two shades lighter and brighter
than this scribe had expected, and moved so grace-
fully that you could almost forgive her for aiming
at top notes out of her reach. Mrs. Bracy put
more spirit than voice into her creation of Dame
Carruthers, and the various others completed or
incompleted the cast, as the case might be.
* * * *■
The latest shocker at the Lyceum seeketh
to unravel “The River Mystery,” which mystery
is further intensified by a cunning sub-title, “The
Unknown.” Everything that ever happens in a
shocker gets fair play in this one. Beginning with
two wicked trustees, a beautiful young heiress, and
a young man who has letters in his possession to
prove that he is somebody else, we come to a plot
to put a man who isn’t mad into a lunatic asylum.
So far, excellent. Then we arrive at the man who
is thrown in a river as dead, and who is picked up
and taken to a hospital, and isn’t dead at all, but
only mad. And, of course, there is the poison that
is to put an end to the heiress and gets replaced
by an innocuous narcotic just in time to save her
life. And, more than all else, there is a vault
in which the unpoisoned heiress is entrapped
later on, and the infamous attempt of one of the
wicked trustees to marry her for her money while
her mind is suffering from the narcotic that might
have been deadly poison. It is hardly necessary
to speak of the scene where the man, who wasn’t
mad when they tried to put him into an asylum,
and who fell into the river, and who didn’t die, but
had a lapse of memory, recovers his reason, and
the man who knew certain things that could put
everything right turns up with them ready-made
on his tongue, and certain other inevitables called
“Lost Papers ” duly make their appearance, and
the heiress who was saved from Poison and incar-
cerated in a Vault marries the only man she has
ever loved. These things are because they have
to. Otherwise you couldn’t have a shocker.
♦ * * *
Harry Diver is particularly effective in the
mad frenzies that follow after the hit on the
head—did we forget to mention the hit on the
head ? Harry Shine is cast as an Irishman, and
keeps things at bubbling point when the chill of
all the awful calamities is trying to freeze them.
Pretty Miss Helena Burdett is a picturesque
heroine, and the two wicked trustees are inflicted
upon Messrs. Johnston Weir and Phil Welsh.
** * *
At the Theatre Royal Bland Holt at last
“positively announces” that the bloom is off
“White Heather,” and on Saturday horrid War
will rear its dreadful front in “ One of the Best.”
** * *
The Tivoli is in its old place, and its new
entertainment is prospering. Beresford, the cham-
pion skate-dancer, has arrived by way of supple-
mentary glory.
* * *
Brisbane notices spoke very warmly of
Miss Lilian Wheeler’s performance of Lady Clan-
oarty (a fine part) and the more ordinary melo-
drama heroines in George Rignold’s shows.
Rignold himself considers his handsome leading
lady the cleverest pupil he has ever tutored, and
thinks that with good luck she is bound to achieve
fame in England one day. Miss Wheeler’s voice,
always strong and sympathetic, is much rounder
and fuller than when she spoke her first stage
lines, some 18 months or two years ago. The
tricks of acting come natural to her: her grip of a
new character and intuitive knowledge of drama-
tic effect are said to be remarkable. Given an
opportunity to let herself go as Paula Tanqueray
the gifted novice would probably surprise her
friends, and show the Australian public the dif-
ference between an actress who is born and *ne
who has been laboriously made.
#* * *
Some Melb. sassiety people interested in
working up the Shakespeare ball passed scornful
comments on J. C. Williamson’s want of en-
thusiasm for the good cause. Evidently they
were surprised that the manager of the Princess’s
didn’t devote all his available theatrical resources
to the assistance of the rival show. Their surprise
was quite unreasonable. One way and another,
J.C. W. does a good deal for the Distressed Actors’
l und ; and if he didn’t exert himself violently in
aid of this particular entertainment, it was because
the money spent in tickets and fancy costuming
would necessarily represent a considerable loss to
the Princess’s treasury. In the purpose of pro-
ducing the maximum of benefit to mummer chari-
ties at the minimum of cost to theatre-managers, a
Shakespeare ball seems less effective than a
dramatic fete or a co-operative matinee-perform-
ance, either of which is, of course, more or less
damaging to ordinary show-business at the time.
Mr. Justice WALKER, the new N.S.W. Supreme
Court Judge .
Photo. , Freeman & Co.
Melbourne shows will remain few and far
between until Saturday, when the Royal and the
Bijou are to reopen, for the benefit of the festive
agriculturist, who brings fat live-stock to town
at this season of the year, thus tempering the first
breath of Spring with an odor of prize pig. Mean-
while, “Harbour Lights” gets a whiff or two of
sea-breeze into the Princess’s, and business at the
Firm’s emporium seems brisk enough to go on
with. “Harbour Lights” is not the best melo-
drama in the world, by a good many, but it
has an old - established name, a large east,
and eleven changes of scenery to its credit!
Also, it introduces one or two human in-
cidents, in a casual sort of way. The
fashionable villain gets a telegram announc-
ing that the horse he put his patent-
leather boots upon was beaten by a beastly
outsidah, and when he appeals to sundry
johnnies for some temporary assistance they all,
with one accord, proceed to clear out of his ances-
tral mansion in violent haste. There’s a touch of
nature about that. Also, the girl who was'
betrayed before the curtain went up manages to re-
turn to her dear old village home and dodge around
the place where she was born without once falling
against her father’s chest. Any drama that
doesn’t bring an erring daughter and her aged
parent together in the second or third act, has
claims to respect on the score of unusualness.
Julius Knight and Miss Hughes are somewhat
more chirpy than at first, likewise Miss Florence
Ferriss is a more reasonable Peggy, and the per-
formance shows other improvements here and
there. Miss Mortyne deserves a word of thanks
for her vigorous attack on the girl who drove
Mark to drink by not marrying him, although it
is quite probable that Mark would have taken to
liquor in any case.
** * *
The Royal is to resume business for nine
weeks under the management of Bateman and
Maurice, the latter appearing as leading man in a
new version of “Round the World in 80 Days.”
The old theatre has been cleaned and touched up
for the occasion. “ Round the World ”is a drama
with vast possibilities in it, and the list of things
that are said to be going to happen to hero
Maurice is quite appalling. If the show proves to
be only half as expensive as rumor alleges, and the
two ballets come up to prediction, the new ven-
ture should flourish.
** * *
Fun on the Bristol,” by Cosgrove co.,
is to break out again at the Bijou on Saturday.
Two or three weeks back there was a Cosgrove co.
at the same house, and one morning the man-
agement discontinued business owing to bad
health, or something. Cosgrove, in this case, is
brother William of that ilk, who gives a very
acceptable imitation of Sheridan’s Widdy O’Brien,
but the name of the responsible manager who will
engineer the show and pay the salaries was not
announced at time of writing. The rumor that
Charles Holloway and Rignold would run the
Bijou for a time turns out to have been false.
** * *
The hugely li bellous and utterly groundless
suggestion that Biondi, now with the Rickards co.,
is not his real original self, seems to have arisen
from a confusion of the two Italian identities—
Biondi and. Fregoli. It is generally understood
that Biondi studied his business with Fregoli in
their own country, but in London and elsewhere
he was the original quick-change artist, Fregoli
coining some time later. Fregoli, now appearing
m London, has doubtless picked up something
irom Biondi, in his turn. As to which is the
cleverer artist of the pair, opinions differ. Some
people prefer Biondi’s work, others give the palm
to Iregoli Anyway, Melbourne has had good
evidence of Biondi’s originality in his impersona-
tion of the local Zelman, which is one of the most
humorous pictures in his gallery of musical com-
posers.
* * * •
Biondi’s striking imitation of young Mas-
cagni explains why the creator of “Cavalleria
Rusticana ” has not followed up his one great suc-
cess. Mascagni, as presented at the Princess’s, is
a nervous, self-conscious, spoilt darling of the
multitude. Such a. man would seem naturally
lacking in grit, and incapable of fighting against
the failures of his later works. When the sun of
celebrity had ceased to shine upon him Mascagni
gave way to despair. Attempted to commit sui-
cide, didn’t he ?
*# * *
Miss Ada Reeve has brought her fresh
little voice, and her various other bewitchments,
into the Rickards show at Melb. Opera House,
a /Cd for the next few nights that joyful vision will
Bhare the honors with Biondi. The man of many
parts is to remain until Thursday of next week,
and will then cross over to Sydney in exchange
for Miss Peggy Pryde. Harry Coghill’s co. con-
tinues to prosper at the Gaiety, where the Tyler
acrobats, some living statuary, and a neat ballet
are principal items.
** * m
Newbury’s concerts are just now cropping
up in divers suburban places, but they will be re-
sumed at Melb. Town Hall on Wednesday next,
and for three Saturdays—loth, 17th and 24th—
thereafter.
At Poverty Point.
‘Mummer” : Was with a company in Wanganui, M.L.,
district, a part much infected by Johnnies who do rouse-
about work cheap and call it “ eadetting.” Met one in a
pub. Short drab coat and cap ; bony, vacuous face :
cords preposterously big in the breech and skintight
where the calf ought to have been.. His thin shanks ran
into policeman’s feet like a hat-pin stuck into a plug of
tobacco. Wheu he smiled his face wore, to quote Louis
Becke, “ the expression of a child's coffin.” I expected
to hear him say, “Naice weathaw. Wang’ui deuced
slew.” Got a shock when he began : “ Ah’m thenkin’
ye’ll note dae verra weel in the toun. We hae say mony
guid pairforinances wi' th’ amachewers. We hae list
pieeyed the ‘ Youman o’ the Gaird.” “Yes. What did
yuu play ? ” “Ah pled Wulfrid, an’ we’re gaun to hae a
coansairt next week for a banefut.” “ Are you in that,
too?” “Aye. Ah’m daein’ some o’ Awlburt Shuvaleer’s
coaster tur-rns.” “How do people like ‘coster turns’
with a Scotch accent?” “ Mon ! Ah hae nae Scoatch
aksent; Ah’ve bin daein’thae turrns fur ’ears, an’ nae-
body but yersel’ iver kenn’d ah was Scoatch.”
Wybert Reeve, lessee of Adelaide Royal, took to the
boards again the other evening. Must be about 75 years
old. Reeve claims to have helped Henry Irving up the
ladder over 40 years ago. His two great parts in his best
days were Count Fosco and the Crushed Tragedian. He
looks the latter in the street, with his pompous manner
and erect carriage.
“S.” : Painful to hear of handsome Harrie Ireland
crowded off the stage to pose as high priestess of the
groaning board, and deal out sandwiches and tea to Ade-
laide mashers. Harrie cuts a finer figure on the stage
than any lady now acting in Australia, and if as a com-
forting, ruddy-haired picture alone should always be
gratefully received by Australian playgoers. There are
many actresses who cannot hold a light to her now in
decent places in the profession here, but they are im-
ported. Another injustice to Ireland !
Dear Bulletin.— Pattie Browne did not make her first
appearance at the Old Queen’s Melb., but at the O. Q.’s,
York-street, Sydney. Doubtful also whether it was under
the management of Michael Hegarty, although M. H. was
for many years lessee and manager of that old barn-
storming crib. But “P.E” goes still worse when, in
trying to prove that poor old Nelly Farren should not
write a novel, he professes to tell the tale of Federici’s
death, which w'as really due to culmination of cardiac
nervousness. Descending with Faust (Knight Aston) at
end of opera he fell off the trap and was conveyed un-
conscious to the green room. - L.L.
“ Thorold ” : Be critic Stansbury and the violets worn
by Melba when singing. I have never heard of any other
vocalist who would dare to wear violets (of all flowers)
when about to sing in public. Their strong perfume has
a most baleful effect upon the voice. But Melba!—she
cycles against orders, doesn’t diet herself after the
fashion of other stars, and in a few years’ time she will
either have exploded the idea of coddling the voice, or
afford melancholy proof that the people who shook their
heads were wiseacres in their generation.
The pretty sequel to the threatened theatrical divorce-
suit happened outside the Princess stage-door every night
last week, when the now-devoted Ada Reeve could be
seen chatting with her fellow-mummers and awaiting her
loving hubby.
Lemmone is so disgusted with the financial failure of
his last musical venture that he spent last week in cabling
to certain stars he had been negotiating with for the
future, “Stay where you are.” Adela Verne, with the
generosity so eharacteric of the professional class, pro-
poses to get up a benefit-concert for Mr. Lemmone in
Sydney. The suggestion is being very well received, as
the great flautist is highly popular. Miss Verne will play
three concertos with orchestra at this concert, one of
which Mr. Eric Morley introduced here by the scherzo
movement.
“Theorbo”: Flautist Lemmone, as proprietor of the
Alva-Verne concern, fired a parting-shot in the Melb.
press, before leaving. The monetary failure was, of
course, accountable. No electric star. Alva did not put
her best leg foremost the first night, writes one. She did
not come down with the smash and crash of a Hambourg,
though no humbug, but a fine, sound artist. And she
must have been ready to pull the ears of little Verne.
Odd that the retirement of Marshall-Hall from his
Melb. University position should have been enforced so
soon after his “ Alcestis ” musical success, wherein he
was associated with the chief representative (Dr. Leeper)
of University goody-goodiness. Evidently the Warden
of Trinity College didn't bring much influence to bear on
behalf of the assailed professor.
A BuLLETiN-eer writes from Queensland to contradict
the statement that Frank Mac Vicars was “ for some
years house-surgeon at St. George’s Hospital, London.”
Mummer Mac, says our informant, was only a second-
year’s student w-hen he left St. George’s, and entered the
other purfesh, as a super., at Drury Lane Theatre.
Moreorer, nobody has resigned as house-surgeon for
several years at St. G.’s. The appointment is only held
for six months.
Haresfoot: J. J. Burke, comedian, killed at New York
by a diving accident, though quite out of place in the
Pa I riB , ienne -: m J lB * have been a fine artist in
wfl’h by tbe way he » ri PP e d his audiences
here with very thin variety business.
Miln had no Ghost in the closet-scene of “ Hamlet.”
“ n,y » of electric-light, his theory being
that the Ghost in this scene was an emanation of Ham-
let s distempered brain. Was this the idea of Barrett's
Rembrandty effect?
The intense Maud Jeffries was always so intense. At
supper, with Cartwright and a few more. Cartwright •
Maud, they say you're in love with me.” Maud (raising
her head and drawing her shoulders back in Desdemona
style): Ai am shoo-ah ai’m not.” “ There you are,”
said Cartwright; “Maud’s always acting off the stage.”
Ten seconds study in “My Dear.” Theatre proprietor,
to stage girl: “What is it you want, my dear?" She-
Money, my dear.” He :“Go to h—l, my dear.”
S.S. : Biondi’s caricatures of the musical masters, old
and otherwise, are remarkable and wonderfully clever.
The operator uses wigs and whiskers, and, for several of
the characters, a false nose, but the rest is all Biondi.
We must take the accuracy of the work for granted in
most cases, but the characterisation would be sufficient if
he called his subjects Brown, Jones and Robinson. The
keynote of each character is placid and fatuous conceit,
ana sleek, smug*, dolly Sullivan is one of the most
affectedly egotistical. Biondi’s musicians are an oily
glittering, simpering, ogling band preening themselves in
the light of women’s eyes with a grotesque vanity that is
deliciously humorous in the Biondi creation, without
suggesting a hint of too much colour. But Biondi’s first
turn, “ The Music Lesson,” is flat, stale and unprofitable,
and would not be borne from a local man. Ugo’s choice in
whiskers is wretched, their falsity is as obvious as a hay-
stack, and his men are like the tawdry, 50-year-old carica-
tures of British tourists in the cheap Italian comic
journals.
Once upon a time, as the story goes, the proud author
of a ghastly stage work invited a certain musical artist to
come and gaze upon the G.S.W. aforesaid from the
private box. The victim, with his wife, accepted the in-
vitation, and had to sit out the excruciating entertain-
ment whilst his host, the author, stood behind the chair
and prompted him to admiration with such remarks as
“This is a funny bit!” “ Now we shall have a pure
comedy scene.” “ What did you think of that for a
smart line?’’ and so on. There was no escape for the
tortured visitor, for the author kept guard over him all
the evening, and wrung from him many assurances of the
“ pleasure” he was deriving from the piece. Well, next
morning, after a troubled slumber, that polite man re-
ceived a visit from the author, who first read aloud to him
a gushful letter purporting to express his (the sufferer’s)
opinion of the previous night’s performance, and then
asked him to kindly sign it for publication in the news-
papers. This was most embarrassing. The musical artist
—he was running a show of his own at the time—pro-
tested that it would never do for him to fly in the face of
the adverse press notices which his young friend’s effort
had provoked. But he was fluttering in his excuses when
a happy thought struck him. “ I’m quite sure,” said he,
“ that my agent wouldn’t sanction it.” It is at such
moments that a showman feels the necessity for travelling
with a hard business agent.
Cockaigne asks of The Bulletin : “ Why oo you turn
into a draper George Lewis, the eminent attorney, spouse
of Kate Terry ?” Cockaigne is very mixed. Kate Terry
married George Lewis (member of'the firm of Lewis and
Allenby) years before attorney Sir George Lewis was
heard of. That Lewis married a Miss Eberstadt.
“ S.S." : Re Johnnie Coleman and the scarecrow-dance,
it is, so far, merely a matter of assertion against asser-
tion. There are several people in Melbourne who persist
in the declaration that they have seen Ashcroft, the
Solid Man, do most of Coleman’s business in the “ M‘Gee”
song, “Scarecrow” dance included. The writer of the
first par. was inaccurate in saying that Ashcroft was
dead, but the latter’s death, under tragic circumstances,
was reported in England. Ashcroft did Irish business,
and may he in Dublin now, but he ran a music-hall in
Liverpool, where Coleman hails from, when Johnnie was
a comparative youngster.
“ Old Par” : Re the disposition of actors and actresses
to be deeply “ impressed ” by any play that they are
viewing from the front of the house—are they not wilfully
impressed ? It has always seemed to me that the purfesh
conspires to over-rate histrionic effects. A very moderate
actor will make a point of enthusing over another fellow’s
moderate performance, provided that the other fellow is
not in the same line of stage business as himself, or is,
anyway, not a dangerous rival. The purfesh is a Mutual
Admiration—not less than a Mutual Jealousy—Society,
and it refuses to recognise the fact that 19 mummers out
of every 20 have less of the dramatic instinct than the
average successful city man.
The Salvation Army placards a Sunday performance, in
Melbourne, of the cinematographe and grammaphone,
thinly veijed as a service, with silver-coin admission.
Rickards does not dare to introduce a Sunday concert at
the Opera House. Sauce for the Herbert Booth goose is
not sauce for the Harry Rickards gander. But, then,
Acting-Gov. Madden doesn’t take the chair at Rickards'
temple.
Alleged programme of an entertainment given at Cue
(W.A.) in the early roaring days, about five years ago:
Grand Entertainment
in aid of the
SUPERANNUATED DRY BLASTERS’ RELIEF
ASSOCIATION.
Part I.
A Snorter, by Handelson, in Three Spasms and One
Squeal, by Signor Squalini. Scenery bv the celebrated
Dutch artist Van Daub. As performed before all the bald-
heads of Europe, Abraham, Isaac, and America. Pyro-
technics by Professor Rocketi.
Spasm I. —The blood-stained windlass. Finding the
corpse at the bottom of the shaft. Did it fall, or was it
pushed ?
Spasm 11. —The inquest. Arrest of the culprit. Guilty
or not guilty. “ I’ll prove an albino, yer honor.”
Spasm lll.—Murder of the warden back of the Cue pub.
Theft of the church. The sacred utensils dollied. A
craven deed. Panned off in the holy water.
Squeal IV.—Justice avenged. Red tape in excelsis.
To conclude with a transfiguration scene representing
the Sergeant of Police being crowned with straw envel-
opes, and presentation of the Inspector of Nuisances with
a Jay Peaship.
Interval of five drinks.
Part 11.
Barmaid Show. —The prettiest barmaid in town to be
chosen by ballot. Prize to be awarded is the choice of
any dryblower in the room as a husband, on the instal-
ment plan, on a month’s approval, or for keeps. The
double or straight out.
Interval of Ten Drinks.
To conclude with a dance and supper. Donahs, free ;
gentlemen, sdwts. each.
Wheelbarrows and stretchers may he ordered for
10.30 p.m.
Doors open at 7.30. Agony starts at 8 o’clock sharp.
Gentlemen are requested to wear sox.


Gilfillan and M‘Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * * *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
A. E. (SOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires m the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field .
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Am. )
Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Tbc R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
.98/100 %
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Minin? Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mblbournb ;
11 Pitt-at., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel. } Queen-tt., Britb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The cold blast of retrenchment is blowing over
Westralia this budget. Premier Forrest reckons that, in
spite of all the loan money spent, he has accumulated a
revenue deficit of £186,000 ; and the wild cat is to be
whipped to square things. There is to be an excise of 10
per cent, on beer and stout, calculated to raise £lO,OOO ;
the duty on wearing-apparel is raised from 10 to 15 per
cent. —which is moderate, considering that Q., S.A., and
M.L. charge 25, and Vic. goes as high as 35 per cent. ; 5
per cent, is put on machinery (formerly free) ; 10 per cent,
on timber (formerly 5) ; and several articles are changed
from the ad-valorem to the specific list—cottage pianos,
for example, being charged £5 each instead of 15 per
cent. On the whole, Treas. Forrest estimates that he
will get £1,685,000 from miscellaneous sources and
£1,220,000 from railways, and show on the expenditure
side only £2,900,000 including the deficit ; so that if all
goes well he will come out a few thousands to the good.
If it doesn’t In the meantime municipal subsidies
come down from 20s. to 15s. in the £ ; expenditure on
public works is being reduced, and public servants are
being dismissed by the score ; and there is a great noise
in the land where the sandgroper busteth.
* • * •
S.A. helps Westralia to shadow the budget pic-
tures. Treas. Kingston’s was a speech of regrets. Revenue
fell £61,000 below previous year’s, and it was small com-
fort that expenditure was decreased by £16,000. He
starts with a £28,000 debit-balance ; leaves taxation as it
is; and estimates this year’s revenue at £2,649,000;
expenditure at £30,000 less. With a good wheat harvest,
Kingston thinks he can about square accounts. But his
general air of gloom is depressing.
* * * *
Q. Treasurer Philp provides a budget which
looks well on casual inspection. His year’s revenue, as
already chronicled, exceeded the estimate by £41,000;
and he is convinced that the province is well on the up-
grade. Nevertheless expenditure also exceeded estimate
by £47,000 ; being less than revenue by £20,724. And, as
is the habit of the good-year Treasurer, Philp is going to
“ let her go ” and increase current year’s expenditure by
£119,000 —which the expanding revenue is asked to kindly
cover.
• * • •
Maoriland goes one better, with an estimated
surplus of £166,800 ; and Treas. Seddon thinks that this
year will give him £450,000 to play with. He proposes to
set apart £105,000 for old-age pensions, and keep the
M.L. reputation for advanced Democracy well in front.
Despite this glowing balance-sheet, Oapt. Russell says
he is dissatisfied, and a fierce want-of-confidence debate is
proceeding.
* • * •
The Q.N. Bank half-yearly meeting was dis-
tinguished by the directors’ attempt to cancel the rule by
which one of their number steps off the board every two
years. Chairman Munro pointed out that after two years
a director was just beginning to learn his business, and
he might have added that it was a shocking thing that his
fees should be taken away just when he was getting used to
them. The meeting, however, with the memory of
directorial hanky-panky still in mind, considered that the
advantage of a little new blood on the board now and
then was worth keeping; and the directors failed
to get the necessary three-fourths majority for
alteration of the rule. Premier Byrnes’ expressed
disapproval of their little plan made the directors’ bluff
seem steeper than ever ; and even Brisbane Courier
doesn’t consider that the Board is far enough from the
Smell to do without its two-yearly disinfectant. The
balance-sheet was adopted after some obstreperous share-
holders had commented on the expense-rate, and asked
why the Q.N. wanted ten directors to manage it when
other and bigger banks get along with eight.
• * * *
The Port Jackson Co-operative S.S. co. has
just paid its first div. since 1892. It is now on a
thoroughly-sound footing, and is prospering under the
direction of a level-headed manager. The year’s business,
after maintaining the co.’s steamers in good working
order, and providing over £4BOO for depreciation, leaves
a balance at credit of profit and loss of £3961 odd, of
which the div. (10 per cent, to shareholders and 5 per
cent, to debenture-holders) absorbs £2968, leaving £993 to
be carried forward. The old management of the P. J.S.S.
co. was probably the most pig-headed aggregation of
donkey-natured persons ever entrusted with the control
of an obviously good thing since the world began. In-
stead of catering for the general public, they stuck out
for monstrously high fares to please a little coterie of
shabby-genteel people who condescended to live at
Manly ; and in the result they had to sweat tears of blood
—and gold. Talk about paying for experience !
• * * *
According to a private letter, the finders of the
mysterious “ Sacred Slug,” at Kanowna, Westralia, are
two miners from Oassilis (Gippsland)—Brodie and Millane.
These two good Romans have also a 240 z. hunk to their
credit. The story also goes that the big slug is now at
Melb. Mint ; and that it wasn’t found in the locality indi-
cated by Father Long.
» • • •
Hill End, Broad Arrow, is one of the few good
things which the French have got hold of in W.A. Since
the erection of a mill a year ago the stone treated has
returned £5 10s. per ton. Expenses figure at £llos., and
it is alleged that there is enough in sight to keep the mill
jigging for years. Mt. Colac, in same locality, is a show
on which Adelaide people spent a lot of money before
finally abandoning. A local syndicate has recently started
crushing the ore-dumps, and out of two cleans-up has
paid a div. of £2 per share. Two ounces was the tale the
battery told.
« * * *
If all that Konemann says about his own pro-
cess of treating tailings and slimes is true, the Great
Boulder co. did well in making the much-abused contract
with him. He talks of dealing with the Boulder tailings,
which contain about 60 per cent, slime, because of grind-
ing in pans, at 4s. 6d. a ton, and saving a minimum of 93
per cent, and alludes to the heap of money to be made by
the G.B. co. in other directions by its share interest when
the process gets going elsewhere. Alas ! the same story
has been told of every other process under the sun.
* * * *
Cabled that a knight and two others connected
with the Coolgardie Mint and Iron King mines (Hannan’s)
have been charged in London with conspiracy and false
pretences at the instance of the liquidator. In this co. it
was found last year that bogus scrip for thousands ot
shares had been issued, in re which proceeding the chair-
man of directors said in London a few weeks back that
the guilty persons were not worth powder and shot, and
therefore it was not proposed to prosecute. Curiously
enough, no allusion whatever has been made to this
matter by the big Australian dailies in explanation of the
cable. m
• * * •
Published that the Westralian Govt, has offered
£50,000 for the patent rights of the cyanide process, and
that the Australian Gold Recovery co. is asking £70,000.
If this is correct no doubt a deal will be made, and a lot of
litigation saved. No co. using the process in W.A. is pay-
ing royalty, which is being ignored in other parts of Aus-
tralia, and, whatever its rights, the A.G.R. co. is very
dilatory in enforcing them. Though controlling the
greatest metallurgical invention of the century, it has had
a chequered career. While losing a lot of money as the
owner of the process, many fortunes have been made by
the use of it. Up to two or three years ago it could have
bought, or got under offer, nine-tenths of the t’fijhuhngs-
heaps of Australasia. To-day nine-tenths of those left
untreated by cyanide are not worth treating by any pro-
cess. These worthless heaps are largely in Bendigo and
Ballarat. At Charters Towers alone there are over 40
cyanide plants at work, some of them treating tailings
washed miles away from where they were made. What-
ever the real cause the A.G.R. co. has had a very bad time.
* » * *
Lawyer Bright, chairman of the Gen. Gordon
co., has gone over from Adelaide to inspect the property.
Speaking at Kalgoorlie of the prospects of the show, Mr.
Bright casually mentioned that, on the present manager
taking charge, there was no ore in sight, but that a small
body of pay-stone had since been met. What has become
of the famous 40ft. lode, of which the world heaid so
much a couple of years ago ? Five men are at present
employed on the Gordon. Manager Simpson, late of
Bulong, has charge.
* • * *
The end of the Hit or Miss, Mulgarrie, W.A.,
appears to have arrived (writes a Bulletin correspondent).
The 20-head battery was auctioned t’other day, and the
silence of desolation reigns supreme over the abandoned
township. About the most interesting feature of Mul-
garrie nowadays is the great stack of empty bottles on the
site of Jerry Collins’s old pub.
• * * *
Seven shillings a day for Chillagoe shindykit-
railway laborers. Also : mutton, 6d. a lb., and bread lOd.
a loaf. Rotten water.
• * * *
Kalgoorlie has just welcomed its first pawn-
broker.
• * * *
The neighborhood of the old Plunderderry has
now its mica claim, owned by a £24,000 Melb. co. The
mineral, for which the demand is consistent, occurs in a
felspar lode formation running to 12ft. wide. Said that
where cut at 70ft. deep the stuff is still good. But the
result of similar claims in half-a-dozen widely-separated
places in Australia makes one shudder ; it takes such a
pile of the clean-cut stuff to make a ton, and invariably
the pile of rejected stuff has been disproportionately
large.
• * * *
Excerpts from a Vic. miner’s letter dated from
Kalgoorlie, W.A. “ Have put in for over 20 contracts
during the last five weeks, and never got a look-in. Con-
tracts are let before tenders are called, and go to men
willing to earn 30s. a week, which is all the average con-
tract is worth here. . . . Two men were wanted at the
mine yesterday. Turned up with a crowd includ-
ing two reduced johnnies in black suits. A manager
sporting an eye-glass went over to the bateh j —good
miners, mainly—and selected the johnnies. . . . I predict
a deadly time for underground men here in the summer.
At the Great Boulder, the Lake View Consols, and the
Australia, thej are running their cyanided tailings below
to fill up the stopes. The tailings are wet and the stopes
hot, so that the former fairly reek cyanide poison. The
man who can stand much of it must have the constitution
of a crocodile. Twelve men had to come up out of the
Lake View the other day for this reason. They tell me
they drop at their work, and the fumes leave them too
weak to climb the ladders. . . . They brought men and
machinery all from Germany to run the Brown Hill.
This d d country is stamped in red, ‘ Made in Ger-
many.’ ”
• * * *
Prospector Menzies, who stepped into S.A'.,
well-gilded, to the sound of trumpets, and lately, after
some sad Barossa experiences, went out of it amid lamen-
tations, has again gone west, and has fitted himself out at
Kalgoorlie with an Afghan and a black-boy for a cruise
way-out from Leonora.
* * • *
Be Lyell slump. It is rumored that much of
one big man’s scrip is in the market. Argued, therefore,
that the slump must be a fake, as no director would rush
his paper on to the market during troublous times.
Other knowing ones say that whatever of that director’s
scrip is on sale is gift stuff that has been hoarded up by
promoters’ friends since the early days of the float.
Delprat, now on his way out from England to
take charge (under Stewart) of the B.H. Prop, mine, is
said to be one of the most reputable mining men in Eng-
land. Head-quartered in London, he supervised and
“ ran ” many of the big South American properties, acting
as something between a concentrated board of directors
and general manager.
B.H. South directors succeed in having their
fees raised to £6OO per annum ; and, though the prospects
of the co. have improved, and perhaps justify the rise, it
would have looked rather better if a mere shareholder had
proposed it. Melb. shareholders in the co. begin to com-
plain that its interests are being sacrificed to those of
Block 14, which has the same gen. manager; and the
relations will, anyway, be worth observing.
* * * •
B.H. Consols has lately yielded some more huge
slugs- of almost pure silver, and, from a shipment lately
made, a div. will be paid.
0 m * *
B.H. Prop., at Pt. Pirie, is now relying largely
on sea-waier, refusing to pay the 6d. per 1000 gallons de-
manded for the water from the Govt. bore. The latter’s
yield of 50,000 gals. daily is consequently flowing into the
sea.
* * • *
The owners of the Paddy Lackey mine
(N.S.W.) have their new main shaft down 500 ft. This
wiil give them over 100 ft. of ground to stope out, but, to
put the mine in good shape, this shaft should go another
200 ft., so that two or three levels could be worked simul-
taneously It is, and has been from the very first, a rat-
tling good mine, and why it was not bought by one or
other of the several London representatives who have
monkeyed with it, has always been a puzzle to the writer.
There is a Paddy Lackey Deep Levels ! When does if
expect to strike the reef ?
r * * * *
The Sabbath tipster: “We have always ex-
pected that the North Nymagee will get the Nymagee lode
in time, and recent reports from the mine have not caused
us to change our opinion. The shares are very cheap
now, but calls will still be required. There are many
worse purchases.” What a falling off is here ? Why, the
drop in the shares is nothing to it!
1 • • * *
Prospectus of the Birthday United G.M. Co.
(shares already allotted) appears in this issue. The pro-
perty is a 20-acre lease at Berringa (Vic.), and three
shafts—one down 80ft.—have given encouragement to
work the show vigorously. Up to now 67 tons have
crushed for 370 z. of good quality gold ; also, the stone
seems to improve as it goes deeper. The new co. takes
the stone at grass, and a crushing will be put through
shortly Capital, 25,000 shares of 6s. each. 20,000 paid-
up to 18d. were offered to the publio. The vendors take
6000 fully paid-ups, and leave £5OO to credit of co.
Bendigo’s resuscitated wonder, the Garden
Gully, has got into its old swing again. For the last week
in July it crushed 1248£0z. gold from 250 tons, of which
200 tons (a second crushing) came from the new reef.
This is Bendigo’s best yield since ’B9, when Hercules and
Energetic milled 20440 z. from 46 tons, wiped off an £lBOO
debt, and paid a ss. div. G.G. shares, down into the
single shillings the other week, dance merrily now m the
neighborhood of £4. Lansell’s luck again.
New Moon—one of the'big, low-grade, div.-
paying mines of Bendigo—has had a special meeting of
directors to deal with an offer to place it on the English
market. Determined that any arrangement would be on
the basis of £60,000 cash and one-half interest in the new
co., and a deposit of £5OOO put up to secure the option of
purchase. The usual thing, when any attempt is made to
buy a producing gold-mine. New Moons are selling at
40s. The cash asked would give 50s. a share, and each
share would carry one or more shares in the new co.,
which would also have to put up the £12,000 admitted to
be necessary for sinking a new main shaft and increasing
the battery capacity.
* * • *
Adelaide mining men are thinking hard over a
new hammer just modelled there. The idea simply is a
revolving wheel on which several hammers are swung.
In the ordinary jargon of the engineer, “ if the speed (of
the wheel) is 300 revolutions per minute each hammer
will travel 90ft. per second and give five blows of 270 cwt.,
or 54 tons, upon the material operated upon.” A modest
claim of six times greater efficiency than the stamper-
battery is made on the new idea’s behalf —which is much
less than has been made in respect of many other ideas
that have afterwards been converted into very good scrap
iron. And yet no one ever can feel that the old stamp
quite fills the bill.
* . • ♦ *
Doubtless Q. Geologist Jack says the right word
about Chillagoe—“ the mines amply justify the expendi-
ture of the necessary capitalin constructing a railway,
erecting smelting works, and an electrolytic refinery.”
That “ amply ” measures the difference between a pro-
mising spec, and a poor one. Just how rich the Chillagoe
field will be nobody knows ; but that it is likely to be rich
and permanent is now obvious ; that it will be rich for a
time is almost a certainty.
* • * »
Schlapp denies that anyone had authority for
attributing to him the published statements re the great-
ness of Chillagoe and contradicting Stewart as to the
character of the ore bodies and lodes. Who was it put
this great yarn into his mouth? Schlapp is sa?d to have
no doubt as to the future of the country when the railway
gets into it and the lodes and formations have been better
developed; but that will take time and big money.
Smith, who accompanied Stewart to Chillagoe, will take
the active management of Chillagoe Proprietary mines at
the end of the year. Stated in Melb. last week that
Stewart himself would take the general management.
That seems to be the understanding, but he has no inten-
tion of leaving Broken Hill for some time to come, and
will, meanwhile, act more as consulting and supervising
engineer.
No doubt a lot of work is wanted at Chillagoe
before the presence of Stewart is needed. The money
for the railway, too, has yet to be put up. The crowd
handling this business have no such word as failure in
their lexicon, none the less they are passing through a bad
time with Chillagoe. It gave premature birth to a boom.
Under the belief that the shares were going to at least
£5OOO each, persons borrowed money to get in at £lBOO,
and when it was generally realised that some years must
elapse before the mines could possibly become big pro-
ducers they had to get out anyhow. To-day it is very
much easier to buy Chillagoes than to sell them. The
slump in Lyells and throughout that over-boomed camp,
and the awful, complete knock-out in Lake George, have
given many persons the copper-pip; also the scallawags
who madfe for Chillagoe, and who stood not on the order
of pegging and lying but pegged anywhere and lied on
everything, have been a curse to the .field. Boomsters
and persons stuck with Chillagoes at a big figure try to
blame experts who have simply told the truth of Chilla-
goe, and Stewart is one of the truth-tellers.
• * * «
Dear Bulletin. — Be two Chillagoe pars, in
Bulletin of July 30. I can assure “ C.H.J.” that Line-
dale West Chillagoe £lO shares have changed hands at
£lOO. The co. has been reconstructed into 3300 shares of
£5 each. Latest quotation, £26 buyers at Brisbane.
“ S.Y.K.” gives damnatory faint praise to Chillagoe, and
then talks of the Keelbottom in a boomful style. The
Keelbottom is the richest and therefore very naturally
the smallest and most elusive copper-show in Queensland.
Big, isolated patches of metallic copper occur, and then
great blanks. Also, there is no proof that the copper
goes down or up or sideways, because, as I have
said before, its metallic contents are isolated and
elusive. This is the show which has registered—
not necessarily floated—in London with a £500,000 capi-
tal, and its promoters propose that besides mining and
smelting the co. should make copper-wire and sheets and
tubes on the mine. The only thing they haven’t arranged
for is to build and copper ships on the mine and float
them down to the sea per canal to Townsville. Like that
“ Old Miner” who wrote you a few weeks back that Mt.
Garnet was a low-grade show, “S.Y.K.” knows nothing
about Chillagoe, or he has no Chillagoe interest but does
hold a fat cut in the Keelbottom. —Yours more in sorrow,
&c., Randolph Bedford.
* • * *
that it will be nearly three years
before Chillagoe gets its through railway finished.
* * * *
Mount Perry (old Teningering—what barbarian
changed the mellifluous name ?) is now nursing a hope
that it will be allowed to share in the crumbs that may
fall from the table of Q. copper-boom. Said that the cost
of smelting by present methods is as low as one-third of
what it was when the Teningering copper-mines had to be
shut down.
• * * *
Someone has been telling the Cowra (N.S.W.)
people of how he, a master-mariner, was, 34 years ago, in
charge of a vessel, with £BOO,OOO of treasure aboard, off
the west coast of S. America, when it blew up and went
down in Bor 10 fathoms; that all hands, barring said
master and another (the latter died of his injuries a few
days later), being lost. They set such store on this
romantic tale at Cowra that they are subscribing a £4OOO
co. (£2OOO in fully paid-up shares to go to the ex-captain
for his interest and assistance), with a view to disinterring
the long-buried treasure. The man who goes into this
spec, is just as likely to make money as the fellow who
goes into many other specs.
• » * *
“ What in the captain’s but a choleric word.”
Earl de la Warr and Mr. Broadley were concerned in an
offer of money to wrecked financier Hooley to alter his
damaging evidence. The Earl, it is cabled, was found
guilty of an indiscretion ; the plain Mister was found
guilty of subornation of perjury. Britain is still the
Country which Crawls.
• * * •
Revelations by Hooley still going on in London.
Hess, editor of the Critic, who made Labouchere sit up
recently, seems to have had much to do in bringing about
this exposure. In his issue of July 2 he named the date
when Hooley would give the names of persons and papers
that had blackmailed him, and advised the Attorney-
General to be ready to watch proceedings.
Hooley in the heyday of his glory:—“I have
always pone for big: things. Half-way up the ladder you
will find it crowded with competitors. If you go to the
top you practically have a field to yourself. There are
plenty men ready to deal in thousands, but they get
frightened when you talk of millions. Making money is a
matter of will and self-sacrifice."
* * • •
Rand gold-production for June —365,0910 z.,
bringing the half-year’s total to 2,067,0680 z., at which
rate the year’s production should be worth about 14J
millions. Less than 10 years ago it did not reach one
million. Big men went in with big money ; and with big
machinery, and nigger labor, working on fairly large and
wonderfully long and consistent reefs, the world’s
greatest production (the output from this camp alone ex-
ceeds that of Australia altogether) is the result. Be it re-
membered that the average from ore and tailings treat-
ment is a little over Joz. per ton in all. Some day the one
or two big low-grade places in N.S.W., small by compari-
son, will be tackled in the same way, but probably not by
N.S.W. mining men—the shock would be too great.
• • * •
The cash-value of impudence has been once
more demonstrated in an Australian mining town, where
a plausible new-comer, having established himself as
“ financial agent," did good business in the way of 25 per
cent, deposits upon scrip which he bought by wire from
confiding metropolitan agents—to arrive attached to
drafts. But ere the first batch of drafts arrived the
agent had evaporated, as deeply regretted by most of
the local tradespeople as by his “ clients.”
* * * *
Carl Harden, who suicided in Rockhampton
t’other day, was, before his appointment as Receiver in In-
solvency, the terror of the embarrassed business men in
West Queensland. When bills accumulated, creditors
sent Harden out to find how matters stood. His methods
of accountancy were rapid, drastic, and, in most cases,
final. His motto was: “ You can’t pay 20s. in the £;
then go.”
• • * •
A clumsy attempt at smuggling rooted grape-
vines, under the false bottoms of cases—an old, old ruse—
containing plants, from a N.S.W. nursery into Queens-
land simply courted discovery. The plants had, under
the recent Q. Diseases in Plants Act, to be forwarded to
the Department of Agriculture to be fumigated, and
failure to discover the smuggle was almost impossible.
The importation of grape-vines into Q. has been prohibited
for 20 years.
• • • *
Squatter Mortlock told S.A. Assembly, the
other day, that a sheep-grower considers he has done well
if, after paying wages and other expenses, he has £2
profit left on each bale of wool.
* * * *
Some W.A. M.’sP. are kicking against importa-
tion of Victorian bricks. It was the W.A. demand that
raised the Melbourne price from 15s. per thousand to 355.,
and enabled the cos. to clear out stock and start again
after a long spell.
* * * m
“ Bargo ” : N.S.W. G.P.O. authorities are
astutely thus circularising postmasters : “ Owing to one
or two unsatisfactory reports regarding tampering with
registered letters, postmasters and assistants at the office
of origin and offices through which registered letters pass
are particularly requested to place the office date-stamp
on the back of the letter, so that one portion of the im-
print may be on the flap and the other on the letter.”
Holy smoke ! The P.M. at the office of origin can first
open the letter, if so inclined, and put flap imprint on
afterwards. (The flap-stamping isn’t done before sender’s
face.) The P.O. Sherlock Holmeses evidently think that
if a letter is tampered with after stamp imprint the tam-
perer will not be able to place flap so as to give the im-
print its original look. Registration merely affords a
means of tracing a letter. Tampering, unless done under
the eyes of postal detectives, or with trap-letters, cannot
be sheeted home in the case of a letter which has been
sorted through five or six different offices. British regis-
tration envelopes close with an end flap on the front, and
postage-stamp is then placed one half on flap and other on
letter, making tampering a little harder after stamp
obliteration. There is a fortune for the inventor of an
envelope which cannot be tampered with without detec-
tion.
* * * *
Sydney G.P.O. authorities are in a quandary
over the demonetisation of the Id., 2d., and 2jd. stamps
produced previous to the “ Record Reign issue." These
stamps were not to be recognised after the 30th June last
and the “Postal Guide” for the last two quarters con-
tained a notice—“ New Id., 2d., and 21 d. stamps were in-
troduced on 22nd June, 1897 ; stamps of these denomina-
tions issued prior to that date may be used for the pre-
payment of postage up to the 30th of June next.” But
this notice has appeared in the July, ’9B, “ Guide,” thus
giving the stamps another 12 months to run. Nathless,
postmasters, acting in accordance with instructions
of the two previous “ Guides,” have been charging
the letters bearing the supposed obsolete stamps 2d.
deficiency and 2d. fine, so that the letter is actually
charged 6d. The Department is now instructing p.m.’s
to allow the stamps the advantage of their unintended
new lease of currency. Stupid piece of officialism, in the
first place, not to allow the old issue to run out by effluxion.
Few people in the country see the “ Postal Guide,” and a
far-back cocky who has received £1 worth of stamps 10
years ago for, say, a produce-remit, and has been using
same at the rate of two or three a year ever since, is in
blissful ignorance of the fact that what remain with him
are so much waste-paper. Besides, it’s public robbery.
The P.O. gets cash for its stamps, and should return value
—now or 50 years hence.
* * • •
“ Bingara,” to The Bulletin : All woolgrowers
must resent the attempt to establish—or uphold—a mono-
poly, now illustrated by the boycott of the N.S.W. Co-
operative Wool and Produce co. And, if all “free”
woolgrowers who have hitherto realised in Sydney market
will gently, but firmly, intimate to their brokers their
intention of shipping to London, if the unholy combine
effects its object, it will go far to squash the trouble. If
the Brokers’ Association had used the machinery of their
combination to abolish touting, bonuses, and circulars,
and shared the resultant savings with their clients, they
might have looked to us to support their organisation.
But, as a one-eyed combine to maintain rates and smash
competition, they deserve our execration. Let the
growers’ ultimatum be : An open market or shipment!
» * * •
“ Koora ” : Be lost loading. On 10th Jan. last
three teams loaded on two railway trucks at a N.S.W.
station 177 bags of wheat, and up to date no trace of
same has since been seen. The wheat belonged to a
widow, and is a heavy loss. Just about the time it was
trucked a change of station-masters was made—a very
unbusiness-like proceeding—when the wheat was being
sent away at the rate of 30 trucks a day, with only one
man to do the whole of the work, including telegraph
and postal.


c_
ORIENT
-x CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
I 1 iist Quality Men s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
Opposite j
SYDNEY.
The Famous Freiach
Chocolate.
CHBCOMT HIEBIEI
Obtainable from all Orocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
Win, Cameron & Co.,
249 Georye-st., Sydney.
SOCIETY
Mr. A. H. Griffith, M.L.A., has moved for a
Royal Commission on the Sulfield case. If
thoroughly in earnest he can get it. When a
Royal Commission solemnly holds the balance
between Levien and Sleath—when a Royal Com-
mission sits to hear charges against a Senior-
Constable, and several hundred pounds are
spent in printing 280 pages of evidence —then can
a Royal Commission sit to enquire whether or
not the eight-years’-imprisoned Thomas Suffield
is the victim of monstrous injustice.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton has definitely decided to flit
for England at the end of Sept. It is pretty
certain that none of his family will return, and
the return of His XXX. with his pious staff and
tracts and dreary speeches is also problematical.
Adelaide society is now anxiously anticipating a
social burst under the Acting-Governorship of
Chief Justice and Mrs. Way.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton has put up an Australian
vice-regal record. During his term he has per-
sistently ignored the theatres, with the solitary
exception of a one-horse amateur show, and people
who noticed the conscience-stricken expression on
His Excellency’s countenance as he painfully sat
out that worldly performance will never forget it.
H.E. has made many friends in S.A., but a person
more unfitted for the position of a Governor could
hardly be imagined.
* * » *
The recent wedding of Victorian Chief
Juxcellency Madden’s daughter furnished a wel-
come outlet for the great deeps of Melbourne
’Erald slush. Some of the torrent
In a kindred spirit did the English people welcome the
betrothal of the Princess May. Have we not our own
Princess of Hearts, and shall we be less ready as Austra-
lians to cheer ourselves hoarse over the wedding of an
Australian girl ?
Why “Australians” should “cheer themselves
hoarse ” over the marriage of a Victorian lawyer’s
pretty daughter is by no means so apparent as the
fact that the diamond tiara presented to the bride
by “231 girls of Victoria” was largely the out-
come of a circular sent to all the damsels on
the vice-regal list.
• • • •
Awful hunk of hideous grease from S.A.
Advertiser’s special London correspondent, into
whom the S’langdon microbe lias evidently en-
tered :
The. Agent-General, Mrs. Coekburn, and Miss Cockburn
were included in Mrs. Victor Buxton's week-end house
VAIN REGRETS.
SHE : “ Before we were married you used to say you could eat me. ”
H E: “Did I! Well, I’m darned sorry I didn’t.”
party at Warlies last Saturday, and spent a delightfully
restful and memorable Sunday at his Excellency’s beauti-
ful Essex home. Warlies is now in the full glory of its
early summer verdure, and, much as Dr. and Mrs. Cock-
burn had heard of its fine park and perfectly-kept lawns
and gardens, the reality far surpassed their anticipations.
They were specially interested in the hot-houses, and
amused to find the tomato —so common with you - treated
as quite an aristocratic vegetable, and hanging from the
glass roofs like grapes. The Agent-General was pro-
foundly impressed with the beneficent influence which an
establishment like Warlies exercises on the whole country-
side. Hay-making was in progress on Saturday, and Mr.
Buxton had some 30 extra handsjin addition to his own
numerous employes at work. It was a lesson in the best
sort of good manners to see the kindness and considera-
tion with which the family treated everyone. You could
easily tell that working for others was the natural rule of
their lives. On Sunday afternoon the haymakers of the
entire neighborhood were hospitably entertained to tea
on the lawn at Warlies. They enjoyed an ample meal,
which was presided over by Mrs. Buxton, and then the
gathering spontaneously moved off in the direction of the
schoolroom, which, if I am not mistaken, was one of Lady
Victoria’s many benefactions to the village. Here Mr.
Victor Buxton gave out a familiar hymn, and, after a
short but impressive service, conducted by a rev. gentle-
man stopping at Warlies, Mr. Fraser, a wealthy stock-
broker with serious proclivities, delivered an earnest ad-
dress. During his stay at Sir Fowell Buxton’s, Dr. Cock-
burn, I need hardly say, went the round of the mansion,
missing none of the numerous pictures, relics, and curios
to which noble traditions attach. Altogether, it proved
a most interesting visit.
Even the Buxtonian vegetables were aristocratic !
The Bulletin strongly advises the Advertiser
to poll-axe its “ special ” correspondent. Also, it
counsels the knighted Advertiser proprietor to
publicly jump on his insignia and curse monarchial
institutions in a loud voice. This polluted rag
greatly fears that S’langdon Bonython is getting
ready to visit England.
* * * «
The Bulletin continues to receive from
Norfolk Island bitter complaints of the condition
of things under the new administration, and
severe, but mutually corroborative, aspersions
upon local officialdom. “If the N.S.W. Govern-
ment,” writes one correspondent, “cannot send
us better representatives, they had better keep
them at home until they are reformed ! ” All the
same, this paper doesn’t believe that even an arch-
angel placed in authority in so paltry-minded a
community as that of Norfolk Island would escape
slander.
* * * *
The stories of the moral frailties of the
Norfolk Islanders, who are among the most tee-
total people on earth, fall in with brave Father
Ullathorne’s reason for part of the debasement of
the convicts when imprisoned on the same island.
Dr. Ullathorne, onetime Vicar Apostolic of N.S W.
and afterwards R.O. Bishop of Birmingham (Eng.),
attributed much of the wickedness of the convicts
of the island “to the absence of all stimulants.”
Ullathorne was himself a practical abstainer dur-
ing his time in Australia, but held that sobriety-
by-compulsion was, in many cases, adverse to
virtue.
* * * *
The “crimson thread” is strained
muchly. Sydney G.P.O. authorities have got
word from England that “ franked ” letters from
N.S.W. cannot be forwarded “Home”—said frank
stamp only being usable for the colonies. The
“franked” correspondence from N.S.W. is
mainly from Govt. House.
* * * *
The predisposition of lovely woman to
regard the majority of her sex as “ nasty cats ” has
been duly recognised by the committee of the new
Queen Victoria Hospital
for Women, which has
just been fairly started at
Melbourne, clauses in the
hospital’s articles of asso-
ciation having been agreed
to practically electing the
present feminine staff for
life, and leaving any future
appointments in the hands
of the staff itself. The
Queen Victoria Hospital
is an institution that de-
serves very little support
from logical people, any-
how, though everybody’s
heart is likely to run away
with his head in affairs
of the sort. The work it
does is already provided
for by the Women’s Hos-
pital, and were the money
devoted to the new ven-
ture applied to augment-
ing the income of the lat-
ter institution far more
genuine charity would re-
sult. But Melb. is al-
ready the most over-hospi-
talled city in the world,
and so long as there exists
a class which bases its
charitable subscriptions
on the amount of adver-
tisement it receives in ex-
change for its money, so
long will new hospitals
continue to spring up and
waste in the multiplica-
tion of their management
the money that rightly be-
longs to the unfortunates
who are dying without at-
tention or comfort.
A POLITE REMINDER.
“I have called on yon, Miss —, to tell you that you should he more careful how you talk
about other people. Remember you were young yourself once.”
While Sydney Municipal Council quibbles
over reforms there is at least one—which does
meet much of the public—that might be at once
attended to. Scores of Chinese market-gardeners
bring loads of vegetable to Belmore markets three
times a week. Do they go back with empty
carts? No ; nearly every one returns with a load
of stable-manure and other foetid matters given
him in the city for the “taking away.” In a
word, the cart which brings in “ succulent ” vege-
tables takes away filth—with a Chinaman sitting
on top of it!
* ♦ * *
There is talk of gilding the dome of the
Invalides —that is to say, Sydney’s new market-
buildings—probably to help the City Council to
obliviousness of John Norton.
*3 * * *
Maoriland leads the way with a law to give
power to set aside portion of a deceased man’s
estate—-no matter how otherwise willed-for his
widow and family. The Crotty case is bearing
fruit.
* * * *
Mayor Harris, in cutting down Sydney
Town Hall expenses in the way of feeding and
entertaining distinguished and other people, is
paving the way to a reduction of the Mayoral
allowance. What he saves he proposes to devote
to some object in the general citizens’ interest.
A loyal lady with a lovely lawn pressirigly
entreated N.S.W. Govt, to give or sell her the
carcase of the lately-deceased Soudan donkey.
Her purpose was to have it stuffed and exhibited
under glass on her beautiful grounds, as a
memento of the past and an exhortation to future
loyalty. Brunker would probably have yielded
if Sydney Museum had not collared the hide an
hour after the donkey’s death.
* * * *
When the Greek Gipsies reached Ballarat,
Mayor Shioppee had arranged to have the whole
tribe carted to St. Kilda in furniture-vans, and
dumped down on Premier George Turner’s door-
mat. Shoppee is one of those massive, municipal,
Tory magnates who hold a Radical Government
responsible for every evil that happens along,
from measles to drought. This time his scheme
was frustrated by a showman who opened negotia-
tions with the Gipsies, fenced them in, and
charged the curious populace fid. each to gaze upon
the frowsy strangers.
* * * *
Simons v. Simons has been the divorce-
case of the month in Melbourne. There was no
co. in this case, and respondent was all that a wife
should be, save for the fact that she refused to
accept petitioner for a husband. After bearing
several children to her lord and master, she took
violently to spiritualism, and suddenly concluded
that poor S. was not her particular affinity. An-
other illustration of the truth of the theory that
the woman with a fad can always content herself
without a fancy.
* * * *
Recent Melb. breach of promise evidence:
On the day fixed for the wedding, he told plaintiff
that he would not marry her because he did not care for
Jewish cooking.
Easily explained by the fact that the faithless one
was 50 years old. When a man has put up the
half-century, Stomach is generally in command,
“ vice heart, resigned.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— To raise funds for carry-
ing out the late Bismarck Commemoration at Syd-
ney Centenary Hall, a subscription-list headed
by Mr. Kempermann (German Consul-General),
with was sent to the leading German Club in
Sydney ; the members subscribed freely from =£l
to <£s, according to their means, and they were
rewarded with grey cards of invitation signed in
print—“P. Kempermann, President.” When
these members, their wives, and friends entered
the building, they learned to their astonishment
that the committee had sent out something like 800
red cards of invitation to people usually found at
Govt. House levees, for whom the committee had
reserved the whole body of the hall up to the
gallery, and who were received by Mr. Kemper-
mann and his satellites at a kind of levee, with a
private secretary calling out the names of the
comers, while those who contributed to pay the
piper (the holders of the grey tickets aforesaid)
were relegated to seats in the very back of the
hall, behind a barrier specially erected for the pur-
pose, as if they were outcasts and unfit to asso-
ciate with the high-toned invited guests ! Such
snobbish conduct may be the proper thing in
Germany, but surely not in Democratic Australia.
—An Australian by Choice.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.— l understand that a
letter has been sent you for publication from some
disaffected party in re the arrangements with re-
gard to the Bismarck Commemoration at Sydney,
and I desire to explain to you that that letter, so
far as I am cognisant of its contents, is based upon
some misunderstanding. First of all, the guests for
whom the front seats in the body of the hall
were reserved were not those of the committee,
but those of “the Germans of Sydney,” and com-
prised only persons considered official, and talo n
from Mr. Critchett Walker’s list. The private
“ TOO EARLY.”—AN INFLUENZA-PNEU-
MONIA EPISODE.
“ We’ve called to inspect the room, you advertised to
let.”
THE HOUSE-LYDY : " Very sorry, mum , but would
you mind callin’ to-morrow. Yer see, the last
lodger isn’t berried yet.”
guests of the members of committee were treated
exactly the same as those of other subscribers.
For the subscribers were reserved the back rows in
the body of the hall and the whole of the first gallery
(the best places in the building). The barrier was
only made for the purpose of reserving them their
numbered seats against the inxited guests whose
seats were not numbered and the number of whose
attendance could not be gauged beforehand, the
invitations far exceeding the accommodation pro-
vided for them. The principal subscribers
would also have been admitted among the
guests if they chose to take the chance of getting
a seat, as some of them did. At all events
it would be wrong to blame Consul Kempermann
for any faulty arrangements, as neither he nor
myself had anything to do with the official invita-
tions, which were issued by a special sub-commit-
tee.—'Yours truly, Oscar Schultze.
* * * •
“Melb.”: The Sick Children’s Hospital,
over the road from the Exhibition, has just
been enjoying a treat with 2000 yelping dogs
all night at the Show. A few weeks ago the mili-
tary authorities tried to murder the poor children
with terrific firing on three successive nights over
at the Exhibition.


•553
K
HAVE You
PorGOX te^
s$
TSOSE’S CELEBRATED
BYS LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, '2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. jOjT" Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & 00.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
tt ti A 178 William-st., Mel bourne;
Hy. Maikwam, ll Pitt-Sfcreet, Sydney;
6S Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st.., Brisbane.
Probably the most com-
fortable death that any man can
die was that which struck John
O’Shannassy a few days ago at
Deer Park (Vic.). O’Shannassy
worked at the big explosives
factory there—where they make
dynamite, gelignite, lithofrac -
teur and the like. The factory
consists of about 50 little build-
ings each with a high earthen
rampart round it, so that if one
happens to pop off it may have
a chance to go by itself and
not take the others with it.
O’Shannassy had one of these
little buildings all to himself,
and there he daily took his. life
in both hands for a small salary,
washing nitroglycerine. And
one day it went off so suddenly
that nothing was afterwards
found of O’Shannassy except
2'bs. of flesh and one half-boot.
All that could be recovered was
put in a small box—a good-sized
cigar-box would have held it all
- and taken to the morgue.
That is the ideal death—no
pain, no warning, no undertaker
calling round and leaving his
soiled card at the door in ad-
vance, no dreary acquaintances
dropping in to recommend the
faith-cure process.
The free and independent
showed up at a newly-returned
Sydney M.P’s. office, the other
morning, and this took place.
The elector was a West Indian
negro. Opening the door he
said: “Are you the membah we
elected down our way?” “Yes.”
“ Wall, I want you to introduce
me to the Premiah.” Slowly
the newly-anointed said, “ But
I don’t know the gentleman.
What, may I ask, do you wish to
be introduced for?” There
was a tragic-pathetic pause,
when the man from Jamaica
burst forth, “I want the Pre-
miah to get my sick wife into the
hospital.” The sad degradation
of suffering ignorance.
Some back-gate moralisings, for the benefit
of tired tradesmen :
The Chow vegetable-vendor (writes “Yowi” to The
Bulletin) is the refuge and asylum for ugly servant-girls.
The butcher and baker shy with true Australian rudeness
at this amorous and unfortunate female, but the Asiatic
squints loving compliments from his almond eyes, and
intones admiration in his catalogue of prices. The agility
with which Emma, our servant, deserts the life-story of
Lord Marchmont and the Lady Eleanor for the pigeon-
English of John is, at first, a marvel and a mystery to the
male mind. If a woman cannot get a man to love her,
she must have something that pretends. The ugly ser-
vant has the Chinaman, the old maid her cat. The house-
hold dog greets the other tradesmen in a boisterous
manner, but his bearing towards the Celestial is one of
chilling indifference ; it is different, however, with the
cat, who develops a lasting friendship with him. The
first time John came she nestled her head against the
Celestial shin, and purred ; next time, she was rewarded
with a piece of meat from the yellow man’s pocket. This
so impressed the servant-girl that we have had bad vege-
tables ever since.
* • * *
“Chow-Chow,” to The Bulletin, from
China: —
Woman must have association of some kind with males
of her species from time to time. In the larger ports in
China the ordinary run of white girl is fairly all right,
because she has plenty of men of her own rank and color
to flirt with. But the poor governess in the bigports and
the girl in the ports where whites are few and far between
have but a slack time. Then the quiet, cat-like, purring
houseboy, who is always about and who recognises
the right moment, has his innings. From one large
port in China four governesses have been hurriedly
packed off home within the last six months. And there
is now in another port, awaiting the arrival of a little
stranger, of whom the Corean houseboy—a married man
—is joint author, the very pretty daughter of a pro-
minent official.
Why don't we encourage the Chows to come to
Australia? They do make such splendid house-
servants.
* * * *
Women—The high notes in the human
scale.
ALL HOPE ABANDONED.
"So you want to marry my daughter, I hear ?’"
“ Yes, sir; I don't see how I can get out of it now!”
Capfc. Nei ten stein, head of the N.S.W.
prison-system, complaining of the absence of
vagrants’ and drunks’ penitentiaries and reforma-
tories, and the next-to-uselessness of the ordinary
prisons for the treatment of this class of offender,
mentions that on May 1 of this year there were in
Biloela (Cockatoo Island, Sydney) gaol six men
whose convictions averaged 104 each, and six
women who averaged 160 each. One unfortunate
had been sent to prison no less than 351 times !
• * * *
Apropos - a recent cable. There are two
dry docks at Auckland (M.L.) the Auckland, or
“ baby ” dock—which is equal to
the requirements of a vessel
of about 1500 tons —and
the Calliope Dock—
which, with 37ft.
water on the sill,
can swallow
up the Aus-
tralian flag-
ship, Royal
Arthur. The
latter dock
has for years
been a white
elephant,
but the local
harbor-
board seems
to have at
last induced
the Admir-
alty to grant
the dock an
annual subsi-
dy. it is a
dream of the
Aucklanders
that one day
their port will
be the British
naval head-
quarters i n
the Pacific,
and it was to
this end that,
some years
ago, Mayor M ‘Cosh
Clark secured the bring-
ing into operation of
the C.D. Act, subse-
quently repealed
through the agitation
of Mrs. Mary Aldis,
wife of the professor
of that ilk. One anti-
C.D. Act deputation
that Mayor Clark re-
cei ved he stigmatised as “ a
lot of old women.” “ Old wo-
men ! old women ?—why old wo-
men?” asked the exasperated deputa-
tion. “Because,” said Clark, “you are
past bearing.”
One of the most deplorable sequelae of the
excessive use of intoxicating drinks is that a
person who breaks with the habit is liable ever
after to attacks of brain-twitch, which cause him
to write letters to the papers, explaining how he
was cured. In most cases, this brain-twitch is
more difficult to cure than was the original drink-
habit.
* * * *
'The Sydney magistrate who, under the
the penal clauses of N.S.W. Education Act,
ordered a man to pay a fine, or be imprisoned till
the rising of the court (a few minutes), for not
sending his child duly to school, was a mere
minnow compared with the Bench that tried the
Dubbo boiling-down offenders, in 1893. These,
for technical breaches of the slaughtering law,
were fined =£16,870 on Dec. 5, and <£67,480 the
week following (the fines being so much per head
of sheep and cattle slaughtered), or imprisoned
till thG rising of thG court. The defendants
elected to “take it out,” and left the court a
minute after with the law-and-order Bench.
. * *
During last N.S.W. divorce-sittings a
junior barrister was taking more time over his
case than pleased Judge G. B. bimpson. His
Honor could not shut up the persistent junior.
At 11.30 Mr. (say) Jones, the counsel engaged m
the case next on the list, came into court, lhe
Judge seized his chance : “Ah ! Mr. Jones, said
he with a sigh, “ I think I can state that I won t
take your case till 2 o’clock. ’ At 2 o clock Bar-
rister Jones came in and found the unabashed
iunior still on the floor. His Honor again. 1
am really very sorry, Mr. Jones, to have brought
you away from chambers where, I am sure, you
are busy, and to keep you waiting while the time
of the court is being wasted as it is now—say
3 o’clock.” At 3 o’clock the same ceremony was
gone through, only the Judge was still more pro-
fuse in his apologies to Jones, ending with “ Well,
say 10 o’clock to-morrow. ”
Writes Mr. L. Brack, the Sydney medical
agent and publisher :
lie a recent Bulletin paragraph stating that “ the right
to the possession of a medical prescription threatens to
be soon tested in a Sydney court,” allow me to inform
you that a prescription belongs to the patient, although in
America there have been efforts to make it belong to the
writer. I doubt whether any chemist would have the
audacity to claim a prescription as his property. In most
countries the chemist is bound by law to copy each pre-
scription, but in Australia it is quite a common practice
of chemists to annex the prescription and thereby escape
making a copy of it. If a patient desires a copy of a
prescription from his medical attendant the latter is en-
titled to his usual fee for giving one. lam not aware of
any legal decision ever having been given upon the points
raised, but I fail to see how so plain an issue would lead
to litigation.
* * * *
Col. Holled Smith and Yic. Defence
Minister M'Culloch are still at loggerheads over
the, proposed regiment of “ Mell). Scottish.” The
commandant objects to the introduction of pro-
vincial feeling into military matters, but the
canny Mac stands out for the bare shanks, and
Smith will have to wait for revenge until, at next
encampment, he can get a chance of ordering the
warriors in new <£l2 Caledonian rig to charge
through the vile swamp due to the abattoirs’over-
flow.
The proposed “ Melb. Scottish ” is to be so
extremely swaggah that all the gilded youths who
have for years past failed to pass for lieutenant,
are fossicking round for a Caledonian ancestor in
order to be accepted even as privates in the new
sassiety corps.
* • * *
All the numbers in College-street, Sydney,
are even ones. All occupied by medical men ; no
jucky odd ones in the street at all.
* * * *
Wanted, in N.S.W., an agitation for a law
proclaiming a minimum wage for factory women.
There are women in Sydney working at slop-
clothing factories for the splendid
wage of three-ha’-pence
an hour—piece-
work.
FORESIGHT.
M'KENZIE: “Weel, Mac., and how's the wife?
I've brought some flowers for her.”
MAO. : “ Thanks verra much, but she's worse."
M'KENZIE: “Ah! If ye cut the ends off the
Novers and put them in hot water, aiblins
they'll last till the funeral.”
At a Sydney police-court, lately, the In-
spector of Nuisances prosecuted a man for allow-
ing some cattle to stray in the streets. That was
right enough ; but such prosecutions should be
conducted fairly. Instead of charging the man
witli one offence, as he could have done, the in-
spector had the gall to issue four summonses, one
for each animal. Result to defendant: four con-
victions, four fines, and the costs of four sum-
monses. The alternatives came to six days’ im-
prisonment, and defendant had to go to gaol!
Monstrous !
• * * •
From recent “ Matrimonial Association ”
ad. in— ye gods ! —S.M. Herald :
The marriage can be consummated in the home of the
persons interested, or in the homes of the Ministers, or at
our Private SANCTUM.
Yes, printed in the Herald. Oh, Sirjames !
* * * *
“Melb.”: Then is doomsday near. One
of our best-known pawnshops is just shut, and to
let. Such a thing has not occurred in the memory
of the oldest inhabitant. The goodwill of a
pawnery has been like that of a pubbery. Another
Boom on hand ?
* • * *
On the bakery question :
Dear Bulletin. —Luckily for themselves, the people
who wrote to you re bakers’ shops don’t know as much
about the matter as I do, or they might give the staff of
life a long rest. I was, a few years back, on the Melb.
Board of Works surveys and went through every house
and building in a certain suburb. Within the boundaries
were about ten bakeries, all of which I visited, and at
nearly all of which I learned something I didn’t want to
know. Out of the ten only three were conducted with as
much cleanliness and care as is possible in a bake-house —
and that is much less than the outside public believe
the rest being a mixture of stable, fowl-house, lavatory
and bake-house. The stench from the stable happily
overcame all the rest, for if its volume was greater its
pungency was less than the others. The lavatory 7, how-
ever, obtruded itself when you reached the corner of the
inixing-vats that abutted upon it, though the workmen
who ever and again came from the stable would remedy
this by bringing back a stinking, viscous mass of mud on
their boots. This mud in course of time would fall on
the floor and unite with the loose flour which was ever
and again shovelled up into the vats. Meanwhile the
fowls gleefully fattened on all the loose dough they could
steal, and the only 7 break in the monotony was when a
foolhardy rooster would fall into the vats and have the
surplus dough scraped from him with a piece of hoop-
iron which I believe was generally used for cleaning out
the choked stable-drain. Altogether, it was a pleasant
job measuring up those bake-houses, and the average
surveyor was glad when he got free away to a tenth-rate
slaughter-house, or an ill-kept “ sanitary ” yard.—M‘G.
* * * *
Croydon (Q.) inspector of nuisances re-
cently reported that “ the water in the public well
at North Croydon had been rendered impure by
dead animals having fallen into it, otherwise the
sanitary state of the town was good.” “Other-
wise ” is also very good !
* * * *
One well-known Queensland landlord col-
lects his rents from the little brown woman on the
Saturday and reads lessons in the local church on
Sunday. An example to the rising generation.
Up North,|the little “ brown man ” has quite
“arrived.” A well-known firm was paying .£l2
per month to its tally-clerk, when an educated
Jap arrived and offered to do the work for £6.
Get it ? Of course.
* * * *
“ The frequency of suicides among
Chinese prisoners” (writes the travelled “Von
Kotze ” to The Bulletin) “is a remarkable
feature all over the Eastern world; loneliness, as
‘ Timi ’ suggests, has little to do with it. The
Chinaman will hang himself on the slightest pro-
vocation; his indifference to death makes him a
ready victim to epidemics in unwholesome
climates, as, for instance, the E. coast of Sumatra.
Like the kanaka, he gives in at once ; but, unlike
Tommy Tanna, he doesn’t care a rap. When the
Chartered co. in German Papua was in full blast,
about 10 years ago, a batch of Chinese laborers,
who had deserted from the plantations at the
head-station, Einschhafen, were sentenced to 10
lashes each (Sumatra planters’ style). They were
to receive their punishment in the morning, and
over-night were imprisoned on a hulk in the har-
bor —seven of them. Next day they had mysteri-
ously disappeared. Swimming was out of ques-
tion on account of constitutional hydrophobia and
ground-sharks. Everybody was dumbfounded.
Then a boat entered the harbor, and the skipper
asked in horror : ‘ What have those fellows been
doing, strung up on the hulk there ? ’ And subse-
quent investigation revealed on the seaward side
of the hulk the spectacle of the seven vanished
defaulters suspended by the neck, ropes tied to
the bulwark rail, feet near the water-line, swaying
mournfully to and fro with the movement of the
hulk. After that, with Chinese cases, punish-
ment followed delinquency without unnecessary
adjournments.”
* * * *
Ben Tillett, to Melb. Tocsin :
Mrs. B ’s night-shirt is alright—a bit long, though.
(I mean the shirt Mrs. B made for me.)
This is the embroidered night-gown publicly pre-
sented to him at Spencer-street railway station on
his departure. By the way, The Bulletin had
imagined that only Wesleyan parsons, Sunday-
school superintendents, &c., clung to the archaic
night-shirt. To them pyjamas are distinctly Im-
moral, a snare of the Evil One.
* * * «5
The bill to amend the marriage laws, now
before Yic. parliament, knocks the bottom out of
the private parson nuptial-industry by forbidding
marriage-celebration by anybody not an officiating
minister of a denomination of which ministers are
already registered, or of a denomination the
Governor in Council may gazette as such for the
purpose of the Act ; and a requisition must be
further first submitted signed by the Victorian
denominational head, or by two registered minis-
ters of any denomination. The moral of all which
is simply that the State should recognise no
religious marriage ivithout marriage by registrar,
and any religious marriage with it.
* * V *
A recent Sydney daily paper advt. for
board and lodging in respectable family elicited 187
replies (in one day). Suggests a way by which
the imaginary-surplus Govt, could increase its
postal revenue. Cook might daily pop in a
few advts. for board and lodging for Christian
young gentlemen ; an average of 180 replies would
mean a 15s. outlay in stamps.
THE BUSH POET SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tell me not in future numbers
That our thought becomes inane,
That our metre halts and lumbers,
When the Wattle blooms again.
Time may change this loyal jernal
From religious to profane ;
But a rhythmic law eternal
Makes the Wattle bloom again.
Trust no Flossie, howe’er pleasant;
Sweeps are treacherous ; totes are vain ;
Banks and scrip are evanescent —
But the Wattle blooms again.
Cultivate no fair ideal;
Own no country seat in Spain ;
All these things must go to Sheol,
Whilst the Wattle blooms again.
Thus, you see, austere and lonely,
Sailing o’er life’s solemn main,
One great fact is certain only—
That the Wattle blooms again.
TOM COLLINS.


The Celleghan Style.
Those who have never critically examined
Callaghan Boots and Shoes do not know what
the Callaghan Style means. It means the
highest art in workmanship and appearance;
it means that the Callaghan Boot and Shoe
will look well all through the time of its long
service.
The Callaghan Fit.
The Callaghan Wear.
The Callaghan Style.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
“Save Your Teeth.”
Mr. Charles X. Harris, who is Dentist
by special appointment to HIS EMINENCE
CARDINAL MORAN, has published a little
book entitled “How to Save the Teeth," and
as he can do so without causing the slightest pain
whatever, owing to the very latest invention
known to Dental Science, he will forward a copy
to anyone free of any expense.
This should be the means of preventing many
from needlessly having their teeth extracted.
In this book Mr. HARRIS also publishes his
list of fees. Address—
Mr. CHARLES I. HARRIS (Dentist),
ST. JAMES’ CHAMBERS,'
King Street, SYDNEY,
Telephone 1482. opposite the Queen’s Statue.
HUE TEES have NO Equal.
I II
Atcheiley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 23, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
The Madden matrimonial glare doesn’t quite
obscure our own weddingof the week, that of Miss
Virginia Constance Martin, the late Chief Justice
Martin’s sixth daughter, with Mr. E. E. D. Arden,
of Bucks, Eng. Daileys, Darleys, Inneses, Salo-
mons, Mannings, Wentworths, Macarthurs, Pol-
locks, Allens, I aithfulls—all the old and new legal
families of the country were represented at the
festivity. Sedate but chic gowning marked the
wedding for its own, and white satin and veil
played their old, old parts.
Women in Parliament! Here are a few samples
of what happens when they are let in for one hour.
No. 1. Usher: “Those seats are reserved,
madam. ” Madam You don’t know who I am. ”
“Those seats are reserved for the Judges.” “I
am Mrs. Dash. It’s not often I come to a thing
of this kind.” “Will you kindly move from those
seats, madam?” “O, ’old your tongue! Cissy,
come and sit over alongside me, there’s plenty of
room. If the Judges do come they won’t turn us
out.” “But I must insist, madam.” “And I
know the Judges, and I know they would be
only too glad to let me ’n Cissy have their
seats. My goodness, it’s not often I come
to a thing of this kind.” “Great goodness,
I hope not.” But there was not much hope in his
voice. No. 2—“ Pardon me, madam, those seats
are reserved. No answer. “ Excuse me, madam
those seats are reserved.” No answer. “Madam
will you kindly move from those seats : they are
reserved for the Consuls.” No answer. “Will
you get out of those seats, please.” A whisper:
Don t take any notice of liim. ” “Do you ladies
hear me ask you to give up the Consuls’ seats.”
Another whisper: “ Don’t look at him—he’ll stop
m a minute.” . . . If women get into Parliament,
men will have to write their names large upon
their pews.
~ A wild crowd of early spring millinery shed
itsell m all possible and impossible places at Wed-
nesday s ceremony. Wherever you looked there
were women. “The youngest bishop in the colo-
nies had a giddy time in the row where he was the
only cleric. Mrs. Reid, in a navy coat and skirt
and a big black hat, came slipping modestly into
her seat, and sat like a mouse under a heavy fire
of eyes feminine. A quaint remark struck the ear
That’s Mrs. Reid, isn’t she slim!
Well to be her with all her worries.” This novel
bit of envy came from a pretty, plump actress who
nnds things theatrical going so smoothly just now
that she grows plumper and plumper every day
One curious bevy of Eves stormed the Speaker’s
private apartments, peering into his bath, looking
at themselves m his looking-glass, and making
themselves generally at home and obnoxious,
oome people must be glad that Parliament does
not open every week.
Art’s spring quickening has been agitating local
artists all the month. Mr. Sid. Long, Society of
Artists President, has worked his poetic imagin-
ings into a big canvas called “Pan,” an idyll in
green rushes and blue waters that would cool the
cast-iron wall of a bush building in mid-summer.
George Lambert has a Circe, with sullen lips and
rebellious eyes. Miss Meston has been teaching
so , a the year that she has nothing ready for
exhibition. Mr.. Moir’s private view last week
showed a portrait of Dr. Maclaren in a purple tie
and several water-color landscapes. Tom Roberts
is keeping all his good things to himself this year,
iL !lth< T society being privileged to exhibit them!
c T rexhibit a water-color portrait
of little Miss Burdekin, and Mary Stoddart is
finishing the likeness of a big white cow.
Mr. Gordon Coutts’ largest canvas, “The Cloud
that Comes to All, is all about an old man and
fiis daughter m a nice green garden, and a black-
edged letter that has just arrived. His vivid
xr\Ti ? lc^ r ? of “ our ’arbor,” viewed from
M Mahon s I omt, smites the eye cheerfully, and
various little bush studies keep up the Aus-
tra lan spirit carefully. Prank Maliony secedes
from Society of Artists this year, and is sending
his work to the rival camp.
Our artists have also been plying their brushes
. r Florence Schmidts benefit concert—result
window cards extraordinary. Tom Roberts has
achieved a fetching back view of the singer in the
act of a song. A leaf-green gown makes nice relief
tor her warm hair, and a huge audience is artfully
suggested. The concert comes off next Saturday
and to honor what many good people think the
finest voice that has ever gone out of Australia, a
bumper house ought to arise that it may call itself
blessed m the years to come.
By the way, Florence Schmidt’s one and only
public vocalising off her concert platform will be
made at Ethel Turner’s at-home, which takes
plane in the Society of Artists Exhibition Rooms
I riday, September 2nd.
Httle grumble in German is travelling about
the city this week. Listening, one gathers that
the artless German mind has not been able to
withstand the soiled and ragged conventions of
Sydney Society. It seems that tickets for the
local Bismarck celebrations were sent out in two
colors—pmk and grey. The pink ’uns were let in
by the front door, announced in a loud voice and
received by a body of the very best Germans.
Grey meant the back of the house, behind a speci-
ally-erected barrier, or up in the regions of the
hang-overs. The pmk people amounted to 800
were frescoed and flesh-potty, and could find Govt’
House m the dark. When the hall was filled a
musical evening began, decorated with a big white
Bismarck and flowers and funereal draperies
Well, but to raise money for these adornments,
ord^ ar 7 , ca, l Germans had subscribed heartily,
and had duly received from the very best Germans
cards for the party. Presenting these on the fatal
night, they were hustled away upstairs, or to the
back of the house. Their cards were grey—that
was final. And the eight hundred pinks, who had
paid, nothing, were invited, announced, received,
put into the best seats, and kept carefully away
from the goats—l mean the greys. This little
premature rehearsal of the world-to-come is still
sending spasms through the ordinary German heart
•of the city.
Apart from these dark deeds, the evening was
delightful. Truly German in its spirit, the music
might have charmed a block of old red-sandstone.
A spirited little orchestra under Sydney Moss’s
guidance played some of Beethoven’s Symphonie
Eroica with a fine feeling for the music that in-
spired Browning’s Prospice. Herr Staedgen’s
round nch voice rolled out an emotional cry to
Be True Till Death, ” and the House chafed
severely under the printed command, “No
applause. One isolated clap from an over-
wrought ,grey brought down a hurricane of
hushes, and the agonies of the encore-fiend that
night must have been ghastly. His only happy
moment came at the close of the winding pane-
gyric _ on Bizzy, done in German-English first,
then m pure German.
Later on in the week the decorations merged
themselves into a big sheet for Mr. Clement
Wragges lectures. Over the sheet storms and
cyclones and solar quarrels and pictures of Kos-
ciusko showed up in a limelight glare. Mr.
Wragge surprised me by being a lean, lonely,
weather-beaten man with a sandy beard, a pre-
occupied eye, and a dry and tuneless voice.
1 eople known only by rumor so seldom turn out
m one s.dream-mould. Mr. Ingleby, the assistant,
who chirped in towards the end of the lecture,
might have also happened in a dream, after lob-
sters. Long-haired, clad in a tight blue suit but-
toned to the chin, and capped all the time with a
squiffy tani-o’-shanter that couldn’t rise if he had
asked it to, which he didn’t, while he was telling
his little tale about Kosciusko, a portrait flared
out prematurely on the sheet and brought him to a
dead stop. Mr. Wragge then came forward, and
explained that that there photograph was Mr.
Ingleby, on which a picture of Mr. Wragge fol-
lowed artlessly, and Clement himself had to retire
behind a limelight shadow.
Many interesting things flitted in and out of the
talky-talky. For it wasn’t exactly a lecture, and
it wasn’t in the least like a sermon. Dry chuckles
came from the Queensland meteor’s throat as he
discoursed of storms that defied the boundaries of
unfederated States, and the word humbug was
thrown in lightly. Absence of frill and quaintness
9* expression marked all the speaker’s comments.
God was an “infinite dynamo,” and the storms
were “he’s” and “she’s.” As for Kosciusko, if
Sydney doesn’t migrate to its summits next scorch,
the Queenslander can’t blame his faithful and en-
ticing description of life up there. In fact, a lady
who would inflate an ordinary-sized tent began in-
quiries as soon as the lecture was over.
Nasty shock for some people to find the “ Yeo-
men of the Guard,” at Her Majesty’s, had left St.
Pauli behind. Like all saints, he had to be gone
before you fixed the maximum of his value. Any-
way, the golden-fair rushed homewards from the
‘Yeomen” with loud expressions of disappoint-
ment at the play and the acting, and the draught,
and the man who sat behind, and the woman who
sat m front, and finally thought it was a pity that
Mr. Pauli was not playing. Ah ! but it is the
casual finally that tells.
In this show the men have the gaudiest gowns.
Puffy scarlet garbs, pinched in here and there
with black velvet, and crowned with a flower-
trimmed belltopper, point to the frisky lives of
wiese good old Beefeaters. George Lauri, as
Jack Point, made the most of his chance to wear
two coats at once, and completed his oddity with
variegated shoes and socks. Little Dolly Vane—
in short skirts again—had a white overskirt draped
back from a miniature quilted petticoat, and the
dash of red velvet in her corselet repeated itself
somewhere in her babyish little bonnet. Mabelle
Darley was more pleasing to the eye than in her
Gondolier gown; a vivid cap looked happy on her
fair hair, and a pretty fawn frock with black velvet
corselet, spangled emerald back drape, and rain-
bow ribbons, brightened things up considerably.
Fanny Liddiard and Nellie Stewart used to play
Phoebe Mcrril and Elsie Maynard 5 and, curiously,
Miss Vane, in Fanny’s part, has a strong facial
resemblance to her predecessor, while Miss Dar-
Ly s arrangement of her golden locks suggested
our Nellie m a loud whisper.
University Chancellors are deteriorating since
the good old days” of Judge Manning. Dr.
Maclaunn has never become too popular with the
students, and since he told them to stay away from
their own Commemoration of ’96, their animosity
has only been smothered, not extinguished. The
last straw has now come in the shape of a curt
refusal from the Doctor to allow the women
students the use of their Common Room for an
evening “At Home.” The anti-Federalist is
afraid the students and their friends might dance
in it as they did once before. “And if they did
dance,. what ? the sweet girls are indignantly
enquiring, J
w r !, he marriage of Miss Mabel Salomons and Prof.
Wilson is to take place in a month or so, just
before the departure of the bride-elect’s father to
England on a holiday trip. Perhaps a wedding
wifl give the University a little of the shaking-up
it so badly needs. 8 1
How “shoppiness” does cling! When the
Chinatown co. was given a holiday on the occasion
of poor Sadie Macdonald’s death, the members of it
spent the evening witnessing “Henry V.” Having
nl rph t warbling and piano-pounding in
the 1 own Hall, the Lemmone Concert co. turned
up in full force at the same vast hall to hear the
Amateur Orchestral Concert. And the Toynbee
Ouild which has been lately established in Sydney,
and is going in just now for a vigorous crusade in
tavor of the Early-Closing Act, met with an un-
looked-for check at the very hands of those they
wish to benefit. Some of Anthony Hordern’s em-
ployes, who are now released at 1 p.m. on Satur-
days, find their favorite pastime in shopping all
the afternoon at Mark Foy’s !
Unitarians in Sydney have been stirred to the
dregs lately by the wild doings of George Joseph -
of-Canaan Walters. This cleric, rebelling against
a salary of threepenny bits, the number of
same being limited to half the numbers of his
average congregations, has burst the bonds twixt
him and his churchmen, and starts off on a line of
his own. Other rumors include stories of dissen-
sions between organist and parson. But was
there ever an organist that did not consider him-
self of more importance than the parson? The
oldest, stalest bone of eontention in church
i. 1S ® rs^.^e choir, and second the man who
sets the harmonium wheezing—or woman, in which
actions multiply abnormally. A feature
of Mr. Walters’ church that used to attract people
with feelings, was his unusual type of hymn.
Poems by Emerson, Browning, Tennyson and
other poet-thinkers came like a drink in the desert
after the fevered drivel of “ Alleluia-’tis-done-I-
believe -m - the - Son, ” and “ Who-went-up-in-the-
hery - chariot - safe - to - the - Promised - Land? ”
But, possibly, just here is where a “yorganist”
would differ. The joy of setting iris instru-
ment rolling round unlimited alleluias and
hosannas could have no compensation in accom-
panying words whose beauty and meaning, would
eclipse their musical setting. Anyhow, Mr.
Walters has taken himself and his hymn-book to a
new church, which is to be opened shortly by Rev.
Dr. Strong, of Melbourne.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
Acting - Governor Madden’s newly - married
daughter will live in England at Beachiey Lodge,
IN orthamptonsliire, a spot well-known to the
present scribe. It is a quaint place, near a very
old curious little country town. There used to be
a castle on the site of the lodge, where tournaments
were held m ‘ye olden times’; but, as a county
historian says, although ‘ the site and hill where it
stode is yet evidently sene and berith nam of
Castle Hill, there is not sene any peace of a waul
standmge.’ Sylvia Yallange will get plenty of
hunting there, with the Grafton hounds, and inay
play some part amongst a territorial aristocracy
that is the proudest in England, in a county that
is known as ‘ the county of spires and squires.’
** Of course women went mad over the Madden-
Vallange wedding. For hours before time, the
female population of ten miles round was massing
itself about the Cathedral. Knowing ones were
praying in the holy place betimes, for though
admission to the ceremony was “ by ticket only,”
officials couldn t well refuse benefit of sanctuary
to nine o clock religieuses. A mourner in widow’s
weeds knelt in a picked spot, and there “ took
on so violently under her new crape veil and so
ostentatiously lamented the departed that, as no
one had nerve to toss the wounded dove out of the
Ark, she took her trial to the proper place in
prayer, at her leisure, and only jumped off her
roost at the end of the show.
Strange the curiosity re marriages displayed by
battered frumps who, judging by appearances,
have themselves come such horrible croppers in
matrimony.
tvt I jarti . cular wedding was a characteristic
Madden affair, sparklesorne to dazzling-point,
ihe bride, wore her Court toilette, its low bodice
chemisetted with chiffon, her neck clad only with
diamonds and pearls. Now that blushes are out
of date the symbolic veil has lost its occupation,
and is only tolerated, as in this case, floating down
the wearer’s back. Further, the bridal costume
boasted an imposing Court train, ‘ waterfalled ’
with silk Limerick lace, a trail of orchids drooping
from shoulder to hem, and a satin petticoat so
shimmering with carbons and crystals as to com-
pletely counteract the meek and-lowly mission, of
that poor little prayer-book.
“ F °r once gapers saw something for their trou-
ble. Such street-spectacles are not to be seen
every day as open carriages tenanted by a be-
jewelled bride, bare-necked and transparent-
sleeved, and ‘harlequin’ bridesnnids, brilliant in
maize, pink, green, heliotrope, and mandarin-yel-
low respectively. The maids, by the way, all
wore ‘ aprons ’ over forty tiny chiffon flounces
matching the silk skirts in color, while lovers’-
knots of honiton braid dotted their spangled lisse
bodices, and wings played at cross purposes in
front of hats turned up at the back.
Apropos of those epidemic wedding pictures.
That’s a touching portrait of the Madden family-
group, pure and simple, excluding even bride-
groom Vallange. Pa Madden wistfully inspects
his newly-wed daughter as if counting the cost of
her bridal splendor. Ma gazes groundwards, like
one whom not even her becoming gown comforteth.
Ihe other girls and brother Guy roll their eyes
distractedly at the sacrificial victim, and, alto-
gether, the childish train-bearer is the only one of
the party who doesn’t look as if pondering that
cheerful poem, ‘ The Vacant Chair.’ At the gift-
show, conspicuous exhibits were a heart-pendant,
crusted thick with big pearls, and surmounted
by a lover’s-knot of brilliants, from Janet Lady
Clarke and son; a diamond marquise ring, from
2 °<^l tr 1 0nS ’ and t lat ‘ maidens’ tribute ’ aforesaid.
Malcontents found fault with Miss Marv
Clarke for writing inner-circle damsels to co-
operate m a presentation with the common herd
ot Covt. House crushes. More than one high-
hearted subscriber accompanied her donation with
the request that her name should not be con-
taminated by inclusion in the public list. Their
ungraciousness felt a bit small, perhaps, when
their contributions came back on their own hands
by return of post.
l l l nan y opals were included among the
Madden-Vallange gifts. Perhaps this fact ac-
counts for the merciless use of antidote rice by
guests, and for the inclusion of a huge floral horse-
shoe among the honeymoon baggage. A local
society senbe relates that recently, when a Sydney
lady (Miss Essie Jenyns as was) sent to England a
parcel of opals to her old friend Marie Corelli, the
latter returned them in superstitious flurry with-
out even opening the packet. Wise woman, I
guess, for if she had once ventured to peep at the
beauties, she’d never have been able to part.
lacking of weddings, a much-quoted profes-
sorial talker tells his disciples that only long sepa-
rations can make matrimony tolerable.
“ A local religious periodical tells of ‘a certain
professor who recently addressed a letter as
follows— To the Chancellor of the University of
Melbourne, or the Vice-Chancellor, or the Regis-
trar, or, if these cannot be found, to the Devil! ’
Wasn t it just horrid, putting all the addresses on
a par like that !
~ “J h ® ‘Muesmore Morris yawn, ’as exhibited in
the fii st act of the Sign of the Cross, ’is now con-
sidered quite the thing in Melb. society. A look-
in at the Austral Salon any ‘ big ’ afternoon will
reveal dozens of damsels ambitious of beauty-fame
yawning like railway semaphores.
, , . youthful Duke of Manchester, after
looking m at the Madden wedding, turned up at
the Princess s theatre the same evening, he and
Eord Kilinorey (Kilmurry, if you please), escorting
the beauteous and massive Elliott Page and Ma.
Manchester, whose _ granddad was the only real
live duke this benighted country had ever seen
prev lously, is utterly unlike his aged progenitor
save m the respect that both showed an utter lack
of the indescribable something which is supposed
i ' oorent'ate the aristocracy from the common
plebs the old duke looked like a superannuated
larm laborer, while his descendant would pass for
the average uninteresting young person who
initials your cheque at the bank. Of middle
height and medium build, he certainly looks
nearer 30 than 20, though he has just attained his
majority ; and his colorless face bears the appear-
ance of having been through small-pox at some
time. .Not clean shaven as announced, the young
duke has adorned his lip with a moustache which
is a rank failure and which should be removed
before it imperils the existence of the House of
Peers. During the evening several of the charac-
ters made particularly nasty observations, the
vdlam in one scene remarking that he has had to
sell the family timber and the ancestral plate and
that the pictures must follow them. ‘But, master,’
pleads, the old, white-haired retainer, ‘you won’t
sell the pictures: they’ve been in the family 300
years. ‘ All the more reason they should travel
and see the world a bit, ’ responds the callous
villain, forgetful of the duke in the audience. A
loyal manager like J. C. Williamson shouldn’t
allow such mistakes. Whenever a duke or other
exalted personage is to be present the book should
be carefully exj3urgated of anything like person-
alities.
Recent election ot Melb. Benev. Asylum com-
mittee effected a much-needed change in personnel.
Ihe Charity Organisation Society succeeded in
having all its seven nominees elected. Amongst the
new names are those of the popular lady-medicoes,
Constance Stone and Lillian Alexander, likewise
that of Mrs. Bevan. Now expected that a more
humane tradition will supplant the ghoulishness of
the past.
Suburban afternoon trains and trams reap a
good harvest just now. Most women are darting
eagerly about from one drapery to another in-
specting Spring shows. The things are all much
of a muchness : we are all going to be very spotty
and very wrinkly, apparently. Same old accordeon-
pleatmg effects on all sides, and even ostrich
feathers are peppered over with little black fluffs.
V eils are going out, it is rumored, as face-covers;
now they are tied up over the hats instead, which
still have a squashed appearance. Quills which
pertly cock up on one side of many chapeaux are
dotted with black spangles. This spotty notion
must originate in Smoketown surely, because a
smut more or less doesn’t count now. Parasols
wrapped up look untidy rag bundles, but unfurled
are misty masses of muslin which will cruelly wilt
m the summer sun, and must be kept in a water-
proof tent or under the bed when it rains, as one
drop will reduce them to pulp; but they fulfil
their mission by being very pretty and uncommon
dear, blurts are altered—an “apron front” is the
ne Tl st ut .k lous es are still the same, baggy
and betnmmed with beads, or bits of glass or tin-
smith s cuttings snipped into tinsel, or anything
shiny that comes handy.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


saioiCE
THREE CASTLES
(CsSfles _Ciiarei£
CIGARETTES.
THE T£IST OF
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
1 or Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Joumal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by G-rocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
After Long' Years!
CURffD BY WARNER’S SAEE CURE !
Air. Jack Lyons, the well known butcher, of
North Terrace, Adelaide, in a letter, Feb. 14, ’9B,
says : —“ I had been a sufferer for years with liver
and kidney complaint, and could never get any
real relief until about 12 months ago a friend
recommended me to use Warner’s Safe Cure. I
had tried nearly eserything else, and thought I
might as well give it a trial. After the first bottle
I began to feel a little better, and after taking five
bottles I was completely cured. I can conscien-
tiously recommend it to anyone suffering from
liver or kidney disease, and they will find it a
God-send to man.” *
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Serious rumors reach the East concerning
Premier Forrest’s health.
Tip : Lome for Governor of Victoria. No.
The Princess Beatrice will not leave her mother in
her old age.
Pastor Puckle, Church of England, died
at Essendon, Melb., last week, in his 99th year.
The oldest Anglican clergyman on record except
one.
The Reid Government has appointed four
Judges—two Simpsons, Cohen, and Walker—to
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, at the rate of one
per year.
F. B. Suttor, the elect of Bathurst, has
held office under Parkes, Jennings, and Dibbs at
stages when each was the political enemy of the
other two.
PHIL MAY.
Thelatest glimpse of him.—From London Critic.
During the last royal progress through
Toowoomba (Q.) of Premier Byrnes, someone
called for “ three cheers for Mrs. Byrnes.’’ When
the crowd was informed that Tommy is still a
bachelor, an old German yelled “ Ach, den, nefer
mindt, poor poy, I soon findt you a Missus Bre-
mier allrighdt! ”
The new N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge,
Gregory Walker, Q.C., leader of the Equity
Bar, is the 32nd appointed. The first, Elias
Bent, arrived with Gov. Macquarie in 1809,
being the outcome of the Bligh - Johnston-
M‘Arthur troubles. Bent is buried in the St.
Thomas cemetery, North Sydney, in the same
tomb as Capt. Ovens.
The 83rd anniversary of the arrival in
Sydney of Rev. Samuel Leigh, the first Wesleyan
minister to land in Australia, recalls the fact that
Gov, Macquarie strenuously resisted the intrusion
of Wesleyans into his community. Macquarie
assumed authority in things spiritual as well as
temporal, and didn’t see “what good Methodists
could be in this settlement.”
Charles Counsell, who polled three votes
for Alma, at the recent N.S.W. general election,
returned thanks for those three, from a Broken
Hill balcony, a few nights’ later. “ I am disap-
pointed at the result,” he wailed ; “ sadly disap-
pointed. I expected quite 10 votes.” Counsell,
by the way, is unexcelled as a penman in, say,
Australia—and there his abilities end.
J. H. Angas, South Australia’s gilded
cattle-breeder, who has now reached his 75th year,
has had his philanthropy still further spurred by
the death of his only surviving sister, Mrs. Evans.
He has made over the Belair Inebriates’ Retreat
(of which he was mortgagee) to the trustees, and
is willing to go most of the way in establishing a
girls’ college at Adelaide under Nonconformist
auspices.
On Oct. i, N.S.W, Chief Justice Darley
will enter on his 69th year. In the following
month he will have completed his 12th year on the
Bench. In January he will have been 46 years in
the legal profession. His uncle, W. E. Darley,
Q. 0., is still the “ father ”of the Irish bar. He
was called in Michaelmas term, 1830, in which
term, actual date Sept. 30, the N.S.W. Chief
Justice was born.
The mother of an Australian versifier,
whose picture is occasion illy printed by small
weeklies that know no better, reports a little in-
terview with her washerlady. “ Did I be seein’
your son’s futtgraph in the bit of paper fwhad
oome round me mate yestherdee, mam ? ” “ Very
likely, Mrs. Hooley ; it has been in the papers.”
“ Dear, dear, dear me ! An’fwhad have he been
doin’, may I ask, mam ? ”
In a certain N.S.W. test-appeal, plaintiff’s
counsel asked the Chief Justice not to give costs
against his client, because the case was the first of
its kind. The C. J. refused, adding that the Crown
would, as usual, deal fairly with the applicant.
Counsel again pressed, but ineffectually. Where-
upon Salomons, Q.C. (for Crown): “I will see
that your Honor's intentions are carried out.”
Then, turning to departmental solicitor, with a
playful wink : “ Don’t charge Dodds anything in
this matter ! —increase my fees !
The Age indulges in Caledonian merriment
over Terah Hooley’s Scriptural handicap. Yet
the name of Ebenezer Syme is not altogether un-
familiar in Melbourne journalism.
There are 10 journalists and 11 lawyers in
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly. The cry against too
many lawyers in Parliament will soon be answered
with one against too many journalists.
H. : With Marcus Clarke talked about,
publisher Bentley might try a large-size edition
of “ His Natural Life,” complete, i.e. , one-third
more, and well illustrated, with new engravings.
One of the few remaining pioneers of
Port Phillip passed over last week. Mr. Charles
Stone arrived from Van Diemen’s Land m too 7,
and resided at Brighton for 61 years. He was 78
at his death.
In N.S.W. Leg. Council are but two men
’ whose fathers had seats in the same Chamber
Jago Smith and Septimus Stephen. The fathers
of “ Jack ” Want and W. H. Suttor sat in the old
“ Mixed ” Legislature.
Carl Harden, who lately shot himself at
Rockhampton, had been a continuous resident of
Sheolville for 39 years. He came to Australia in
’52. Well-to-do, seemingly, and of good repute,
his successful spasm of suicide is puzzling the
post-mortem critics.
Q. Chairman of “ Committees ” Annear
always “ indentifies ” when he wants to use the
word “ identify.” A la Parkes, John Thomas
also says : “ Me and my colleague,” and says it s
“ arst ” and not “asked.” He still occasionally
struggles against “ Primeer ” for “ Premier.
Thomas Broughton, born at Windsor
(N.S.W.) in 1810, and Mayor of Sydney in 1847,
entered upon his 89th year on Sunday last, and
on same day celebrated his diamond wedding.
Mr. Broughton was atone time a member of the
Leg. Assembly, but for some years has been out of
politics.
A German gentleman warns the Australian
public per medium of a column-long letter in
Northern Miner that to allude to Kaiser Wil-
helm as “ Sibv Billy” is lese Majeste ; such out-
rages will, in future, be brought by him under the
notice of his German Consul-General, who will
“ take steps.”
Lord Arthur Hill has retired from the
House of Commons, where he was Tory whip.
One of his alleged reasons for pique was that he
had, in his own opinion, “ some claims to a
Colonial Governorship” which Chamberlain re-
fused to recognise. 1 here you have an example
of how Governors are foisted on to “ the kaw-
linies.” Hill had been a useful party hack ; there-
fore he had “claims” to be appointed to a good
billet with a good salary, paid by “loyal sub-
jects ”on the Hobson’s choice principle. Hill is a
fair specimen of the sort of men who become
Governors. He is good looking, ambitious, and
not brainy ; his wife writes drawing-room songs of
some merit, and is likewise ambitious. And
because a billet is not found for Arthur he retires
in a huff. Some colony has had an escape from
one incubus, but only to be saddled with another.
One of the queerer
deputations on record
was organised by
roundsman Monaghan,
of Melbourne Herald,
when the various socie-
ties for reclaiming ju-
venile offenders waited
upon J. B. Patterson,
the Premier of the day,
asking for a Govt,
grant. Monaghan,
learning of the move,
whipped-up the rounds-
men and police-court
men of the Mel b .-
dailies, and a counter-
deputation at once set
off for the Govt, offices.
The first lot were just
coming out when the op-
position jokers walked
in and pointed out to
the Premier that to
discourage the natural
increase and develop-
ment of the criminals
of the city would be
an unjust and unwar-
rantable interference
with the vested inter-
ests of the journalists
whose specialty was
Crime. They further
denounced the proposal
as contrary to the laws
of nature, and asserted
that it was but another
instance of the thin
end of the wedge of the
shoddy German Social-
ism that was sapping
the morals of the
coinmu n i t y. The
humorless Patterson took the objection in thorough
seriousness, and to this day there remains on the
shelves of the Vie. Treasury the duly-entered and
docketed transcription of the report of the Mona-
ghan deputation.
Speakers Abbott and Coles, of N.S.W.
and S.A. respectively, decline to treat members of
Assembly to the time-honored sessional dinners.
The N.S.W. Speaker knocked the treat off when
he took the chair, eight years ago ; Cole followed
the example three years back.
Aide-de-camp Vallange, who became great
last week as the husband of the Vic. 0. J. s pretty
daughter Sylvia, is a grandson of Melbourne s firs*
Myr old “Joe” Condell; and, mdeed the
Hibernian name of Condell was the te.de-
groom’s before a wealthy relative went under and
left him =64000 a year on the comparatively easy
condition of allowing himself to be known as
Vallange. Apart from height, Vallange .would
pass for Bert Gilbert, and has a face which he
can at any time fall back upon to get him a
living on the music-hall stage if his thousand
: Yeoval—a tiny hamlet between
Dubbo and Molong was the birtb ;P lace
“Banjo” Paterson. His old nurse (Mrs. Ed-
wards) still lives in the township. Gibson, who
runs the hotel there, is an old N.Q. hand, and was
with Ernest Favenc for some time, * s . tu “ P 1
yarns about old times, and has the spell which the
North casts upon him still. But, like most that
really know, he can make no literary output.
Isn’t the aforesaid Faveno the only man who
really knows his back country— and cam write
about it ?
“ Old Jack “ Sabretasche ” omits many
names of old-time Victorian police cadets. M°s-
tyn, afterwards sporting editor on bydney JiELL s
Life and Town and Country, belonged to the
corps. “ Orion ” Horne was of them, and oin-
clair, who succeeded to a Scottish title and com-
fortable estate. As for the morality of the blue
and silver boys, it was as sweet as that of a crack
cavalry regiment. “ Sabretasche ” lumps them all
together as “ unsavory,” and says they borrowed
money from their subordinates. Well, 1 have
known two-thirds of the officers of a frigate bor-
row regularly from the ship’s tailor. Indefensible,
doubtless, but why unsavory ?
Died in the West, little George Stevens-
like so many other Australian newspaper men, a
graduate from one of the Adelaide dailies. He
served the Age syndicate during the silver-boom,
married a music-hall artist, got under the fringe
of the “profesh,” but finally drifted back to news-
paper-hacking. Stevens it was who, when there
was much hanky-panky at B.H. Junction, and
when the mine was closed to reporters, accom-
panied another pressman on a series of daring
surreptitious visits. So well did they plan and
work that they baffled an exasperated manage-
ment which was understood to be waiting along-
side the shaft most of the time with a gun.
At last ex-Wesleyan parson and ex- Vic.
M.L.A. Carter’s torpedo looks as though it were
going to have a chance to kill somebody. The
Melb. co. which financed the inventor has agreed
to sell to an English co. which he has been organ-
ising for many weary months. Carter is a curious
blend of enthusiasm, determination, and the
capacity for making enemies. When, resigning
his pulpit in S. A. on account of the latter virtues,
he saw an opening in Vic. politics, he set out to
fill it on a credit balance of Is. 7d., or so, and
thereupon sailed in to a short-lived membership
for Port Melb.; and, when Pt. Melb. fired him out,
he sat down and incubated this new Kerristian
contrivance.
IN “ PUSH ” SOCIETY.
“ What giv yer the nark with your bloke? ”
“ He had the front to si that my frill looked like cm iron railin’ ’round
a lunatic ’sylum.”
Dr. Wolfe, the eminent Melb. oculist, a
violent critic of the anti-toxin theory, points out
that Prof. Marshall-Hall wrote those giddy sap-
phics while just recovering from severe diphtheria
coupled with the inoculation of anti-toxin—on
which general diphtheritic paralysis supervened.
Dr. Wolfe urged that the matter be regarded in
its pathological aspect, and that the University
give the Professor a month or two’s holiday “ to
allow of the remainder of the horse, or ass juice,
being eliminated from his system.”
BUSINESS ITEM.—THE IMPORTANCE OF
BEING HENRY ARTHUR.
GLADYS : “ Please, mister, if yer gives me a bag of
peanuts I’ll let yer kiss Henry Arthur !”
A certain titled personage now touring Aus-
tralia caused much talk on the voyage out by hi*
generous attitude on the liquor question. More-
over, he announced that he intended to teach Aus-
tralians how to bet—a decision which will be wel-
come news to Moses and co., who have had a rocky
time of late. One other aristocrat who struck Aus-
tralia (and S.A. particularly) with similar views,
two years ago, went back a poorer but wiser
youth.
John MTnfcyre, barrister-at-law, Middle
Temple, 1875, and a member of Tasmania’s lead-
ing non-political firm of lawyers, is to be appointed
third Judge in the Land of Shadows. Solicitor-
General Dobson, brother of the deceased Chief
Justice, was looked upon as a certainty, by his
clan, but brother Henry is not now Premier, and
Premier Braddon seems to have decided that
Tasmania is just about full-up of the judicial
reign of Dobson.
Recently died, Edward Bevan, surveyor,
water-color artist, journalist, story-writer, in-
ventor, tenor-singer, orchardist, and general all-
round good fellow. Some three years ago he was
attacked by an incurable disease, and it may be
safely said that no man under sentence of death
ever bore up more bravely. His sunny and genial
disposition never changed to the last. Originally
a surveyor, always a dabbler in art and journal-
ism, he left the former for the latter alternately ;
and even combined them both in the editorship of
the defunct Illustrated Sydney News. Lat-
terly he devoted himself to an orchard in the
Dural district.
Dear Bulletin. —The only epigrammatic
fragment of Marshall Hall’s for which you can find
a word of praise is that about pious and pro-
miscuous King David ; but surely this is merely a
very ancient chestnut in a new shell. See
Granger's “King of Yvetot ” :
Such crowds of pretty girls he found
Occasion to admire,
It gave his subjects double ground
For greeting him as Sire !
Of the Ormond poet, I should say he might be
forgiven for being a great deal worse if he were
much better. —S.S.
A choice story is attached by N.S.W. Par-
liamentarians to a Ministerialist nonentity who
bruited the fact about that he was going to make
a scathing attack on “ Barney ” Wise, then acting
as freelance in support of the fallen Parkes.
Someone gave the hint to Wise, who sat himself
immediately opposite his antagonist just after
that individual had begun to spatter mud. The
keen stare of his butt entirely disconcerted
the orator, who stopped in the middle of a sen-
tence, turned a sickly yellow, and, after apologis-
ing to the Speaker on the score that he bad sud-
denly taken ill, hurried out of the Chamber.
Since then he has always been one Of the mildest-
mannered men in Parliament.
An obituary. There died the other day,
at Hawthorn (Vic.), Alfred Massina, one of
the firm of Massina and Sons, printers and
publishers, Melbourne. He was a man, for
whose memory the many hungry haphazards
who, as S. V. Winter elegantly puts it, “live on
the skirts of the press,” must have generous
thought. His guinea always seemed fresh from
the mint, and worth far more than ordinary coin.
In short, he was one of those who, without being
brilliant, make an impression which brilliant men
often fail to accomplish, and which was a reflec-
tion of a frank and honest nature. He went over
at 44 years of age, which was harder luck for his
friends, perhaps, than for himself.^-G.B.
The pious editor of a southern religious
monthly is still quaking over his recent narrow-
escape. A fellow-laborer in the vineyard was to
supply some copy about the virtue of resignation ;
and, after proofs had been finally revised and put
aside for the printer, a rev. visitor picked up one
“ pull ” in the office, began to read, and nearly
fell down dead when he struck : “ Sickness is not
without many consolations; but a good deal
depends upon the venus one has chosen ” ! The
printer was clamoring for his stuff, and there was
just time to ring-up the contributor for an explana-
tion. But if, as the holy man averred, he had
written “ venue,” the devil must have tampered
with the MS., which showed “Venus” plain
enough.


OJ 1 o
m)K<9
*
i
35*5
THEVCO
£&IZE:6BMEDAiS
P/tfSOffiS
EClPfi
fit*
CUfi!l|E T SCB»'** l »"
«*■' FI9 MMITEO (Ml.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt-
Aboriginalities.
There is an eccentric Melbourneite who,
whenever he has taken liquor, has a craze for
gqing around town hunting up odd characters.
He finds them, too. One night he was brought
home by two Coranderrk (Govt, aboriginal settle-
ment) blackfellows. They were very decently
dressed and quite sober. The rest is his o.u
stoiy. 1 asked them to come m and have
dinner—seemed to me very funny idea at the
time. The wife humored me, as she always does,
and they sat down at table. One of them, a tall,
muscular, and rather good-looking fellow for an
, • ■ i „ n i r> Tr .. -u i
aboriginal, was called lb yam \ urrup tribal
name, 1 suppose, beems I spoke rather crossly to
the wife—didn’t mean anything, of course—and
at once Bryam Yurrup arose and said, ‘l’m not
going to sit down and eat with a man who does
not know how to bt liave to a lady.’ And I’m
blessed if he and his mate didn’t get up and put
their hats on and, after politely saying good-
night to my wife, leave me sitting paralysed with
astonishment at the table ! Never had such a
turn in my life before.” The odd part of the
story (affirms “ Creeve Roe ”) is that it is abso-
lutelv true
y *’ » • *
‘ ‘Chug ”: lie “ Stockspur ” on “ phosphores-
cence” on horses’ ears (13 8/’9B). Is the light on
horses’ears in the circumstances named “phosphor-
escent” (in the chemical sense) ? In a “ good ”
season in Riverina, dark, wet, two feet of clover-
burr under foot, I have seen glow-worms crawl up
my horse s bridle as the beast scratched at the
feed in passing. Result-a clear outline of the
whole head-ears, cheeks, and patches of mane-
against the velvet darkness ahead. Bv the way,
I have a theory that glow-worms and infusoria
and luminous paint and some other noctiluc®
Q _- ‘ »
” ravs Well’ ’ P a > r
natural a. rays. wen.
* * * *
Hard-pressed by long drought, an out-
back squatter sold 8000 sheep at a ruinously low
rate to be delivered on the Lachlan, 60 miles off.
Took charge himself. No grass, and little water,
and weak sheep perishing in hundreds. As
he rode despondingly along he was suddenly
accosted by a new-chum (remarkable for a fond-
ness for pets) who was the “ generally-useless ” of
the run over which the sheep were crawling,
“ You look very down-hearted this morning, Mr.
0.,” remarked the jackaroo. “Well, yes, I
reckon I have as good cause to be down in the
mouth as ever any man had.” “Indeed?” says
jackaroo. “Ah, well, I can sympathise with
you; I m in bitter trouble myself. I’ve ”—his
vmce broke with emotion—‘ I’ve lost my butcher-
bird! , , ,
un ii■, ~ r , , *
Grabbit : Concerning cats as destroyers
of rabbits and the statement that they will enter
warrens to prey. A few years ago, when droughts
were perennial, the rabbits were driven into
Broken Hill in thousands. The cats did eat some,
it is true ; but they often became very friendly—
used to occupy the same apartments under the
houses, which are mostly built on raised wooden
bio, 8> Rabbits are not used as food in Broken
Hill now.
“ GET THEE TO A NUNNERY !”
Mrs. James Crotty, of the big will-case.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
“Jim”: Be household cat and rabbiu.
My old cat often followed the dogs when out
rabbiting, and, although not able to catch bunny
on the run, was splendid amongst the bushes.
Used to sneak up and grip them at the back of
the neck, and I have never known one to g. 6
away from her.
• * • *
“ Brolga ” :
He kangaroo’s use of tail— experimentum feci. Bode
out to a stretch of snow-clad country, muzzled a stag-
hound, and started a mob of “ roos ” in about 6in. of snow,
then dismounted and found that the track of each left
three furrows in the snow, all penetrating to the ground.
Followed them into marshy ground with about J4in. of
snow, and the mark of the tail was depressed Biin. Tn the
ground. As to effect of tail-loss, I had two pet half-
grown “roos,” one of which had had its tail so mutilated
in a trap that I had cut it off. The animals were running
in a small paddock into which I used sometimes to turn
a couple of muzzled dogs, when the tailless “ roo ” would
make instantly for a dam, and the other straight for the
fence and take it at one bound, as the tailless one had
frequently tried in vain to do.
* * * *
“Lurcher”: Be tailless kangaroos. I
started a stumpy-tail on the top of a ridge, and
although it “ shifted the scenery ” at a great rate,
it was only to view it upside down, for every 3rd
jump or so it went heels over head. It proved an
easy capture because the kangaroo, having such a
“ rake ” for’ard, needs its heavy tail as a counter-
poise when going down hill. It is correct also
that kangaroos don’t tail the ground when travel-
ling ; but, when feeding, the old man on watch
does thump the ground with his tail as an alarm
signal. In a dry time one may watch kangaroos
at one’s ease by taking up a position close to a
tank or water-trough. Should a whiff of tobacco
float down to the old man, he will sit-up suddenly
with working nostrils and ears, then take a few
hops towards the main body and bring his tail
down like a flail upon a bag of corn-cobs. The
signal makes the lot sit-up, till, when the old man
has located the danger, he gives another “ whack ! ”
and away they all go. A kangaroo’s leg is broken
as easily as a clay-pipe stem. I have fired at one
and missed—yet the animal had a leg broken by
its sudden start. Once saw a kangaroo sitting up
and cocking his ears about, and, as I had no
rifle with me, I rode up to him till I began to
think he was a strayed pet ; but when, as I got
within a few feet, he turned and dashed against a
tree, and then cannoned on to my horse and sent
him adrift, I guessed what was the matter, and
eventually caught him by standing still and allow-
ing him to mix himself up with my legs. His
eye 3 were scratched out, probably in a battle for
another ’roo’s gin.
* • * *
“Jinda”: Was once out after swan and
pelican on Narran Lake, above Brewarrina
(N.S.W.), when the boat capsized about a mile
from shore. After waiting till nearly dark we
started to swim in, but after going a quarter-mile,
one of us was dead to the world and we other two
had to help him along. After another 100yds.,
however, we had to let him slip from our grasp.
He gave a despairing cry and sank—up to his
shoulders ! Our language was picturesque as we
started to walk back to the boat ! Big as the
lake is, and heavy as its great area makes its
waves, it is extremely shallow everywhere except
in an occasional gutter in its bed.
“ Wi Piko I was em-
ployed on a N.Q. station a few
years ago, owned by two
brothers, the elder of whom,
Walter, went to Sydney and
got married. On his return,
late in the evening, he arranged
to have all hands mustered
next morning to be presented
to the bride, and as among
others there were about 20
blacks, clad chiefly in the “ al-
together,” he ordered these to
be each supplied with a pair of
pants. But Bob, the younger
brother, had notions of his
own; and, being also store-
keeper, was able to carry them
out. Next morning Mrs.
Walter took her seat on the
verandah, and when we whites
had been duly presented the
blacks were called for. Bob
fave the signal, and round the
ouse they came with a rush
and drew up in line in front of
the verandah—each man fully
clothed in one white cotton
sock ! The lady fled the scene,
hubby swore horribly, but the
imperturbable Bob explained—
“lo pair socks 55.; 20 pair
pants <£lo. She’s got to get
used to it, anyhow; so the
sooner the better ! ”
* * *
Bush Mormonism ! Not
long ago, a laborer, journeying
southward from Glen Innes
(N.S.W.), astonisheda Guyra
resident with a request for “ a
camp for me and the mis-
suses.” The traveller’s harem,
however, turned out to be
limited to only two “ better
halves.” Accommodation
being limited, the itinerant
band of domestic bliss was
obliged to “ move on.”
LONG AND SHORT.—A FREQUENT LONDON SIGHT.
“S.S.”: Gippsland packers, Omeo dis-
trict, who bullock-bell their horses, say a bell can
be heard locally over a distance of five miles in
frosty weather, and that a whip-crack will travel
further in the hills. The best-sounding bells
known in this district, are made by the packers
and bullockies out of old saw-blades—crosscuts or
circulars. Beasts fitted with these bells, running
loose on Sunday, make the ranges musical for
miles, and- give the most ungodly diggers that re-
ligious feeling.
* * * *
“K.M.L.”: Ever happen up against a
member of the “New Church sort of cross be-
tween Col. Olcott, Confucius, and Swedenborg,
as explained out-back to me by a follower who
turned the local letter-mill and had whips of time
to spare. Just before Bill and I had cut out the
little job we were at, Bill got a bad attack of Sal-
vation Army, and was rent asunder between fear
of hell-fire and desire to “blew the bit of paper.”
The postmaster seized us as likely - looking
strangers, and started to inject New Church into
us. He had the bump of language, and presently
Bill’s face began to brighten. “ What! ”he broke
out, joyfully. “ Ain’t there no hell ? No devil ?
Ain’t nobody to be damned ? Come on ! —let’s
make a night of it 1 ” And we made three nights
and two days I
• * • *
Writer while sojourning in W.Q. often
used to wonder why cattle didn’t have a 10ft.
tail to keep off flies both front and rear. Was,
therefore, highly interested to read that a bullock
at Vindex (N.Q.) had grown a tail 18in. long out
of the top of his shoulder. Just see what a
bullock can do when he tries !
* * * *
“S.S.S.” : Once saw a wonderful mirage.
Our horses, although hobbled, had been away for
a couple of days, and on the third morning whilst
out looking for them I saw them clearly depicted
in the sky, close to what looked like an old sheep-
yard. The peculiar action of a hobbled horse was
plainly recognisable. On enquiry found that the
nearest sheep-yards were 18 miles away. Went
there next day and found the horses quietly
feeding.
* » * *
European auctioneer, selling bananas to
Chinamen : “ Welly ni nana—come on—ninepen,
ninepen bid—welly good nana; lipe two day, ties
day—ninepen—tenpen, that you bid, Yung Lee ?
Tenpen—Sing On Kee, you lose him ; lempen—
lempen bid—goin’ at lempen bun’—oh, welly ni
nana,” &c., all very earnestly, with a strong
Irish accent.
* » * *
Paddy B. kept a backblox shanty, and,
although a “ marksman,” gave tick and kept his
accounts with accuracy by the following method :
Each customer was represented by a potato, duly
marked, to distinguish the individual, and for
each tick-drink Paddy cut a small nick on the
spud. These murphies were kept under Paddy’s
bed ; but the secret was let out by the pet pig,
“Dinny.” One day, when a debtor called to
square up, “ Hould on a minit,’’ said Paddy,
going to the bedroom, “an’ I’ll tell yez.” Pre-
sently came a sound of fumbling and cursing, and
then a yell from Paddy for a light. “Saints
alive, man ! ” Biddy asked, as she brought a
candle, “ what in the divil’s the matter wid ye ? ”
“Hell to me sowl! ” roared Paddy, “if that
baste of a Dinny isn’t afther atin’ me ledger!"
“ Knew a
cove once,”
said Jim,
slowly going
on with the
subject under
d iscussion,
“and I’d back
him to get out
of any fix you
could put up
on him. He
was suspected
of sheep-steal
ing, and he
knew the po-
lice was wat-
chi n g him,
and, for a
while, he kept
on his guard ;
but one day,
just after he’d
killed a sta-
tion sheep
and was skin-
nin’ it, up
rides a plain-
clothes cop.
‘ Good - day,
mate —would
you mind let-
tin’ me look
at that sheep’s
head?’ He
thought it a
‘clean have.’
‘Certainly,
my friend,’
said the cove.
And he picks
up the head,
whips off the
ears, slaps ’em
into his
mouth, and
swallows both
of 'em.. ’ Jim
rose slowly
and shoulder-
ed his swag
without glan-
cing at his as-
tonished com-
p a n i o n s.
* Good - day,
mates ; sorry
—but I must
make thenext
water by
dark.’”
• •
The recent
escape from
Cobar (N.S.
Wales) gaol
was the means of getting many a poor
swaggie both tucker and sympathy. The idea
was to hide swag in the bush before .approaching
shanty or hut, and to pose with a beautiful trust-
fulness as “ the man wanted.”
* * • •
At Dandenong (Vic.), the other day, an
eagle swooped down upon a cattle-dog and bore
the astounded animal a short distance towards
Heaven. Then Tobias, pulling himself together,
grabbed the bird by the bony part of the wing, and
they both fell to the ground. A heroic small boy
killed the eagle with a big stick, after which the
local policeman took charge of the feathered
corpse and made a funeral procession to Dande-
nong Advertiser office, where the editor measured
the eagle (6ft. 6in. across the wings) and weighed
the dog (251 b. 20z.). The dimensions of the boy
and the policeman are not recorded. Said to be
the first authenticated dog-and-eagle struggle in
Australian history.
* * * *
We.stralia is the only province which pos-
sesses an aboriginal woman as post-and-telegraph
mistress. She is a pupil of the local Spanish
Benedictine monks, and gives entire satisfaction.
A TERROR FOR WORK.
GITABOUT : " Say, Sightless, you're ’bout es pure es
they make 'em. W’y, 'ere y'are as per usual,
en' on’y the other month yer brother diet en’
leaves yer three thousand quid.”
SIGHTLESS : “ Well, THET ain’t no reason fer me
ter loaf, is it? ”


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I’IKE JiltO'i'llEßS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
The Sydney Rabbi.
The chief Sydney Rabbi, the Rev. A. B. Davis,
is an able seaman as preachers go. At the age of
70, he is a hearty man with a voice that never
tires. This voice breathing o’er Israel has builded
a Synagogue worth 1130,000.
At the age of 25 the Rabbi suffered chronically
from sore throat. He consulted many physicians
without being healed. At last an 80-year-old doctor
of the ancient school, a doctor in periwig and top-
boots, spoke the fateful words, “Young man,
grow a beard—and smoke.” The Rabbi obeyed.
In the morning haze, in the evening chill, in fog,
in rain, in wintry wind—the
Rabbi smoked. And he has not
had sore throat for 45 years.
He got a touch of earthquake
when in Jamaica, and at once
sent in his resignation. Earth-
quakes upset him ; they made
him “ low and dispirited.” He
returned to London, his birth-
place, and then came on to Syd-
ney. Here, 36 years ago, he
found the Jews huddled toge-
ther “like one large family,
mostly in York-street and Wyn-
yard Square, with the Syna-
gogue in the midst. Every-
body knew everybody, and
everybody visited everybody.
I gave offence by comparing the
Synagogue to an Egyptian
mummy-house. Ours deemed
it one. of the ornaments of Syd-
ney. In those days, William-
street was ‘ the Bush,’ and my
sons used to gather five-corners
there ; there was no Surry Hills
—it was sandhills.”
On the 16th inst., one day
after his 70th birthday, the
Rabbi sat in his library, be-
tween two magnificent birth-
day cakes, and displayed his
presents. A pile of congratu-
latory letters and telegrams;
handsome pipes, in case; a
“God bless you,” from ttie
Rev. Geo. Walters, Unitarian
Rabbi ; an address ; a sanctifi-
cation cap ; and—a cheque.
Only he didn’t show the
cheque.
He said: “Our people on
earth number B,ooo,ooo—more
than they have ever done, even
in the days of David or Solo-
mon. There is the Zionist
movement, on the Continent,
to get theJ ws back to Pales-
tine, but they will not go back until the Mes-
siah comes, which may be to-day, to-morrow,
thousands upon thousands of years hence. it
would be a most difficult matter to get our people
out of England. When I was in London, they
numbered 30,000 in that city, now they number
110,000, and their strength and influence, and posi-
tion—as bankers, financiers, and commercial men
generally—are something to marvel at. I here is
very little caste among our people, but the better
class will not allow a money-lender in their
houses; and the 5000 Jewish population of Sydney
is averse to money-lenders. Our people, who
were originally an agricultural people, became
money-lenders in the 14th or 15th century, merely
because all other employment was shut against
them.
‘‘ We never seek to make proselytes. We never
accept proselytes until they knock at the door
again and again for some three or four years.
This is because we regard a sincere revolution in
ideas to be the exception. We hold that the ideas
which an individual has learned to lisp at his
mother’s knee will be fixtures in his mind
through life. This attitude of ours towards prose-
lytes is one chief reason why we are averse to
marriage with other religions. # Of course if a
young fellow takes a fancy to a girl, nothing will
stop him marrying her. But we know that
natures trained in differing ideas can never live in
harmony. A liberal-minded man like Rosebery
marries Miss Rothschild on the condition that
the sons follow the father’s religion and the girls
the mother’s. Concerning proselytes, I am forci-
bly reminded of Napoleon going to decorate a
soldier with the Legion of Honor. Napoleon
learned that the soldier was a convert from •Juda-
ism to Christianity. He thereupon refused the
honor with the words, 4 A man who would tor-
sake his God would forsake his Emperor.
“The vitality of our people, like the virtue of
our women, is a subject which has been much
considered, and for which one can take every
credit. Wars upon wars have been waged upon
us; but, while other nations perish in such wars,
we remain more numerous than ever. I da.re.say
that one of the causes of our vitality is the inten-
sity of our past struggles for existence, but the
chief cause is our dietary system, and the next
the happiness of our homes.
“ All the meat we eat is examined by the Shou-
chat (the killer): one of our own, a competent in
detection of disease. He critically examines each
carcase throughout—takes the lungs, for instance,
blows them out, and searches them, ohould he
find a symptom of disease, he condemns the car-
case. Tuberculosis is much more prevalent than
is generally supposed, and our care in meat-
examination greatly explains our vitality and
longevity. Our meat, too, being drained of
the blood, is more healthful. The Jewish
housewife also is an excellent cook ; no matter
how rich her father may be, she has been
trained in the business of the kitchen. She is also
the best of wives in other respects ; her husband
can always rest assured that everything is as right
in his home as it should be. The happiness of
their domestic surroundings causes our people to
stay at home ; they don’t go to clubs and so on.
If they go out at night they take their wives with
them. The success, of our men in business is very
much due to their good home-life. People of other
religions have often spoken to me about the per-
petual industry of our men, and wondered how
they could sustain it. I have told them that the
reason is that our men are cared for in a good,
comfortable home by a good, comfortable w 1 fe.
Zangwill, among others, has glowingly set forth
the happiness of the Jewish home.’
S. A. Mills.
Sent by a city correspondent to his paper
(it was the addendum to a report of an exp lo
‘‘A few pounds of Jones have been collected , he
weighed 14 stone.” . , ,
The Belgian Socialist vote increased by
80,000 from 1894 to 1898. + The Red party also.
gained an extra 16 seats in tt l e 1 ?, r a en^ (1
where the Radicals, Rad. -Socialists and Socialists
proper hold 236 seats in a House of 481.
“ Bareo *ln Belmore Markets, Sydney,
recently saw a Chow gettin* half.a-doze«
from a countryman, and, as he had both nanas
ensraued his friend placed the apples between his
old (frimean shirt and his skin. Now China-
man would commit the extravagance of eating six
apples 1
The Rev. A. B. DAVIS, Chief Sydney Rabbi.
Photo., Freeman &c Co.
Thursday Island Mahommedans are agi-
tating to get the Alienaria Govt, to grant them a
site for a mosque !
As illustrating the vagaries of an Australian
sub-tropical climate : Twice within the last two
months small flakes of snow have been noticed
falling in the city of Brisbane. The last occurrence
took place during the recent heavy snow-storm in
Toowoomba. Abundance of evidence is forth-
coming on this matter, and it might be added that
17 years ago snow fell, in very minute quantities,
in Brisbane Botanical Gardens.
“ Timi ” on human hybrids
Dear Bulletin.— lie supposed degeneration from
hybridisation, it is noteworthy that the Norfolk Islanders,
though four or five generations removed from the Original
“ cross,” show no sign of physical deterioration. One
would not look hopefully for a high mental standard in
the progeny of ignorant sailors of the last century, such
progeny cut off for generations from civilisation ; and
yet some of these hybrids have shown themselves capable
of considerable culture ; for instance, Macy Quintal, an
Auckland solicitor, was a descendant of a Bounty man.
Perhaps some M.L. Bulletin reader may be abl,e to
supply data regarding t he Maori quadroons and octoroons.
If this mixed-race-degeneracy really exists may it not
more likely be due to climatic than to racial influences
be the inheritance, that is, of the hybrid descendants of
nations whose race-cradles are not climatically similar t
It may be that the admixture of dissimilar races coming
from similar climatic zones—even though separated by
the equator—does not result in degenerate offspring.
The Tartar-Russian mixture, for instance, can hardly be
considered an example of degeneracy. Note the degene-
racy of the purest white races when transplanted to tne
tropics ! I understand that the India-born English grand-
child of India-born English grand parents does not exist.
If this be so, surely the complete loss of propagatory
power is the extreme symptom of degeneracy, and
even the timorous and inert Eurasian is higher m tne
physiological gamut than the non-procreative India-born
Englishman.
“A London blunder was obliterated this
week,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “ and the distance between the ‘ Bank and
Waterloo Station reduced from 30 to three minutes
by the new electric underground railway. Sixty-
five feet beneath the pavement and passing under
the Thames, the two tunnels—' up ’ and ‘ down
have taken four years to complete for running
purposes. One shaft only was sunk, and that m
the river, and borings made from there to each
terminus. There are no ‘ classes ’; one fare for all,
either single or return, no intermediate station m
the total mile and half, and for the first time in
England American carriages have been mtro-
duced. Each car has an aisle throughout, both
cross and side seats, holds 54 comfortably, and
seven oars make up a full tram, having
a motor at each end to save reversing. lhe
motor picks the current up with a metallic
shoe from a centre rail of channel iron insulated
by porcelain cups, and the circuit is completed by
the two ordinary rails with copper strips under
the fish plates. 'The fare is expected to be 2d.
or 3d. return. “ Several other electno under-
"Tounds,” continues our correspondent, are m
progress, and the District Co. has become so
alarmed at the loss threatened their suffocating
brick sewers that they intend building an electric
line underneath the present tunnel from Earl-
s to Mansion House, with a break at Charing
Cross only.”
TO V. J. DALEY.
You sing in fluting verse more sweet
Than tender evensong of birds,
And sigh o’er melodies too fleet
And thoughts too subtle strange for words.
Ay, carve in gold with all the strong,
Fair daintiness and pride of art;
But better have you done with song
Deep carven in the human heart.
E.D.
Peggy Pryde.
Ten o’clock at Sydney Tivoli, and the audience is
wearying. People slouch in their seats with
dulled eyes and jaded brains, and have only
languid smiles for the actors who a little ago
won boisterous laughter. The pit exhales strange
odours to the dress-circle ; the dress-circle adds its
own aroma and passes to the stifling gallery.
There is a noticeable sense of expectation, winch
heightens to eagerness as a turn ends and the
stage is empty. Backs straighten ; eyes brighten,
programmes Ire lifted ; the orchestra mutters pre-
liminary bars . . . and there hurries to the foot
lights a girl—she looks only a girl—suoh as M 1 ■,
End road on Saturday night sees by
plump, coquettish, audacious, with plain jacket
and skirt, and a feather in her bat. which chal
lenges and invites. She nods to the audience
and instantly the whole theatre seems alive with
her—she is so recklessly, magnificently vital.
Never still an instant, she advances, retires, bends
with hands on hips to vent a low, rich
chuckle from a gurgling diaphragm- a real
Oarrollian chortle, talks with the ease of a
bon camarade, the aplomb of a stage vet-
eran. She sings in husky contralto of hus
band who digs in the backyard for K 1 on dyke
gold ; but her song is nothing her voice is httle,
it is herself that fascinates and nnpresses-less a
girl, a woman, than a force, an impetus, a jo ly
good fellow who flings herself at you and over-
powers you into admiration—the restless embodi-
ment of splendid animal energy. Bravo, Leggy
Pryde ! ” „ , ...
*< What! Thk Bullktin? I can’t talk to you w hile
I’m dressing. ’ Well! And you admire my performance .
After printing that horrid little paragraph to say that my
waif scene should be suppressed and I oughtn t to try
tragic parts, and so on. (I’ll talk through the dooi.) t
really a very inconsistent paper, isn tit now . ion
thhik it is a scandalous paper? I’m glad But we
won’t speak about that any more. No, I don t bothu
making up-very little. Lord ! any old thing does me.
My mother left me her wardrobe, and whenever I want a
hit of togs I just vo and rummage, and I m sure to find
something to suit. Somebody told you I a s goocl as
my mother? Well, that is a compliment-the best com-
pliment that could be paid me-to say I’m n,y mother s
daughter. For she was such a woman ! Yes, it was her
vitality, of course. ‘Jenny Hill, the \ital Spaik, she
was called everywhere. And I look young upon the
stage? Oh, come now ! Why, do you know I have a
son 11 years old? No, it’s no nonsense; it s gospel-
I was 30 years old last Wednesday. This is my husdiand,
Mr. Hamilton. He is a newspaper man, too. He knows
all the newspaper-men in the States. His father was one
of the founders of the American News Company. He is
connected with the International News Agency. >
don’t know what he does. Something dreadful in the
management. That’s right—bow your acknowledgments.
Back in a ”
She is preparing the way for a shy
lover, coaxing, advising, commanding.
Don't stand wiping your feet on the
mat, young man, and twirling your
thumbs about,
If you want to come in, comk in, Come
In ! —if you don't, stay out !
The entrain of it is irresistible. Heads
wag and feet beat time. For a breath-
less five minutes she holds the stage,
and rushes off breathless.
“ minute. I have been twenty-one
years on the stage. No, it’s very good of
you, but I’m sure I look it; I began when 1
was only eight years old at Hull. I’ve been
all through England and America, and in
Africa. Do I like Australian audiences?
Well, I onlv know’Sydney; but they’re
good. It was a little hard at first. They
gave me a great welcome, clapped hands
and all that, and I thought I was going
to have a soft thing. Then they settled
back quiet, just as if they were saying,
‘ Well, we’ve heard a lot about you, and we’ve
given you a good clap to encourage you.
Now let us see what you can do.’ Then, of
course, I had to go in and win, and I did.
I’ve been here fifteen weeks now. You know
eight weeks is considered a good Tivoli
season. The Tivs. are very impatient. I
think I’ve trained them a bit, though.
You know we can’t change all in a moment;
and at first when I used to come off breath-
less, and have my dresser throwing things
on me as fast as she could, I could hear
them saying in front, ‘Oh, hur-ree up!
Oh, hur-ree up!’ So one night I went out
and talked to them. ‘ Just keep cool,’ I
said. ‘l’m going as fast as ever I can. If
you think you can go faster, just you come
and do the part yourself.’ Since then
they’ve been a little more considerate. I
must say they don’t want telling twice. See
you again ”
She is a woman’s-rights advocate in
a caricature gown and bonnet, with a
caricature umbrella, delivering a cari-
cature oration. The words literally
leap from her. “ Hey? You say man
rules the world? Yes ! and who rules
man? Woman!! Yes —and there's
lots of you blokes here to-night know
it to your sorrow.’’ Poor stuff in print ;
but deliver it with the force of a cata-
pult, the fury of a Maenad, and under-
stand how the Tivoli audience only
ceases to gape when it roars. Ihe
audience understands perfectly : it
has not come to hear Peggy Pryde’s
singing, to see her acting: it has
oome to see and hear Peggy Pryde.*
“ Bravo, Peggy Pryde ! ”
<* presently. How do I get on with
Mr. Rickards? Splendidly! He is so kind
and considerate : I wish all the managers
were like him. What is my favorite part ?
I have so many. But I think I like ‘ Sally’s
Wedding ’as well as any. No, not exactly coster ; but just
a little story I tell of a wedding, and how it went on, and
what they did, and how the girl felt, and all that. You
tell me when you’re coming, and I’ll sing, it for
you We have songs written for us, but they’re not
much when we get them. You have to make the
characters as you go along. Little touches suggest them-
selves here and there, and when you find one takes, of
course you keep it on. That was where my mother shone
bo She was never at a loss. It did not matter what the
part was. She could always invent some little gag that
came natural to it and pleased the audience. Would I
like to try another class of parts? Well, not tragedy.
Not Lady Macbeth, you know. But I think I could play
comedy. I played Ruth in ‘The Gay Parisienne,' at
a London theatre, and didn’t get on so badly.
Somehow, I think when I get back to London 111
have another try at comedy. No, I don’t see the
audience as a rule : I sing to a gas-jet. Sometimes when
I see a man laughing very much I single his face out and
sing to him—it does one so much good, a jolly face 1 But
a cold, fishy face—oh, how that does depress you ! It
seems to take all the go out of you. No, I never feel
tired. Wait till ”
A dramatic monologue—“ The lodging-house
slavey.” The quaint, dumpy little figure takes
possession of the stage in a rush and a stride. It
is Dickens’s “Willing Sophy ” come to life. Her
arms are elbow-bare : little ringlets fall beneath
her little cap. Her black bodice contrasts with the
cheap, light skirt ; the coarse canvas apron is
tucked round her waist. _ In her hand a broom
which Bhe brandishes : with which she appeals,
menaces, implores. There is music for a line or
two: the rest is spoken —emitted in little ex-
plosive spasms like the bombs of a firework flower-
pot. “ Oh, the missus ! Such a trouble as I ave
with ’er! And Gawd knows I’m as faithful as the
dawg, lam ! ” Her arm dabs her eyes : her voice
fades on a pathetic cadence. “ And the lodgers !
Oh, they are a mouldy lot ! Such a s’picious
lot! And such airs! There’s that Italian
dook! ’E buys a scrag-end of mutton, and
’as a chop cooked off it every day! And
by the time you get to the twelfth chop ”
—she is holding her nose with all her
body—“oh, lor! it does hum! Why, I was
takin’ one of them chops up the other day, and
holding a regular conversation with it a-goin’ up
the stairs. Then there’s the new-married couple
in the front parlor —you should just see them, you
should! ‘Will my little lovey-dovey ’ave a
hegg?’ ‘Yes, if my darling little tootsy-wootsy
will’a ve’arf ! ’ —you know the style. W’y, even
our old tom ’ad to get up and walk out, and ’e
ain’t no chicken l—’e knows a thing or two ! ”
And so on with the good gray jokes beloved
of the people, punctuated by bawling laughter
and applause. And the quaint little woman
never halts or hesitates, flings out spasmodic sen-
tence after sentence, uses voice, limbs, features,
with a vehement emphasis that silhouettes her
figure on the memory —the small round clamor-
ous figure in the tucked apron, with the magnetic
broom, and the round earnest face thrust forward,
tossing perpetually in a fever of ferocious gesticu-
lation.
On receiving news from N.S.W. of Justice
Manning’s death, Otago Daily Times (M.L.)
fished out an obituary notice, to the effect that
“Sir W. Manning, LL.D., M.L.C.” (nearly four
years dead !) “was born in 1811,” &c. Still, the
mistake does not beat that of the great Austra-
lian dailies who killed Academician John Gilbert
twice over.
Lipton, the millionaire, friend to the
London poor—he has given <£700,000 to found a
cheap-dinner system —is an Irishman. He went
to America when 14, returned to Glasgow at 19,
and started in a small way in the butter-and -cheese
line. It is to the Scotch city he owes the be-
ginning of his fortune, but he has not yet con-
sidered its poor. It is London that is the royal
road to a peerage.
PEGGY PRYDE.
Photo., Falk.
“ 8.,” on the butchered passenger :
The slaughter-bill of the Victorian railways is probably
one of the reasons why they don’t pay. Since they first
started the iron horse in Victoria, it has laid out 94/
persons and more-or-less smashed 5840. This must have
affected the traffic considerably, not only by withdrawing
the dead and damaged from circulation, out also by
making lots of other people conclude that it wasn t good
enough to take the risk. . TO w
A.n interesting theory, but it won t pass. JN.». W.
and Maoriland railways kill or maim a larger pro-
portion of passengers than the Vic. lines, and they
pay better—perhaps because they get the freight
on the corpses, or perhaps because, when people
hear of a big smash, they at once send their
mothers-in-law on long railway-journeys. The
amazing feature of the . record, however
(“Wealth and Progress of N.S.W., page 567) is
that S.A. seems to kill four times larger a propor-
tion of passengers than either Vic. or N.S.W.,
while it injures only a quarter as many as Victoria
and not much over a fifth as many as N.S.W.
Do the S.A. railway officials go round after an
accident and knock the wounded on the head to
prevent them giving evidence—or what ?


THE SICK CAUSE.
“The totalisator .—On the motion of Mr. Kirton, the debate was adjourned until 9th November.”
GENTLE SHEPHERD: “O, Lord, we thank Thee that Thou hast seen fit to prolong the days of our dear brother Ikey.”
NURSE HANCOCK : “ You might make some tittle reference to the care and attention shown by me and Dr. Frank Madden."


THEY AGREE TO DROWN THE PUPS. -AN OPTIMISTIC VIEW OF THE FEDERAL SITUATION.
TOBY: “ Any more in the basket Georgie?”
GEORGIE : “ Only the Capital; shall we keep that?”


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
The grand-uncle of President M‘Kinley
(U.S.), a North of Ireland Presbyterian farmer,
was hanged at Coleraine for high treason in 1797.
The police have contrived to import a good
deal of the mock-tragedy element into the pursuit
and capture of Peisley, who, at Cabramatta
(Sydney) recently, wounded a policeman with his
own pistol. And since, as that shooting was as
likely as not accidental, Peisley’s only claim to be
regarded as a desperado is that while running
away with great skill he discharged two shots
with very little—while his pursuers were them-
selves distributing much casual lead over the sur-
rounding scenery—it looked somewhat puerile to
bring the famished and broken-down captive be-
fore the beak—gripped hard on either side by a
constable big enough to eat him. No trade with-
out its little tricks.
Little-boy (of 4) definition of a dream :
“Mother, I saw such pretty pictures on my
pillow last night.” Housewife’s definition of
pleasant, profitable pastime: Visiting M'Lean
Bbos. & Rigg’s Melbourne or Sydney warehouse,
purchasing Knives, Porks, Spoons, Plated Ware
and Ironmongery at 20 per cent, cheaper than
from any other house. Real joy.*
“ Jumbo " : There are men who, though
afraid of putting their heads into a lion’s
mouth, get married. And there are men who—
although just suited to a life of hardship and
adventure—remain single.
FULLNESS OF BODY
is a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics of “D.C.L.,” a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland Whiskies—ask for the “D.C.L.” (Black
Bottle).*
A certain very bald candidate, rejected at
a recent general election in favor of a wild gintle-
man from the ould sod, was told by a sympathising
friend that the “ absence of hair from his head
had prejudiced him.” “ No,"replied the defeated
one, “ it was the absence of hair from my teeth.”
‘ * Flirtation : Attention without inten-
tion. Courtship: Intention of retention. Marriage:
Retention and contention.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“ R.A.D.” : Be use of photography in de-
tecting forgery (Bulletin, 30/7/98). I think the
practice originated with the Parnell Forgery Com-
mission, as follows: The Judges, on taking their
seats one morning, were surprised to see a large
sheet occupying a portion of the gallery, while an
operator with two magic-lanterns sat in the body
of the Court. When Parnell was called and asked
if a letter, handed to him, was in his writing, he
replied in the affirmative, whereupon the letter
was handed to the operator, who placed it in one
of the lanterns ; and another letter, which Parnell
had previously sworn to as a forgery, was placed
in the other lantern. The court was then dark-
ened, and when the two reflections, very much en-
larged, were thrown on the sheet, it was at once
evident that in the forged document each letter
was distinct by itself, whilst in the genuine one
the letters ran into one another. This was the
beginning of the break-down of the Times case,
which ended in Pigott’s confession and suicide.
The idea was said to be due to Tim Healey, who
hadn’t then turned dog on Parnell.
“Hermes” sends The Bulletin this queer
item :—
Consider the tops and how they spin. A scientific
friend recently broke me all up with the wonders of
rotary motion. Set spinning a number of tops (made of
cut-down cotton-reels and little cylinders of tinfoil pointed
at one end), which, when struck quite a heavy blow,
simply leant over, gracefully described a wider circle, and
recovered their upright position, in joyful defiance of
gravity. When they collided they hurled each other all
over the room with wonderful force. Then another set,
bristling with needle-points round their equators, were
sent spinning against a sheet of paper hanging loosely.
They tore it to pieces, and also tore a sheet stretched
across their track. A large circular sheet of paper was
fastened to a small block on a turning-lathe and made to
revolve at a high rate, and when the armed tops were
sent against it, it hurled them away without receiving a
scratch. I then struck the revolving paper with a knife,
but though it threw off the blow and resounded like a
drum, it never bent. A steel watchchain was then tied
round another block which was made to revolve at the
same rate as the paper. The chain flew off, rolled across
the table rigid, like a wheel, and dented a piece of tin.
But the same chain, hurled by the same force against the
revolving paper, made no impression whatever. Said my
friend : “ If those Spaniards had fought behind rapidly
revolving disc-shields not a Yankee shot would have got
home. Next year I hope to have perfected a method —
with a ring of poisonous gas—of turning any hostile ship
into a mortuary long before she could get within effective
range, and without any flash and roar to betray my
position. The gang that tackles me will have to sail in
a hermetically-sealed ship, use compressed air, and run
15 miles out to sea every time they want to load up ! ”
A. Solid. Silver "Watcli
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
W*A * S [
M
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : —That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
SEES?
COUGH —Stops
r nr
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S Is supplied.
s*" Poverty Pointers
Your Cue it—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Nbxt GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
Real German Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. W
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES,
Gold Bangle set with 9 Beautiful Opals and
16 White Pearls. 50s. each.
■
Our New
Twin
Bird
Bvooohea
Plain Gold,
78 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
138 6d pair.
Gola, set with one finest quality Amethyst, Topaz, 0*
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Our 1898 Registered
Novelty
Bird Brooob,
Extra Strong.
REGS
00. Gold,
15s
pair.
15c.. aoM,
20ft
pack.
Our New Gold Bamboo Bangles.
22s 6d: Broader, 32s 6d ; Children’s Size, 148.
Gold Twin Swallow Brooches.
Full Size, London-made, 9c., 12s 6d; 150., 17s 6d pair.
i
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
Gold Pin and Cbain Fondants.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6. Smaller size, 6/6.
„ Lucky Bell 7/6. „ 4,6.
„ Heart 7/6. „ „ 5/6.
„ Cross 8/-. Larger size. 1°«
Lucky Bells with Chain, 8s 6dj 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s
Our New Wild Boar’s
Tusk Brooch.
With Chain & Bell Pendant
Silver-mounted, 6s 6d
Gold „ 14s-
POST FREE.
Steal Amethyst Heart Pendant, 2/6 each-
Real Amethyst Button Hooks, 2/6 each.
Lucky Shamrock
Pendants..
Genuine 4-leaf between
2 Crystals, Solid Gold
Mount, 10s each.
New Gold
Hors 3 & Stirrup
Pendant, 13/6
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BOULESTIN BRAHpy.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
Maybe had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit Merchants.
ASK FOR BOULESTIN.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address mutt appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J.D.: God help those who help themselves—
a ninepenny tin of baking-powder Otto B. : Old a->
the hills Easy : Many a man labors under the delusion
that he is alive because he has never Men his name on a
gravestone. S.S. : Bulletin is tom that Western
slang for a florin is “deuce of bobs.” Morero : But
what a degradation to employ a woman in such a thing,
degrading both to her and the police ! Once set that style
of thing going, and where will it end? C. Seeb. : The
Bulletin would like the public to see a photo’d group of
the well-advertised high-priests of the Social Purity move-
ment in Sydney. Talk about a miserable lot of lean, weak-
looking undersized rats ! E.W.D. : Have we really to
say it again ! Bulletin opposes the use of the lash be-
cause, for one incontrovertible reason, it is a torture
which is never, never has been, and never would be, ap-
plied to any criminal who belonged to “ society,” no
matter how much that criminal might deserve it. If you
flogged a society-man, you would flog his nice, refined,
silver-haired old mother, and make weals on the bodies
and souls of his scented sisters. There is no Judge on the
bench who would flog Adolphus Reginald de Merino, son
of Mrs. de Merino, and brother of the charming
Misses de Merino Rex : Spiteful and unsavory.
Gestor : Submitted to artist. Philamon : Vener-
able perjury! Abner Byng : No climax W.H.
(A.): May use one Bando : As publisher Curll said:
“I can write prose as well as Mr. Pope, but he has a
knack of rhyming I do not possess .... A.H.C. : If that
were so, then the women of England, being over a million
in excess of the men, logically the nation must come to
be ruled by women Korero : “ Musical glasses attract
Bnakes more than any other kind of music, and among
other noises attractive to them are the drawing of corks,
the gurgling of liquor in long-necked bottles, and the
clinking of pewter pots.” Thanks Rapho : Lacks
novelty Dingwall: Shovelled into a warm corner
W.J.P. : No lift, vigor, inspiration L.A.: Flat
Snag : Yes, guess you’d better knock off Quiz : Bear-
ings rusty Platypus : Admire your cheek D. : Every
accused person has the right to a copy of depositions free
of charge. Every prisoner appealing under the preroga-
tive to the Queen has the right, without any in forma
pauperis application, to have all the documents necessary
supplied to him without fee, and to have them forwarded
bv the Governor to the proper quarter in England
Sinclair C. : None up W.M.F. : Not quite the right
ring Daviot: Pretty well done, but embodying a total
misrepresentation of facts 8.8. : Some humor, but
skill at present lacking. You should be able to do better.
Widgee : “ Sold,” self-contradictory ; “ Calculations,”
too flimsy “ Inches ” : Too much lumber for “ B.”
Nox : No power Revenge : Valueless Albin de M. :
Not quite class enough Esperance : Fine dramatic op-
portunity hopelessly missed E.C. : Beneath criticism.
A. P. Hogg: May use Alley B. : “No. 8” well-
written, but interest too slender Ace : Good, on the
whole, but would need too much recasting J. Ret-
shew: None quite up, though none bad. “ Daisy"
especially promising. Comic—as a funeral! Myrtle
F. : No harm in trying Xeno : You recall the man who
cut two holes in his door big one for the big cat,
and little one for the little cat. Your little literary cat
could have got through same hole as your big one
Vicissitude : Thanks E.B. : N.S.W. Supreme Court
Justices Hargrave and Cheeke were appointed simultane-
ously. The appointment of the former was for some
reason resented by the Bar, and at the swearing-in of the
pair only one barrister—the late Marshall Burdekin—put
in an appearance. Presumably it is to that occurrence
you allude D. : That is an old story, founded
on the fact that park “dossers” are wont to
rouse up the slumbering cows and pitch their paper
camps on the spot warmed by the bovine. The ground
retains warmth, thus enabling the camper to get to sleep.
Spinifex : Not good enough... H.G. (Q.) : Common-
place, and poor commonplace E.D.H. : Several dead
bodies, a hell, and a grinning usurer—and yet we’re not
tempted.... Tom C. : About half g0e5......F.C.K. : Kindly
make some feeling remarks to yourself with a soft brick.
H.L.R. : You’re so bad a poet that your puddings
should be splendid... .Wake : Fair joke ; but can’t risk
it G.E.P. : You’re heart may “ throb wildly,” but that
item is mighty quiet now Old Possum : You can’t
QEORGE PEISLEY (alias Sparlces , alias
Williams).
write verse Max : Fortnight behind the fair
Namron : Weak American variety Jim (St. K.): Send
stamped envelope, and we’ll tell you the man to go to.
A.H. (M.L.): You prefer the name “ New Zealand "
to “ Maoriland.” If the question were put to the popular
vote, “ New Zealand ” wouldn’t have the ghost of a show.
“Maoriland” it’s going to be Cooloolah (G.): No,
thanks J.E. : May be original to you—but you’re far
from being the first. W. Smith : Yes, Bulletin authority.
Nell Cook : Vide Bulletin, 13/8/98. Snake-yarn may
use. Verse moderate merit Merloolas : Thanks; theft
already noted W.C.F. : Yes —more “voluminous”
than luminous. J. A. P. (Queensland) : “Wail” out of
your line—and therefore out of ours; “Thursday” ac-
ceptable. .... Prospect Good : “Goldfever ” will do, with
a little moulding; other very rheumatic in joint P. :
Pony-racing at Broken Hill can be sniffed from about the
same distance as it can elsewhere Ben Milich : No
thanks. You will notice we place no comma after the
No Gailo : May serve as illustration idea Lillian
(Melb.) : Original items of all-round interest always ac-
ceptable. If sene in smart paragraph form they will be
printed and paid for G.S. : The hair-sex question is
interesting, but too lively for general discussion.
E.A. : The salary of the Governor - General of
India is not 25,080 rupees, but £25,000 C.W.S. : All
the same, Somers Vine kicks severely at Bulletin com-
ments on the Papuan grab, quoted by leading English
papers. Bulletin is “ a rag,” and so on H.M. :So
the lofty mummer who “ never reads the papers,” and
writes the editor to that effect, looms up again! The
politician has long given that gag a rest 7x7 :No ;
still running. Write Gordon and Gotch, Sydney J.
Roper : “ SiS.” is probably correctly informed, but deduc-
tions open to much question Bunyip : Rubbish
Edelweiss : Ancient Yankee wheeze .... E. Mac. : Bark-
ing up wrong tree again. What “ B.” intended to con-
vey -and did convey to anybody lacking your genius for
misapprehension—was that, as long as anybody able
and willing to_ work has to go hungry amongst us,
we have no right to call ourselves civilised J.D. :
Some asylum official obviously been “stuffing” you..
Annie A.: Dreary style Furrow : Material well-selected’
but not finish enough Beat. M.: Too flat in the chest.
Hugh V.: Neatly-attired platitudes Rye : You are,
as the song calls you, “husky, thin, and small.’’ Stony :
No use J.F.H.: Good thing spoilt! H.G. : “Brali-
gan coarse and clumsy Tuarangi: Not even grammar.
Bubbles : All burst Alley B. : No. 9, some
humor, but not coherence enough T.Q.R.: Pretty
good touch, but too slight R.G.M. : Some merit, but
versecraft grievously lacking. Prose-sketch also killed by
bad workmanship Glim: Promptly “dowsed!”
Wooramon : Some humorous promise ; try again Tin
Lip: Only a glimmer of merit 6xB: Verse spoilt by
dragged-in rhymes Cedric: Meaning undiscoverable—
even with X-rays I Chas. Mac: Logic isn’t “a new
method of reasoning ” ; it’s merely a formulation of
the possible mistakes in natural ratiocinative pro-
cesses. All men are logicians of a sort; the difference
being merely one of exactitude... .C.S. : Mild eroticism.
I iban : Literature is the very thing for you—to leave
alo.ie! ... J.P.: The man has only one string; off that he is,
as you say, “as twaddly as anybody.” Rasselas : Wont
enter the Happy Valley this turn... .M.G.W. : Ingenious
and rather clever, but too loosely-built for Bulletin
Dash : and “ blank ! ” and “ asterisk! ” too, if it
comes too that... .Conrad : Yes, but you’re not “ vitriol”;
you’re only an inferior brand of castor-oil! C.W.S. :
Alas—no money for new pictures for Vic. National Gal-
lery ; no money for new books for Melb. Public Library.
Turner is a good financier, but he is a soulless attorney.
O.K. : Humorous, but unsuited for illustration,
Fact, not Fiction : Why, certainly. Not only has it been
discovered that many Australian myalls are Freemasons,
but also that they had in family use 4629 years ago,
pianos, built in sections for easy packing on footback—
said pianos being convertible at pleasure to cooking-
ranges or electric launches—that their national anthem
was “ Godsaver Gin,” and that no aboriginess was
allowed to get married until she could play “ The Battle
of Prague,” work out quadratic equations, and square
the circle. The Illustrious Order and the Race of Ham 1
Rendoß. : Questionable if any person should be con-
victed of an offence carefully manipulated by the police,
as in the case of the suspected abortionist recently
pounced upon by an ambushed detective while preparing,
it is alleged, to use instruments upon a woman sent to
him as a decoy. The primary police duty is prevention—
not detection ; though, until police procuration of law-
breach is made in itself an indictable offence, the uni-
versal eopman will continue to put the cart before the
horse in this respect Alone: Will mend and use
Lance L. : Thanks; facts always acceptable J.M.L.:
None usable F.G.H. : May print Z.E. : The humor-
ous is completely off your beat .... Cocksparrow : Will take
a day off to decipher T.B.K. : Some good
points, but as a whole unsuitable... .... Leon B. :
Yarn to hand. Yes, if terse and lively .. Russ:
Lie not acceptable merely as lie Alley B. :
“Providence” may use Uriel: Enthusiasm-cum-dog-
gerel W.M.C. : Sorry none of verse good enough.
Story hoary Arthur P. : Pleasing style, but wants
pith Ella :Of course “no poet has a monopoly of any
particular metre,” but where, as in your case, the matter
is suggestive of a noted writer, it is doubly unfortunate
to use also his favorite form B.E. : More suitable for
your own print Dan K. : Not enough fact-justification.
P.M. : None says quite the right thing in the right
way ...M.C. :No pith Lib. :No mettle .... C.J. (Vic.):
Dull item T. M‘M. : Your racing ballads are gritty,
but handling too crude Onlooker : Blank—dash-
smash H.G.D. : Poem doesn’t disclose why you wrote
it B.K. : Long, dull grievance. Make it short and
bright and we may mingle griefs B.M.J. (W.A.):
Don’t recollect that poet at present J.M. :14 years
old, and persecuting an editor already 1 H.M. (Bodan-
gra) wants address of Mr. Fairbairn, of English Co-
operative Stores.


PATTISONS’ WHISKY COMPETITION—SO PRIZES.
“The Opening 1 of the Case.”— Drawn by BERT A. LEVY.
Who RT6 They? Nearly every figure depicted in this crowded court is a portrait of some Sydney celebrity in Society, Law, Politics, Ait, or the Theatrical woil
, , '
3 T«
SUM. *&
lillSiiM
i .<• V* , 1 \&
s
fe .
4
<0 X *
... 1. J
I ,
& _ -■** - ' X.
\
- ' x
ff
I
SB
1
v*.
<v
:-m,
»-f
5 14
■
s
j ■ i 1 ■;
t m
i
% I ‘
a
1
»
r ;r*
ii
*
3B
'■'■i: . "*4
Misrnm
$* **rv-T
■■S &*?%*.
mm
m
f * ifc
eM > , '•'
• ;
%. % ?■ •
m
w
m .: *
"THE OPENING OP THE CASE,”
Mr. Bert A. Levy has given Messrs. Patotsons, Ltd., a correct key to the portraits, and in order that everyone may have an opportunity of endorsing the opinion
PATTISONS’ WHISKY IS SCOTLAND’S BEST, the Proprietors will present a Case containing One Dozen of PATTISONS Morning Dew Eight Years (
10 lists stating Who’s who?
„ arrived at by Judge and Jury, that
Old Whisky to the senders of the best
CONDITIONS.
The names of the celebrities are to be legibly written on a sheet of foolscap or other paper and numbered. Corresponding numbers to be marked on each figure in the picture, which
- is to be cut out and forwarded with the list, not later than 20th September, addressed to “ Competition, Messrs. Pattisons, Ltd 16 0 Connell-street, Sydney.■ rae 1 be
sent in by each competitor. Mr. Bert A. Levy has consented to adjudicate, and his decision must be considered final. A correct list of the celebrities will be given in The Bulletin of 24th Sept.
BAKER * ROUSE PROPRIETARY LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN DEPOTS
. . EOR . .
CLOSED
OPEN.
The Flat Folding Kodak,
Kodaks
The No. 2 Bullet Kodak.
Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF
SIMPLEX PAPERS.
UNTo Dark Room Required.
AGENTS FOR
Ross Goerz Lenses. Shew Hand Cameras.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
260 Collins-street, Melbourne; 81 Queen-street, Brisbane;
65 Rundle-street, Adelaide


Kuppers Elberfeld La
GENERAL ELECTION!
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
TTTvr ATMIM XT3 VOTE !
TOPS THE POLL
Good Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
ENORMOUS MAJORITY !
G-rELUuma, & Fodali.
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
In much request.
Sole Proprietors and Agents : JAMES INGLIS & 00.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
'SiST° Sales Held at the Auction I too ms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Brvdley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
For sale or to-let—the Q. Opposition.
It seems possible that events will compel Q.
( TOvt. to organise a service of State mail-steamers
tor its own North. State Socialism !
Maoriland is still on the move. In
Dunedin lately, for the first time in the history of
«he world, a man was fined for employing a non-
unionist.
Q. Government’s Parliamentary strength
is made up of five items—expenditure of public
money, billet patronage, dissolution threats, elec-
sorate promises, members “ on the make.”
“The Russian press, ” says the cable, “has
reoeived the British naval scheme with remarkable
-quammity.” Why “remarkable”? Russia’s
navy is a luxury—England’s is a life-and-death
necessity.
“The children of the white settlers are
being continually followed by Hindoos and Japs.,
who make indecent overtures to them.”—Mary-
borough (Q.) Patriot. Leperland wallows in
the mire it loves.
The great Westralian financial drunk—and
afterwards ! The W.A. civil -servants are now
being officially slaughtered like rabbits ; 400 are
to be discharged within the next few months, 200
from the Works Dept, alone.
Mr. Alfred Allen to be a member of
N.S.W. Upper House ! What is evidently needed
is a third House, composed of the played-out and
ejected pink-eyed rabbits and Italian greyhounds
>f rough-and-tumble politics.
r Sixty-one members have retired from
N r .S.W. Legislative Council during the past 12
vears—49 by death and 12 by resignation. Can
Held s proposed rotary system improve on these
natural methods of clearance ?
A N.S.W. country member, first time in,
posted 16 letters, one day last week, all encased in
large blue Parliamentary envelopes : Supporters
receiving a note of thanks on Govt.-supplied note-
paper and enclosed in Govt, envelopes.
Both Houses of S.A. Parliament pay their
members .£2OO a year. And there is much
grumbling in both. The sum is too much for
drinks and too little for screw ; and Labor Ms.P.
begin to desperately say that something must be
done.
The Bulletin doesn’t think much of Mr.
Joe Chamberlain in connection with the great
Papuan land-steal. The reasons why will be very
apparent when full details as to the credentials
given by Mr. Joe to Somers Vine become public
property.
The peaceful re-election of J. P. Abbott
“ jhe N.S.W. Speakership was chronicled by
Melb. Erald as a rather astonishing event. In
Victoria it is customary to regard the Speaker as
a regrettable circumstance who ought to be changed
when the opportunity offers.
Another stone on the cairn for the Pacific
eable. Let us insist upon this nerve of communi-
cation with America. Of course the ’Frisco-
Hawaii cable goes without saying. Then only
the hitch-on to Maoriland. The ocean bed was
satisfactorily surveyed 25 years ago.
The labor bosses in every Q. constituency
should use the machinery of a labor plebiscite
elect candidates, then select the candidate and
barrack and vote for that one as one man, before
and at the next Q. parliamentary elections. You
must fight machinery with machinery.
Jenkinson, the Q. Labor-member who
annexed the Wide Bay seat vacated by Agent-
General Tozer, believes that newspapers should be
carried free through the post. The writer thinks
shat newspaper-writers—and rum'—should Vie
carried free. Isn’t it enough, however, to curry
she Jenkinsons free ?
When Black Rod, lme a Jack-out-of-the-
box, completed the last trick of his fantastic
capers in N.S.W. Parliament last week, one of
t he oldest members whispered to his neighbor •
“There goes the last Black Rod. This Parlia-
ment will extinguish him! ” If common-sense
rule, the words should be prophetic.
Another English syndicat nibbling at
British Papua—this time a syndikitten. Liver-
pool promoters, capital AlO,OOO ; local boss, one
M'Kenzie, said to have been connected with
Papua since ’9l, and to be on his way to Samarai,
nailed with “.Cingalese experts ” in tropical cul-
ture. What color is Australia to be ?
W. H. Groom, M.L.A., completed the
•'6th year of his continuous parliamentary life in
Q. Assembly on 11th Aug. Some say that the
Speakership trap is being again baited for him ;
others that the Home Secretary’s portfolio is being
dropped in the track that he is likely to take.
Groom seems to be growing younger.
When the final return of the cost of the
M'Sharry (railway - contract - arbitration) case
reaches N.S.W. Parliament, it will be about the
most amazing document in Australian history.
The departmental incapacity evinced in conduct-
ing the case is as mountainous as the impudence
•r the men who took advantage of it.
S.A. Advertiser editor-proprietor S’lang-
don Bonython, and Register editor Sowden, are
••aid to be both ambitious to represent electorates
m next S.A. Parliament. Bonython is reported
to have long contemplated running for Ease
Adelaide. With hardly an exception, S.A. journa-
lists have always made poor Parliamentarians.
Officially disclosed that S.A. Govt, employs
Chinese, at a wage running down to Is. a day in
the Northern Territory. Altogether, 394 Asiatics
are in the Govt, service ; the highest wages paid
are 7s. per day for the best masons, carpenters and
gardeners—under a dozen of them in all—but, for
the garden-variety of Chow, half-a-crown is the
usual.
Dirty, contemptible, despicable, two-
faced dog.” Fragment of a last-week’s speech in
Gounoil by a Petersham (Sydney) alderman. As
illustrating the refinement of N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary as compared with municipal institutions,
it may be mentioned that Premier Reid, in the
same week, went no further than to yell out to
the Opposition, “You area lot of skunks ! ”
The utter folly of giving an absolute legis-
lative veto to a House drawn from a small class in
a small community is being again illustrated in
the worrying which the “ age relief ” clause of
Vic. Insurance Bill is receiving from the teeth of
the Leg. Councillors, most of whom are either
directors or shareholders in insurance-cos., or in
cos. or banks interested pecuniarily therewith.
S.A.’s returned Agent-General Playford is
credited with being indifferent about re-entering
polities, but it is believed the Govt, will persuade
him to contest Onkaparinga next April against
poet Caldwell, secretary to the Opposition. The
constituency, which contains a big producing
population, would vote solid for Playford, who
has always belonged to that class, and still runs a
potato-patch.
A brighter season in the N.S.W. back-
country shows up the danger of attaching resumed
areas to leaseholds under Carruthers’s ’95 Act.
The alert squatter plugged in his application for
attachment in the dry years, when nobody wanted
to select, and there was consequently no opposi-
tion, and now, when, with better prospects, men
would select, they find much good country shut up
against them.
Ed. Bulletin.— He assertion that Irish
Catholics always place the religious question first.
Candidates for Burrowa (N.S.W.) electorate:
Mackay, Scotch descent, Presbyterian; and
Toomey, old Irish family. Catholic voting strength
to Protestant, 7 to 2. Result : majority for
Mackay, 308. This, in the most Hibernian elec-
torate in N.S.W., and in the month of the Yellow
Pup’s loudest yelping.—Liberal.
While Lyne, Barton, Reid, O’Connor,
Wise, Bruce Smith and others are pilloried for
alleged discrepancies between their comments on
the original Convention Bill, leading up to the
Referendum, and their comments now, one man,
d. H. Carruthers, escapes with hardly a bad word.
Yet Carruthers was a glaring apostate. When
licked at the Referendum he turned right round
and sat down with Reid —and is there still.
According to Premier Reid, ex-Minis-
ters Gould, Garrard, and Smith did not
take part in commuting that death-sentence
after ceasing to hold seats in Parliament—
they merely confirmed or announced a previous
Ministerial decision. All the same, they had
no right to interfere even to that extent with
Executive business. When they were thrown
right out they should have stayed right out—not
on the mat or just inside the door.
The English news printing-paper makers
have been clean whipped out of the Australian
market; some of them are withdrawing their local
representatives. All the big Australian journals’
contracts have gone to Protectionist America.
Even Sydney D.T. itself is printed on Yankee
paper. Protection makes things dear, and that’s
why the Freetrade-mad Sydney D.T. uses Ameri-
can paper. The Bulletin is now about the only
well-circulated Australian paper printed on Bull-
made material.
VVeak as is esprit de corps in N.S.W. Civil
Service, the Public Service Board’s “marks”
project galvanised a little concerted action into
the service rank and file. A rumored block anti-
Ministerial vote scared the Board into withdraw-
ing, for the time at any rate, the certificate project
which so excited the wrath of their usually weak-
spirited minions ; it is a fact that the departmental
heads, who were under instructions to furnish
their returns by Aug. 1, were told to temporarily
hold them over.
SHE KNEW.
HE: “But , then, he’s so horribly bandy-leyyed. ”
INNOCENT LITTLE MAUD: “ Well, so’s Aunty!”
“T.P.” : From intermarriage of Chinese
and Australians what improvement can be ex-
pected? Both races .suffer terribly from. V that
tired feeling.’’ Australia is too tired to care to
become a nation, and China is too tired to care to
remain one.
Moore, successor to Nevermind Nelson as
M.P. for Murilla (Q.), has moved to have the
numbers eliminated from electioneering ballot-
papers. Good. The numbers are not necessary
in order to detect impersonation, because each
returning or presiding officer is required by law to
mark off the name of every voter to whom a ballot-
paper is supplied ; but the numbers do enable in-
formation to be made available nefariously, after
the election, as to how any voter voted. Old
Nevermind is finding out the fidelity of political
proteges. First, his best whiteheaded boy,
Byrnes, countermarches in his policy, and now
the successor to his pocket electorate essays to do
a democratic deed.
“ The man who confers a favor makes one
friend and a thousand enemies.” Premier Reid
dares not fill the portfolios vacant in his Ministry
until lie shall have got his professed followers to
back up the Federal resolutions he intends sub-
mitting to the Assembly. There are at least 10
Ministers-expectant, and if the Premier lowered
the tantalising carrots into any three of the water-
ing mouths, about seven Reidites would at once
see incurable defects in whatever the man with
the eyeglass chose to propose with respect to
Federation.
Some Clarence River sugar-planters have
the impudence to say that black-labor is essential
to the N.S.W. sugar-industry. In that case, the
sooner the N.S.W. sugar-industry dies the better:
the land can be put to better use than in growing
Hindoos. A recent letter from the Clarence to
The Bulletin says : “ The country round here is
simply black with Hindoos ; and on the Richmond
it is worse. The very worst foe of the white
laborer is the laborer jumped-up to farmer. For
scrooging and driving no ‘fat’ capitalist can
oompare with him.” And it looks like it.
Tas. Assembly has just passed the “Natal
Act ” for the exclusion of aliens. During the
debate members complained that even a Britisher
might be excluded on the educational test (50
words to be written in some European language),
but Braddon silenced the objectors by explaining
that the clause referred to was to be construed
with a diplomatic wink. Chamberlain’s “states-
manship ” was then loudly praised by Parliament
and the press. Possible Asiatic cavillers at the
double-dealing of the highly-moral Bull are, of
course, expected to be effectually outwitted by
these “ diplomatic ” proceedings !
Brisbane (Q.) Observer flaunts an editorial
in the attempt to show that 100 Japs were recently
landed at Port Douglas (N.Q.), for the Mosinan
Central Sugar-Mill— there being already available
in that district 500 Chinamen and 300 kanakas !
because “ labor is lacking.'’ Labor is not lacking.
Thousands of white men, looking for work, infest
the towns, the populous centres, and the droughty
tracks of Queensland. Wages are lacking, in
spite of the fact that Govt, has granted to sugar-
mills loans, many of which can never, and will
never, be repaid. The Observer is the Courier’s
bantling. The Courier is Premier Byrnes’s politi-
cal guardian and trustee. What chance, then, for
rotting Leperland ?
“Fiat Justitia” re the Bill to simplify
Supreme Court practice introduced by N.S.W.
Attorney-General :
The Bill contains many clerical errors, caused chiefly
through a too-close copy of enactments in foroe in Eng-
land and the other Australias. It attempts to amalga-
mate law and equity procedure, as has been done in Eng-
land under the Judicatuie Act, but retains, with slight
alterations, the present system of pleading, which has
been in force here since the fifties, and was abolished in
England some 25 years ago. Vagueness is undesirable in
an Act of Parliament. What, however, can be more
vague than section 21 : “ From and after the commence-
ment of this Act all enactments inconsistent therewith
shall be repealed.” This will be a nice harvest for the
lawyers, and the already over-burdened Supreme Court
will have tough work in deciding what Acts are repealed.
Truly a new way to simplify the law.
Crick, M.P., remarks that the remission
of the death-sentence in the Cootamundra rape
case means the abolition of capital punishment for
that class of offence in N.S.W. The law is quite
at variance with public opinion— i.e., cool and
deliberate public opinion ; but it is apt to be
carried into effect when two or three penny news-
papers raise a scare, and start the public yelling
for blood. The Reid Govt, has never yet hanged
a man whose life it could possibly spare ; but there
have been Ministries in N.S.W. which never
seemed to spare a man whom they could possibly
hang. There is no reason—except the taint of the
old convict leaven in the law—why N.S.W. should
have seven or eight times as many capital offences
as (say) England.
Give even the Boodleland Nevermind
Government its due. In the matter of the Agri-
cultural Lands Re-purchase Act, no matter
though pecuniary los-es may have been made by
the State, and special advantages reaped by squat-
ters, or by their mortgagees, benefit has accrued
to the country as a whole. E.y., Rosewood estate
was re-bought, divided into 56 areas, and opened
to selectors. Forty-nine areas have been selected,
and there is not yet a fraction of arrears of rent.
Meaning that 50 settlers now populate an area
formerly held by one grazier.
“A NEW AND ORIGINAL SCARECROW
DUET."
S.A. contemplates building 263 miles of
railway to Innamincka on the Q. border, at a
cost of <£1,200,000. The line would give far S.W.
Queensland access to a port that is 250 nearer
than Brisbane and would save 2000 miles of sea-
freight on its wool as well. In other words, S.A.
would provide the railway and stand any loss,
and the S.W. Queenslander would be enriched by
cheaper freights, and more population would come
to the country because it was made accessible, and
the value of land would go up in consequence—in
fact, Queensland would profit all round. But
probably the mutton-headed Queensland provin-
cialist would simply call it an attempt to rob
“ us ” of “ our ” trade, and put an export duty on
wool to prevent its own people being enriched by
lower railway-rates, and other facilities.
Sydney Telegraph :
We may take it for granted that the Government will
submit no [Federal] amendments beyond those for which
they received the country’s endorsement at the elections.
For what amendments did the Govt, receive the
country’s endorsement at the elections ? The
Federal issue was complicated with a hundred
other issues, and over all the local roads-and-
bridges question was paramount. When “ the
country ” had to vote on one straight-out issue, it
gave a majority for the Bill —and no amendments.
And, in any case, the Telegraph’s own figures of
votes polled at the elections triumphantly show
that the Reid majority in the Assembly—if there
is a majority—represents a minority of voters ;
and the real majority, if any Federal deduction
can be drawn, is still on the side of the original
Bill.
Ryott-Maughan, Opposition M.P., could
get no member but Labor-leader Glassey to usher
and sponsor him at the book-kissing ceremony in
Q. Assembly, and referred to that fact in his
maiden speech. “Committees” Annear also
alluded to the incident, and the different treat-
ment accorded Glassey on his entrance as a par-
liamentary sizar was variously pictured. Then
Labor-man Andy Dawson (summarised): —
When Glassey first became a member of this House, he
was very badly treated. If he hung up his hat on a peg,
all the other members removed their hats. If he put his
umbrella in a stand, all the other umbrellas in that
stand were taken out of it. I believe the only reason
violent hands were not laid on him was—fear of the Law.
Whipper Hamilton declared that he had never
heard that yarn before. Several whippees veiled:
“ Pure fiction.”
Bale-of-blankets ” Brimker, member for
Mulbring, is the latest title of the N.S.W.
Colonial Secretary. The saintly old gentleman
just scraped back into Parliament by a majority
of 45. On an average all the large centres gave
his opponent just as many votes as himself ; but
Mulbring division (timber getters and bone-,
gatherers) came to the rescue with : Brunker, 59 ;
T’otherman, 10. If a bale of blankets had also
been distributed on behalf of the other man
among the Mulbring innocents, well the Colonial
Secretary would have to go cow-selling once
again. After all, where is the essential difference
between the blanket-distributing operations of
the Reid Govt, and a certain old-time N.S.W.
electioneering occurrence long ago related in The
Bulletin? Before the days of single constitu-
encies two candidates running together for an
electorate visited, in the course of their canvassing
tour, the mining corner of the district. When
they “paid their respects” at the first miner’s
cottage they came to and kissed the baby and
asked the miner’s wife to tell her husband to vote
for them, she plumply enquired what she was
going to profit by it ? “I haven't had a new dress
for two years,” she ingenuously remarked. “ But,
my good woman,” said the richer of the two can-
didates, a big storekeeper, “surely you don’t ex-
pect us to give you and all your neighbors new
dresses ! ” “Yes, indeed,” she replied, “if you
don’t do something for me I’ll take no interest in
you.” The pair got so many replies of the same
sort that they agreed that “something ” must be
done. Next day 230 pieces of dress-material went
to Flat, and at the election the benevolent
candidates were triumphantly returned.


Keep YoGr BCiSipcss ii) YoGr Owi) Hapds.
The ONLY ECTEOTTVE SYSTEM
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
024 JAN-9
$■
L CONRAD
Butcher
and Meat Preserver
HINDLEY STREET
Return £5 In Checks *
and Receive V.
H l 0. 0 0 A
Register.
IT CONCENTRATES your
CASH BUSINESS by giving
special inducements to your
Customers to regularly pur-
chase at your Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and
NUMBERED PRINTED
COUPON with every trans-
action, which is a statement of
the transaction, a RECEIPT
for the MONEY PAID, and
which at the same time bears
your advertisement.
2 6 8 JUL I!
BAYNES BROTHERS,
Lateßraziers Botchers
BRANCHES IN ALL PARTS
CITY m SUBURBS.
Return £f In tickets
and receive t/- In gcod*
DO 1 2
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
Full Particulars on application to
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER COMPANY’S
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 G-EORGE ST., SYDKTEY
Tele phone No. 2976. W. A, LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
Four Solomons—Emanuel Solomon, Judah
Moss Solomon, Saul Solomon and Vabien Louis
Solomon—have sat at different times in the S.A.
Parliament. And the reputation for wisdom
which used to attach to the name of Solomon
hasn’t been much improved by any of them.
James Crotty’s sister, re his mean be-
quest to his widow :
He knew her best, and, if he thought much money was
best, no doubt she would have had it. But, knowing she
was once a Protestant, he, as her truest friend, wished to
guard her from sinking back into that slough of heresy ;
hence the limitations of his will, for he, as I, or any
instructed Catholic, know that the gift of true faith is
worth more than a million worlds, and without faith it is
impossible to please God.
Orotty’s method of encouraging his widow not to
sink back into the slough was, at least, peculiar.
Some specially fine horrors are being
brought to light in the departmental investigation
into the affairs of Mt. Eliza Infirmary, the Perth
(W. A.) Poorhouse. Evidence has been given that
the inmates after washing the night-utensils used
them as wash-basins; that scores of men washed
their plates, knives, forks, &c., in one kerosene-
tin of water; that blankets on bed-ridden men
were left unchanged for long periods with most
hideous results. Also, that a paralysed patient
was repeatedly flogged with a wet towel—and
many minor horrors, amongst which the fact that
vermin reigned supreme at the institution was a
kind of trifle.
Grandfather Brunker v N.S.W. Colonial
Secretary,_ defending himself against the charge
that he is a stupid person who is of no
earthly use in politics, boasts that at his
instance, or because of his pleadings, £147,169 of
Govt, money has been spent in E. Maitland
electorate during 18 years. If E. Maitland was
entitled to the expenditure, it should have got it
without Brunker’s solicitations ; if uneutitled,
Brunker has been a party to cheating some other
constituency of its due—and boasts of it. The
road-and-bridges member is the curse of Parlia-
ment, and all Brunker can find to say in self-
defence is that in his time he has been a
phenomenally big curse.
Government and municipal authorities in
Perth (W.A.) object to the periodical publication
of the startling local tuberculosis horrors, and the
stock department now has instructions to keep
dark anything of the kind. The Perth municipal
authorities, after a particularly alarming discovery
of tuberculous cows in a local dairy recently,
actually persuaded the looal daily press to keep
the thing quiet on the plea that publication would
defeat the efforts of the municipal officers to dis-
cover more tuberculous cows. Nothing would
probably have been heard of the matter, but a
rascally Sunday paper published the thing, with
special comment on the action of the dailies,
which eventually had to print the belated news
and lamely explain their previous silence.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney. *
“ Scientifically, cautiously and solidly is
Scotland Yard sparring for time, and plenty of it,
in the encounter v. Monson (the Ardlamont * not-
proven ’ man) and c 0.,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ The issue is to be to
the death, or at least public obliteration, of the
dangerous conspirators who have plied their trade
even more openly than the blackbirders did in the
South Seas not many years ago. Trading in
reversionary interests has been brought to a fine
art in this wise: If Tom will come into £lO,OOO
on surviving his elder brother Bill, Tom has an in-
surable interest to the full extent of that amount.
Tom is profligate, prodigal and poverty-stricken
finally, so he sells his reversionary interest to an
enterprising syndicate for, say, £5OO. They,
having an insurable interest in his life for their
£lO,OOO, guarantee themselves by insuring him
fully. Unless such an insurable interest be shown
no company would or could accept the risk. The
policy once effected, the simple question bursts
into being, why pay premiums and wait for Tom
or even Bill’s death to occur at Nature’s own
date? Give poor old over-worked Nature a hand
and expedite Tom’s worldly departure, as he is a
dram or drug-drinker and easily getatable. So
one day Tom is found dead in his rooms—over-
dose of morphia—disappears one night during an
ocean voyage, or falls out of the Night Owls’ Club
top-storey window whilst very drunk, and a com-
plaisant coroner, to screen such a swell institution,
hushes the inquest, or, as has been done several
times in the past few years, the routine reporters
are bribed. Why work when a moment of mur-
der pays tens of thousands? It takes a big city
to birth, breed, and nurture such villainy, and if
Scotland Yard can envelop this covey of birds of
prey after whom it is straining every D., London
will gasp so that all the world will hear.”
The only thing the Scotch miss in Aus-
tralia—the Scotch mist.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt from
G.L.jR,.” of £5 for the Suffield fund, and £5 for
the Loyau fund; and from “ ILL.” of 2s. 6d. for
the Loyau fund.
Stated that an official enquiry into the
wreck of La Bourgogne— to be sure it was a
I rench enquiry—completely exonerates the French
sailors from the charges of stabbing passengers,
and so on. That, the report alleges, was done by
foreign steerage passengers, like “the Terrible
lurk, of wrestling notoriety.
Mr. Edwin Grace to The Bulletin from
Randwick:—
Tie your remark that since the death of Mrs. Wilson
Lean Cowper is supposed to be the oldest living Austra-
lian native. The day after the above lady’s death a
schoolmate of hers (Mrs. Phillips) walked from Glebe to
Kandvvick to see the last of her old friend, who was six
months her junior. Mrs. Wilson kept a diary since 1825.
Q. Home Secretary Dickson admits The
Stkeet’s cheerful allegations about a civil-ser-
vant s relative’s visits to the Brisbane female
leper. Visits, and ugh! By the way,
another leper was curiously discovered in Sydney
|. ast week. A doctor called in to a confinement
found his patient suffering from leprosy—with the
result that the whole family are returning to
China.
Sydney Freeman’s Journal, in a reassur-
ing note about the Pope’s health, says it is
cabled that His Holiness is “ only suffering from
the phenomenal heat.” Which, by the way, is all
that people suffer from in well, no matter.
Surely some rascally Orangeman wrote that para-
graph !
E. E. Williams, arch-blasphemer of the
axiomatic truth, ’ hit the Cobden Club so hard
with his book, “ Made in Germany,” that Courte-
nay Boyle was commissioned by Government to
inquire whether the assertion that “ the industrial
glory of Britain is departing ” is really true,
f mauig the commission’s report and statistics a
‘complete verification” of his “Made in Ger-
many assertions, Williams is now out with an-
other book, “ Marching Backwards.” Some
figures: In ’95, as compared with ’93, the export
of manufactures from France increased £2,000,000 ;
Germany, increase, £11,000,000 ; U.S., increase*
£10,000,000; Great Britain, decrease, £19,000,000.
In the first nine months of ’95 Britain exported
£15,180,718 worth of woollen manufactures ; in
'96 it fell away to £14,736,170; in ’97 it dropped
to £13,141,501. On the other hand, the export of
raw wool to be made up in foreign factories goes
up fast, and the export of coal (the end of the
supply of which is within measureable distance)
increases by leaps of millions. The most recent
Board of Trade returns show that Britain bought
from the tI.S. £118,000,000, and sold to the U.S.
£17,000,000, during the year.
CO
y Cheaper an
better than any'
other House in ,
Australasia /)
Strings & Fittings
For Every Musical Instrument.
Pianos
Organs
Music
Violins
Hccordeons
Autoharps
Mouth Organs
Polophons
Cornets
Flutes
SOLE AGENTS FOR
GUITARS,
MANDOLINS,
BANJOS and
ZITHERS
TIE BEST IN THE WORLD!
Used by all the Leading Musicians.
Catalogues
Post Free.
W. H. PALING & CO.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
.A-T BBISBAITE & UEWCASTLB.
Education minister Butler, in S.A., in-
stitutes a “ parents’ visiting day ” —designed to
let more light in upon local pedagogic methods.
And in other respects the newly-elevated minister,
whose failure was confidently predicted, surprises
onlookers —and illustrates once more Kingston’s
superiority as a judge of men.
Labor journals are urging a boycott of all
matches the manufacture of which tends to pro-
duce that horrible necrosis of the lower jawbone,
known as “phossy jaw.” Matches which only
strike on the box and are made from “ red ”
phosphorus do not produce the disease, and are
accordingly advocated.
“ Dead wood Dick ” literature was respon-
sible, up Broken Hill way, the other day, for a
number of lads burgling a grocery and stealing
cigars, cigarettes, lollies and a tin-whistle. Seven
of the boys were taken before the court, though
17 were under apprehension at one time—the odd
10 were “receivers.” The ringleader had
“ turned dog ” on his followers and become a
myrmidon of the police. Several of the lads
who were fined have sworn by the awful symbol
of the Six -fingered Hand of Red to scalp the one
who “ peached ” —ha, ha !
Westralian Justice Hensman is a veritable
type of the slavishly-judicial Judge. He once
affected the utmost ignorance upon hearing a wit-
ness use the expression “ straighthair,” and would
not enter it upon his notes until it had been
clearly interpreted as meaning a Westralian
native. Such pretence on the part of an old sand-
groping lawyer and Judge was greeted in court
with a wink of the other eye, as the term
“ straighthair ” always touches a tender spot
amongst those Westralian families whose descent
from early ‘ ‘ settlers ” is notorious, and also
amongst those, such as that to which the learned
Judge belongs, whose Westralian residence, though
honorable, is old enough to gain for them the
application of the term. Which recalls that there
was no “gammon” of this sort in the recently-
deceased Mr. (N.S.W.) Justice Manning. Sitting
in Full Court on an appeal against a conviction
for attempted blackmail, a day or two before he
died, His Honor in reply to the argument that
there could be no blackmail when there was direct
mention of money, remarked : “Do you seriously
contend, Mr. , that the application for
money would have been any plainer had prisoner
written‘you’d better part the ooftish,’or ‘hand
over the stuff ? ’ ”
m
!K2
wm
m
ONLY
mZTZW/.
GENUINE
&n h
m**
v
WHEN THEY BEAR
aX^Mhai W
m
registered
Mark
this
Trade
m
Beware of
Invitations
m.
A
mm
5
mm
Sj
iA
o\jM^v
n
*
■at
*
/rr
O
'tgkeAo Sl
.
/V.**y'tv V'V'
~Hzzr~n2
r .
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne. Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
D.S.UI. Wont de piste
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
"Pawn broking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER IVEOKrTU.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
HEAD office
Intersection Hunter, Blighano
Castlereagh Streets.**>
• SYDRey •
fif£tg^ srA * L,S *
/, ■->«£»AUnbPßOG**'
V£ Office in AustrM-'*
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed JgOOOOO Berlin*.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHADLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HOTTER ST., SYDNEY.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/-each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A IST ANTS Engaged for the Country.
A Silver Watcb
«• GIVEN AWAY. THi
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
N V R B WTO
T A W T H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellery
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and'says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1898.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
„ Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbe Trustees, €xec<itorS,
AND
Agsocy Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydnky Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Z-aland Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000
I’aid-up £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esii., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
Georg" Means, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. : Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors : VVm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Eishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deucshar.
liny market, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE- 1
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Gtiarantee
Co . JAd. of TjO
71.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manaarer for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
CEttllMß
UODERIdEIX
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
it®’ CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sulk Agents :
David grata 4n Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
MALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, August 27, 2 p.m,
-Gabo, Saturday, Sept. 3, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Saturday, Sept. 3,12 Noon.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, August 30, 5 p.m
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2 p.m
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Porta received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO AU FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
VIA AMERICA
■ by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svduey
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sau Fran-
' isco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and. Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
-VIA-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
T \ESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
■*-' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing- and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TVEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
-* years from date of issue. Interest: 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum; and 6 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company-
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Cable Address—Kiemseil.
Code—Moueikg & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIB.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
3EE3I U_Cs’fc"fc , s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Land, &c.
PERTH!
WEST AUSTRALIA.
£5 each BUILDING SITES, close to City, in a few
years will be very valuable. Easy Terms. Torrens Title.
Plans and all information from
Ernest C. V. Broughton,
Valuator under R.P. Act. 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, August 26.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
"Saturday, August 27.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
August 26.
S.S. Marioo (from Melb.)
Saturday, August 27.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
August 27.
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday,
September 3.
Best & Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
G - * S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Companv will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-uionev can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(iPlluiraith, [fl'Eacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accotnrnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine 'unrivalled.
Pull Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ATKIN SONS
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S only.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
T. & E. Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
FOR SUMMER AIMD WINTER
AtAD
NO EQUAL FOE KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUG INESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Bewaye of Injurious Imitations.
“ BEETHAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Mel'cttime
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ONE HONEST MAN
TVEAR SIR, Please inform your readers that, if
1 ' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, I
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. 1 had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sw’eats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Ilalpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
1 have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANOERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
FREE.
Our 50s. SOLID SILVER
KEYLESS HUNTER
WATCH to all comply-
ing with this advertisement and the offer
which we shall send. It would be ridicu-
lous to expect us to continue giving away these Watches
for anv length of time. So kindly send at once if you
wish to secure A SILVER WATCH. For 7; >
post free, we will send a Solid Gold Brooch or Scarf Pin,
together with our Marvellous Offer, and on your comply-
ing with offer we shall forward our 50s. Watch. Under-
stand, we charge no money whatever for these w atches.
Number is limited. Money refunded in full if sent too
late. Send 7s. 6d., with stamped addressed envelope.
—ADDRESS-
THE MANAGER,
00., [td.,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Sc Bathurst Streets,
EY»
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
-Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
ENO S'FRUIT SALT
A Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
r 0
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach. Constipation, Thirst,
Shin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
•with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYiEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Lno s iruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
IIOMSCII
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET, STOREY.
Cooltrardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply 6. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
StimulatingI—Nutritive—Exquisite 1 —Nutritive—Exquisite in Flavor.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders,, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D, Cohen &
Co.j and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr
a
F. 11.0.5. 13., L.H.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at anytime,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injur3’ to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired", was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
UNTo Man or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANTS exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DER ANGrEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 blocked in £old, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures I it will enable .you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
nerves, lviany wnu na'c uuu» uccn cApm — ~— - - * ■ , , . , .
n versallv respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
nlone Therefore if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously confidenHally, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Bark-circled Eves • Sallow or Pimplv Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Rowels • Bad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely Wo Charge
for Consultation • but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
nlaint including’Speoial Complaints. Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
c ‘ faints Fistula Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannoi warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT who’will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney j or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G-.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
ASCSIHm
H3HIY3H 3IIHAV
JOJ 31SV


yz~ yz-
*
*
*
V-
*
'f
*
BILL MARTIN
ON HIS
RED BIRD,
on which he won the Aus-
tralian Championships and
World’s Records. His latest
was the winning of the 50-
Mile AMERICAN CHAM.
PIONSHIP in Record Time.
Red Bird Special, Red Bird
No. 1, & Black Bird Cycles
are the Best Bicycles that
ever happened, and have
more improvements and
point of merit than any.
m
m mm
i M
■ ini
■
SllilillS
1 .
I 1 I 1 H illl S
WMMSjpp
1
e
£ -
THE GOOLD
Bicycle Co.,
Limited.
Australasian Branch —
64 KING ST., SYDNEY.
245 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Edward-st., Brisbane.
Victoria-st., Wellington.
Agents Everywhere. Our
Agency is a valuable one
to you.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
-Ti
HAVE YOU FIVE MINUTES TO SPARE?
If so, you cannot employ it better than by inspecting our stock of celebrated ENGLISH CYCLES, comprising—
Premiers Simpsons Sparkbrooks Calcotts St. Swithins Eurekas
We have imperative instructions to clear these wheels—all ’97 stock—at about HALF-COST.
Country buyers write for particulars. You will never have such another opportunity.
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Frank Madden took the trouble to assure Vie.
Assembly last week that he is not “ the champion of the
bookmaker,” as some people assert. If Madden doesn’t
want to be mistaken for Ikey Mo’s barracker he had bet-
ter show himself an honest debater when he makes
speeches on Ikey’s behalf. He quotes the programme for
the latest meeting of the S.A.J.C. as evidence that
“ stakes generally have been decreased 15 per cent.,” and
further alleges, for the misinformation of the ignorant,
that stakes in S.A. have a tendency to grow smaller and
smaller every year. As a matter of fact, they have grown
bigger and bigger during the ten years of the tote’s exist-
ence. The recent—very recent—decline in the S.A.J.O.
receipts is attributable, no doubt, to the rapid advance of
the Adelaide Racing Club, which now gives thousands of
pounds more during the season than it gave in ’96. When
Madden was interrupted in his Ikey Mo-ish oration with a
request to tell the House what the A.R.C. had done, he
got out of the difficulty by saying that he had taken the
■‘principal club.”
He disingenuously instanced a temporary check
in the prosperity of one club, and ignored the rapid ad-
vance made by another. Madden, in this matter, is nob
the Champion of Truth, anyhow. As a student of racing
figures, he is palpably using his knowdedge to misguide
the public. The book which doesn’t lie knocks all the
stuffing out of Frank Madden’s argument, for it shows
that a lot of entirely new racing stakes, up to the value
of £3OO and £5OO apiece, have been established by the
A.R.O. within the past 18 months.
As for Ikey Mo’s friend, Hancock, who
fritters away his time and money (so he says) in
punting, there’s no disguise about his blatant incon-
sistency. In the first place, Hancock said “the
totalisator would extend the area of gambling, though it
might decrease its volume.” Now, fully 75 per cent, of
the betting, mostly small betting, that occurs in Mel-
bourne is in connection with the little proprietary-club
meetings of which Hancock is a habituC. Good. “ The
present bill,” says Hancock, “contemplates an injustice
to the proprietary racing clubs round Melbourne.”
Therefore Hancock opposes the Bill. He knows that it
would settle the hash of these accursed every-day-in-the-
week gambling places, and yet he has the impudence to
declare that it would “ extend the area of gambling.”
The glaring absurdity of such anti-Tote vaporings by
legislators who are personally acquainted with Ikey Mo is
indeed edifying.
One thing is certain. If the Turner Govt, has
the interests of Young Victoria at heart it will appoint a
fair and square Commission of Enquiry into the Betting
Evil, and the result will surely be a Govt. Totalisator
Bill. The Turner policy has been to stand aside and
wink at the annual failure of Jack Murray’s measure,
which this year was discussed one night in August, and
couldn’t be discussed again for the next three months
because it was merely a private member’s bit of business.
Some of the anti-tote allegations put forward
by Frank Madden and John Hancock for the preservation
of their friend Ikey Mo in Victoria are worth quoting and
commenting on. Said Frank Madden: “The totalisator
would increase the evil of gambling, as it had done every-
where. . . . According to the annual report of the
S. A. J.C., there was a continuous shrinkage in its revenue.
The decrease was attributed to the falling off in the
receipts for the totalisator.” Gambling evil increases as
tote receipts decline. Rats 1 But said Hancock, flatly
contradicting his Tory ally in this bad cause : “ Without
the totalisator Adelaide racing was at a low ebb, now it
was booming, and Morphetville was second only to
Flemington as a racecourse.” The one man opposes the
tote on the ground that it is detrimental to big
racing clubs and the cultivation of high-class horseflesh.
The other man affirms that it has brought prosperity to
the Adelaide racecourses. Again, Madden said : “ Under
the totalisator, racing clubs would spring up mushroom-
fashion all over the country, as they had done in South
Australia, but the stakes would grow smaller and
smaller.” What are the facts re racing in Victoria, where
the tote isn’t, and in S.A., where the tote is? The Argus,
which issues a racing calendar from its office, states that
“ the number of racing clubs in Victoria is about 65, in-
cluding clubs which would not be licensed to use the
machine.” The object of the Tote Bill is to kill these
clubs which would not be licensed. A mushroom
growth of new' clubs is an impossibility, as Madden
must know. And now, what says Miller’s carefully
compiled “ Racing Chronicle ” for last year ? In Victoria
there were race-meetings at 145 different places, as many
as 12 meetings in the year being held at some of these
“ pitches.” In South Australia the number of racing
“pitches” was 42 only, and the greatest number of
meetings held at any one course was four. The two
principal clubs—the S.A.J.C. and the Adelaide R.C.—
were responsible for four meetings apiece, and of these
four meetings one in each ease was a tw’o-days’ fixture,
and one other extended over three days. Each club
compressed five out of seven days’ racing per annum into
two important meetings. The S.A.J.C., whose stakes,
according to Madden, “grow smaller and smaller"
(whereas Hancock states that the club has gradually
arrived at a “ booming ” condition since the tote was in-
troduced some ten years ago), supplied 30 races in its five
principal days last year. The total amount given in
stakes was £6480. Average value of the stakes, £216.
And The Bulletin herewith challenges Frank Madden to
prove that he isn’t a mischievous misleader of the public.
The S.A.J.C. at its principal meetings, last year, actually
gave more stakes : money than in 1896. He can refer to
his “ Racing Chronicle,” and see for himself.
* » * •
If the tote were legalised in Victoria—“ The
bookmaker might be removed, but he would not be
killed. He would become the owner,” roars John Han-
cock, M.L.A. Whereas Frank Madden vows that no man
will be able to support a stud of racehorses when there
are no bookies to back them with. Owners must get the
cream of the betting-market, or perish. Therefore Ikey
Mo, having become an owner (as Hancock predicts) will
slowly and surely perish. What a fascinating argument
in favor of the Tote 1
» * • *
The progress of racing in South Australia with
the totalisator : S.A.J.C., in ’93-’94, paid in stakes £6744 ;
in successive years since, £7242, £7717, £8162, £8165
compare, for the same period, the Vic. figures—and the
club’s net profits have allowed £21,000 to be spent on im-
provements—against which, by the way, owners have
something to say. Mr. C. H, T. Hart, growling on their
behalf at the annual meeting, urged, but apparently
without much result, that the public and members should
be given a rest, and the owners sweetened with a little
more prize-money.
• * • •
Whilst Frank Madden was talking balderdash
to the effect that the tote in Victoria would be the ruin
of first-class horse-racing, Walter Hickenbotham (the
trainer of Mentor and Carbine) and Alec Taylor, who
trains for more than one “bloated capitalist,” were
busily engaged in spreading the gospel of the tote.
* * * *
Frank Madden, in Vic. Assembly, opposed the
Tote Bill because “ the machine would militate against
the production of thoroughbred horses in Australia ” :
That sentiment is all “ mv eye.”
The “ books ” who bleed the masses
Believe ’twill stop the grand supply
Of thoroughgoing asses.
* * * *
A great number of parsons and bookmakers are
arguing that the Totalisator has produced increased
racing in S.A. Considering that before it was re-enacted
a few years ago racing was practically dead in S.A. this
statement is true. The machine is now, however, oper-
ated under rigid regulations and police supervision, and
only clubs with a certain membership are allowed to work
it. In the old days it was run by private speculators for
their own benefit, hence its abolition. Nowadays tote
profits are devoted to improvements on courses and in-
creased stakes, and S.A. owners have time and again pro-
THE LUKE OF MANCHESTER.
nounced against a return to the old bookmaker regime.
Never was racing so decent in S.A. as to-day.
* * * «
“ Though a punter of 40 years’ standing, I
strongly oppose this Bill, because I believe it will increase
gambling. My boys do not go to the racecourse, for they
say father can lose enough for the whole family.”—(Han-
cock, M.L.A., in Tic. Assembly.)
Not for the first time The Bulletin asks who is
Rev. Joseph Nicholson, of Geelong, and where does he
get his wildly exaggerated statistics of tote receipts?
Rev. Joseph shows such remarkable enthusiasm in pub-
lishing tommy-rotten arguments against the Totalisator
Bill every time it is brought forward in Victoria, as to
excite a public interest in him and his flock, and all that
appertaineth unto the good man. Any parson, or other
professional pietist who conspicuously attacks the tote,
lays himself open to the suspicion of having been con-
verted to the wrong faith by Ikey Mo. Is Geelongeezer
Nicholson one of these unhappy converts, and why doesn’t
somebody teach him that the tote which he condemns is
good in the sight of the Lord ? The Bulletin has begun
to tremble for the soul of all kerristians who shut their
eyes to terewths concerning vicious Ikey Mo and the
virtuous machine, and this journal trembles particularly
for the immortal future of “Rev. Joseph Nicholson,
Parsonage, Geelong.”
• • * •
“ Temperance ” Vale, of the Victorian Alliance,
had his foolish say in opposition to the Tote, and the cold-
water clique passed a resolution alleging “that State
sanction of a new form of betting would extend the evil,
and not reduce it.” Argument is wasted on these arro-
gant saints. They simply refuse to learn that the Tote
is Ikey Mo minus Ikey’s blasphemy, bad habits, and ex-
tortionate profits. That it is a means of substituting oc-
casional harmless gambling (as far as the g.p. are con-
cerned) for habitual pernicious punting. The saints
persist in their obstinate ignorance of these facts. They
deny any Truth which doesn’t lend itself to snuffle, so to
speak. In their vindictively moral desire to damn the sins
they’re not inclined to, they are not likely to favor a
machine that would discount the force of an old-estab-
lished curse.
* * » •
“ Not once or twice, but nearly always so,
The machine’s ‘ divvy ’ beats the price of Mo.”
V.R.C. meeting at Flemington (Vic.), last Saturday ; start-
ing prices of winners were : 7-4, 7-2, 5-4, 4-1, 2-1, 3-1;
whilst, same day, at A.R.C. meeting, Adelaide (S.A.), the
dividends were : £5 195., £2 11s., £ll 155., £7 155., £3 25.,
£26 17s.—which pan-out muchly in favor of the machine.
* * ' • »
Two noteworthy winners at the V.R.C. meeting
last Saturday were Caledonia and Dreamland. The three-
year-old had been whispered as a “dead-bird” for a race
at Caulfield two or three weeks previously, but was
scratched at the last moment. Saturday’s performance
bore out the prediction that Caledonia would certainly
win the next time he wasn’t scratched.
Dreamland didn’t score a straight-out win, bub
the handsome old deceiver ran a dead-heat with La Cara-
bine in quite brilliant style. This coming after dozens of
failures—which were always attributed to a weakness of
constitution rather than a want of gameness—suggests
that Dreamland may even now do something worthy of
his long-ago reputation. But The Bulletin will not be-
lieve it possible until it Is actually accomplished.
• • • • • •
After all, it is a waste of time to talk about the
Cup chances of the Victorian horses until some of them
have had their “form” tested at Randwick Spring
meeting. Last year the Sydney horses did as they liked
when they reached Melbourne.
* * * •
One of the best wins on Pat’s Grand National
was that of a cherubic priest, who takes his wins and
losses with the same easy good humor. In which he
differs from a sporting brother of the cloth, who was a
client of an erstwhile tipster, and who, after parting
with about £6OO, got restive, and wrote to the sharp
one, threatening law. The tip at once prepared a letter
to the shepherd’s ecclesiastical superior, stating the facts
of the case, and sent a copy thereof to the irate sky-pilot,
who, on condition the original was not forwarded, con-
sented to settle the matter out of court.
* * * *
Whatever the premises, the vicarious backer
will never deduce an inference likely to act as a deterrent,
Kelly Maitland is generally credited with all the wisdom
of the Evil One, yet Vindictive wins three times in sue-
cession unbacked by his owner. And, instead of realising
from this that horses are not machines readily adapted to
the working of the betting market, punters wink the
other eye and ask one another knowingly what “ R.K.”
has up his sleeve. Once he has enthroned an ovvner on
the altar of cleverness, the backer never admits the
possibility of mistakes on the part of his idol. And this
is just why the backer “falls in ”so frequently. Starting
with the assumption that all men—racing men, of course
—are full of guile, his calculations are upset by the few
honest owners, and the mistakes of others, who are
“ honest ” but “ clever."
«w» * a - *«m - * „ „ m
, : su BK es fc lon / or Tattersall. To
draw all sweeps on the morning of the race, and “Tat.”
to pay the owners of the placed horses a percentage—say
10—out of the sweep. This would be an inducement to
owners to start their horses, and few of the lucky drawers
would object to pay a fair thing for a start.
Rumored—on what antbnritv i« unknown that
«• Tntißrooii ” »!!",! „, authority is unknown—that
future in connection with !!!
which after all it sweeps. This, if true
neonle wiah fhlv La ’f ® andw ! ck
at “Tati ” Pnnairierin thelr report with a slap
bLer the AT P man T ' X
nf fhe blgger X e X'X he X e ? oufc
guns' must wish they hadfflt spoken^^ 1 h ° d 6r ’
g o wis y 9 n t spoken.
Though A.J.C. Spring meeting is near, and
horses engaged thereat are being bustled along, betting
” “Lpsom £ ft
formances-rotten reeds to trust to. Blue Metal, Vigor-
on S th a e"day ] of"the e met, The
joie should have a strong claim on public consideration.
Fucile ran very respectably in recent A.J.C. Spring Han-
dicap, and, as he can be made lbs. better, should go near
winning the Metrop.
*** * *
An English paper: “Such is the demand for
Australian sires that the subscription-lists for Trenton
have Already 189 9 1 ”98 ’ nominatlons
nave already been taken for 1899.
mi •.. • . . .... ,
Ihe pitting or an interprovincial football-team
agaanstthe next fifteen is a mistake, as, if beaten by
the latter, as was the case on Saturday last at Sydney, it
is neither satisfactory to the home team nor to their
opponents. If successful now against the Queenslanders,
it will be the more humiliating to the Barianalanders to
be beaten by a team which was defeated before leaving
home by 32 points to 23; and, if the Northerners should
win, it cannot be said that they bejit N.S.W.’sbest team.
tj , , . . *.. *
ilenlen s action in not coming out for the
second half, on account of his dissatisfaction with the
refereeing, should be severely dealt with by the football
authorities. The average football barracking crowd are
rough enough without the players pandering to them.
XJX refereeing what it may, if the game is to be kept
within bounds at all, the players must accept the referee’s
decisions as^ final for the time being.
rp, , . . .. *
llie cable news that Albert irott had put up a
good, but not singularly brilliant, batting and bowling
performiuicc for Middlesex v. Leicestershire was an un-
called-for expense. Leicestershire is not a strong county,
anyhow. Besides, the time has passed away when Aus-
trabans could be thrilled by the discovery that an ex-
Australian cricketer was the star of Hinglish county
matches.
* * • *
Printed that an English pro. bowler had stated
that, in his opinion, Albert Trott was the worst bowler
who ever made a reputation. Shortly after he had to
face Trott, and was handed a paper which he was asked
Mil his innings. Trott’s first ball
hulled him in the binjie, the second he struck wildly at
and missed, the third rattled his stumps. Returned to
the pavilion, he read, “ Trott wins £5 if he hits you with
the first ball, makes you miss the second, and bowls you
in first over. What about T.’s reputation, now ? ”
• * * *
“ It will gladden the heart,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “ of many an Australian
barracker to hear that ‘ Mr.’ Storer, dogged bat and
dodgy wicket-keep, brought back such a reputation from
his trip ‘down under’ that his rival ‘pro.,’ Lilley, is
getting all the chances of making for himself a better
one. Much to the disgust of the Derbyshire man, Lilley
has been picked to take the sticks for the Players v.
Gentlemen, the North v. South, and Sloddart’s Team v.
England-left. Storer is just such a ‘ pro.’ as ‘ W.G.’
would have been had he not been hampered by the desig-
nation of ‘amateur,’ but lacks the big man’s portly
cunning to conceal his savageness when umpires are
‘ agin him.’ Than this ultra-sharp stumper there is no
more serviceable bat in the two cricket continents, and
he holds the fifth position in the average-list with 4570
for 20 attempts—Lilley has 38-46 for 13 innings, but
sportsmanlike temper must be served.”
• • a •
Clearly our old friend, Storer, didn’t pick up
any bowling wrinkles during his Australian trip. The
cable reports a prodigious score by little Brown and big
Tunnicliffe against Derbyshire, which is Storer’s county.
We can almost assume that a good many of Brown’s 400
runs were got by boundary-smitings of the pugnacious
wicket-keeper’s slows. When he made his big, decisive
innings in the final test-match of Stoddart’s '94 team, he
was absurdly rough on Giffen, who was bowling “ tripe ”
on that particular morning ; sometimes with intent, but
toujours “ tripe,” anyhow. Brown is a thorough little
bull-dog for “ tripe.”
* * • •
The Golden Gate athletic club, Sydney, brought
off a successful set-to on Saturday night when Tweedie
met Ritchie. Ritchie’s gameness proved of no avail
against Tweedie’s cleverness, and the latter won in a
little over two rounds.
• • * •
Perhaps, out of rough and raw Kanowna, there
there isn’t in Australia any town about which this could
be printed : —“ The well-known prize-fighters, W. Doherty
and the two Duggans, arrived yesterday. They were met
at the station and driven in a drag to Soanso’s hotel,
where they were welcomed to the town. Over a glass of
wine the Mayor made some appropriate remarks.” Yet
how soon these towns get out of that way ! Already
Coolgardie, which only a year or two ago would have
done quite the same thing itself, except that there might
have been a drag apiece for the visitors, now lampoons
Kanowna’s Mayor unmercifully.
* * * *
Percy Cavill has done well in England since
joining the professionals. On Friday last he won the
850yds. professional championship at St. Ives, S. W.
Greaseley again finishing behind him.
• * • •
Dawson-Mannock billiard exhibitions fell flat
in Melbourne at the Athenaeum Hall, and again at
Menzies’ Hotel. Dawson, whose general resemblance to
Dot Boucicault is noticeable, plays a fine, all-round game,
but, after all said and done, the little ’un is a tame per-
former in comparison with John Roberts. He hasn’t the
same mastery over the balls, doesn’t bring them together
for nursery cannoning with Roberts’s unerring ease and
delicacy, and when he has them well in hand he certainly
fails to persuade the experienced public that he could
equal Roberts with the “push ” barred. The champion,
last time he visited Australia, made some wonderful
sequences of legitimate cannon touches, free from any
suspicion of push—and made them faster than Dawson’s
top rate of scoring. Every way he was the more inter-
esting showman. He held his audience. The game, as
Dawson and Mannock play it, doesn’t impress unskilled
spectators, and men stroll out of the room to get a drink
after waiting for half-an-hour to see Dawson score
about half as many points as Roberts would put up in the
same time. Also, these wearied ones sometimes forget to
come back again. The entertainment is not sufficiently
exciting. Dawson, taking one instance, will concede 225
to 750 to Mannock, and the biggest breaks will be 101 by
Dawson and 107 by Mannock —good billiards, hot not
astounding.
* * * *
Lawyer Hutchison’s Restraint of Wagering Bill,
to be considered by M.L. Parliament, is a drastic measure,
likely to be altogether knocked out or utterly emascu-
lated. Under it, anyone sending letter, telegram, or
advt. to another re quotations, and thereby “ inciting to
wager,” is liable to £lOO fine or three months. The
street-penciller who “ loiters ” for a living is to be simi-
larly treated ; also, any “ loiterer” may be run-in with-
out warrant. There are other consequential provisions
which infringe the liberty of the subject, and one con-
cerning stakeholders, who, though they pay over stakes
to winners, must return deposits to losers, if the latter
demand it.
• • • •
Another attempt is to be made this session to
legalise consultations in M.L. Heaps of money drift
across to “ Tatt.,” and Lawry, M.H.R., thinks that M.L.
might just as well have its own horse-lottery. He pro-
poses that sweep-promoters should be licensed (cost £25);
Hancock’s offspring do not bet
With Ikey Mo on ’osses,
They view with undisguised regret
Their punting parent’s losses.
“ Alas 1 ” perchance, they groan aloud,
“ He’s backed another duffer,
He drops the stuff for all the crowd,
And we have got to suffer.
“ His pants are quite a shocking fib,
His hat is very seedy,
Through ‘ doing in his little bit,’
The old ’un’s always needy.
He might afford a smarter coat
(Because he’d save some money)
If he would vote for Murray’s Tote,
And yet he don’t. It’s funny 1
“A spectacle for men and gods,
At pony-meets he poses—
The patron of starvation odds,
The friend of Ikey Moses.
His policy seems rough on us ;
At first it was bewild’ring,
But Dad explains the matter thus—
He wants to warn his children.
“ We never venture on a course ;
The Turf we’d scorn to trample :
We hate the very name of Horse—
The fruits of Dad’s example.
And w’hen we mention the machine,
It makes him awful 1 shirty,’
For racing with the Tote is clean,
And he prefers it dirty.”


STEADY STEERING
is a mark of the perfect
alignment of the ....
Mnssey-Harris Bicycle, and. a source of delight to its riders. It
is the result of the expert designing fhorough and skilful con-
struction that always distinguishes ......
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES
and makes them “ Run Easy and Keep Running Easy.”
MASSEY-HARRIS GO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch : 163-169 William-at., Melbourne.
Branch Depots : 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 886 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
SHORTHAND
Thoroughly Taught by
Post. Mr. F. W. JONSON,
20 years’ Certificated Teacher (of Riverview College ;
Petersham and Ashfield Govt. Technical Schools).
SYDNEY TYPEWRITING SCHOOL, 21 Elizabeth-street.
Tel. 3015. Pitman’s Books. MSS. and Documents typed.
“ DOWRXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
r
in
in
i
r i n hi i rTTI n
li
u
n
;% zS.'tTZ:- - L
V '• - i r- ■if
**#
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE I'KESt'ENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell s’ Kiiisj-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5u
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor • GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
•ytte are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
»' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
B2F Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . . .
(jjolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English American B-^cles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPABEIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MAC KLIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SID NET.
The Victorian Road Championships—2s $5O Riles
THE CUP PRESENTED BY THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.
Value 50 Guineas.
mSm
mam. §
The races are open to all Victorian Clubs, and each Club sends four men.
The first event (the 25-mile) took place
on
Saturday, 6th August, and resulted
. n a win for A. C. Middleton ; A.
I Calder was second. Both men rode
CYCLES
fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sole Agents
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George-street, Sydney; 139 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne; Adelaide-street, Brisbane; 33 Bundle-street, Adelaide;
Hay-street, Perth.
that each applicant give the Public Trustee a bond backed
by a bank, assurance society, or responsible person to the
amount of the proposed lottery as a guarantee that it
will be honestly conducted. Tickets to be stamped at
the rate of id. in the £—such fees to be devoted to
charitable or other purposes.
* * * •
It has been discovered in M.L. —more particu-
larly in Wellington districts (writes “ Steffi Cassander ”
to Tub Bulletin) —that a wholesale forgery of totalisator
tickets has been going on during the present year, with
very aggravating loss to those concerned. At a recent
Masterton race-meeting £6O was paid away in divs. on
forged tickets ; and at Hawera, Wellington, and also in
Auckland, divs. have been paid out considerably over the
sum allotted for same. The forgeries have been so per-
fect that the tote, or racing authorities, have never yet
been able to drop on to a holder. A “ protest ” div. was
purposely delayed at, the last Wellington winter meeting
till next day so that the clerks could examine tickets more
carefully, as they feared a protest would give the forgers
ample time to put in their work, but there were none
submitted. At present it is absurdly easy to forge tote-
tickets (they are all of one design in plain black-and-
white); the only difficulty is in the rubber stamp. The
tickets bear a differently-designed rubber stamp for each
horse and race, and it is asserted that the operators must
carry round with them a very complete and up-to-date
rubber-stamp plant, and that their operations are
probably conducted in an enclosed cab. Of course,
they must have trouble in getting hold of a
winning ticket, but they get one all the same-
perhaps they invest on every horse. At all events,
they have never yet been caught, and as they are only
working for comparatively small sums, they are not
likely to be. It has also been discovered that tote people
have been hitherto very careless re stocks of blank
tickets (tickets before the rubber-stamp impression has
been made), and it is possible the forgers may have stolen
these from some hotel or grand-stand before a race-
meeting, probably at some country place where hundreds
of them have been carelessly stacked, and the tote people
do not seem to knovv the exact quantities they start with,
as in spite of each ticket being numbered there is always
a lot to spare, go far, this matter has been kept out of
the papers.
* * • *
The Irishman, W. J. M. Newburn, who at pre-
sent holds the world’s record at broad jumping, stands
6ft. 6in. In three successive jumps he cleared well over
23ft.
* * * *
There are evidently a few good athletic parsons
yet at’Ome. Recently Rev. W. G. Lutyens ran 900 yds.
in 2min. 0 2-ssec. (beating W. G. George’s amateur record
by 1 l-ssec.), and in doing the 1000yds. in 2min. 14 5-ssec.
he beat Rev. W. Pollock Hill’s record by the small margin
of lsec.
* * * *
The great Rugby football game has sadly de-
generated in M.L., bashing exhibitions being a conspicu-
ous feature of most contests this season (writes a Bulletin
correspondent). The papers now publish a list of wounded
after “scientific” expositions, just as they do after a
railway disaster or a Yanko-Spankee naval battle. In one
interprovincial leather-matinee lately two were knocked
right out, one skipper had his nose broken, and two
others were stunned and ambulanced for repairs. The
best back of another travelling combination heavily
st.oushed an opponent, and was passed out for a year. A
f#w others have been similarly treated in other centres;
one bold bad basher boastsof a two years’ sentence, and an-
other is disqualified from ever entering a football ground.
Three brothers were lately disabled—one eye, one arm,
one leg in bandages. At meals two had to sit together :
one held the fork, the other steered the knife, the father
lectured on the brutality of football, whilst brother No.
3 winked the other eye.
* • • •
G. B. Tincler, the world’s champion ped. at 1,
2 and 3 miles, is anxious to visit Australia. A mild boom
in running would come as a relief after a nauseating
course of cycle-fake.
* * * »
“ Punter ” to The Bulletin :—“ Apropos your
recent article. The Vic. Tote Bill is intended as a turf-
reform bill, and not as an Act for the Encouragement of
Gambling. Consequently the Bill proposes to boycott
proprietary clubs, for several reasons. In the first, place,
proprietary racing clubs are run for the benefit of one
man, or, perhaps, half-a-dozen men, instead of for the
benefit of the property and the sports who race horses
thereon. Flemington would not have become the most
perfectly appointed show-place in the world if the
V.R.O. were a private concern conducted by two or
three men for their own profit. To grant the Tote
to proprietary clubs would be to swell the incomes of
the men who run them, and encourage the kind of racing
which good sportsmen would gladly suppress altogether.
Rotten little meetings would be run on the tote. To per-
mit the use of the tote for more than four days at anyone
meeting would be to promote race meetings where the
same horses would, in many cases, be raced on six succes-
sive days. Seeing that no Australian meeting up to date
has ever been extended over more than four days, and
that everybody, except the professional gamblers, reckons
that a four days’ meeting is one day too many,
there can be no objection to the limit clause in
the Tote Bill. The Bill, if passed, will wipe out
proprietary clubs, and thereby confer a great boon upon
the misguided shop-boy who is lured into backing
the eronk gee-gees which run at those pestilent gather-
ings. It will make the horse-game a cleaner and better
game and reduce the gambling spirit in Victoria. If Tub
Bulletin admires the gambling spirit and is in favor of
sticking totes all over the place to be worked by rogues
in the interests of villainy—or even to be worked by the
Govt, in the interests of charity at the expense of a
hugely-increased Gambling Spirit—then the Tote Bill is
bad from a Bulletin point of view. Racing men consider
it good in all its clauses. It isn't being introduced
‘ humbly and apologetically, and on a small scale,’ but
quietly and confidently, and on a scale calculated to serve
the very best interests of the public in general. There
now 1 ”
* • • *
Politicians nowadays make a great bid for the
“Young Australia” vote, and though it is considered
that this is a purely federal vote, it is just as well to be
on the safe side. A second-class Sydney Eastern suburbs
cricket club has, for the coming season, “ elected ” 20
vice-presidents at (say) one guinea each— including not
only the six surrounding M’sP., but most of the recently-
defeated candidates as well.
* * * *
“Tic-tacking,” or telegraphing the odds from
the paddock to the Leger, which was ukased out of
existence at Randwick, is not interfered with by the
English racing authorities, and the “ silver bookies at
Newmarket or any leading English racecourse gladly pay
an expert tic-tacker £6 a week. “ Directly the numbers
go up for a race,” says an English authority,, and the
betting on the event opens, the duties of the tic-tac man
commence. First, he hauls madly at his left ear, then
repeats the operation on his right, and finishes up by
tweaking his nose vigorously three times. Calming down
somewhat, he stands listening to the cries of the book-
makers around him, but suddenly, without warning,
begins once more to ill-use himself, by slapping his right
cheek, jabbing himself under the chin, and smacking his,
by this time, perspiring brow in the manner of a falsely -
accused hero of melodrama,”
* * * *
The apotheosis of the pug ! Four exponents of
' the noble art, not finding sufficient appreciation in Perth,
moved camp to Kanowna. They were met by the Mayor,
and invited to champagne in the council-chamber.
There his worship welcomed them on behalf of the citi-
zens of “ this prosperous and go-ahead city” in “a few
well-chosen phrases.” One of the four professors, with
an eloquence born of numerous newspaper defiances, re-
sponded to these complimentary attentions in “ suitable
terms.”
• * * *
The first public speech made by a N.S.W.
cycling champion was at a dinner given in his honor by
Victorian wheelmen. Praise had been lavishly bestowed,
and every one agreed that the cyclist would be able to
best even Zimmerman, then a power in the world. When
he stood to reply, cheers and shouts of “ Good boy (say)
Billy,” greeted him on all sides. Billy glanced apprehen-
sively about him, and at last remarked, “Oh, nark it,
you’s blanky Victorians!" Brief, unique, and to the
point.


Alfßushmen
Use it
For Cleansing the Blood
it has no Equal.
We give below the portrait and testimonial
jf Mr. Granger Ward of Brisbane, Queensland
m
m
wm.
"Some years ago while in America I had
fever and Ague. It left me in a very weak
state and quite done’up. I took some of Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and it soon put me to
rights and- my strength returned. I can
safely recommend
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
to others. While in the bush of this country
I had an attack of scurvy but I soon got free
of this complaint by using the same remedy.
For cleaning the blood and for eruptions of
the skin 1 do not think it can he beat. All
the buslimen use it.”
For Constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
SECOND-HAND
ANl>
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
pna
DEAF
rW “Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
rfdtur.il Curly, from 3/f> each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, S/te, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. H. wigzeii,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List-
Prompt attention'given to Country Orders,
A Maitland (N.S.W.) man, moving a vote of
confidence:— “l have much pleasure in moving
that Mr. Blank, a man, as you know, of refine-
ment —er —and of—er—er —learning and of—er—
ability and a thorough gentleman, is a fit and
proper person to represent ” (getting annoyed at
the behaviour of the other man’s supporters)
“ this rotten, larrikin-ridden, loafing hole filled
with the worst gang of cut-throats under the
glorious canopy of Heaven.” But the man of
refinement, &c., won’t represent above hole in
this Parliament.
Within a few years Brisbane has given
birth to (and buried) four Democratic weeklies —
Boomerang, Chronicle, Tribune and Echo.
The first, by far the most brilliant, was murdered
by extravagant management—it paid too heavily
for its brilliancy; the second died of frequent
change of editorial control and organised adver-
tisers’boycott ; the third -run by Vosper, of W. A.,
—never took life seriously, and had only four thin
and eccentric issues ; and the last, although above
the average in patches, became so erratic in policy
and feeble in funds that its last issue was about
the most satisfactory event in its existence. Yet,
with these four dried specimens before him, the
writer, if he were a bloated capitalist, anxious to
increase his pile, would sooner sink his lucre in an
ably-conducted Brisbane radical weekly or daily
than in the best present show in the market.
“ VonKotze I read A. Meston’s opinion
of Lionel Johnson, Byron’s detractor, with much
relish, not to say admiration. I always admire the
Sacred Ibis. He provides that element of Rococo
humor that seems to have gone out of fashion in
the higher circles of society with the reformation
of Don Quixote, and is now to be found only
secreted away in the box of Matilda Jane, the
cook, and read surreptitiously by the light of the
slush-lamp to the weeping Mary Ann, maid of
all work. A sort of chaste and sentimental
mediaeval Deadwood Dick, and extremely rare.
Also extremely shallow and polysyllabic. Some
of Mr. Meston’s highflown and trancendentally
virginal love stories I cherish among my most
valued treasures even unto this day. And when I
feel low-spirited, I read them over again, and
courage returns. A community that lets Meston
live and write, cannot be utterly callous and
hardhearted, and impossible to exploit. But in
this instance, I fear me, Mr. Lionel Johnson will
derive much unholy credit out of the Great Croco-
dile’s sneers. If Lionel aforesaid had known the
Mighty Protector, he could have boiled down his
criticism to the remark, that Mr. Meston is an
admirer of Byron. Which classifies Byron at
once. On the other hand, it explains the poet’s
wonderful success, and promises immortality to
him while there are Mary Janes on this matter-of-
fact planet.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Westralia had 550 miles of State-owned
railway at June, ’95, while by May, 1898, it had
1269 miles completed and a good deal under
construction. Westralia has a mile of State-
owned railway for every 133 inhabitants, and, in
proportion to population, it is the most-railwayed
State in the world.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
D . S .MAI R
GO
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2/6 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appiiances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
“F.P.”: Re moon-rainbows. On the
evening of 3rd Aug., from 7.30 to a little after
eight, Melbourne was treated to a pretty instance.
The moon was sunk in a golden sphere about
twice its own diameter, and round this was a
ring showing the usual rainbow colors. This ring
was about six moons dia., and, though a complete
circle, was somewhat ragged. The sky was clear
at the tiine, but ; a little after eight, clouds drifted
up from the North, and, though the moon was
still visible, both rainbow-ring and golden sphere
disappeared.
He couldn’t be safely left alone with a
ten-ton anchor in the middle of Sahara.” — Politi-
cian’s epitaph.
“ Victor ” : The Bourgogne owners lost
another gigantic steamer, the Ville de Havre, in
much the same way, over 20 years ago, with a
parallel frightful loss of life. No Cunard ship-
wreck has ever cost a life, because—according to
Bache Cunard, “ we never employ cheap men.”
What price the Bourgogne crew ! Probably, how-
ever, the owners are gainers, except in injury to
prestige.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
£
&
foITTWn i
.IMITED
z' %
C
H-o
% *
%■
6.
TJOOK OF NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by I);-. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private hook, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d,
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
dieap Boole Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
DikPTO (ljak.@
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYZWXTEY.
SMELTERS,
REFJNERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
.
■
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of {ill classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REPINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale. Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


H* rr RaSSn)(iSS€i)’& AlfaliQC Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc-
A. SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Tliexxx.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
Course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which 1 do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think,lt my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline' Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
arid that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Xalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.—" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—" Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—"Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HEBE BASMUSSEN’S
Mission in the Herbal Itforld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine. . ,
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.-
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common?” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING -
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Hasnnueeen, Up-to-Dale Herbalist
IMPORTANT
■, ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT,
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmilSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H. It., Box
208, 0.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
AWARDED
yAUSSOf
GOLD
mo
EDALS
<C/AN
REPS
m
-
ILL
ALFA _ _
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD NERVES.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’a
Alfalioe Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely' Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury'.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Raaamussen’a
Alfalioe Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets -An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packels, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guarante d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6<. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
' Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
A.XXC3L Important Branches a,s Follows:
Brisbane 160 Queen Street (near Creek-st.)
Melbourne 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
Adelaide 154 Rundle-st. (near York Hotel)
Chi Towers - Royal Arcade, Mosman-st.
Jff.Z—Wellington - - 91 Lambton Quay
Perth, W.A. Hay-st. (next Royal Theatre
Coolgarclie Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
Kalgoorlie Hannan-st. (next LindeH’s, Jeweller)
Kanowna - Issahella-st. (next Friedman’s)
Henry Street (near High-st.)
Fremantle -


When President M‘Kinley was examining
some of the armour-plates of the burst-up Maine,
he found an unbroken human jawbone embedded,
immovable, in the solid chilled steel. That in-
vincible Yankee jaw !
Zangwill, the litterateur and ex-school-
teacher, has been telling a Jewish interviewer
that he attributes all his success to “ sheer indus-
try.” But what is success? As the result of
overwork, Zangwill suffers from depression of
spirits, and is always seeking health in change of
scene.
Prof. Marshall-Hall is to finish his aca-
demic year ; then he gets a year’s leave of
absence; then he resigns his Melb. University
chair of music. It is his own way out of the
difficulty, whatever influences made him take it;
and probably his Ego will be all the better for the
separation.
Cigarette smokers and their name is
legion choose the “Three Castles’’ before any
other. Why ?. Because of their fragrance and
purity. This is abundantly proved by the large
sales of this favorite brand.*
When Marshall-Hall first took charge of
Melb. music he astounded all his pupils by setting
as a question at the initial exam. —“ 1. What is
the difference between the sublime and the beau-
tiful?” “2. State the theories that have from
time to time been promulgated differentiating the
sublime and the beautiful.” The students sat
dumbfounded ; but, reckoning to make up lost
marks in the practical exam.', they trooped into
the next room. “Strike E Flat,” demanded the
Prof, of the first candidate. The trembling youth
obeyed. “No-o-o-o-o-o,” yelled the irate musi-
cian, “ I want a deep orange, not a pale yellow.”
The Bulletin hardly needs to apologise
for directing attention in another column to
Hoyle’s prints advertisement. Every—or nearly
every—lady purchaser of print goods knows that
Hoyle’s is one of the largest firms of calico
printers in the world. It has been established
over 100 years. Hoyle’s prints, so long famed for
their quality and guaranteed fast colors, can be
procured at all drapers in the colonies.*
“M‘Gr.”: Asked whether he did not
consider a certain novel immoral Oscar Wilde
replied, “It is worse—it is inartistic,” and
those are my sentiment's in the Marshall-Hall con-
troversy. A large number of the Prof.’s sup-
porters instance lines from “ Queen Mab,” “Songs
before Sunrise,” “Romeo and Juliet,” the Bible,
and other works of poetical fiction, as far more
wicked than the doggerel of their idol, and seem
to think that this clinches the argument. But
how fallacious is such a comparison ! A nude
picture by the great Lefebvre is indecent to no-
body but the professional prurients of the
W.C.T.U., but a nude picture drawn on the back
wall by a precocious twelve-year State-schoolboy
is quite another thing.
A PROSPEROUS INDUSTRY.
The yearly output of Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes, if added lengthwise, would exceed a
distance of 5000 miles.*
A Sydney hair-artist, with a foreign name,
publicly complains that he has been called in the
press by the “barbarous expression” of barber —
“ which is an insult to myself and children.” The
gentleman wishes to be known as “hairdresser,
music-seller, or tobacconist.” Seems quaint; yet
Dickens, in “ Master Humphrey’s Clock,” lets a
character voice precisely the same objection—“l
would suggest that barbers is not exactly the kind
of language which is agreeable and soothing to our
feelings. ... I believe there is such a word in the
dictionary as hairdressers .” How has the mighty
barber-surgeon fallen !
Hannibal Rowe, the hero of a recent
Bulletin yarn, died at his native town of Castle-
maine last week, owing to a peach-stone sticking
in his throat. Rowe it was who, being offered
several thousands for his share in a Fryers-creek
claim, refused to deal on the ground that he had
no trade, and as he had a “ stiddy job ” in carting
mullock away from the property he wasn’t going
to take the risk of being stranded. In vain his
three brothers—partners in the mine—pointed out
that his share would yield more in Govt, deben-
tures than he ever made out of carting mullock ;
Hannibal was obdurate, and the sale fell through.
That was 30 years ago, and poor Rowe has re-
mained to work his property ever since, changing
at last by means of a peach-stone to even a steadier
job than that of mullock-carting.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache Of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses —for Is. Id. by post.*
“Although Messrs. Gould, Sydney Smith
and .Garrard have practically retired from the
Ministry, it is not intended to gazette their
resignations till Thursday, in order that they may
share with their old colleagues in the honor of
having broken the record of N.S.W. Ministers for
the length of term of office.”—(S.M. Herald,
Aug. 16). Compare this with the dismissal of
civil-servants who had but a few months to serve
to become entitled to pensions ! Should Premier
Reid be beaten on a direct vote of want of confi-
dence in the present session of Parliament, he will
probably retain office till next year in order to
break the record for the greatest number of Xmas-
days in the life of any Ministry.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The N.S.W. police superannuation-fund
should receive instant attention at the hands of
Parliament. Every day the subject stands where
it does adds a fresh injustice. Constables have
paid 2\ per cent, of their salary till they became
sergeants, and sergeants till they became inspec-
tors, under the official bond that on attaining 60
years of age they would be able to retire on a
pension equal to their last salary. Every man
over 60—and there are 120 on the roll—willing to
retire is justly entitled to this pension, but, willing
or not, he must stay at his post for the reason that
the pension-fund is bankrupt. This is not only
unjust to the men primarily concerned, but to the
rank and file, who might reasonably look for pro-
motion on the retirement of their seniors.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
When Premier Reid passed incog, (but
very much cog.) through Narandera ; the other
day, the maddest man in the district was the
Mayor, who wa,s away on his selection, and missed
the great occasion. He made up for it, however,
by calling a meeting at the council-chambers for
the purpose of banqueting the already-banqueted.
His Worship faithfully attended the meeting, and
dismissed a “representative attendance,” consist-
ing of himself and the lamplighter. Five shillings
isn’t so easily raised in Beerandera.
A. Gr. Downer, S.A.’s best-known squatter-
lawyer, lately told the local Pastoral Commission
that he did not know half-a-dozen men who had
made a success of the province’s purely pastoral
country. Price Maurice, he declared, was “out ”
over .£lOO,OOO on Mt. Eba; W. J. Browne,
.£90,000 on Newcastle Waters ; T. Elder, between
<£40,000 and <£50,000 on Mt. Burrell and Owen
Springs ; Wooldridge and co., .£20.000 on Bar-
row’s Creek ; P. Levi and co. .£60,000, and W.
K. Simms <£30,000, on Moolooloo ; Scammell, over
£50,000 on Ediacara. The Elder estate, Peter
Waite, Mortlock, Andrew Tennant, and W. H.
Duncan were mentioned as about all who had
thrived on the way-back country.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Special Cheap Excursions To and
Prom the Country.
SEPTEMBER, 1898-
RETURN TICKETS at specially low rates
of per mile first-class and Id. per mile
second-class will be issued at Sydney and inter-
mediate suburban stations to country stations by
trains leaving Sydney as under :
To the NORTHERN and NORTH WES-
TERN LINES at 12.20 p.m. on MONDAY, sth
September.
To the WESTERN LINE and BRANCHES.
To main line stations beyond Walleravvang and
to the Blayney-Cowra, Forbes, Condobolin, War-
ren and Cobar Branch Lines at 3.0 p.m. on TUES-
DAY, 6th September.
To stations Lawson to Wallerawang inclusive
and the Mudgee Line at 7.50 a.m. on THURS-
DAY, Bth September.
To the SOUTHERN LINE and BRANCHES
(except the Culcairn-Corowa Branch) at 4.20 p.m.
on THURSDAY, Bth September, To stations
on the CULCAIRN-COROWA BRANCH at
7.15 p.m. on FRIDAY, 9th September.
A. J.C. Spring 1 Race Meeting 1 at Randwick.
Similar cheap tickets will be issued from all
country stations to Sydney by trains leaving dif-
ferent stations as under :
FROM NORTHERN LINE, TUESDAY.
6th SEPTEMBER.
FROM SOUTHERN LINE, FRIDAY,
9th SEPTEMBER.
Cheap tickets (minimum 7s. 6d. first-class and
ss. second-class) will also be issued from stations
beyond Goulburn and Bowenfels respectively to
stations Goulburn to Mittagong inclusive (on the
Southern Line) and to stations Bowenfels to Emu
Plains inclusive on the Western Line.
These tickets will be available for return for dis-
tances up to 300 miles for 14 days, and for dis-
tances over 300 miles for 21 days from date of
issue by certain trains.
Handbills and further particulars as to fares
and stoppage at intermediate stations can be ob-
tained from all stationmasters.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. MoLACHLAN, Secretary.
There are but three Westralian Q.O.’s :
Sept. Burt, late Attorney-General; S. H. Parker,
now travelling in England, who was beaten while
trying to enter the Assembly from the Council, to
become leader of the Opposition against the
Forrest gang ; and Geo. Leake, the pantomimic
leader of the Opposition, who would have given
way to Parker, had the latter not been defeated.
The snub received by the Government in the
Council at the hands of R. S. Haynes, in the
shape of the latter’s amendment of the address in
reply, appears to have had its origin in the fact
that Haynes (a brother of John Haynes, of
Mudgee) was not “given silk.” When elected
Haynes was a qualified Government supporter,
but long: waiting for “silk,” or else office, has
turned him into the leader of the Opposition party
in the Council. The Government, however, is
unconcerned, since it “ does not hold office at the
pleasure of the Leg. Council.”
Prospectus.
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY,
the whole of the Shares having been
allotted.
PROSPECTUS
OF THE
BIRTH lIIITED
Gold-Mining Company.
To be Registered as a No Liability Company.
CAPITAL:
£6,250 in 25,000 Shares of ss. each,
whereof
20,000 Shares paid to Is. 6d. each are offered to
the public at par, viz., Is. 6d. per Share.
5,000 Shares Fully Paid-up will be issued to the
Vendors as part payment for the Lease.
Out of the proceeds of the Shares offered to the public
the sum of £5OO net will be placed to the credit of the
Company.
Directors:
T. J. DIBDIN, Esq. A. W. DAY, Esq.
T. W. MASON, Esq. J. J. WHELAN, Esq.
M. WASLEY, Esq.
Broker: D. NASMITH, Queen-street, Melbourne.
Manager: R. GILPIN, 99 Queen-street, Melbourne.
R. GILPIN, Esq. Melb., July 28, 1898.
Dear Sir,
At your request I visited the Birthday United
Company’s property, situated at Berringa, about
miles from Staffordshire Reef, and beg to sub-
mit the following report :
The property consists of a 30-acre Lease and
three shafts have been sunk on the property. The
present working shaft is sunk to a depth of 60
feet, and drives are being driven North and South
on the course of the Lode, the former a distance
of 12 feet, and the latter 11 feet, both in nice
laminated stone. Lode 12 inches in width but
making larger as it goes down.
North of the above, a shaft was put down 25
feet and a drive driven 40 feet with a lode 12 to
18 inches in width and nice gold showing. This
drive is connected with the present working shaft
and gives good ventilation.
140 feet North of the above, a shaft is sunk to a
depth of 80 feet, and close timbered ; it carried a
nice lode 18 inches in width. All the stone in this
shaft, I am informed, went 12 dwts. per ton, and
improves as it goes deeper. North of the above a
distance of 40 feet the lode is outcropping on the
surface 16 inches in width, and showing gold. Up
to the present date, 67 tons have been crushed for
a yield of 37 ounces 3 dwts., and the present pro-
prietors are putting through a 50 ton crushing
which they estimate will go 1 ounce per ton. This
is exclusive of pyrites, of which the stone carries a
large quantity. The gold is of good quality,
worth £i 2s. 6d. per ounce. Firewood can be had
on the Lease, and can be obtained and stacked on
the mine at 6s. per cord. There is also abund-
ance of mining timber, and 100 yards below the
shaft, a good site for a battery is available.
Taken into consideration the easy nature of the
ground on both sides of the lode, the stone can be
mined at a very small cost.
In conclusion, I am of the opinion that this pro-
perty is a second Birthday, and the stone being
similar to that Company’s, I think it is on the
same line of reef, and can confidently recommend
it as a good mining investment.
Yours respectfully,
JAMES DURSTON, Mine Manager.
REPORT ON BIRTHDAY UNITED MINE.
The mine is situated between the birthday and
Jubilee Mines, the two best mines in the district.
It is held in a 30-acre lease. There is one shaft
down 80ft., also a drive driven 40ft., from which all
stone taken has gone a little over 12dwt. to the
ton. There is another shaft 140 ft. further south,
which is down 60ft. and the stone is improving in
width and gold. The stone in this shaft prospects
between 15dwt. and an ounce to the ton. There
is also a drive in 50ft., it is driven north towards
the 80ft. shaft; there is good payable stone from
one end to the other, and the stone is still going
north. Between these two shafts there is another
down 25ft., and the stone is from 12 to 18in. wide,
the ground is of such an easy nature that so far all
work done has been done with pick and gad.
ALFRED SPARKS.
Kangaroo, 28th July, 1898.
The Directors notify that they have secured all
the stone at grass for the company, so that crush-
ing can be commenced forthwith.
&
Do you want a pleasant
evening at home, or to
give an exhibition ? The
firaphophone
-ZyS-
a most marvellous instru-
ment: reproduces the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
Will not get out of
order.
Write or call for ca,,Rogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Olabsnoi Sxbmst, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Amusements.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Eveniqgs.
96th \
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
'96th
WEEK
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverley; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
IJIHEATKE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY EVENING, 37th AUGUST,
BLAND HOLT'S
* Premier Combination *
In the Great Adelphi Military Spectacle,
“ONE OF THE BEST.”
Founded on the NOTORIOUS DREYFUS INCIDENT.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
miVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE POLUSKI BROS.
THE SISTERS GOVELL.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Nettie Waite
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. GEO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
MILLER A. FRASER. Miss MARIAN AINS-
WORTH, Miss NELLIE WILSON, WALLACE KING,
Mr. FRANK YORKE, Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part ol
the World.
Miss ADA REEVE. Signor UGO BIONDI.
JULEENE AND D’ALCORN.
THE SISTERS TERRY. D. H. CASTON.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Foreman & Fannau.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
P
RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb
Every Evening ! Saturday Matinee, at 21
“ THE HARBOR LIGHTS.”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUT. KINGSLEY.
Miss ADA FERRAR as LINA NELSON.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Brilliant Inauguration of the Comic Opera
Season.
THURSDAY, August 25th, and FRIDAY, August 26th,
“TN€ MIKADO.”
SATURDAY NEXT, August 27—“ DOROTHY."
Plan, Nicholson’s. OF" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Town hall, Melbourne.
- Wednesday, 31st August.
SATURDAYS 10th, 17th, and 24th SEPTEMBER.
“ POPS." CMIIIIM/* “ POPS.”
“ pops.” «ni LLI “ « “ pops.”
NEW BTJRY-SIP AID A COY.
Continued success of Mr. JOHN COLEMAN, Australia’s
Favorite COMEDIAN, in an entirely new entertainment.
J3f MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
Commencing Next Saturday, 27th August
The Trip Round the World
In 80 Days.
In which Mr. CHARLES MAURICE will appear for the
first time in Australia, and will sustain the character of
Passepartout, as played by him with immense success for
500 nights in Europe.
The Box Plan will be open at Allan’s 20th August.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and SIXPENCE.
JJRISBANE. THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc., Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
■jlO THEATRICAL MANAGERS.
The New Gaiety Theatre, Zeehan,. Tas., now
nearing completion, OPEN for ENGAGEMENT end
September, built brick ; will seat 1000 ; splendid stage,
48 x 36, and very lofty; supplied with stock, scenery,
and modern accessories. Ample room production big
plays. Gas lighting. Six commodious dressing-rooms.
Good business always for good shows.
Particulars from
EDWARD MULCAHY, Proprietor, HOBART.
fJIO HOTELKEEPERS AND OTHERS.
The GRAND HOTEL, Zeehan, TASMANIA, for Lease.
Now nearing completion. Only brick hotel on field.
Centrally situated, in same block, and adjoining new
Gaiety Theatre. Forty odd rooms. Built for first-class
business, for which splendid opening exists. Every-
thing up-to-date, and some very special features. May
be leased for five or seven years. None but first-class man.
For rent, plans, and particulars to
EDWARD MULCAHY, Murray-street, HOBART.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
'SM
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
BEWARE OF FRAUDS.
TAR. MALING’S REMEDY is the ONLY GENUINE
CURE, rapid in action, INEXPENSIVE, can be
given secretly. Original letters of thanks from well-
known citizens can be seen on application. Call or writs
for particulars. No home made unhappy by drink should
be without it. Address
MANAGER, Haling Inshtoi*,
n SUubtth-tt., SYDNEY.


Cs not Farinaceous and
is eafireiy free from
& larch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s tnilk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
sti "g as well as for the sickly babe.
EjfIELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
coiiverted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN'S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
Pub.ications, etc.
T Ja!let(]irl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
lAN9 or ORGAN PLAYING
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATTS CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
' A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to Engage the services of a teacher.
With it Any one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOWLEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
\ Si ennrfo free To introduce to every home PRATT’S CHART
iut uUllgo lice Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
of 184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt s Chart
of Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. AddreßS:
Anglo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
HXTE!W MUSIC.
“The Chimes of Normandy,” by Stanhope Gray, a song
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song with a good chorus ; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, witty,
Irish song; “ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henri Laski,
composer of “My Polly” Waltz; “Pierrot et Pierrette”
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly”
Waltz ; “ Frascatti ” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of all
dealers. Catalogues post free on application to IF.
JP AX TON CO., 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
HENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-*. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Books. Bo ?k s - Books-
Having devoted special attention to the SECOND-HAND
BOOK TRADE, particularly Educational Works, I can
supply you with nearly any book that is required for all
examinations, at nearly one-half of the published prices.
Also the Latest Works on FICTION —namely : The Mar-
tian, by Du Maurier ; Sir George Tressady, by Mrs. Hum-
phrey Ward ; Perlyeross, by Blackmore ; In the Tideway,
by Annie Steel; The Bird of Paradise, by Dutton. These
Novels are very popular, and are selling rapidly, Is. 6d.
each, post free. Also, Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf
Bolderwood ; Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson ;
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard—each post free,
is. Should you require ANY Books, new or second-hand,
kindly advise R. W. SKINNER, New and Second-hand
Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney. Telephone 3043.
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.
The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy ;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence-
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
'J ELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of tVie best
yon ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAHDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
I Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classes des-|
criptive of 1
Eucrasy
will be
sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
EUGRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatiori
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioi7-
Mr. Woolnough, chaplain to Tas. House
of Assembly, lives a bachelor-life at old Port
Arthur, where he owns some property. He has
no servant, and boils his billy and broils his chop
in heavenly isolation. He bought the old Model
Prison from Govt., and set up his drawing-room
in the chapel, where he gave some swagger
suppers. Also, he used to entertain lady visitors
by shutting them up in the dark cell, and alto-
gether made his guests enormously enjoy them-
selves. But he was burnt out, and now he hermits
at the other end of the town, in a cottage of his
own.
Mary Grant, who died at Manly, Sydney,
the other day, at the age of 86, welcomed
Victoria and Albert to Belfast, Ireland, in 1847,
by christening in public her twin children Albert
and Victoria. The Queen waved her handkerchief
over the celebration, a fact that Mrs. Grant glowed
over the rest of her life. She and her husband
came to N.S. Wales soon after. Mr. Grant has
been 08 years a Freemason, holding, probably, the
Australian record in that respect. At last count
they had 17 children, 87 grandchildren, 78 great-
grandchildren and 21 great-great-grandchildren.
' Dear Bulletin, — lie first attempt to ex-
plore ‘‘Papua.” In ’64 Capt. Mackay (founder
of the now-famous sugar-and-rum district) and
Lieut. Cotgrane, of the late Indian navy, acting
on the suggestion of the late Dr. Lang (then
visiting Rockhampton), made overtures to N.S. W.
Government with the view of obtaining some
assistance in fitting out an expedition to explore
and open up trading relations with that island.
The reply, though warmly applauding the project,
declined assistance and suggested an appeal to
Sir Roderick Murchison, who in England was
drawing attention to Papua's supposed vast auri-
ferous resources. Whether the appeal was made
I never learned ; but Cotgrane’s death shortly
afterwards was doubtless the cause of the scheme
being abandoned.— John S. St. Croix, Gympie.
During the recent N.S.W. election a cer-
tain aspirant was addressing a meeting from a
cart ; his site was just on the bank of a coastal
river 'which flows through the town where he
wasn't wanted. Every few minutes Young Aus-
tralia would come forward and get a mouldy egg
ready for shying by giving it a slight crack on the
wheel of the cart, consequently the eloquent
address was interrupted as many times by “ Hey !
now then just you throw that egg ! ” the press re-
presentatives putting it down as “cheers.” The
meeting was brought to an abrupt end by a large
army of the other man’s barrackers seizing the
cart and running it down the bank into the river,
candidate and chairman included.
| The election of labor-man Holman to
N.S.W. Parliament revives the memory of the
long and acrimonious epistolary duel he had
with Holy Joe Cook during the election of ’94.
The two slung mud at one another with great
vigor, but Joseph compounded with his conscience
by winding up each of his gall-soaked communi-
cations with “ Fraternally yours, Joseph Cook.”
Which called forth these verses in the National
Ass. organ, Plain Talk :
You’re a scoundrel, a traitor,
A disintegrator;
You’re as foul as the filth of the sewers ;
The offspring of Cain ;
And yet I remain,
Dear sir, most fraternally yours.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
J) Silver Ujatch Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed'envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRUVIAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
GOLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUCH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Jr Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
ieauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
vithout doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
PMRoT
Br6Ne>
\Pur,pLUr°v
Sf%WHS WoOHDC
CpVGHS (QIPS tc J
of
IMITATES
I’ll Try If
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part ot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Goorge-st,, Sydney
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
BEE
HIVE'
KHITTIHG
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
SEE THIS TRADE /AARKTWjjf
IS ON EVERYoSKE
Trade Mark Registered.
Established 1783.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Alsn '■ Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beebive'Woois.
J.J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
' FREE"
TO ALL
kMENj
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack : With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
'• 11
•{Tijiiiiiinijii
'■'HHHHijiiiiiiii
'Ci.ii'j'.'jiiiiiiii
"•liiiljiiiiiiiiiiili
\.\a:
'
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, k. 5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 0. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
dlinerva peplonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists 8s Food Specialist**,
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’
ft'*-
Friend
im
SfO/V D/SEASEf
and Wounds
or ELVER Y
DESCRIPTION''
D?ROBERTS
Alterative
pills
FOR SKIN DISEASES I
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA C/S & LJVER .
OF ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/^EACH
BEACH & BARNfIC'OTT L°- BRIDPORJ.
00 YOU
A
<MTY POST FREEv^
Watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHoay*
WeddiNg £ Presents
H NEWMAfJ- 1755177-ELIZABFTri Si*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q-
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
sift to man -Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stapes, and
rest ore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written l
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently, cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return' the full amount'
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely' w hat we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), yiving' illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free


qgden^uinea
OLD
6
p
*3
p
KSPS
f
zaJL
CICARSFREE^
—aiiaiiiim
PROP 3? IN THE SLOTMfgji”?
ii hi ii i in ii i i i i ! iimiiimnin
miimmnimimiimmiitiiHiniiiiinmiiiniiiiiHiiiiiii
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
LA.WRE3NTCES Patent Tobacco
Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
Ii
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
Sole Agents for Australasia :
Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’Fancy Goods, Cutlery Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’Requisites. Send for Price List
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
Thc Best Brands Only qf SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
_THJE Hosl REFRESHING, GOOEINGi ft HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE*
(Trade Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “IjANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
/
■
StnOwk
m
SHND VuUR ORDER TO=DAY.
We will more than please you,
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 ios. Description s Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned reeds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co..
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
American |j|altham Watch Comp. Watches
mS 0 it is possible to make. To increase the Sale of
"mmw w m an< 3 also give the Australian people at the same time
a JrJliK-b hiOi WATCH for the same money they have been paying for a poor make,
we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES!
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of Money Order or Draft.
14-oarat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 5 years .. £2 7 6
14-carat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 10 years .. ..300
14-ct. Gold Filled Double Alberts, Syr. guarantee 0 8 9
14-carat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 15 years .. .. £3 15 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’ or Gents’, with the
“ America ” movement 10 0
14-ct. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 0 15 0
When ordering 1 Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT
IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
J. LANDES,
Manager.
W|UMsr
11 Corset
Wiu-owaiST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LEN GTHENS TH E WA I ST.
BE A UTIFIES THE FIG UR E.
W'M-owniST CorSET
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'MrovVA»ST Corset
mark
OF all DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS*
wholesale orders taken BY
F.w.LEE, Camden Buildings
0 18, GEORGE STREET, SYONEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Y’s
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
EL
MODERATE TARIFF.
G London, S.W.
zeojLiD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges. *
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.


pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet
Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons, ft
England: M
PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
m
m
A
* ,
*
A
%
Wa
W/y.
V//
V//
%
'//.
V/
'l^r
m
** Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others,”
Mitchell on Women.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ All the same,” said Mitchell’s mate, continuing
an argument by the camp-fire. “ All the same, I
think that a woman can stand cold water better
than a man. Why, when I was staying in a
boarding-house in Dunedin, one very cold winter,
there was a lady lodger who went down to the
shower-bath first thing every morning ; never
missed one ; sometimes in freezing weather
when I wouldn’t go into a cold batli for a fiver;
and, sometimes she’d stay under the shower for
ten minutes at a time.”
“ How’d you know ? ”
“ Why, my room was near the bath-room, and
I could hear the shower and tap going, and her
floundering about.”
“ Hear yer grandmother ! ” exclaimed Mitchell,
contemptuously. “ You don’t know women yet.
Was this woman married ? Did she have a hus-
band there ? ”
“ No ; she was a young widow. ”
“ Ah ! well it would have been the same if she
was a young girl—or an old one. Was there some
passable men-boarders there?”
“/was there.”
“ Oh, yes ! But I mean was there any there
beside you ? ”
“ Oh, yes, there were three or four ; there was
a clerk and a ”
“Nevermind, as long as there was something
with trousers on. Did it ever strike you that she
never got into the bath at all ? ”
“ Why, no ! What would she want to go there
at all for, in that case ? ”
“ To make an impression on the men,” replied
Mitchell promptly. “She wanted to make out
she was nice, and wholesome, and well-washed,
and particular. Made an impression on you, it
seems, or you wouldn’t remember it.”
“Well, yes, I suppose so; and, now I come to
think of it, the bath didn’t seem to injure her
make-up or wet her hair ; but I suppose she held
her head from under the shower somehow.”
“ Did she make-up so early in the morning ? ”
asked Mitchell.
“Yes—l’m sure.”
“That’s unusual; but it might have been so
where there was a lot of boarders. And about the
hair—that didn’t count for nothing, because wash-
the-head ain’t supposed to be always included in a
lady’s bath ; it’s only supposed to be washed once
a fortnight, and some don’t do it once a month.
The hair takes so long to dry ; it don’t matter so
much if the woman’s got short, scraggy hair ; but
with a girl with hair down to her waist it would
take hours to dry.”
“ Well, how do they manage it without wetting
their heads? n
“ Oh, that’s easy, enough. They have a little
oilskin ca,p that fits tight over the forehead, and
they put it on, and bunch their hair up in it when
they go under the shower. Did you ever see a
woman sit in a sunny place with her hair down
after having a wash ? ”
“ Yes, I used to see one do that regular where I
was staying; but I thought she only did it to
show off.”
“ Not at all—she was drying her hair though
perhaps she was showing off at the same time, for
she wouldn’t sit where you—or even a Chinaman
—could see her, if she didn’t think she had a good
head of hair. Now, I'll tell you a yarn about a
woman’s bath. I was stopping at a sliabby-gen
teel boarding-house in Melbourne once, and one
very cold winter, too ; and there was a rather
good-looking woman there, looking for a’ husband.
She used to go down to the bath every morning,
no matter how cold it was, and flounder and splash
about as if she enjoyed it, till you’d feel as though
you’d like to go and catch hold of her and wrap
her in a rug and carry her in to the fire and nurse
her till she was warm again.”
Mitchell’s mate seemed greatly interested.
“ But she never went into the water at all!’
continued Mitchell. “ As soon as one or two of
the men was up in the morning she’d come down
from her room in a dressing-gown. It was a toney
dressing-gown, too, and set her off properly. She
knew how to dress, anyway ; most of those sort
of women do The gown was a kind of green
color with pink and white flowers all over it, and
red lining, and a lot of coffee-colored lace round
the neck and down the front. Well, she’d come
tripping downstairs and along the passage, hold-
ing up one side of the gown to show her little bare
white foot in a slipper, and in the other hand she
carried her tooth-brush, and bath-brush, and soap
—like this —so’s we all could see ’em ; trying to
make out she was too particular to use soap after
anyone else. She could afford to buy her own
soap, anyhow ; it was hardly eyer wet.
“ Well, she’d go into the bathroom, turn on the
tap and shower, and, when she got about three
inches of water in the bath, she’d step in, holding
up her gown out of the water, and go slithering
and kicking up and down the bath, like this, making
a tremendous splashing. Oh, yes, of course, she’d
turn off the shower first, and screw it off very
tight—wouldn’t do to let that leak, you know; she
might get wet; but she’d leave the other tap on,
so as to make all the more noise.”
“ But how did you come to know all about
this?”
“ Oh, the servant-girl told me. One morning
she twigged her through a corner of the bathroom-
window, that the curtain didn’t cover.”
“ You seem to have been pretty thick with ser-
vant-girls ? ”
“ So do you with landladies ! But, never mind-
let me finish the yarn. When she thought she’d
splashed enough, she’d get out, wipe her feet, wash
her face and hands, and carefully unbutton the
two top buttons of her gown, throw a towel over
her head and shoulders, and listen at the door till
she thought she heard some of the men moving
about. Then she’d start for her room, and, if
she met one of the men-boarders in the passage or
on the stairs, she’d drop her eyes, and pretend to
see for the first time that the top of her dressing-
gown wasn’t buttoned, and then she’d give a little
start and grab the gown, and scurry off to her
room buttonin’ it up.
“And sometimes she’d come skipping into the
breakfast-room late, looking awfully sweet in her
dressing-gown ; and if she saw any of us there,
she’d pretend to be much startled, and say that
she thought all the men had gone out, and make
as though she was going to clear ; and then some-
one ’d jump up and give her a chair, while some-
one else said, ‘ Come in, Miss Brown ! come in !
Don’t let us frighten you. Come right in, and
have your breakfast before it gets cold. ’ So she’d
flutter a bit in pretty confusion, and then make a
sweet little girly-girly dive for her chair, and tuck
her feet away under the table ; and she’d blush,
too, but I don’t know how she managed that.
“ I know another trick that women have; it’s
mostly played by private barmaids. That is, to
leave a stocking by accident in the bathroom for
the gentlemen to find. If the barmaid’s got a
nice foot and ankle, she uses one of her own
stockings ; but if she hasn’t, she gets holt of a
stocking that belongs to a girl that has. Any-
way, she’ll have one readied-up somehow. The
stocking must be worn and nicely darned ; one
that’s been worn will keep the shape of the leg
and foot—at least till it’s washed again. Well,
the barmaid generally knows what time the
gentlemen go to bath, and she’ll make it a point
of going down just as a gentleman’s going. Of
course he’ll give her the preference—let her go
first, yer know ; and she’ll go in and accident’ly
leave the stocking there in a place where he’s sure
to see it, and when she comes out he’ll go in and
find it; and very likely he’ll be a jolly sort of
feller, and when they’re all sitting down to break-
fast he’ll come in and ask them to guess what he’s
found, and then he’ll hold up the stocking. The
barmaid likes this sort of thing, but she’ll hold
down her head, and pretend to be confused, and
keep her eyes on her plate, and there’ll be much
blushing and all that sort of thing, and perhaps
she’ll gammon to be mad at him, and the landlady
’ll say, ‘Oh, Mr. Brown ! how can yer? At the
breakfast-table too!’ and they’ll all laugh and
look at the barmaid, and she’ll get more embar-
rassed than ever, and spill her tea, and make out
as though the stocking didn’t belong to her.”
HENRY LAWSON.
LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On his recent visit to the old country T.
Macdonald Paterson, who, strange to say, is a
humorous Scotchman, had with him a walking-
stick made of the timber, known as “ringed
gidya,” by reason of its brown and gold concentric
rings. A certain noble lord greatly admired the
stick and asked, haw, the “meaning of those
wings, dontcherknow ! ” And Paterson gravely
explained to the astonished aristocrat that this
extraordinary timber comes from the great
Queensland desert, that it has a jet-black bark and
snow-white leaves, that the roots go straight down
hundreds of feet to artesian water, that the yellow
rings denote dry seasons, and the brown rings
wet seasons; and that a jet of water, nightly
projected from the centre of the top, sprays all the
foliage like a fountain ! Also, that the tree bears a
plum which is red at night and blue in the day-
time, and that a woman who eats one of these
plums will never afterwards bear children ! The
noble lord has since written to ask if there is
“ any chance of obtaining some of these plums at
any price.”
• * * •
Be the Crotty will-case. Nobody seems
to have cited the return of the Hartmann estate
to the family by Colonel Olcott on behalf of the
Theosophical Society, to which Hartmann had
willed it. Why not have Government “Execu-
tors of Wills,” who would {see to the equitable
distribution of all estates and guard against what
Carlyle would have called the malodorous phos-
phorescence of pre-mortem terrorism ? Some 20
years ago an irresponsible person named Neild left
<£600,000 to the Queen, who (it is said) handed it
all over to the heirs, discovered after careful
investigation. But let any Church get an
absolutely firm, unchallengeable grip of a bequest,
and a dynamite bomb would not blow a three-
penny-bit out of it.
• • • •
The following, re Julian Thomas, is from a
Brisbane resident: —“There was a boom among
Victorian shanties in ’6O, and sly-grog detectives
were employed by the Government. I was then
in charge of a police-station in the Avoca district,
and one day a young man, who said his name was
‘Sydney James,’ reported to me that he and
another man had been sent to ‘ stick up ’ the
shanties in my sub-district. They performed that
duty in first-class style. James told me he had
been in the R.N. and the American War. He
went to St. Arnaud, stayed there some years, and
contributed to St: Arnaud Mercury. I recog-
nised his style of writing in the first of the ‘ Vaga-
bond Papers.’ I met Julian Thomas afterwards
in Brisbane, and, after some hesitation, he ad-
mitted being ‘Sydney James.’ C. F. Lewis, of
St. Arnaud Mercury, could say if the con-
tributor who broke his leg and was treated in the
St. Arnaud Hospital was ‘ Sydney James ’ and
the ‘Vagabond.’ ”
* * « *
When Jack Hamilton, M.L.A. (Q.) — as a
member of the Mines Commission of last year—
was examining a Charters Towers doctor
about the effects of carbonic oxide on respiration,
the doctor’s evidence got so tangled up about the
mouse-test that Hamilton sarcastically remarked,
“ A miner, therefore, when going down a shaft
should have a candle in one hand, a mouse in the
other, and a bottle of lime-water under his arm,
and on arriving at the bottom he must keep one
eye on the bottle and the other on the mouse, and
if excess of carbonic acid does not render him un-
conscious, and the light doesn’t go out through
want of oxygen, and he can see the mouse looking
ill through carbonic oxide, he may have time to
escape before that gas overpowers him.”
* * * *
I recently met an old fellow who was one
of Horrocks’ exploring party of 1846. J. A.
Horrocks used the first camel introduced to Aus-
tralia, and that camel cost him his life. He started
to go from Adelaide by the head of Spencer’s
Gulf and north-west from Lake Torrens. When
a month out he was pulling his gun from the pack
of the camel, and the charge exploded, fatally
wounding him.
• * • »
On the 20th of June, while a mob of
150 blacks were camped on the Warrego River,
two men, “King Billy” and “ Cockatoo,” had a
fight to a finish over a dead gin. They fought
with the sharp, heavy gidyea boomerangs of the
west. In a couple of minutes both were down
with terrible cuts in the groin and thighs and in
five minutes more they had bled to death. The
constable who went out found both bodies wrapped
in bark, ready for burial, and had to threaten
with his revolver before he was allowed to examine
their wounds.
MAROOGALINE.
•‘Russ :Be the old gag about hereditary
wooden leer, there is a N.Q. family in which such
may almost be said to be the case, as the eldest
sons for jive generations have accidentally lost a
leg; latest case being that of a fine young fellow
just turned 21. The Bulletin would like to see
this authenticated. Or rather, it hopes that the
thing can’t be authenticated.


HtALTH IS PRICELESS.
Bile Beans for Biliousness
WILL STRENGTHEN AND PROTECT YOUR SYSTEM AGAINST
MOST ILLS.
AN ADELAIDE LADY SPEAKS IN HIGH PRAISE OE
BILE BEANS.
COMPLETELY CURED OE BILIOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
MEDICAL SKILL INEFFICIENT.
Mrs. Margaret Nelson, who lives in Phi Hip-street, Wolseley (near the Croydon Railway Station),
Adelaide, is one of the latest beneficiaries through the curative properties of Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. Hearing of the cure, a reporter from the Adelaide Advertiser went to Croydon on Friday
afternoon to inquire personally into the case. Mrs. Nelson at once expressed perfect willingness to
tell her story of suffering, which continued for thirteen long and weary years, until arrested by the
use of only three boxes of the boon to thousands in Australia—Bile Beans.
%
m
"Q
“Tell me,” said the reporter, “the facts connected with
your illness.”
“ Certainly,” said Mrs. Nelson, “ I will do so with pleasure.
Bile Beans have wrought a wonderful change in me. Thirteen
years ago I took ill with biliousness and indigestion. I had
pains in the head, a bad taste in the mouth ; a sickly feeling
would come over me, and if I did not pick my food I would
suffer great pain after eating. The doctors prescribed all sorts
of physic, but it did me no good.”
“ When did you first hear of Bile Beans ? ”
‘ ‘ About ten weeks ago. Although at first, like many others,
sceptical, I decided to give them a trial.”
“ And with what result ? ”
“ Well, look at me. I look healthy enough, don’t I ? And
I assure you I never felt better in my life than Ido now. My
husband knows how ill I was before I took Bile Beans.”
Mr. Nelson, who was listening to his wife’s narration,
humorously assured the reporter that he “just did.”
“My temper,” continued Mrs. Nelson, “ was short, and I
worried a great deal over trifles, and was also very irritable.
You know,” she said confidentially to the interviewer, “that
the ordinary housewife has a lot to worry her, and when her
health is bad it does not make matters any the better.”
“ Bile Beans have been a blessing to you, then? ”
“ Aye, that they have, and I shall always sing their praises.
I now go about my work with better spirit. I never knew during my long illness what it was to be
without pain, but during the past ten weeks I have been a new woman. The doctors told me that I
would never be cured, and naturally I believed them. My appetite used to be wretched before I
commenced using the Beans, but now I can eat almost anything with relish, and do not dread to take
my food.”
Mrs. Nelson has resided in the Croydon district for 12 years, and is very widely known. Her
testimony was given with perfect candor and spontaneity, and her marvellous cure is only a typical
case of the merits of Bile Beans for Biliousness.
BILIOUSNESS.
Biliousness is an ailment caused by a surchase of bile becoming stagnant in the stomach. It is
generally accompanied by indigestion and constipation, vomiting, and a yellow appearance of the
complexion. Dizziness and violent headaches are usual symptoms. The bile is the natural purgative
of the body, and is secreted by the liver ; if it fails to flow in its usual channels, or to perform its
usual duties, the liver is responsible.
A more annoying complaint than biliousness it is hard to find. It prohibits the sufferer from
doing work of any kind, holding a conversation, or even resting quietly ; not only this, but the nausea
is most disagreeable, and the taste and breath are exceedingly offensive. A remedy should be applied
at once that will act in an efficient manner, and the remedy to take is Bile Beans for Biliousness,
which are compounded expressly for ailments of this sort. They are so prepared that they act directly
on the liver, helping it to help itself, and enabling it to secrete enough bile to flush the bowels
thoroughly, and thus clear off all waste and offensive matter from the system. This remedy is well-
known, and is conceded the most effective purgative medicine of the age. It does not afford mere
temporary relief, but an absolute and lasting cure.
+
INFLUENZA AND COLDS.
Influenza is not generally understood by the greater part of those who suffer from it. It is in
reality an aggravated form of cold, supplemented by a general weakness of the whole system. Ordi-
nary colds, it is well-known, are caused by the congestion of the blood, which, as a rule, is most
prominent in the head or throat. Influenza can be traced to the same cause, and irregular or insuf-
ficient liver action is, in most cases, responsible for both. When the liver, through any derangement
of the digestive organism, ceases to act in the proper manner, a certain amount of bile finds its way
into the blood, and, at the same time, the blood created from food consumed is of a decidedly poor
quality. In this manner, the blood becomes congested, the circulation sluggish, and a cold results.
The circulation of the blood now being much slower than usual, the entire system is affected. The
nervous organism becomes unstrung, the appetite poor, and the rest disturbed. The body is extremely
susceptible to chills, and the slightest draught causes a violent attack of coughing or sneezing. Many
so-called cures for influenza fail to get at the root of the trouble, and only afford temporary relief. A
medicine that will keep the liver in thorough and regular working order, and the digestion right, will,
without doubt, prove the most effective preventive and cure for influenza and colds. This is what
Bile Beans for Biliousness will do, and we maintain that no better remedy can be found for these
ailments.
IILE
E/\flS
FOf\
lUOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weak
ness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples,
Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspep-
sia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and that Tired Feeling,
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Store-
keepers generally; Australian Dep6t of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A.
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William street, Ade-
laide; W.A. agents, F. H. Fauldinsr and Co., Perth ; Queens-
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane.
The Molecules.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They made him out of mystery, they filled him
full of life,
They fitted him with intellect to know he didn't
know,
They built him for quiescence, and they fitted him
for strife,
They geared him for rapidity, and braked him
to go slow.
They took a billion ancestors of forty million sorts,
They lumped up all their wishes and their ten-
dencies and creeds,
They soaked him, every atom, in the essence of
all thoughts,
And jammed him full of hunger in his hopes,
and in his needs.
The Hunger of the molecules that teas not satisfied,
The Hunger of the molecules that would not he
denied,
The Hunger of the molecules that plagued him till
he died,
And so found peace —molecular dispersion.
There was Hunger, bitter Hunger, for the good
things of the earth,
All the foods that thrilled the palate, all the
wine that fired the brain,
And the feeding of desire meant the never-ceasing
birth
Of the Hunger of the molecules that clamored
yet again.
And some grew strong and lusty—all the atoms
fiercely fought;
They wrestled, died, or triumphed, as the swift
sensations ran;
And keener was the summons of the Hunger that
they wrought,
And ever more impatient grew the Voices in
the man.
There was Hunger, bitter Hunger, for the joys
and woes of Love,
For the eyes of light unfathomed and the hair
that shines like gold,
For the mystery and magic that excels all else
above,
For the witchery and wisdom that the paths of
passion hold.
And to and fro it tossed him as a leaf before the
wind,
The Hunger, keenest monitor, that needs must
be obeyed :
It triumphed o’er all rivals in the fortress of his
mind,
And laughed at laggard wisdom and the laws
that men had made.
There was Hunger for illusions. For the Mystery
around
Cried out for explanation, and could never be
explained;
And so he made religions and philosophies
abound,
And he lumped into a symbol all the wonder
that remained.
But still they never pleased him overlong, for
doubts would come
And spur to speculation till another creed arose,
For Faith cannot for ever make the molecules be
dumb,
And, evermore resurgent, the Eternal Hunger
grows.
They showered on him Bibles and they smothered
him with tracts,
While hymns and sermons all his life kept up
their awful din ;
And when the moral precepts didn’t square with
solid facts
They put it down to Satan as the father of all
Sin.
They preached to him, they punished him, they
did their level best
To compass his salvation, but they might have
saved their breath,
For he never showed repentance till his Masters
gave him rest,
And that was when the molecules were slowing
down for death.
The Hunger of the molecules, it spins all living
things,
The reasons, hopes, and fancies, and the works
and ways of men.
The tree that spreads its branches, and the bird
that in it sings,
The grass beside the pathway, and the hand
that guides the pen.
It brings man to life’s threshold, and it drives
him on till death,
It leads the blood within him, and it reigns in
brain and nerve,
It moves the sullen muscles, and it ushers every
breath ;
It is the mighty despot that the organisms
serve.
The Hunger of the molecules that is not satisfied /.
The Hunger of the molecules that will not he denied I
The Hunger of the molecules that 'plagues till we
have died,
And found our peace—molecular dispersion!
N.S.W.
ZEF.
The manager of the most fashionable
Bourke-street, Melb., drapery was the other day
the recipient of a lovely present of oranges and
bananas from his tailoresses. Cutting the delicious
fruit, he found the oranges full of buttons and the
bananas stuffed with cotton-wool.
Down to date one “ Atherstone,” working
through Melb.’s old-established legal firm of
Blake and Riggall, has about put up a record
for anonymous charitable gifts. Within the
last six months many Vic. charities and almost
everything of the sort in every Westralian mining
centre and in Broken Hill has had the legal firm’s
cheque for ,£lOO upwards.
Launceston (Tas.) Parliamentary Debating
Society, a recognised training-ground for legis-
lators in the Isle of Bad Dreams, lately resolved—
“ That the House appoint a committee to draw
up an address of condolence to the Prince of
Wales, deeply sympathising with him on the
recent accident to his knee, and congratulating
him on the progress he now appears to be making
towards recovery.”
For the Laughter of the Gods.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man had met the woman a few times at
friends’ houses, and one evening, the woman’s
husband being absent, he had offered to escort
her home. The night was chilly, and, on the
way, her cloak blew off. He carefully replaced
it, and let his hand rest on her shoulder —for as
long as a thought might pass through the mind.
The woman laughed. “ I don’t think my husband
ever did that, as long as I have known him.”
The man quickly withdrew his hand. They
reached her home, and he opened the gate.
“Shall I knock? or have you the key?” “No,
never mind, thanks. Goodnight.” The woman
held out her hand—and put up her face, and he,
being a man and young, stooped down and kissed
her, then raised his hat and was gone. Upstairs,
the gods sniggered, and made a note of it.
Later on, the man progressed, and the woman
helped him. Later still, the man arranged a
partnership with the woman’s husband, whose
business was large and increasing. Then the
woman grew jealous and suspicious, for the man
came to the house but seldom now, and, when he
did, seemed to give all his attention to the husband
—his partner. Also —though this the woman did
not yet know —there was one other who was in
the man’s thoughts most of all.
Now, the gods, who see all things, most of all
hate a farce, which was why they arranged the
tragedy. For one night, when the man called to
see his partner, the woman saw that a dispute was
impending, and that high words had passed. Late
in the evening she left the room to order supper,
and before she returned she heard the men dis-
puting angrily at the front-door, and one said he
would see his solicitor about it, and the other
replied tauntingly ; then a blow was struck, and
returned; and she reached the door to see her
husband fall heavily, striking his head on the iron
fence. The man carried his adversary inside and
sent for a doctor. And while the unconscious
husband waited the man and the woman looked
at each other, but spoke no word. Only the gods
looked down into the woman’s soul, and were
pleased ; ’twas a soul worth looking into.
The doctor came—and went away ; he could be
of no use now : the woman’s husband was dead.
Then, the dead husband lying there, the woman
went over to where the man stood, and placed her
hands on his shoulders and looked. And the man
looked into the eyes of the woman, and he saw
deep down into her soul—but not to the bottom
—only a woman can ever hope to reach that depth.
What he saw there he told no man, but his face
turned deathly white, and lie flung the woman
from him back to her dead husband, and turned
and left the house.
The next day the man was arrested, and
after the inquest the coroner committed him for
trial for manslaughter. The woman did not
appear before the coroner, she was too ill—which
was not to be wondered at, but her evidence would
be required at the higher court. What that evi-
dence would be depended—as the man knew—
upon himself. So, when the woman sent word
for him to come and see her (he being on bail), he
knew what the message meant, and straight and
true he sent back his answer in an envelope. The
woman opened the envelope and looked at the
card enclosed. Then her face grew grey, as the
face of a defeated devil, and she ground her teeth
in rage as she tore the missive to pieces. For the
card was a small photo, of a girl, a pretty girl
with deep, dark eyes and a happy, joyous look.
And underneath was written, “The girl I am
going to marry.” It was a complete answer. So
at the trial the woman got into the box, and, in a
gentle, grief-stricken voice, told the jury how her
dear husband had been threatened and abused and
finally struck by the prisoner, and that, though
she bore him no malice, the occurrence was little,
if at all. short of wilful murder.
And the gods, who know that a woman will tell
the loveliest lies with a smiling face, were amused,
and wagered among themselves as to whether the
jury would believe ; for even the gods cannot tell
what a jury may do. And the man in the dock
stood quietly, calmly listening. Since that night
when he had looked into the woman’s soul, he
knew what would come, and had braced himself
to meet it. The jury found him guilty, but some
there were who mistrusted the woman, so they
added a recommendation to mercy. And the
Judge, without comment, passed a sentence of two
years’ hard labor.
And when the sentence was pronounced the man
in the dock looked across at the girl—the girl of
the photo ; and the woman watched them both.
The girl arose and walked across and stood in front
of the dock. Then she lifted her veil, and, stand-
ing on tip-toe, raised her face to his.
And the prisoner stooped down, and, before all
the court, took the girl in his arms and kissed her
on the lips. Then, with a happy smile on her
pale face, she passed out of the court, and the
prisoner went below. But the face of the woman
was not good to see, and as she entered her lonely
home she muttered—“ Two years! Two years!
Ah ! I’d give ten years of my life for that one
kiss.”
The gods have not yet been able to agree as to
whether the man or the woman was the greater
fool.
F. CROSON.
Years ago, when the Hare system of voting
was agitatingthepoliticalquidnuncs of Maoriland,
the then Premier (Whitaker), by way of experiment,
invited the Govt, printing-office comps, to decide
by the Hare system the relative popularity of a
number of English poets. The test was con-
sidered unsatisfactory, as the result placed some
minor poets above the immortals.
The other day a Northern mill employd,
who was trying to fix a belt on a wheel with a
piece of wood, had the timber driven deep into his
chest. Received a terrible, ghastly wound, but
recovered. Now for the obverse. Within the
last month a well-known Bundaberg man lost his
life over—chasing a fowl in his yard, when his foot
caught and he fell on a sharp stick which pierced
his stomach and lacerated an intestine. Who
doesn’t believe in fatalism ?
“Sir,” —Are you hard on clothes? You can
get more wear, look nicer, and save cash by wearing our
Gold Medal Tweeds, only 455. per suit, to measure (12s.
6d. for trousers). If in town, call in ; we send patterns
free to the country, so no matter in what town you are
when you strike this paragraph, we can send samples
and give you satisfaction by our easy method of self-
measure. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street (only), Sydney. (These tweeds took the First
Prizes and' Gold Medals at the late Royal Agricultural
Show in Moore Park.)


A WELL-KNOWN CYCLIST
Regains Health and Strength by the Use of the C eat
Blood-Purifier and Tonic, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. He
Sends his Portrait, and Writes as Follows:
r
\
r
it,
£
1 >
&
A
X
Gentlemen: Being a racing cyclist and consequently having to
go chough a severe bodily test in way of training I was, after a longterm
of constant practice, entirely run down, and had decided to abandon the
track for awhile, but having heard a great deal as to the blood-purifying
and strengthening qualities of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I determined to give
it a trial. I am glad to say that I have been greatly benefited by the
medicine, so much so that I am again able to go on the bicycle track,
and can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone suffering.from loss of
strength and weakness of the system.
Yours respectfully,
Frank Watts, Sydney, New So. Wales, Dec. 29,1896.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Strength-Giver and Blood-Purifier.
See that the name-AyeE’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrap*
per, and blown in the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIG
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,’
until it has become
«■ Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
iiimpire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FO R
nvrtridgc’i
UftmriTnnif
BE SUBE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRID3E’S EMBROCATION
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
. Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottlt s, »t Is. l|d., 2s. 9 d , 4s. fid.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
csrTxioa*.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 3 KING
MOET, S
■TOVBBI
u
Have been before tlie Public for more than
50 y ears, and have now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This has been achieved
without the publication of testimonials*
the convincing fact is, that Beecham's Pills
RECOMMEND THEM SET VES.
A if A
FOR ALL
BILIOUS 1 NERVOUS DISORDERS,
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired ingestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
Annual Sale, SIX MILUOfi tOXES.
Sold every where in boxes, 9hd r , Jl fi-
rm d 219 each.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving-full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop tliat Cougii!
• TAKE • • •
lIISI MSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Cubstitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids’ Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
1 s. 3B o ac.


3— :t HE LARGEs-rt
w Makebs
SwatesA
ESTABLISHED
1047.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-mating
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS GOL LIMITED
Pearl Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian ITeadq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Melt).
New Ssuth Wales Address!
35 Broadway, George St. West, SydRSJf
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated. Catalogue l f ree, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . ,
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where’
ever situated fc will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person ivho would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
WortE)iogtoi) P6n}pii)g Eijgipc Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlTYl|~>Sr>Tl (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, IST. S.W.
REGULAR PATTERN.
A-gencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
VW~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Hollow a,Y’s pills and ointment.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER., TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
THjS MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER.
*
What is Health?
Sciatica,
- - lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. Cl, F.
FARM Fit, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
@8
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- BUDBiDn-TS &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREML', SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THE LAST OF SIX
“OLEftC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.8,. Botanist to
H.B.H. the Prince ol Wale*
Permanent Core.
ECZEMA
%
B*lf Applied.
Jars (ooncentd.), 4/6, pout 4/10
DEPOTS:
‘OLEAC’
Stcket— M. H, Horwttz, 84 Pitt St
Adelaide— Haksis & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Fbicd. J. E, Phillips, 817 Collins St,
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DIN NEB, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles,
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OEFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
ISON, Manager.
Ire?
lip
<,rf>
The Roarer Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING- MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of —Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “ James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. —We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
TNSOLVEXTT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
A & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock; double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality,- solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price ! 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Bre.ech-Loading Guns at 6 fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian Colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co. ’
rriiiiii inir>iriiaiffiwriMWMMWiii«rni net any— wwirimui m n it ~ am - irini nimr "HitinhH iiihiiiHiiiiiiTnrrßlinßWranM
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Niekle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 90-. Send for trade Illustrated Price
List Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date £7, £6, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tile Greo. F. Blake Miaiafs. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
W. F. & John Barnes Co ,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
ZB. F. Stnrtevant Co,,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & 00., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand —J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
