

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET, .
’• xwiii"-'* WW wBL JflHMh.i.Mi. iSZW Cw
107 Kent street, Sydney,
_ , —FOR—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining’ Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE PR-g-SP A 135-SJ!*
56 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Ori3 ’* ana “ Pyramid ” Galvanized. Iron.
10,000 iKZziigrlxfc Sevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
30
*■
<RAci<_ArocK>
£ ft
-U
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
advt
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO„
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Porrable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Eccehtric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broapbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKTNSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Bleckh: al Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Ceils.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A-iadL see tlxat you get it;.
**7
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaglit Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices—Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works -Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
3
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGMETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
HOBART.
^ —
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
Before visiHng fhe Of/ write fo fhe Manager for
o>rd cjTariff. Correspondence promptly amended to.
THE - -
<ar©stfsi)orNotsJ,
Grosvenor Square,
SYDKTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manage*.
4 ?]aU/^wU
advt
The Leading- Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness -
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRAXGHKS : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
EROS.’
BOOMERANG
BRANDY
As Supplied to the British House of Commons, War Office, London County Council
Asylum, and many of the leading Hospitals in Great Britain and Australasia.
ANTWERP EXHIBITION, 1S!)4.- - - -
BORDEAUX EXHIBITION, 1895 - - -
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION, 1895 - -
BRUSSELS EXHIBITION, 1897 - - - -
GOLD MEDAL.
BRONZE MEDAL.
GOLD MEDAL.
2 gold medals.
Ototainatjie of all Wine & Spirit Merob.aXLtß.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
i*
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Few Zealand.
HENRY SIMON
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. iB.— jNo. 935. J
(Saturday, January 15, i. 898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robfrtson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers Of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S .“TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price, Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price YVarung ; price, 28.; post-free,
£s. 6d,
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to «s for any Book or Magazine you want.
The Bulletin Newspaper Oo. 7 Limited.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
• writers), paper Is., posted Is. 3d. ; cloth 25.,
posted 2s. 4d.
the Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Favenc, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers)—
Complete Poetical Works, paper, ss. ; posted,,
ss. 4d. A limited number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, boards,
2s. (id. ; posted, 2s. Bd. A few copies re-
main.
Australian Essays, paper, 2s. 6d. ; posted,
2s, 9d. A few copies remain.
Post-free from ‘ THE BULLETIN ’ Office,
214 George-street,' Sydney,' for postal notes or
stamps of any province to prices named.
A G. STEPHENS,
1 * j AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher. .
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees'on application.
THE RESULT OF EXPERIENCE.
There is no doubt that the popularity enjoyed by
CAMEO CIGARETTES
is the result of experience on the part of the smoker. He finds
CAMEOS always the same —of even quality and excellence, and
far and away the choicest Cigarette made.
What do you Smoke?
THE RED PAGE.
Sarah Grand is the unfortunate lady who
was badly treated by a Man and revenges
herself upon Men. Men are red-nosed
vipers who live on dunghills and say
“ D unn ! ” when their wives forget to order
the Avhisky. It is Sarah’s business to strip
the vipers of their masks and paint them in
the true colors of the particular reptile who
bit her. And if this is mixed, it is nothing
like as mixed as Sarah. How Sarah must
have suffered !
* * • •
‘The Beth Book,’ like ‘The Heavenly
Twins,’ is an astonishing farrago of sense
and nonsense, interest and boredom and
suggestion. Sarah’s facts and impressions
leap from her pen helter-skelter, higgledy-
piggledy, ‘ all at once and all o’er, with a
mighty uproar ’ —just like the water comes
down at Lodore. Good episodes, bad
episodes; matter relevant and irrelevant ;
passages well-proportioned for the effect of
the whole and passages out of all proportion
to anything but a literary nightmare ;
Sarah vomits them anyhow and nohow, like
the very active female volcano that she is.
Her mind swims in a sea of memories, and
when she has written the chapter-heading it
dives down and brings up whatever it
clutches —seaweed, mud, pebbles, dead fish,
or now and again a pearl. Everything goes
into ‘The Beth Book.’ It is agreed that—
once fathered—the New Woman can very
well do without the old man for all general
purposes. But she will always want him to
cut the lumber out of her books.
* * * *
It is marriage that spoils Sarah’s book,
just as (O pity !) it spoiled Sarah. Up to
page 324 or so she is busy representing her
childhood and girlhood in a really dramatic
and interesting manner ; one doesn’t recall
another study-of-a-girl so close and capable.
Here, for example, is a charming passage—
true, well-observed, well-written. (Beth’s
father has told her he gets no separate
pleasure from any particular flower : they all
delight him.)
Beth pondered upon this for a little, then she
asked, ‘Do you know which I like best? Hot
primroses.’ Captain Caldwell raised his eyebrows
interrogatively. ‘ When you pick them in the
sun, and put them against your cheek, they’re all'
warm, you know,’ Beth explained ; ‘and then they
are good! And fuchsias are good too, but it
isn’t the same good. You know that one in the
sitting-room Window, white outside and salmon-
colored inside, and such a nice shape—the flowers
—and the way they hang down ; you have to lift
them to look into them. When I look it them
long, they make me feel—oh—feel, you know—feel
that I could take the whole plant m my arms and
hug it. But fuchsias don’t scent sweet like hot
primroses. ’
‘ And therefore they are not so good ? ’ her
father suggested, greatly interested in the child’s
attempt to express herself. ‘ They say that the
scent is the soul of the flower.’
‘The scent is the soul of the flower,’Beth re-
peated several times ; then heaved a deep sigh of
satisfaction. ‘I want to sing it,’ she said. ‘I
always want to sing things like that.’
* » * *
‘What other “things like that” do you
know, Beth 1 ’ asks her father.
1 The song of the sea in the shell.
The swish of the grassftn the hreexe,
The sound of a far-away bell,
The whispering leaves on the trees,’
Beth burst out instantly.
‘ Who taught you that, Beth ? ’ her father asked.
Oh, no one taught me, papa,’ she answered.
' just came to me—like this, you know. I used
I>o listen to the sea in that shell in the sitting-
room, and I tried and tried to find a name for the
sound, and all at once song came into my head—
The song of the sea in the shell. Then I was lying
cut here on the grass when it was long, before you
cut it to make hay, and you came out and said,
“There’s a stiff breeze blowing.” And it blew
hard and then stopped, and then it came again ;
and every time it came the grass went—swish-h-h !
The swish of the grass in the breeze. Then you
know that bell that rings a long way off, you can
only just hear it out here— The sound of a far-
away bell. Then the leaves—it was a long time
before anything came that I could sing about
them. I used to try and think it, but you can’t
■ing a thing you think. It’s when a thing comes,
you can sing it. I was always listening to the
leaves, and I always felt they were doing some-
thing ; then all at once it came one day. Of course
they were whispering— The whispering leaves on
the trees. That was how they came, papa.’
* « • •
Does this not picture admirably the
dreamy fancies of a clever child ? And Beth
goes on—
-1 At first I used to sing them by themselves;
but now I sing them all together. You can sing
them three different ways—the way I did first,
you know, then you can put breeze first—
‘ The swish of the grass in the breeze,
The whispering leaves on the trees,
The song of the sea in the shell,
The sound of a far-away bell.’
Or you oan sing—
‘ The sound of a far-away bell,
The whispering leaves on the trees,
The swish of the grass in the breeze,
The song of the sea in the shell.’
Which way do you think the nicest?’ She had
rattled all this off as fast as she could speak, look-
ing and pointing towards the various things she
mentioned as she proceeded—the sea, the grass,
the trees, the distance : now she looked up to her
father for an answer. He was looking at her so
queerly, she was filled with alarm. ‘Am I
naughty, papa ? ’ she exclaimed.
‘ Oh, no,’ he said, with a smile that reassured
her. ‘ I was just thinking. I like to hear how
“ things come ’’ to you. You must always tell
me—when new things come. By the way, who
told you that fuchsia was salmon-colored ? ’
‘I saw it was,’ she said, surprised that he needed
to ask such a question. ‘ I saw 7 it one day when
we had boiled salmon for dinner. Isn’t it nice
when you see that one thing’s like another? I
have a pebble, and it’s just the shape of a pear—
now you know what shape it is, don’t you ? ’ He
nodded. ‘But if I said it’s thick at one end and
thin at another, you wouldn’t know what shape it
is a bit, would you ? ’
‘No, I should nob,’ he answered, beginning to
prune again, thoughtfully. ‘ Beth,’ he said pre-
sently, 1 1 should like to see you grow up.’
* * * ♦
‘ The Beth Book’s ’ sub-title is ‘ a Study
from the Life of Elizabeth Caldwell Maclure,
a Woman of Genius’ —and this looks like a
child of genius. But Beth’s sex is against
her. The book is her life-story, and it is
singular how the brightness goes from it at
her epoch of puberty—just as it goes from
the average girl-child. Probably Sarah’s
Man made things worse; but there is no
need to saddle him with all the blame.
After page 324 or so there is little but rant
and hysteria—devoid alike of truth and use-
fulness, and not even amusing. Beth the
natural girl is admirable; but Beth the
didactic and unenlightened woman is abomin-
able. Several good descriptive passages and
much crude force of statement do not alter
this judgment. Says Sarah (p. 152)- —
It was the next day that Aunt Victoria left
them to make room for Mildred and the boys.
Beth went with her mother to see the old lady off
to the station. On account of their connections
the little party attracted attention, and Mrs.
Caldwell, feeling her importance, expected the
officials to be obsequious, which they were; and,
in return, she also expect! d Aunt Victoria to
make proper acknowledgment of their attentions.
She considered that sixpence at least was neces-
sary to uphold the dignity of the family on such
occasions ; but, to her horror, when the moment
came, Aunt Victoria, after an exciting fumble,'
drew from her reticule a tract entitled ‘The Man
on the Slant,’ and, in the face of everybody,
handed it to the expectant porter.
Sarah doesn’t know it ; but she acts pre-
cisely as Aunt Victoria. We come to her
deserving and expecting Literature, 7 and she
fumbles in her marital Chamber of Horrors
and gives us 4 The Man on the Slant.’
* » * *
One of the pieces of verse printed on this
page, 4 A Lullaby, ’ was a gem in Palgrave's
first 4 Golden Treasury ’ ; but the freakish,
Blakish other—quite a modern 4 find ’ —does
not seem to have been included by antho-
logy-makers before Mrs. Meynell. That
lady’s new collection, 4 The Flower of the
Mind,’ naturally reflects her personal prefer-
ence for the quaintly-happy and curiously-
carven. Her own verse is simple enough ;
but in the verse of others she seems to
desire the rather stiff 1 conceits which make
subtle her prose Thus she clings to
Crashaw (justly), and chooses from Herbert
and Herrick rather the allusive than the
obvious in phrase and sentiment. A. T.
Quiller-Couch, in ‘The Golden Pomp,’
seems closer to the lyric spirit—he
is more alive, more romantic, and more
responsive to a breath of emotion. Mrs.
Meynell’s taste in beautiful verses seems
rather virtuoso’s than lover’s : she is in tune
with religious feeling, but where religion is
not concerned she is dispassionate, does not
palpitate enough, is too intellectual, too far
from her youth. Qoilier Couch’s head is not
so clear, but his heart pulses more quickly,
and with hotter blood. Ohurton Collins, in
his ‘Treasury of Minor British Poetry,’
seems wider and mellower than either. He
is warmed by passion and charmed by
scholarship : his point of view seems more
like Palgrave’s, but he includes humour as
well as sentiment, and the recherche as well
as the oi’dinary. And Collins has a male
appreciation of the value of ideas.
* * * *
Mrs. Meynell, by the way, seems to have
transfeiTed to Francis Thompson the en-
thusiasm which in his life she nourished
for Coventry Patmore. Patmore, Thompson,
and Meynell are, or were, all of the Roman
Catholic religion ; and maybe this spiritual
bond strengthened the intellectual one.
Anyway, Mrs. Meynell, who ‘ selected ’ Pat-
more, considered him ‘ the divinest voice of
our time;’ and Patmore held Mrs. Meynell
unique as English essayist. Now Patmore
is dead, Mrs. Meynell’s adjectives go to
show that Thompson is ‘the divinest,’
etc.; while Thompson’s eulogies of Meynell
are as undiscriminating as Patmore’s. In
truth, clever and cultured though she be,
Mrs. Meynell’s reputation will not last
beyond her day and her coterie. Her verse
is interesting and lacking force : her affected
and ornamented prose, often brilliant and
suggestive, is too aloof and ‘ precious .to
live beyond the hothouse of contemporai'y
friendship. (Mrs. Meynell has in Louise
Imogen Guiney an American imitator who
pushes her sophisticated style to the verge
of frenzy.)
• * • •
Palgrave’s second ‘Golden Treasury’ (of
this-century verse) is about as incapably col-
lected as it could be. (Palgrave, of course,
was on the brink of the grave ; and his brain
had softened or solidified). The host of
minor poets is all but unrepresented ; —the
book's staple is Browning, Arnold, and
Tennyson—and some examples of the first
and second and many of the last are unneces-
sary or odious—fancy including ‘ The
Northern Farmer’ and ‘Locksley Hall’
among ‘ Songs and Lyrics' ; —and certain of
the editor’s favorites are monstrously unde-
serving of favor. O’Shaughnessy, indeed,
nearly always justifies preference, though
not the disproportionate preference he
enjoys ; but W. Barnes and Tennyson-Tur-
ner might very well be dispensed with alto-
gether. And anyone who wants to see what
Palgrave has omitted may look up two or
three volumes in Miles’s ‘ Poets of the
Century ’ series (particularly the volume of
‘ Contemporary Poets ’). The obvious fact
is that Palgrave quite incompetent to
undertake the task set him (or which he set
himself). He had no knowledge of the
modern-verse field ; and his old-age at once
disinclined him to gather knowledge and in-
capacitated him from using it. So he made
his garland, for the most part, from his
favorites in youth and middle-age ; narrowed
his scope to his limited reading ; and often
mistook his-own familiarity and pai’tiality for
writers’ merit. The second ‘ Golden Trea-
sury ’ is practically worthless.
* * *
Mark Twain was Mark Twain : now he is
M.T. And old, sick, tired, he still plods
round the weary literary whim-path—has to,
it seems ; for a creditor’s lash drives him.
“ More Tramps Abroad ” is a long, slow,
dull book—like a railway journey from any-
where to nowhere and round back by every-
where. A kind of encyclopaedia, too, of the
things that struck Mark as he tramped abroad
with his old-age, and his sickness, and his
fatigue—very informing—as much informa-
tion to the square inch as a dictionary,
almost; but the average person isn’t
used to connecting the ideas of encyclo-
paedia and dictionary with the idea
of Mark Twain. And Mark must
try his hand at aphorisms, too, in the Billings
manner—things he never could do. Also,
he rides to death his hobby-delusion of how
a humorous story should be told—as ex-
pounded in ‘Tom Sawyer, Detective,’ &c.,
forgetting that after all his theory pertains
to speech, and speech isn’t writing. Occa-
sionally, as in the dog-deliverance at p. 285,
the old Mark flashes —to make the surround-
ing darkness more obvious. Yet a reader
who wall throttle' preconceptions and content
simself with diffused interest can find plenty
of ponder-matter in ‘ More Tramps Abroad.’
It’s not tense enough for the city ; but it’s
an Education for the man-with-lots-of-time
in the Bush. And the volcano was in its day
a good volcano, anyway ; and if of the ancient
fire there now remain only ashes well,
sale to the ashes !
LULLABY.
Weep you no more, sad fountains)
What need you flow so fast ?
Look how the snowy mountains
Heaven’s sun does gently wastes
But my sun’s heavenly eyes
View not your weeping,
That now lies sleeping
Softly, now softly lies
Sleeping.
Sleep is a reconciling,
A rest that peace begets ;
Doth not the sun rise smiling
When fair at eve he sets ?
Rest you, then, rest, sad eyes,
Melt not in weeping,
While she lies sleeping
Softly, now softly lies
Sleeping.
Anon.
TOM O’ BEDLAM.
The morn’s my constant mistress,
And the lovely owl my marrow ;
The flaming drake
And the night-crow make
Me music to my sorrow.
I know more than A polio ;
For oft when he lies sleeping
I behold the stars
At mortal wars,
And the rounded welkin weeping.
The moon embraces her shepherd,
And the Queen of Love her warrior;
While the first does horn
The stars of the morn,
And the next the heavenly farrier.
With a heart of furious fancies,
Whereof I am commander :
With a burning spear,
And a horse of air,
To the wilderness I wander.
With a Knight of ghosts and shadows,
I summoned am to Tourney :
Ten leagues beyond
The wide world’s end ;
Methinks it is no journey.
Anon.


MedlotU.
dr. freeman
(SYDNEY’S LEADINC SPECIALIST) and
s
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
ITtiKNDSof sufferers
Second to None in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
trouuies.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Tlieir experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they havt> made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
‘131911901
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unlit
for. study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be iT'en.
MIDDLE-AGED s OLD MED,
tlieie are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of . nervous debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
. kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
MAIL
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to the
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-.
uses, NERVOUS :
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
rvii
iwrvSF-gyy
.4U Trams stop at the Door,
turn. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your lire. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at once send necessary remedies for
t» eatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.o. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY
TRUTHS,
MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
advt
TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Boro PbySkiaO-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Oollins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. "Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
;who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
YARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
*7 York Street:,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
I whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
i enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALiLi CON SULiT ATION S FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
'&T MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and suooess.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
-JOHN- D UR ANTI
ffiH
s»
Uft-:..,
.Mra4feflerßQK.
FULL 'DIRECTIONS
. ENCLOSEOr
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cuEe in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney, JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LABISS!
Don't Fret or Worry, but remember that T->v.,
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
7 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Fall direct ions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elg-in-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
t)8 RI CORDS
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAICNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for uGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for Australasia —Perry ft Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MIiLBOTTRNE
AgentsforN.S. Wales— W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
BOOKS!
New, Up to« Date
Publications.
• T or!at wVm i
The Soiled Dove, the History of a Young- Lady who ran
away from her parents and eventually “went to the dogs”;
Miss Skittles, the girl with “ six husbands ” ; Sappho, Life
and Love in Paris —each post free Is. (id. The Ballet
Girl, her natural history, “ gay life behind the scenes” —
post free, Is. Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of Love ; Don
Juan— each post free, Is. 9d.
R. W. SKINNER, Bookseller and Publisher, 105
CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
I
&
Will be Pleased to Welcome liis Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Rooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer fro.m any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Sr, c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical "Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
i
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Mot Delay,
your ease requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy, of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIEEOHS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in winch you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
4
137 ELIZABETH STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday’
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT mIDfiOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be, dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
advt
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad <jO
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once plSced under a
course of treatment entirely' new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in aay
advt
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining- any relief. On niy way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
advt
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better," when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong: as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes.:
—“Gentlemen, —l cannot refrain from adding-my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that J
am a strong man once more, and the distressing- symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming' a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that lam well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
Ua FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S. A,
Open Daily - _ r.;
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwao.
•ill


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subscribers a.t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
s
Address
LAUNCESTON C.
February 2.
50,000 Sntascritoers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame ’
Address
HOBART C. February 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEItSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above
Name
Address.
COOT.VMI NDKA C
Feb. 9.
10,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in t.lio above.
Name
Address
£ s s
NEWMARKET H. Feb. 26.
50,000 Subacribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ■
Australian C. March 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
SILVER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’:
NEW
CATALOGUE
. . IS NOW READY, . ,
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(SET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USE
Spooler’s
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
: OF AIL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
P.O. Sox 185, MELBOURNE.
PILES.
rpHE Advertiser having-suffered for years from Piles and
- 1 - tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE
WANTED AT ONCE, in every locality, an
intelligent person to act as our Agent. No special
knowledge required, and without interfering with
present occupation. A n excellent opportunity for
a capable young man or lady.—Address, Morse
Manufacturing Company, 3, Red Lion Court.
Lbrnion, E.C.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
PER BRA VAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, i
and enabli g the consti-1
tution o resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases ofJ
anaemia, Influenza and 1
general debility.
Highly recommended for ,
weak and debilitated chil-1
dren 1
i LANCET • A beautiful and interesting preparation."
| BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. •• It has alii
the good, effects of iron without producing consti-\
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not ,
1 blacken the teeth. j
" Sold by Chemists all the world over. I
advt
, Prof. DDRCOT’S MDSKAL
! Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
1 Hair on Smoothest Face or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. Ihe only Remedy for Baldness,
bent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d., Double Size, 10s,
S. L. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
iect. It has been used (secretly in many cases)," by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.CiSit End!,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
: lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s
E® r Q uallt J' WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles
SAimmih AD % E J’ 58S - LADIES ’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS 5
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
SILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. ’
Send for a Catalogue.
FACSIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
S>KO
TRADE
MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTSSV!QMiAL_!
ROYAL !
2 S'* 1 tlQb.
I* w '
( % ~h.(Xswl j Art
‘'VhjC "&4rut Oi AjWA'Ovx C£
°U:
f l#
&
A/vw
r /y^f / t €*''s■s
KOKO
<o^
&
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and DaniKff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
unique Testimon ; als prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preraration for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating, i 26 *4/6 sizes, of all Chemists.
Stores Sc. THE KOKO EflA RICO PAS CO., I.TP.. r.*s, Bevis Marks, LONDON ENG
WOTIOH - -
TpitS' r,".“', JSXSS
TTTI turers—not dealers.
? SPRmn T «I^ FT S ] JLKY > wi1 ’ h splash boards, £ll.
I «ppJ2« S 0r SOLID SEAT »ULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
WA h TQTTTv d v a T’ £ I 1 u S- - our s P ecia] 3 SPRING STICK
. Sllver dash rail splash-baards and lamps. £8
£2 S 1 including break and lamps,
Gi/>birf^ BB K TT i TRA Ii SGGGIES > trimmed in real leather,
PHAET(SNS, r from £2l. PS ’ LADIES ' PARK
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN,
Send for and compare onr illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
Sydney.
at
A
ir
Si
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake
certifying to its harmlessly ss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes:“l find Dr Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most, excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge Eng
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD
can bo obtained
Tinned Fruit la aoldm
POWDER
whorovar
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's. Concentrated
Egg Powders. Bird's Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE CHILDLESS WIDOW
She sat behind her curtained window-pane,
And fed her yearning, hungry, angry eyes
On men and women who passed up and down.
On one side lay the busy, bustling town,
And on the other, under smoke-dyed skies,
A jet of bay behind a mist of rain.
She- thought of Love (O Love, thou’rt every-
where !)
Of melting looks and tender, subtle sighs,
And lingering hand-in-hand, and amorous words
I hat probed the soul of sense like steel-bright
swords,
pressure of hot lips, and rhapsodies
Of thought-drunk brains in days and nights that
were.
But soon her eyes saw, in a startled stare,
A stalwart man beside his mother walk
Down towards the misty bay. His well-poised
head,
Broad chest and massive frame and measured
tread,
And gentle deference to the woman’s talk,
Bespoke the son all mothers yearn to bear.
Against the window-pane her face she pressed,
a wa ' :c^ him with an aching, hungry heart:
And then with angry hate scowled on the pride
lhat filled the mother at her big son’s side ;
And clenched her fists and, with her lips apart,
Hissed curses on the womb which Hate had
blessed.
“ These breasts,” she cried, and smote her hollow
chest,
" Had fed as fine as he ; to-day he’d be
As brave, as gracious-featured, noble-souled.
But here I am—alone, forlorn and old !
While there is she—ah, happy mother, she !
Twain women—this one curst and that o e blest!”
And then her eyes flew upward towards the town,
And, smitten, rested on two women who
Walked slowly on beneath Affection’s spell;
A daughter and her mother, all might tell;
A regal girl in garb of azure blue
Which lighted up her mother’s sombre brown.
The childless widow screamed and drove a brood
Of bony fingers into palms of skin,
And cried, *• O God ! ” and rent the filmy vest
That hung upon her sunken, withered chest.
“ P God ! ” she cried again, “ what nameless sin
Hath cursed me at the fount of motherhood ? ”
“ The bitter years have come and gone again ;
They trod upon me with their iron feet
Till all my shameless frame was beaten flat,
And I called Death to slay me where I sat.
But Death came not, and here I sit and eat
My soul away behind this window-pane!
" Oh, but to hear the voice a mother hears,
And see a new-born self rise from my breast,
In man or woman, nourished with the blood
That filled my being in tumultuous flood !
What have I done that others should be blest,
And I accurst to barren, lonely years ? ”
C.C.
THE BREATH OF LIFE.
(History is the soul of a landscape).
O, dark, inexplicable mystery
Of human life ! So frail, so poor, so trite.
It fills the universe with warmth and light,
And bids the uncouth giant worlds to be.
The very granite ranges yonder, dead,
Dead and forgotten since the dawn of Time,
Will live, and harbor dreams, and murmur rhyme,
Repeating softly what some lips have said.
If man were by some chance to pass along,
To build his cottage in a hidden vale,
To laugh and weep and die—his flimsy trail
Would turn those iron walls to gates of song.
The sightless eyes of sombre desert meres
Would gleam with tender consciousness of life
If love, or hate, some bygone human strife
Had hallowed them with laughter or with tears.
God made the world. But mankind bids it live,
And, laying hands upon a stone, perchance
May fill it with the glamor of romance,
Suffuse it with that soul no God can give.
VON KOTZR.
“NIGHT."
Night in mid-summer ! An enchanted Night
Treading with soft steps on the robes of Day ;
Sending pale shadows in the west to play
Amongst the splendors of the sunset light.
A silver crescent on the eastern height
Sails slowly up the star-enjewelled way,
And on the river trembling moonbeams lay
A charm scarce ripple-broken—clear and bright.
Hail to the Night! To her pale Sorrow brings
Her wrongs for comfort, and the eyes that weep
Through smiling Day are hushed in silent sleep.
The inarticulate moans and murmurings
That thrill the sky are but the passing wings
Of Life and Death, who whisper as they sweep,
“ I sow the seed,” and “ I the harvest reap.”
ALIOE M'KINNON.
MILKING-TIME.
Click ! clack ! clicketty clack !
Down the river and up the track !
Molly and me !
Me and Molly !
Peggy and Pansy, Daisy and Dolly,
Up to the milking-yard and back
With a click ! clack ! clicketty clack !
I’m a king and Molly’s a queen—
Here in the milking-yard, I mean.
Me and Molly !
Molly and me !
Over the ridge by the quandong-tree,
Round by the panel beside the stack
With a click ! clack ! clicketty clack !
Ponk ! Pank ! Ponkety-pank !
Through the stubble and round the tank !
Molly and me !
Me and Molly !
Wisdom’s ours ! all else is folly !
While hobbles jingle and cow-bells clank
With a slink ! chink ! ponketv pank !
Queens gets tired, and so do kings,
Doing nothing, and lots of things.
Me and Molly !
Molly and me !
Hot and tired and ready for tea !
Down the river and up the track,
With a ponk ! pank ! clicketty clack !
XIL.


tyGttial
Established 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
ProVid*i)t Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
JGSEP^ABBoiT’ r^'; A THOS T, LITTLiSoHN L 'Eaq C - ha A m w n MERER B v Es *l" Deputy-Chairman ;
Annual Income
Accumulated Funds . .
Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
1 .nrteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
CASH BONUS for the One Year 189C* (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
lieversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. J °
Head Office ;
87 Pitt-street.
Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
Rates i2/&day«i®s
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
tt.Edwin Moore,
i manager.
DUBEROID d
/
$
c°
5^
ft-
r
r
P^B r
Ss&S?ts6§
UU11)
DA
«2
\
k
lb
S
\
It
%
PMSEI*f VE
RUBEROID
DAMP-COURSE
BUII °INg
PAt> ER.
AGENTS: E. Rich & Go. Ltd.. 24 &26 O’Connell St., SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
ww% ©
JL JtM jEBlk. m
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tss- SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. IBa
its
m
m.
m
m
m
Si
wmmm
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
XT-iOLitescL Typewriter <Sz Supplies Go.,
SYDNEY —114 Pitt Street.
M ISf'iß'OUlt'.N H—362 Coi.nl ns Street.
PEIPI’H— 7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
AT)ELATDK— Reeves & Co.
LA UNCKSTON-t-HkiHiEY Button.
lias No Ribbon. Points Direct on to tlie Paper. London Sciiool Board lias over 100 in Use.
» Send for 'particulars of Tree Trial.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY
’irfiiS
TKETTI FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate iri Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridr/eioovk.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
OS King-st,, Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
PALACE
OTEL.
mmM
s
M ELBOURNe.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Booms. . . .
TVo Dining Rooms ; and CaM open Day and Night.
advt
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
t ,, FOR
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, S.VO.VEV.
second-hand
AND
WEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.)* SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
THE . .
cm BIOTIC FIXE
Insurance Company Ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Office: 95 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Victorian Branch :
EMPIRE BUILDINGS, 416 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
Guaranteed Security to Policy-holders nearly
£3,000,000.
Rates : , Settlements
Lowest Current. Prompt and Equitable.
INSURERS eMe E? E b a y $gk B<Mros
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes .£97,1763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. 0. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C, ; Hoh. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring- £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo >*' 7 a.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e<c.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CiitNE ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
@0 Tops njore I imported Leaf
tljai) all the other Tobacco
Factories POt Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dixsoil’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbarppioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooqtieror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i)t€i)i)ial.
Cigars.
Dark Plug and Twist..
(Imported). The Club F avorite
Rothschilds.
Monopole,
Bonanza —4 Havana and Amer
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission 5 y post as a Newspaper.
Voi.lB.—No. 935.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1898.
Price, 6d.
THE OPENING OF THE N.S.W. CAMPAIGN.
“ Splendid” Scarecrow set up by the Sydney Freetrade Press.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Geokgk Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO S ÜBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — JR. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith £■ Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovindal Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—Hd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1898.
The Third Convention.
Next week the third Federal Convention
meets for another attempt at the making of
an Australian nation. If it fails this time
the public will probably be so weary of the
whole futile subject that the very name of
Federation will hardly be mentioned for
years to come. And there is, unfortunately,
much reason to fear that it will fail, unless
the miserably selfish and parochial-minded
politicians who have so far blocked the way
develop a larger soul and a better spirit
of patriotism. The Adelaide Convention
did something, though not very much,
and what it did was done none too well.
The second Convention did less than the first
one. Its principal achievement was that it
practically burst up the financial settlement
arrived at in Adelaide, without putting any-
thing in its place. And the third Convention
starts under worse auspices than the second.
In the interval, Queensland, after much
wobbling and many broken promises, has
decided, definitely it would seem, to stand
out and lead its piebald existence all alone.
New South Wales has broken the Federal
pact by demanding an affirmative vote of
80,000 to ensure the acceptance of the Federal
Constitution, instead of the 50,000 previously
agreed upon. As a sign of the heavy apathy
which overshadows the whole question, the
Federal Finance Committee, which was to
have a scheme drafted for presentation
to the Convention, hasn’t even met, and
Premier Turner, of Victoria, is trying, with
very little prospect of success, to get it to-
gether in time to do something, or to look as
if it were doing something. Hardly any
prominent politician talks Federation now.
The subject has almost dropped out of the
daily press, and the little transient enthu-
siasm of a year ago has apparently fallen
down very dead indeed.
Yet there is every reason why the enthu-
siasm should have grown stronger instead of
weakening. While Australia has been
almost torn asunder by fierce controversy
over the alleged throwing of the ball by
Jones, apd while our butterfly race has been
shaken off its moral base by the downfall of
Bilmartin, three Great Powers have de-
veloped an unexpected agreement for the
partition of China, and powerful enemies
(for all three are the enemies of Britain, and
the enemies of Britain are, unfortunately,
also ours) are growing up at our doors. The
one thing of which Australia may be as cer-
tain as it is of the sunrise is that some day,
soon or late, it will have to fight for its very
existence, and to play a lone hand in the
struggle. This prophecy, which is a very
easy one at the best, is based on nothing in
particular, save the fact that every nation has
to fight for its life sooner or later—-unless it
knocks under without fighting ; and unless
its existence is very short indeed it has to do
it not once,, but many times. Also every
nation, except the very newest, has, some time
or other, had to face stupendous odds alone,
and every one will, almost to a certainty’
have to do it again and again, or else be
blotted out. Australia, in this respect, has
no reason to hope that it won’t share the
common lot. The British connection is no
safeguard. Britain's good luck can no more
last for ever than the luck of any other
country, and the fact that it is 600 years
since Britain.Jms had to fight for its existence
against an invader on its own soil only shows
that the next occasion of the kind is 600
years nearer. Some day Britain will be too
busy hustling in its own defence to look after
this country, and it will be left with some of
Britain’s robust enemies on its hands and
nothing but its own resources to rely upon.
In view of this ever-present possibility, as
well as for many other reasons, Federation is
an absolute necessity. Australia’s six baby
armies, with their six different commanders,
different systems, different weapons and
ammunition, are a howling mockery. If
they were all combined as one force under
one head they wouldn’t amount to very
much ; as six straggling atoms they amount
to nothing. They couldn’t even move easily
to each other’s aid ; if the railway systein of
one province was disorganised by invasion,
and it couldn’t send its own rolling-stock to
the borders to bring reinforcements along,
the break of gauge would prevent the others
sending assistance. And it is abundantly
evident that nothing save Federation—in-
cluding a Federal railway system—will
settle the break of gauge difficulty. Also,
there is no guarantee, in view of provincial
jealousies and divided control, and the panic
and confusion which would naturally arise
when a community whose main desire is to
make 740 runs struck an entirely new danger,
quite different from the customary danger of
getting its leg before wicket, that there would
even be an attempt at combined action.
* * ♦ *
The alleged difficulties in the way of
Federation are so miserably small and futile,
and the need for union is so urgent, that the
threatened collapse of the national cause is
all the more melancholy. The injustice of
equal State representation in the Senate
hardly amounts to a row of pins ; Australia
has a century behind it and possibly a thousand
centuries in front, and before two of these
centuries are past the inequality may have
redressed itself and new inequalities have
arisen, and the balance of population may
have shifted half-a-dozen times, and the
“large” provinces of to-day may have
become small ones and then grown into
large ones again. If there was any possible
reason to believe that the one province
would always have the largest population
and the other one the smallest, the dis-
crepancy would be worth considering, but this
country has hardly even begun to take
definite shape yet. The tariff difficulty is a
bogey of the same order. It is believed,
upon the strength of elaborate calculations,
that with a uniform tariff Westralia would
pay far more than its fair share per head
to-day. If Federation had come along yes-
terday it would have been New South Wales
which would have paid the largest amount
per head. A few years further back Yictoria
would have been the principal loser; and,
judging by present appearances, a few years
lienee it will be Queensland which will have
most reason to object on the same ground.
There never will be a time when some pro-
vince can’t plead that it will probably pay
more under a uniform tariff than some other
province ; but, as every province gets into
that position in turn, one inequality about
balances another. Just now Westralia has
the best-paying railway system, but S.A.,
Yictoria, and New South Wales have all been
in the same situation in turn. Probably
they will all be there in turn again. If the
railways were handed over bodily to the
Federal Government, undoubtedly the pro-
vinces which had for the moment the most
profitable systems would lose something, but
as the same province never has the most
profitable system for seven consecutive years,
and there are a few thousand consecutive years
to reckon with, this difficulty also amounts
to really nothing. The alleged obstacles in
the way of Federal river-control are practi-
cally a myth. Most of the rivers, apart
from the infinitesimal quantity of them
which is drunk when the scanty adja-
cent population can’t get beer, and the
other infinitesimal quantity of them which
the adjacent population occasionally washes
itself with, are mainly used in poetry as the
place that the man who died of thirst was
trying to reach but didn’t. And the lone
swagman in the poem could die trying to
reach them just as easily if they were under
Federal control as the other way.
* * * *
There is not one of all the alleged insuper-
able obstacles which would really amount to
anything, provided there was a genuine
desire to make a strong and useful national
Government. When Australian politicians
fall over these straws and call them lions in
the path they only advertise their miserable
lack of resource. If the federating provinces
would throw into one common stock their
public debts, railways, posts and telegraphs,
customs duties and educational and military
systems, without any elaborate attempt
whatever at the adjustment of accounts,
there would be so very little loss on any side
that the discrepancy wouldn’t be worth argu-
ing about. • It is the struggle after a mean
and soulless accuracy in the matter of the
odd halfpenny—which is only an alleged
halfpenny after all—that makes the situation
so hopeless, and more money has already
been spent in reporting the Convention de-
bates over the financial discrepancy than the
financial discrepancy amounts to.
* * * *
And, meanwhile, the biggest opportunity
in history is being fooled away. This is the
one occasion in all the world's record, so far
as we know it, when there has been a chance
to take peaceful possession of a continent
and place it under one Government, and
under the control of one nation, with a
common language, with no mediaeval tradi-
tions to live down, no serious internal feuds
to eradicate, and no long, horrible, blood-
stained Past to rise up in judgment against
it. Washington and his contemporaries
had no such opportunity in the United
States ; neither had Bolivar in South
America, nor Hidalgo in Mexico ; nor the
makers of the Swiss republic, nor the creators
of new Italy, nor any of the other nation-
builders that we know of. And no one
else will ever have such another oppor-
tunity while the world remains as it
now is, for there are no more continents
to be occupied, and there is no room
to build another new nation anywhere,
unless an old one is first butchered out of the
road to make room for it. Probably the
last men who had such a chance were Cain
and Siiem, and it is a far cry from Shem to
George Reid, and Tozer, and Forrest.
There is something wildly ironical in the idea
that the biggest opportunity in a few thousand
years of history should have been put in the
way of Henry Dobson, and Tozer, and
Nelson, and Sunday Brunker, and Reid,
and Holder, and Lyne, and the other small,
ordinary potterers, who are busy fooling it
away about a small matter of twopence in the
accounts. But lift is mostly made up of
such ironies.
Reid’s Latest Facts.
Unless the two Sydney morning papers have
both been shamefully misreporting Premier
Reid’s recent speech at Mudgee, that truly
awful person must have lost the last remnants
of his accuracy —what he ever had of it. For
instance, the Telegraph represents him as
saying (and the Herald and Evening News
give exactly the same figures and assertions in
slightly different words) :
He desired, by a few figures, to show that these state-
ments were entirely false. Since the Government came
into office it had reduced the expenditure per head of
population from £2 18s. sd. to £1 17s. lid. (Loud ap-
plause.) This represented £1,024,000 less than the figures
for 1892, and £835,000 less than the limited expenditure
of the panic .year of 1893.
Now, first of all, the expenditure per head
isn’t £2 18s. sd. or £1 17s. lid., or anything
like these figures ; for the last financial year
(ended 30th June, 1897) it was £7 os. lid. per
head, which is a vast discrepancy. And if the
expenditure on the actual process of govern-
ment (apart from interest and sinking-funds in
connection with the public debt, and railway,
post and telegraph expenses) is taken, the
amount for last year was not £1 17s. lid., but
about £3 55., which is another huge dis-
crepancy. These figures are taken from
that reliable Government publication, the
“ Statistical Register of N.S. Wales, 1597,”
page 787. Further, according to the same
page of the same official publication, the Reid
Government hasn’t reduced the expenditure by
£1 os. 6d. per head, or anything like it. The
total expenditure in 1894, the last year when
the province was working under Dibbs’ esti-
mates, was £7 Bs. 4d. per head ; in 1897, the
last year under Reid’s estimates, it was £7 os.
lid., which shows a saving of 7s. sd. per inhabi-
tant instead of £1 os. fid. And the cost of govern-
ment— apart from the payments on account of
the public debt and the railway and postal ex-
penditure—was £3 9s. 9d. per head in Dibbs’
last year against £3 ss. in Reid’s, which makes
the saving 4s. 9d. instead of £1 os. 6d.
* * * *
The alleged expenditure of £1 17s. lid. per
head would make the total outlay of N.S. Wales
about £2,000,000 a year instead of over
£9,000,000 as it really is, but seemingly Pre-
mier Reid, whose figures look as if they had
been drinking horribly, couldn’t see this.
Again a saving of £1 os. 6d. per head would have
been a gross saving of over £1,200,000, whereas
Premier Reid represents it as £835,000, and
then again as £1,024,000. Apparently l hat in-
credible fat man has no idea what the population
of his own province amounts to, or any thing even
dimly, resembling it. The wildest humor of all,
however, is that the figures quoted are not
expenditure at all, but represent the revenue
derived from taxation. On the previous page
(786) of the “ Statistical Register for 1897 ” it
is set forth that the receipts from taxation in
1892 (Premier Reid got the wrong year also,
for the last year of his enemy’s administration
was ’94) were £2 18s. 5d., and by 1897 they
fell off to £1 17s. lid. Apparently lie had
simply grabbed at the wrong leaf, and thought
the slump in the revenue was the saving in ex-
penditure, and to all appearance it never struck
him that N.S.W. is run at a cost of over £7
per head per annum instead of less than £2.
And (according to the “Statistical Register,”
page 764) the expenditure for ’93 was
.£9,816,875 and that for 1897 was .£9,439,820,
and as the difference between these is £377,000,
where Premier Reid gets his alleged saving of
£835,000 from is a mystery known only to the
gods who are very tight in Valhalla.
* • * »
Again, Premier Reid is reported as saying re
his predecessor, Dibbs :
The late Colonial Treasurer put £BOO,OOO more taxation
on the backs of the people.
According to the “ Statistical Register ” (page
786), the taxation for 1890, the last complete
year of the Parkes Freetrade tariff, was
.£2,748,339. The first complete year of the
Dibbs Protectionist tariff was 1892, and it and
th« other years of the Dibbs Administration
produced these results :
Jon! Tax »tion ... £3,449,787
98 - >. ... 2,834,566
1894 ••• „ ... 2,745,700
Therefore the biggest increase was not ,£BOO,OOO
but «£/01,000. And the average taxation of the
Dibbs period was £3,010,018 per annum, which
meant an additional burden of .£262,000 on the
backs of the people instead of the alleged
.£BOO,OOO. If Reid was misreported here his
luck is something awful, and if he made a mis-
take his brain is more awful than his luck, and
if he made a deliberate misrepresentation the
less said about his character the better.
* * * *
Another hunk of G. Reid, from the S.M.
Herald report :
It had been asked what had the Government done?
In a nutshell, it had done this : It had taken £BOO,OOO
ayear taxation off the people of the country through
the customs. It had reappraised the rents in the
Western district to something 1 like a fair amount, losing
£lOO,OOO a year by the process. The Government had
taken those loads off, and had only put on a new load
of £420,000 a year. How was it, the Government would
be asked, that they could give up £900,000 a year of
money and yet carry on the work of the country ?’ Well,
they had saved a large amount by Civil Service reform
and by other economies.
A much simpler explanation would be that the
present N.S.W. Government never gave up
.£900,000 a year, or anything like it. In 1893
(according to page 786 of the “Statistical
Register ”), the Dibbs Govt, pulled through
with a revenue of £9,499,252; and, in ’94 with
£9,300,743. In 1897, the Reid Government
had a revenue of £9,107,496, so it sacrificed
£193,000 instead of £900,000. Also, its revenue
from taxation shows a decline of less than
£300,000, as compared with Dibbs’ last year,
so again the statement that it sacrificed £900,000
a year is a glaring cram.
* • * *
Also (this is a quotation from the Telegraph’s
report):—
Again, they had been abused for the fact that the ex-
penditure had been extravagantly placed to loan accounts,
but this was not so. From 1883 to January 1, 1895, the
average expenditure from loans on public works was
£2,900,000 per year, and during the time the Government
had been in office it had spent loan money on public
works at the rate only of £1,340,000. (Applause.)
It is a small matter, no doubt, but still, if there
is any accuracy at all in the figures supplied by
the Government’s own official publication
(“ Wealth and Progress of N.S.W., 1897,” page
888), both these assertions are untrue. The
average amount of loan money spent by Reid’s
predecessors for the 12 years quoted pans out,
according to the official figures, fully £113,000 a
year lesn than he alleges, and his own loan ex-
penditure pans out £54,000 a year more than he
alleges. (This is taking the average up to
June, ’97. If it is taken up to December,
’97, Reid’s loan expenditure is still higher.)
And, as both alterations help the Premier to
make good his own case and slander his op-
ponents, it is difficult to believe that they are
accidental. On the other hand, the ghastly
hog-meanness of such misrepresentation and
the shameless lying it would involve make it
difficult to imagine that it is intentional. Any-
how, as a brick to throw at his political op-
ponents, it it very much out of place. Most of
the expenditure from 1883 to 1895 was the ex-
penditure of Reid’s own political crowd. And
the Dibbs Govt, cut down the loan expenditure
continuously; in its last year, when it had
finished most of the works left uncompleted on
its hands by that tremendous builder and con-
tractor, Parkks, it had reduced the year’s loan
outlay to £1,330,000, which is £60,000 below
Reid’s real yearly average. Moreover, the worst
complaint against Reid is not that he spends
loan money but that he spends most of it on
wholly unproductive works which were formerly
paid, in great measure, out of revenue; which
should be paid wholly out of revenue ; and
which are only charged to loans to make a bogus
surplus, and a lying budget, and a sham
economy. And the N.S.W. Premier brings
forward no evidence whatsoever on this head.
* * * »
The Telegraph also represents Reid as alleg-
ing that he had
Governed the people of the country for a less amount
per head than was ever known in the history of the
country.
If the financier of great circumference did make
that assertion, and it wasn’t pure ignorance and
blundering, then it was something quite out of
the common in the way of hard lying. So far
as the State Statistician’s figures show, 1877
was the first year when the N.S.W. expendi-
ture per head got up to Reid’s level, and there
were many years when the total expenditure
per head was little more than half Reid’s
figure. And, by way of a sudden diversion,
the N.S.W. Premier’s account of his “cash
basis ” system is interesting :
They had now a new system of accounts, under which
the 12 months’ operations are clearly shown on a cash
basis at the end of the year, and every human being in
the country had only to balance the two sides to find out
the exact position of the countiy.
Which is just where the trouble invariably
comes in. In two out of the three complete
balance-sheets which Reid has presented, every
human being w ho balanced the tw o sides of the
account found a huge deficit. And each time
Reid, with his own figures bleaching before
him in the fierce sun of criticism, denied that
there was any deficit. Also, he keeps on deny-
ing it to this day.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t strongly object, to
George Reid as a Foreign-trade Premier ; the


pm,Hirv sent him into office as one, and it has
every right to its choice. But it strongly
ohiects to him as the most unscrupulous or the
most incredibly foolish financier, or the finan-
cier who has the most consistent bad luck in
having all his figures misreported, in the Seven
Provinces, and as a Treasurer whose arithmetic
is liardlv ever right except when it suits him,
and whose figures, when they are wrong, are
always wrong in his own favor. In the present
case however, unless there has been a horrible
conspiracy among his friends to make him say
everything that he didn’t say, or unless some-
body has been very drunk, or the State statis-
tics are a long, vast, elaborate lie, then almost
every one of Premier Reid’s assertions is a
thing which can’t be described in polite lan-
guage and not one of his important figures is
even decently accurate.
The Westralian Slave System.
It is the street harridan who shrieks loudest
when her reputation is questioned. Similarly,
when, as occasionally happens, some example
of brutality to natives, such as the Anderson
horror, comes to light in Westralik, the local
press is at much pains to persuade the outside
world that such a case had never been heard of
before, and that the local nig., under the wing
of the local squatter, spends an ideal existence.
The Anderson case is only singular in that the
perpetrators of the outrage did not go scot-free.
The facts of the case were that several natives
belonging—that is, indentured—to the Ander-
son brothers (Ernest Anderson, aged 21, and
Alexander, aged 18) ran away and were cap-
tured by the two brothers and brought back 24
miles to Bhendhu station, being denied a drink
during the journey and after their arri-
val. The two brothers tied the natives
up and had tea,after which they took turns
in thrashing them with a three-quarter
inch rope, the victims including two girls,
Louie, aged 12, and Minnie, aged 8, whose
backs were found, several days after the affair,
to have “large festering wounds” extending
from the neck to the lower part of the body.
One male and two of the female victims died
three hours after the flogging. A complaisant
coroner’s jury, fearful of lightly interfering with
the customs of the North, found that the natives
died from drinking too much water on their re-
turn to the station, and they censured the
Anderson brothers for the manner in which
they had thrashed the natives. Nevertheless,
the Government ruthlessly preferred a charge
of murder against the Andersons— the local
police having thought that one of manslaughter
would suffice. The younger Anderson subse-
quently died of typhoid in gaol, and the trial
of the other has just been concluded. Four
broken shoulder-blades were produced in court
to show that the nigs, had not died from want
of water. The jury found a verdict of man-
slaughter, and the Chief Justice imposed a sen-
tence of imprisonment for life, the heaviest
which the verdict would allow
* * * *
The local press pleads that the rarity of such
cases is proof that the relations between the
natives and the squatters are satisfactory. The
Bishop of Perth (Anglican) lately visited the
north, and reported, in a despatch to the
Governor on the aborigines-control clause in
the Westralian Constitution, that the treat-
ment of the natives in the north in some cases
was cruel and brutal in the extreme. And
since the Anderson case Chief Justice Alex-
ander Onslow, from his seat on the Bench, has
said he could not forget that he had, 18
months before, tried a case at Geraldton when
a man was charged with flogging a native
to death. The circumstances were “ equally
revolting with those in the Anderson case ” ;
it was “ distinctly proved that the black
had been tied by the hands, lashed to a post,
and there mercilessly flogged to death by two
persons, one taking up the task when the other
became tired.” The defence that the native
had died of some disease of the stomach was an
“ impudent one,” and “no counsel who had
the slightest self-respect, or respect for the
cause of justice and humanity, would venture to
put forward such a defence in a community
whose feeling upon such questions was sound.”
The defence, however, was effective. One man
on the jury, the Chief Justice stated, had the
courage of his convictions, and the jury refused
to find a verdict. And the Chief Justice pro-
ceeds :
I came back to Perth, and asked the Attorney-Gene-
ral to see me in regard to the case. I said to him
that they would never be able to secure a conviction
at Geraldton, and he seemed to agree with me. I then
said that it was the duty of the Government to have
the case tried at Perth, and not at Geraldton. Mr.
Burt replied that the Government would not dare to do
anything- which would be likely to slight or insult their
supporters in that district.
The Chief Justice continues that he makes these
remarks because he is “ convinced that the
public sense has not been properly awakened to
the horrible brutality which has been displayed
towards the aboriginals of this colony.”
* * * *
The Chief Justice and his brother Justices on
the Supreme Court Bench are the only State
servants in Westralia whose utterances are not
subject to the revision of the almighty Knight
of Bunbury. The Chief Justice could not be
peremptorily called to order, and John Forrest
had to descend to the expedient of answering
the allegations. He did it in characteristically
ingenious fashion. He first secured from Sept,
Burt, retired Attorney-General, the statement
that the Chief Justice must have misunderstood
him, and this disclaimer is incorporated as the
chief point of his “ reply ” to the Chief Justice.
The rest of it is mostly bald assertion. Gerald-
ton is 250 miles from the scene of the
alleged Thompson outrage, and therefore the
people there were not more likely to be pre-
judiced than the inhabitants of Perth ; the
Chief Justice had experience only of the few
cases which had come before him, and supposed
that they were typical of the treatment of the
natives ; and he might have “ an inclination to
form erroneous conclusions if he is not very
careful.” The Chief Justice had commented
on the admission of a Justice of the Peace in the
case that he had frequently flogged natives, and
of this the Premier of Westralia says that
If a Justice of the Peach did honestly admit that he
' ad chastised natives, there is nothing discreditable in
i..s saying- so, for it is not reasonable chastisement for
that is to be guarded against, but " horrible
brutality.”
That is to say, the back-blocks beak
may wallop his nigger witli the sanction
of the Govt., and may judge of whether
the walloping is “reasonable chastisement”
or not! Finally, Premier Forrest points
to the report of the police and magis-
trates—the same magistrates who may wallop
their own niggers, and who did their best to let
the Andersons oil'—to prove that the nig. is
well treated. And he both begins and ends his
statement with the assertion that the Chief
Justice must have been misreported—which the
C.J. denies.
* * * *
The spectacle of a Government charged with
being afraid to prosecute the slayer of a nigger
for fear of “slighting or insulting its sup-
porters” is less melancholy than disgraceful.
It suggests first the demoralising influence of
the control of a servile race on a community,
and through the nigger-drivers on their rulers,
who in this case preferred to allow the slayer
to go free to the risk of losing the
support of a few hundred nigger-driving
voters. Fortunately—or unfortunately—the
Australian native promises to disappear shortly,
and the risk of his conversion into a permanent
servile section of the population, like the
American negro, is non-existent. But the affair
contains many morals for Australia, nibbling at ■
various cheap-labor bails. The fact that Wes-
tralia possesses a full-blown slave-system, by
which nigs, are owned under the pretence that
they have “indentured” themselves; that they
are flayed to death, often with impunity ; that
they are flayed “ reasonably ” by magistrates
with the expressed approval of the Premier of
the province ; and that the Government prefers
—rather than risk “ slighting or insulting ” its
supporters by taking proceedings—to let mur-
derers go free, are merely local circumstances.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Honest Auditor.
The law of N.S. Wales gives a mighty lot of
encouragement to the municipal auditor who
tries to do his work fairly and honestly. Re-
cently the borough of Rookwood, near Sydney,
elected John Groves as auditor. John Groves
panned out quite differently from the usual
slummocky individual who audits municipal
accounts, and certifies to their correctness year
after year, until it is found out that the money
had been regularly embezzled for a-quarter of a
century or so, and who attests to the correct-
ness of books, some of which were never
added up, or were never shown to him,
or never existed. In the first place,
he refused to sign the abstract of accounts
until he had gone through the books
and ascertained that the abstract was correct.
Also, he refused to go on with the audit unless
all the books and accounts were placed at his
disposal as provided by the Act, and the audit
was suspended for a considerable time, and
there were long arguments and appeals to the
Colonial Secretary before this difficulty was
got over. Then this quite unusual auditor
proceeded to actually audit the accounts. In
his report he pointed out that many receipts
were unstamped, that many documents were not
properly signed, and that a multitude of
small discrepancies made the accounts confused
and incomprehensible. He also pointed out
that some of the general rates were wrongly
appropriated to pay for the site of a new town-
hall ; that the cost of Jubilee decorations was
improperly taken out of the money for road
repairs, &c. ; that there was a wholly unlawful
payment for law-expenses, the item not having
been sanctioned by the Council; that certain
small sums were not properly accounted for ;
that the bank-book and cash-book didn’t agree
in some respects; that the purchase of a
piano on credit was a wrongful expenditure
of ratepayers’ money ; that 34 pages of
one account-book were wrongly added; that
the Council had a wholly illegal overdraft ;
and many other things. And this surprising
auditor, John Groves, actually refused to
certify that the accounts were correct when, in
his opinion, they were a long way from that
condition, though apparently a co - auditor
was willing to sign in the usual perfunctory
fashion. The overdraft matter is especially
notable. About half the municipalities in
N.S.W. have illegal overdrafts, and their audi-
tors — except John Groves— always state that
everything is right ; and the Government, in-
stead of enforcing the law' and making the
aldermen personally responsible for their
grossly unlawful conduct, passes every year a
retrospective Act to protect them against any
legal consequences of their wrongdoing. Any-
how, the Rookwood Council summoned its
auditor before Parramatta police court, under
an Act which is said to have been repealed. A
Government auditor, called as a witness for
the prosecution, admitted, according to
the printed report of the Cumberland
Times, that there was an error in the
balance - sheet, and he himself wouldn’t
have signed it in its present condition,
and Groves’ co-auditor admitted, according to
the same paper’s report, that he had signed the
incorrect balance-sheet and had his attention
drawn to its incorrectness afterwards. And
then the bench fined John Groves £2 and
£2 2s. costs for “ neglecting to sign and certify
to the correctness of the balance-sheet,” which
apparently wasn’t correct according to the pro-
secution’s own witnesses. This is good, solid
encouragement for the Honest Auditor.
- ——
The Clean (or Unclean) New-Chum
Writes “Bath Bun”:—
Dear Bulletin, —In common with several thousand
other adherents of your “valuable paper,*’ I am more
disgusted than amused by your frequent reviling of
Englishmen (I don’t say Britishers, for Tiie Bulletin
would claim a superiority for the Scotch and Irish even in
this particular) on the score of their personal dislike to
soap and water. Your latest is a foolish fabrication re
the discovery of a decayed corpse among the cobwebs of
a London hotel bathroom. Doubtless the untravelled
Australian expectorator who imagined that incident for
you got his cue from sundry previous yarns which have
entered Tiie Bulletin columns in the ordinary way of anti-
Hinglish business, and which, seeing' that The Bulletin
is the bushman’s Bible, have found many honest believers
in the backblocks I put some straight questions. Do you
really believe that the average English emigrant to Aus-
tralia is a dirty-bodied fellow, who begets “colonial”
children of a cleanlier disposition ? What is your explan-
ation of the alleged fact? Is the ordinary Australian
selector a more washed person than the English farmer ?
Are Stoddaut’s Hinglish Eleven less clean than the Aus-
tralian ditto, and why does the native-born mosquito,
likewise the Australian girl, show such a marked prefer-
ence for new-chums?
The Bulletin replies, more in sorrow than in
blankv, to the above reviling as follows : In
the first place, the man who was solely re-
sponsible for the appearance of the par. com-
plained of isßritish himself. His prejudice on the
subject of English cleanliness probably arose first
through the fact that he lived ten years—from
two to twelve years old—in an English manu-
facturing town of 16,000 population (Kidder-
minster, where they make the shoddy carpets),
in which town, so far as he knew—and in a
place like that almost everybody had some slight
knowledge of everybody else—there wasn’t one
house possessing a bath. He is prepared to lay
his hand on his heart and swear that he
didn’t know of one. He knew pretty nearly
every boy in the extensive grammar-school, and
pervaded the houses of many of them, to the
great discomfort of their parents, and he never
came across such a thing as a bathroom among
the lot. Presumably, everybody washed occa-
sionally in a tub in the laundry, or somewhere,
but apparently they didn’t do it often enough
to miss the bathroom. The first time he met
with such a place was when he removed to
Glasgow, and found three-roomed tenement
houses supplied with it. The same individual,
in his old, unprosperous days, came out steerage
per sailing ship, from London—a three months’
voyage. One night, in the tropics, a spasm of
washing came over the male passengers, and
they had a great, unanimous pumping upon
each other by the forecastle, but the madness
was never repeated. Perhaps that intensified
the prejudice. The writer does reckon that
the British arrival begets children who are a
little cleaner than himself; the visible reason
why they are cleaner is that washing in this
country is more of a luxury and less of a duty.
But the rule doesn’t always hold good. For
instance, the other day he learned that a
young society lady, the daughter of an
English professional man of good standing now
in Sydney, hadn’t washed her head for eight
months. He has the statement on her own
authority, though it wasn’t meant for his hear-
ing. How often the daughter of an Australian
professional man usually washes her head he
doesn’t know, or want to know. She might
wash her head so seldom that he would never
enjoy meeting her again. Anyhow, the writer,
after spending most of 19 years in Maoriland
(both islands), Queensland, Victoria, N.S. W.,
and Tasmania, only saw two men fired out of
the many boardinghouses and hotels he has in-
fested on the ground that they were too
grimy to associate with and they were
both English. One—ejected in Dunedin—
was the mate of an English ship; the
other—in Melbourne—was an English ex-editor.
The ex-editor didn’t take it at all kindly, and
demanded through his lawyer a definite state-
ment in writing whether the old lady who ran
the show did or did not charge him with being
grimy beyond reasonable limits. For the rest,
the responsible person above alluded to doesn’t
know whether the Australian selector or the
English farmer washes oftenest ; he never
attempted to wash either of them. He doesn’t
know how clean the English Eleven is. He has
no idea whether the mosquito bites the new-
chum oftener than the native—probably the
only difference is that the new-chum, not being
accustomed to it, feels it more. If it does
bite him oftener, it may be because of
his extra dirtiness, or again it may not.
And if the Australian girl does show a
marked preference for new-chums, which this
scribe has never noticed (when he was a new-
chum no girl showed any preference for him,
anyhow), that isn’t evidence. One girl, as a
rule, only gets a chance to marry one new-
chum, so she has no experience to euide her.
The new-chum, as a general thing, arrives here
with his clothes on, so that his condition is
rather a mystery. It isn’t the girl who is
going to marry the new-chum, but the woman
who has married him who is an authority.
Does the young Australian widow, who has
just buried her new-chum, generally make haste
to wed another new-chum ? Some information
on this head would be interesting.
The Shiftless Ghostly Comforter.
In a recent lecture, R.C. Archbishop Carr
(Melb.) suggested that the souls of infants who
die unbaptised are possibly kept in reserve to
animate the bodies of future inhabitants of this
world, when the hoary, sin-laden and utterly-
tired old planet shall have been cleaned up and
generally swept and garnished for a perfectly
new experiment. Truly the church has a hard
row to hoe nowadays when it goes into specula-
tions like these. It used to have a compara-
tively easy time of it. In earlier days man
wasn’t so much worried about details as he is
now ; he merely asked for large, robust asser-
tion, He only knew that he came from some-
where that was so large and dark and vague
that he felt scared when he thought of it, and
that he went somewhere which was so emin-
ently uncertain that his hair bristled up at the
prospect. Also, he knew that he was a very
short time here, and a very long time away,
and, feeling a desire for some consolation, he in-
vented a man in long gay rags to tell him (for a
consideration) pleasant things about the place
he was going to. In those days he was so des-
perately anxious to hear something pleasant
to alleviate his horrid dreams about the place
he was going to that he was willing to pay
almost any money for the information, and he
was so anxious not to burst up his only
consolation that he never asked where the
hired ghostly-comforter got his information
from. Now, alas ! he wants so many details
for his money that the spectral supporter has
hard times supplying the information. In the
simple-minded long ago everything that was
superfluous, or in the road, or that couldn’t be
otherwise accounted for, could be disposed of
in one act by saying that it would be damned ;
but this cheerful, off-hand, wholesale mode of
getting rid of uncomfortable problems is getting
out of date now. The community pays a great
deal less money than it used to do, and wants a
great deal more value for it. Where it used to
put Is. in the plate in return for the statement
that the unbaptised infant would be Lost, it
now parts with 3d., and demands that that in-
fant shall have another show. And the church,
in a clumsy, hesitating, tentative fashion, is
trying to give that infant a fresh deal accord-
ingly.
The uncertainty of the validity of legal pro-
ceedings when a Court, without Statute autho-
rity, sits in camera, or what amounts to that,
is an older Australian question than the N.S. W.
Divorce Law itself. The legality of the Nor-
folk Island executions of sixty and seventy years
ago has been impugned by numbers of lawyers,
especially in England, on the ground that the
trials of the accused parties were conducted on
an island which was then a gaol, and conse-
quently, not “ open to the public ” in the sense
that free people could pass in and out of court
when they chose. The general contention
was that the Norfolk Island accused should
have been transferred to Sydney for trial
there, according to the spirit and letter
of British law, and so strong were the
arguments to that effect that if the
accused had been few in number trials in open
court in Sydney would have been accorded
them. But the accused were counted by the
hundred, and the Botany Bay authorities,
realising that it was cheaper to send a Judge,
a prosecutor, and a hangman to the island, than
to fetch the prisoners to the mainland, tried,
and, when convicted, executed them on the
island, practically in camera and therefore
illegally, according to the majority of opinions.
Judicial murders in camera for reasons of thrift
preceded, therefore, by many years, judicial
divorces in camera for reasons of social com-
placence or political favoritism, and, in time to
come, the legal validity of the latter will be
placed on the same basis as that of the former.
♦
Some Q. Ms.P. have been sounded as to their
willingness to extend the term of the present
Parliament. It was known to The Bulletin
12 months ago that a small movement was to
be attempted in favor of a reversion to the
quinquennial system. But to apply to this
Parliament! Audacity out-cheeked ! Of course
the point is arguable as to the term of Parlia-
ments, since any number of years, from 1 to
x is purely arbitrary, but the tendency of
paid democratic Parliaments should be, and
must be, to shorten and shorten till the last
convenient limit is reached. Consider the
power for evil thrown into the hands of a paid
seven-years’ Parliament ! Shortly put: If long
Parliaments, then a clause by which one con-
stituency, or more, or all the constituencies
could compel its or their representative or
representatives to resign at any moment.
Otherwise, the Parliament will ride the people
with foot-long spurs, drawing blood and groans
at every stride. The easiest way being best,
however, short Parliaments should remain.
On the subject of the wretched girls who go as
missionaries to China, “A Man Who Knows”
writes The Bulletin :
I was born at one of the treaty ports; spoke Chinese
from childhood ; and know better than most people what
the natives really think on the subject of girl missionaries.
In a country where females are held cheap, and where
female children are actually killed among the poor as
being in the way, how' can alien females hope to be
treated with even passable decency when living away
from the treaty ports and masquerading in native dress'?
It is necessary for them to know the language well, so
that there is no getting away from the foulness of the
epithets openly levelled against them. They have a silly
idea of influencing the men through the women ; but (hey
forget that the women have absolutely no power in this
way. They are merely bought chattels, and for one pur-
pose only.
If any persons deserve flogging now-a-days it is the
men w’ho—themselves staying in comfortable safety—
cantingly induce girls to undergo this horror. Possibly
they act from good motives, according to their wretched
lights ; hut their crime is black, nevertheless. It is bad:
enough for a man to be a missionary ; for a woman it is
hideous. Ask at any of the treaty ports who is the worst
native, and you will be told a Christianised one. This is
a solid fact. It is curious, too, that the charge of vile-
ness of living we level here at the Chinese is returned
with interest by them as regards the missions, especially
where a man and his w'ife and several single girls live
together in one house, as they often do.
At Suffield’s trial his soft, smooth coat was,
on the suggestion of the Judge, handed to the
prosecutrix. “ Now ! ” said counsel for the
defence, “is that a rough or a smooth coat ?
Remember that a man’s life hangs on your an-
swer.” The injured one felt, hesitated, felt
again. “ Rough,” she faltered. “ Hand it to
the jury,” suggested Suffield in his shirt-
sleeves. The jury felt it—and sniggered.
“But,” summed up the Judge, “you mustn’t
take any notice of the discrepancy of the coat.
That may be accounted for by the difference
between the touch of a man and the touch of a
woman. What is smooth to a: man would be
rough to a woman.” How careful he was to'
remove from the jury’s minds the least impres-
sion in Suffield’s favor ! For the woman had
sworn that the coat worn by her assailant was
like a particular coat which she had described
as “ rough and shaggy.” And Suffield wears
the convict’s rough coat for eight merry Christ-
mases !
“ T D.” on “A Rabid Englishman’s” recent
cursory criticism of the Maoriland woman in
The Bulletin :
It is no use telling the self-reliant- young Maorilandress
that she is too practical, when circumstances constrain
her to forage round for bread and butter. The trouble
originates in the infrequency of marriage; due to the
fact that the Maorilander remains a boy and receives
boy’s wages half through life. Where the Australian
frequently sets up house on £1 a week the average
Maorilander is too Scottish and prudent to do anything
of the sort ; consequently everybody in the province is
acquainted with scores of good-looking girls who are
helplessly drifting into old maidenhood.' But, if the
M.L. maiden is lucky enough to visit Sydney or Mel-
bourne, she can be depended upon to return to "her native'
heath with a husband in tow “Rabid Englishman’s"
other assertion that in M.L. girls are better educated
than boys should not pass unchallenged. Rather is the
education of both sexes —so far as numbers go—in advance
of that in other parts of Australia The community is
already surcharged with lawyers and medicoes ; yet they •
keep on coming, and a Maoriland Napoleon would point
somewhat apprehensively to the fact that every.schoolboy
carries an operating-knife in his lunch-bag. The number
of M.A.’s and LL.B.’s one comes across is simply astonish-
ing, but (with all the necessary apologies to your corres.
pondent) these educated persons are not all girls. —T.D.
“The age of miracles is past,”, said ex-
Premier Dibbs at a recent public, dinner. And
yet there, only a few yards from him, sat Jacob
Garrard as Minister for Education.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31,
(Preliminary Statement as conveyed by Cable).
ASSETS exceed
Increase in Assets during 1897 exceeds
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897 exceeds ...
ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds ... ..’
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 exceeds
1897.
£48,950,000
3,750,000
10,000,000
1,000,000
197,900,000
7,250,000
S £ R SH U S* OTe ? “ABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office m the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
NEW YORK.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT:
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £48,202,084.
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company -
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ;
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company’s Building, Martin's Place, Sydney, or at any
cf the Branch Offices —
289 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lij Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
73 Kins William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
98 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania
3
\
is
Sit Still
and let us take your
Portrait. We will give
you a Better Picture
than you ever had be-
fore, and you will have
less to pay than else-
where. .......
Quality Is our first
consideration— Price,
the last. .....
J'he Jdeal portrait Co,,
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- !
5J cn .t in Permanent Bromide or C
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras )
•7/6
M
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood."
Lyceum “Dick Whittington."
Royal “Jack the Giant-Killer. *
Criterion. “ Charley’s Aunt."
t *voli Rickards’ Combined Co.
Fitzgerald’s Circus Redfern Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The.Manxman.”
Royal „... “ Dick Whittington.”
Buou “ Robinson Crusoe.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Go.
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Co.
Near Princes Bridok... Harmston’s Circus.
The third week of “ Charley’s Aunt ” is
now nearly through, and that healthy comedy
fills Sydney Criterion so well that it looks as
if the management might put up another record
with it —supposing it wants a record. Consider-
ing that the “ Aunt ” has already seen much hard
service in Sydney, the present boom may be
fairly set down as something unusual, and if
Frank Thornton ever does suffer from swelled
head, this seems to be the right time for his head
to bloat considerably.
** * #
“Babes in the Wood” goes on its be-
jewelled way at Her Majesty’s, with great success
so far. It isn’t an orthodox pantomime, for which
the public has every reason to be grateful. Most
of it is plain prose instead of the usual badly-
recited long metre which drags so heavily, and in
the main it may be classed as very clever and gor-
geously decorated variety show, with a streak of
the regulation panto, element running through it.
There is a lot of genuine fun in it, which is also
unusual. That walking distillery, Uncle, sup-
plies a good share of the mirth, and Cole-
man and Burke furnish most of the balance.
The shindy between these two unprincipled
characters, in the course of which Burke spits
out nearly 100 teeth, takes well; and the public
yearning for a layer of pathetic prettiness is sup-
plied by the spectacle of Lily Titheradge and
Carrie Moore in bed, with a wilderness of beauti-
ful frill on their nightdresses. And, after a lot of
beauty and some ballet, the story ends suddenly
by Coleman hanging a soiled bag on a nail, and
the transformation-scene is brought on without
any attempt at weary explanation. This also
seems a good idea. The attempt to make a
coherent end to a panto, never results in anything,
and the best way is to give the public just as much
loveliness and fun and dazzle and bird of Para-
dise as it wants, and then stop short at the right
moment by hanging a soiled bag on a nail.
** * *
In the Sydney Royal pantomime the topi-
cal element grows a little stronger as time goes on.
Some remarks about the cricket-match, and the
way Britain will wipe the floor if necessary with
the great Powers in China, have been inserted
here and there, and meet with a gratifying recep-
tion. Otherwise, no unexpected change has fallen
on the gorgeous spectacle, it has a terrific amount
of wardrobe in it—in fact, wardrobe and ballet
are its strong points—and Story Gofton is the
only pantomime giant this paper has ever seen
who looks as if he was all in one piece. Apparently
he has neither stilts at one end of him nor a
purely artifical head at the other, and his arms
sprout out at the right place. There is a lot of
glittersome dance in Rickards’ production and
some clever people, including Miss Lottie Moore,
whose somersault in skirts is a source of perennial
joy. Miss Lottie only throws her feet over her
well-curled ringlet once every evening, but the
audience would gladly have her do it ten times if
possible. Some of the jokes at the Royal are
getting old and spectacled, notably that of
Lauri, when he snatches Addie Conyers’
top note; and they have a way now of
making the same joke do duty three times in suc-
cession, which device may possibly be overdone,
hirst A tells it to B, the joke artfully leading up
to a point at which it is necessary for him to
illustrate something by bashing B hard on the
stomach, and then walking away. When B has
done holding his anguished innards he tells it to
C and bashes him on the stomach, and walks
away. Then C starts telling it to A, not knowing
that he is the inventor of the great idea, but A,
just at the moment when his stomach should be
struck, turns round and hits C instead, and the
wild hilarionsness of the joke lies in the fact that
C gets welted on the stomach twice over. Still,
even with these little drawbacks, the Royal panto,
is a fine affair, and Rickards deserves all the luck
that can possibly come in his road.
** * *
Nothing has happened at Sydney Lyceum
since last report to alleviate the melancholy of
Hobson and Jobson ; and if Dobson had been put
in as the natural representative of Tasmania he
would probably have been just as cheerless as
either of the others. The spectacle of two Pre-
miers drawing a cart like ancient Israelites and
making remarks about the dead and gone Jubilee
is not especially mirthful, and when they conceal
themselves, clothed in a newspaper apiece, inside
two big packing-cases, and the Cat comes and
looks in at them for a great length of time, this
paper’s feelings towards Hobson and Jobson
become murderous. The only thing on this earth
that it really objects to more than Hobson is Job-
son. The Cat, like pantomime cats in general, is
a yellowish, monkey-like animal of no zoological
character worth mentioning. “ Dick Whitting-
ton ” is incoherent as a pantomime has to be,
but it isn’t cheerfully incoherent. There is not
one notably humorous individual in it; and the
costumes are not striking; and much of the
scenery is only moderate; and there isn’t a
single episode which makes the audience sit up
and say “O ” quite suddenly. The Little Boy at
Manly is a crushed and spiritless mite, who does
nothing—in fact, barring Daisy Chard, whom this
anS fr T fc t h prenume > whole-souled enthusiasm,
ana the transformation-scene, and some bits of
scenery, there is little in “Whittington. 55 If
be , Bpre j d T T U , over the Piece, as men-
tioned last week, and Hobson and Jobson fatally
dropped a great distance on to something hard,
lere might be hope. But no pantomime could
bear up against the deep melancholy of Jobson
and Hobson, and against the desolation that would
pervade Dobson if he were there.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli still provides Harry Rickards
with a reliable income wherewith to maintain his
glossy top-hat and his wonderful fur-coat, and his
other glories. It remains a recognised fact that
bydney can t long support all the shows now
raging in its midst, but which show will go under
is no more clear than it was two weeks ago. Amid
all the speculation on this point, however, the idea
° f , th ®. K°>. n K under is never mentioned,
lhe iivoli is an institution now, and one as soon
expects to hear of the sinkage of the Post Office
tower.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Mammoth Circus and Hagen-
beok’s Menagerie, which goes along with the
circus without any extra charge, have been further
strengthened by a remarkable Japanese troupe of
jugglers. Also, a pony and a riding tiger are to
arrive shortly as companion attractions to the
hiking lion and elephant. The circus continues at
the usual address at Redfern station, close to the
cemetery, and the Benevolent Asylum, and the
Babor Bureau where the aged unemployed go to
look for sand-shifting, and other cheerful haunts.
** * *
Some preliminary arrangements are being
made to get up a benefit in Sydney to that charm-
ing young actress. Miss Elsie Landor (Mrs. Free-
man Kitchen). Miss Landor was just commencing
a dramatic season in Brisbane, she and her late
husband having embarked all their means in the
venture, when the tragic death of Mr. Kitchen
led to the breaking up of the enterprise, and
the young widow is left for the time being in a
position where a handsome benefit would come in
as an unmixed blessing. The Bulletin trusts
that a pleasure-loving city, which likes to combine
an act of kindness with a gaudy night’s entertain-
ment, will move in the matter.
** * *
“The Manxman,” staged at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday, has the charm which
Claudian ’lacked. The spectacular tragedy was
mostly turgid nonsense. “ The Manxman ” is a
well-knit story of human nature, strong and quite
convincing except when author-actor Barrett ekes
out his pathetic scenes with a line or two of old,
familiar bathos. The excellence of the production
as a whole makes these defects very noticeable.
Tinsel threads among the gold ; they ought to be
pulled out by the roots.
* * • »
“ The Manxman ” is a great sexual truth,
uncompromisingly stated. Pretty Kate Cregeen,
the inn-keeper’s daughter, falls captive to a well-
educated young man of the “ nice ” type, whilst
her other adorer, all heart and no style, and never
intended by Providence to win the fancy of a
sentimental spinster, flatters himself that Kitty
will gladly hug a “rough-and-ready chap” in
matrimony as soon as he makes a “nest” for her.
Honest noisy chaps will continue to make the
same error, as regards Kitty, until the crack of
doom. Novelists and dramatists encourage it by
seeming to ascribe special virtues to ruggedness,
and dirty nails, and other unavoidable class dis-
tinctions. Nobody emphasises the fact that mil-
lions of uncomplaining female lives are blighted
by the bad manners of the good man at home.
The fine, rough fellow revels in his unloveliness,
though the rooster in the back-yard is for ever
trying to teach him how to impress the fair sex.
Toney Philip Christian hasn’t the grit to marry
his woman, yet he does her no more wrong than
husband Pete, who is too noble and manly and
selfish to make himself attractive to his more deli-
cate mate.
• • • •
“ The Manxman ” dramatised strikes a
false note in the climax, out of respect for some
people’s prejudices. Husband Pete goes his way
to get a decree nisi. He takes a reasonable view
of the rights and wrongs of all three sides in the
domestic triangle, and even wishes the other fellow
good luck. Then the wife notifies the troubled
seducer that he, too, must retire, leaving her to
eat her heart out, in the society of their mutual
offspring, under the paternal roof ! Her father, a
mangy professor of beer and the Bible, tells the
sinner to go inside and brew herself a cup of weak
tea. The curtain drops just here, but it is gener-
ally expected that Philip will formally marry Kate
and properly assert his part ownership in the baby
when her repentance has cooled down. Why not?
* * * *
Of several highly-effective acting charac-
ters, Kate is the finest, and Miss Maud Jeffries
plays it well. She might be rather more easy in
her emotion at times, but it would be hard for any
artist to achieve a better average success. Wilson
Barrett’s performance of Pete is sound and for-
cible, but not fascinating. The Philip of T. Wig-
ney Percyval is good enough—a rather stilted re-
minder of Titheradge; and Ambrose Manning, who
didn’t figure in the “Claudian ” cast, takes first-
class honors as Caesar Cregreen, the loathsome
dealer in beer and Holy Spirit. Also Miss Lillah
M‘Carthy, Horace Hodges, and other members of
the co. earn favorable mention as minor charac-
ters, and Wilson Barrett’s imported setting of the
play justifies the cost of shipping it. “ The
Manxman ” should run to big business in Mel-
bourne, despite unsympathetic comments from
the soulless individual who only wants a good larf
when he goes to the theatre.
** * *
Melbourne Royal show continues to prosper
because it covers a lot of ground and looks im-
portant, whereas the brighter assortment of pan-
tomime talent at the Bijou has nothing solid to
fall back upon. There is not much room for fall-
ing back on the Bijou stage anyway, and yet
“ Robinson Crusoe ” makes a respectable attempt
to seem like a full-sized Xmas annual. In the un-
equal struggle between “Crusoe” and “Dick
Whittington ” The Bulletin gives a moral sup-
port to both candidates and hopes the little ’un
may come up smiling for a few more rounds.
** * *
Dan Barry, as a parson, is the chief attrac-
tion at the Alexandra, since Saturday. Daniel is
a breezy sky-pilot that one waits anxiously
for “The Parson’s Oath,” fully expecting it to be
“d n,” or something even blankier, but the
swear, when it arrives, is merely a solemn promise
to reclaim the girl who bolted with her father’s
murderer. In due course, they destroy the man
of blood and recover the girl, though not until the
police have suffered severely. Haleck dramas are
always rough on the emblems of law’n’order, and
the villain has much forgiven him if he slaughters
a full sergeant in the fourth act.
** * *
The author of “ Annie Rooney ” joined
the Rickards co. at Melb. Opera House on Satur-
day, and was found to be a well-meaning Irish
comedian. Also, a new lady came along without
affecting the position of the Three Hegelmanns,
whose “ turn ” grows more astounding than ever
on further consideration. Meanwhile, Harms-
ston’s Circus and Zoologia has made a change of
programme, and the big maternal elephant is now
appearing eight times a week with the rest of the
company.
** * *
At Hobart Royal the Paulton-Stanley
crowd, preceded by a Firm reputation, lately
opened a nine-night season with “My Friend
from India,” followed by “A Night Out” and
“Niobe.” It was a case of standing-room only
for four nights, when Amy Sherwin swooped
down on her native village and knocked Royal
business endways. That tuneful songstress is
simply worshipped in the Land of Sleep and
especially in Slowbart. During her six nights’
run the back-wash from her doors was heart-
breaking to witness, while inside the building a
perspiring crowd held its breath so as not to miss
a single note. Deane, Kitty Grindley, Haywood
and Sczepanowski filled up the gaps in the per-
formance, but the multitude had eyes and ears for
their own island-bred “ nightingale ” alone. The
public reception given Madame on her arrival in
Hobart was an enthusiastic function, and she
simply knocked ’em silly by hoisting her little
daughter up in her arms for the crowd to look at,
and, arrayed in her dusty travelling dress, sing-
ing “ Home, Sweet Home,” like a heart-broken
prodigal daughter.
At Poverty Point.
Sydney, this Xmas, has had a much more expensive
assortment of shows than Melbourne. And yet managers
prefer Melbourne as a business-" pitch.” It has a rather
larger and more concentrated population, with fewer
outside distractions, and it puts up bigger records in
theatre-attendance.
Comino : “ What glorious heads of hair are displayed in
‘ Claudian,’ at Melb. Princess’s. Surely this kind of ex-
hibition is too much neglected on the stage, with the
everlasting forget-me-not topknots. Miss Jeffries, a
brunette, leads in the wild luxuriance.”
Ada Crossley’s New Year greeting to the “ boys of the
(Sydney) Liedertafel,” sent per medium of conductor
Delany, must surely be meant in a Pickwickian sense, as
most of the members are steady-going Benedicts, who are
all in early o’ nights.
“ The pruning and grafting process has made a mar-
vellous recovery of ‘The Scarlet Feather,’ and W. and M.
are beginning to hope for a long run,” writes Tub Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent. “The decadence of our
Nellie’s voice is partly recognised and will be more so
shortly. Up-to-date gag by Seabrook and Snazelle has
galvanised the dialogue, the latter being especially strong
in his Australian ‘sling-off.’ Swinging his trusty blade
the gaunt comedian asks, ‘ Where is the man who stole
Stoddart’s watch ?’and his ‘down-under’ allusions keep
Florrie Young and Decima Moore in a titter. Altogether
there is much hope of much coin.”
Dan Barry’s announcement that his Alexandra dramatic
co. would give a performance in aid of the Melb. “ sewer-
tunnel tragedy ” fund was followed by another announce-
ment, even more appalling. Melb.’s penny doggerel-bard
informed the ’Euald that he had written a poem on the
melancholy event, and would halve the proceeds of the
sale with the widows and the fatherless.
Wilson Barrett will play “ Virginius ”in Melb.—its first
production these 17 years. “ Virginius”—as The Bulletin
once explained in a naughty little yarn—is very much
“ up against ” the vile seducer who has booked seats for
himself and his giddy gyurl, in complete ignorance of the
awful moral lesson that awaits them. All Sunday-school
teachers should be compelled to attend at least one per-
formance of “ Virgi.” ere it is too late.
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a “ Home ” Phonograph for Jl2 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
can make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality.*
Miss Osgood Moore, the dainty 17-year-old danseuse in
“ Dick Whitting-ton,” at Melb. Royal, is Maggie Moore fl
adopted daughter.
Binoc : “ Harry Roberts deserves praise for the entire
absence of vulgarity through all his changes of female
costume at Melb. Royal. Thus he compares favourably
with Courtneidge, Lauri, the late Greville, and many
more.”
Much curiosity in theatrical circles as to whether the
diamonds lavishly displayed by a certain agent for a
melodramatic co. are genuine or otherwise. A well-
known “push” which congregates outside theatres at
closing-time seems to have its own opinion re the
“ jewellery ” —the agent has never yet been stuck-up.
Binoc: “Be your par. that female royalty seldom or
never sees a music-hall show. Quite recently an Aus-
tralian vice-regal party booked a box at a music-shop for
a panto. Through some mistake they were put on to a
big variety show instead. When they arrived at the
panto., a few lordly words exonerating the management
from all mistake set things right, and the ‘ surprise
party ’ was seated.”
Alleged that certain breach-of-promise damages, are
trickling through the fingers of the fair winner, in a
pantomime.
“ Pantomime rehearsal is no joke," and neither is the
lot of the pantomime-understudy. One ambitious come-
dian had to study practically every male character in one
of the Sydney pantos., and yet—so far as present indica-
tions go—his name will probably get no show throughout
the season of figuring on the playbill.
At an Australian panto, rehearsal. Stage-manager
(log.) : “ Now, my dear, that is not quite the way to do
it. This is the way. And if you don’t, you blink, blank,
blonk little blanky, I’ll sack you on the spot!”
Melb.: “ The matinee seems to be just discovered. On
Wednesdays we have four : Circus, Royal, Bijou, Opera
House, and, on Saturdays, three, while “ The Manxman ”
is to be added to the list next week. Well, if you can only
manage it, surely this is the pleasantest time to take your
nobbier of theatre.”
No truly loyal person should miss the Biographe’s pic-
ture of the garden-party where the sacred Royal Family
can be seen moving about and eating buns just like
ordinary beings. The most pathetic touch of all is kept
with true artistic perception till the end, when Wales
reaches down and pats a dog on the head. The spectacle
of Tummy leaning over with difficulty to perform this
good office is capable of drawing tears from the eye of a
potato. The dawg seems to feel his position keenly.
. “ Whittington,” at Melb. Royal, claims, with justice, to
give the baldheads more tights for their money than any
previous panto, in the Presbyterian city.
The Firm’s first comic opera venture (“ Scarlet
Feather”) was to be followed—according to the original
plan of campaign—by a revival of “ Tambour Major.”
That sounds promising. “Tambour Major” owed all its
enormous success in Australia—as George Musgrove is
probably aware—to “ dear Duke ” Harwood and John
“ Bambini ” Wallace, the one comedian walking slowly
and deliberately through his part, whilst the other pro-
vided an inanely active contrast. Snazelle is just the
right person to play the Duke on Harwood lines, and they
may find a Bambini of the Johnny Wallace type to play
up to him.
Snazelle is engaged by the National Sunday League to
give his “ Music, Song and Story ” entertainment at
sundry places around London every Sunday night
throughout the winter.
Bel Loel, one of Robin Hood’s band at Her Majesty’s
panto., intends to depart Londonwards soon to join her
sister, Mrs. Franks, formerly Julia Loel, a Melb. girl with
a voice, who is doing some hard study at the R.A.M. She
has won medals for singing, and appeared last month on
the concert platform at St. James’s Hall, London.
Another member of the chorus in the above piece is a
daughter of the late Master of Melbourne Mint, Anderson.
Mr. Anderson was the author of that bizarre poem, “ The
Agnostic.”
Hashbaz : “ You will not convince me but that Barrett
and Melba, with their next-of-kin noses, belong to the
Lost.”
Mme. Vanderveer Green has been fairly idolised in
South Africa. Guv’ment ’Ouse was at her disposal occa-
sionally, and the De Beers Co. worked up a native dance
in the contralto’s honor. Among many souvenirs she was
offered a water-bottle, knife, several assegais, and a neck-
lace of home manufacture.
Haresfoot: “What an impressive sermon is the physique
of a Wilson Barrett, compared with that of the familiar
clergyman, of his age—crampy, stewv, limp, round-
shouldered, pot-bellied, shuffly, seeming'as if he trod the
pavement on list slippers.”
Armes Beaumont, the veteran tenor, though almost
blind, is one of the quickest and best solo-whist players
in Melbourne. When he forms one of the party the
others call out the cards as they play them. Beaumont’s
retentive memory does the rest.
Haresfoot: “ Mr. J. C. Williamson’s advertisements
give a hint that an overpowering draw will necessitate
a rise of prices at the Melb. Princess’s some time in 1898.
This attraction must obviously be larger even than
Wilson Barrett. The murmur is that Henry Irving and
Ellen Terry are meant. Musgrove has long chalked out
the Irving and Terry Australian repertoire as ‘ The
Bells,’ ‘Merchant of Venice,’ ‘ Nance Oldfield,’ ‘Olivia,’
‘ Faust,’ ‘ Much Ado About Nothing,’ and ‘ Henry VIII.’ ”
No actor’s grave is so well and persistently looked after as
that of G. F. Cooke, English tragedian, who died in
Boston, U.S., 1812. Tablets show it was restored bv E.
Kean in 1821. C. Kean in 1847, Sothern in 1874. And
Cooke was the hardest drinker in the profession ; the
grave of the sober actor is generally left to take care of
itself.
A London notice of the first performance of “ Claudian ”
says the low-comedy business was hissed, not because it
was low or wicked, but because it was bad. Melbourne
doesn’t hiss.
To a Sunday Times man, Addie Conyers fires off that
mossy wheeze anent a N.S.W. squatter pleading for her
jewelled hand. Apparently the N.S.W. squatter is a
blighted man. He is always yearning after the hand of
some houri in tights and being left.
Cockaigne : “ London Atiikn.-eum, 25th Sept., 1852,
notices the first appearance, on any stage, of Miss Heath,
who long afterwards married Wiison Barrett, consider-
ably her junior. Her dbbut was at London Princess’s
under the management of Chas. Kean ; and our Australian
friend, J. F. Catbcart, was her stage-lover on this occa-
sion, the piece being the ‘ Prima Donna,’ a new comedietta
by Boucicault. Agnes Robertson, afterwards Mrs. Bouci-
cault, had a part.”


R. BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
AUS. |
Reps. )
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine!
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
SUNLISHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIB JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M'Bean, Bowker & Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
N. Q’ld & New Guinea.
Australasian
Representatives
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
A Sulky to Balance
must have
A Moveable Seat.
... The BEST is . . .
Simpson’s
Patent Jump-Seat Sulky.
Factory and Showroom :
73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth Robt. Wolfe.
Gerald ton A. .VI adowcroft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The news that N.S.W. is floating a 3 per cent.
ioan for £1,500,000 in London bursts up a beautiful dream.
About three years ago Premier Reid announced that he
was m favor of borrowing locally instead of in London—
and then he floated a £4,000,000 loan in London as proof
of his sincerity. Said loan realised £96 18s. 3d. or
allowing for expenses, £95 9s. 6d., per cent. After
that the local investor was allowed a show, provided
he took up 3 per cent, stock at £lOO (2s. Bd. per
cent, expenses), so the cornstalk was required to yield
£4 7s. lOd. per cent, more than the price received from
Bull. He responded so liberally, even at this rate, that
the Reid Govt, felt it was necessary to discourage him,
and for a considerable time it refused to take his money
on any terms whatever. Recently it resumed the issue of
stock m Sydney at £lOO, but it is said that the sale goes
on more slowly than formerly, though no figures have
been published. Therefore, the Reid Government
goes to London and offers its loan there at £99
As expenses in London are £1 Bs. 9d. per cent,
against 2s. Bd. in Sydney, this really means that the
Britisher is offered stock at £97 11s. 3d., for which
miserable Australian is still expected to yield
u L 4d l Probably, if the Reid Government had
offered its stock locally at £99 it would have got all the
money it wanted, but it never tried the experiment. If
the beastly local investor won’t pay the full £lOO he must
stand out. Why he should always be expected to pay
more than Bull, the Lord only knows ; probably it is the
Reid fashion of encouraging local industry.
Something is said about the alleged prospective
scarcity of money in the province, but if the Government
is paying its way the flotation of a local loan wouldn’t
make things any worse in this respect. If the Govt,
borrows £1,500 °°° in N.S.W., and spends it on works in
N.S.W., then the money is still in N.S.W., and the opera-
« w make money in the least degree scarcer in
‘ tban d . was ;, Anyhow, it is impossible to say
whether money for the Government’s purpose is scarcer
it IS J ™ London unless the former place
from £97 lis'ld G ° Vt j? willin » to take anything
from £97 11s. 3d. net and upwards in London. If it had
nfshpd Jit lameI ame . term ? in Sydney, it might have been
rushed with the com or it might not—it is impossible to
“?> ,7 hd ® th « ® eid Government demands that
w hal yie iL £4 7s - 10d - P er cent - better than the
mve S ti U p'Tn e nf r obtalaed m London, the allegation that it
gives the local market a preference is ridiculously thin.
Westralia is also trying to raise in London a 3
|q5 Ce Thii° an °J £1 x o o° K ’n o0 ’ the minimum being fixed at
nicrht Th S kes *2,500,000 of borrowing in one fort-
a pretty good record even for such a consistent
be H gar and hard spendthrift as Australia. If the Wes-
tralian loan comes off, as it presumably will, it will make
h™ he A bet rr? n £2l and £25 Per head of population
borrowed by that province inside twelve months—it is
the 6Xact fi = ures - as the Forrest Govern-
bills to h an exwYhT b ? tlous , 1 y raising money on Treasury
thf' lpwoff e ? tent that 1S not very well defined. Even at
the lowest figure, however, the nigger-flogging Govern-
ment in the last twelve months has broken all known
records in the matter of raising the wind at its uncle’s Tf
ba f enough to pay th g e entire wages of
thepopulation-and such an influx of coin as that should
Potro a r b a°n o^here he “° f Sahara ’ ° r at “
0rS r wl reV r* e / Or Dec -> ’ 97 > was’ £242,492,
or £3721 less than that for Dec., ’96. The auarter’q rp
venue (£695,092) is still £26,846 ahead of that for ttie cw-
tend°to sh!w U that e th f ’ 96 ’ bUt * u 6Se occasional fluctuations
But fm- tbeTnppf th ? re ,Y enue boom is about on the turn.
Great if u n th ° railwa .V receipts, through the
confprn in becoming a State instead of a private
th fu OS ®, lncome would, in all probability, be
definitely oji the down-grade by now.
De? U ’97 n l a s nd £2 r o"2 e 67 f ° r half-year’ended 31st
x/eo., >u, was £2,022,6/5 —roughly speaking. £ll 000 less
thrend e of e Oct Pt the 0 d COrreBpondin F half of ’’ 96 - At
one end of Oct. the decrease was £86,000. so things im-
proved materially in the last two months of the” vear
Expenditure, m round figures, is, so far, £1,914 000 so
there is a surplus up to date of £lOB,OOO. ’ ’
set L d a ow^o r, H l the d6 - Cr ? ase in N ’ S - W - revenue was
great measure the^r 011 ? f ° Ustoms duties > and . m a
great measure, the statement was correct. This vear the
further slump is evidently the result of all-round depres®
£2Ol 327°Iess thf month , s , to 31st J, ec., ’97, the revenue is
£201,327 less than even the much-decreased revenue for
tte “ESTESf S.°' ’ m ‘ " d the '“JSs ■» <
Sr :: ::
Land revenue „ " nioo
Land-tax „ " " i’S?
l ® ™ akes a fad °? *242,674, but an improvement of £4l 000
among various miscellaneous sources of revenue reduces
that^lfJlfp* 6 dr °’- tO , £2O1 > 327 ' The interesting point is
hnf/vf! /l pr m. cl P al sources of revenue are all feeling
of t j(flly-and'-fat S * VMy P °° r for th!
* * * «
The A. J.S. Bank calls for tenders for the nur-
°7 “ B ” deposit receiptsfthe
f,°' n 5 a w “° wnl sell their deposits back to the bank at
the biggest loss to have the preference. At present it is
between two aMfour
about 9s %I B ir, d fhp !e S m . e t x !? ten ° e . a » d they are worth
£inn non wpVv, n s ? d the bank can buy up, say,
£lOO,OOO worth of them it should make £5O 000 clear
to improve the look of next hr. fyeaFs accounts
it shn! the process can be kept up there is no reason why
“R ” fc ( Inake f. million or so profit, before all th!
B deposits are liquidated, and this would go a lone-
way towards putting the dreadfully staggersoinf instftm
tion on its legs again. In its actual results fhis process
at go muchfn E I ? pouadin F wi *h the depositors
/?,?' ln the »• Still it looks more respectable and
®t w e of°th? UCted fif a " kS make ’ orused *0 make,
Also mratkfAhl* a r g™ atS some such fashi on as this.
of tbe A. J.S. s profits since the reconstruction
operf bUyUl B 'ltS ° Wn deprecia ted deposits in the
* * * •
The Mercantile Mutual Fire Insurance Do
r P ° rts prem ium income for 1897 was
£41,52°, compared with £41,050 for ’96, and the interest
mg d r Thp S *' ece , lved were £2021 as compared with £1847 for
and £B96s y fifr r ?«QS° flt -im f10,989 a F a mst £12,136 for 1896
£4is9 n “ o 6 f i 18 ( 5 - f he co. pays £8304 of this away—
£4ls2 as a bonus to policy-holders, and £4152 in paving a
dividend of 22 and a fraction per cent, per annum to
shareholders. This latter is an example of the awful
hunger after premature big dividends. The Mercantile
Mutual, though it is doing very well indeed, is still a
moderate-sized concern ; it has £26,250 paid-up capital,
£40,000 reserve, and £2913 profit and loss balance, but all
these together make less than £70,000. The British idea
of a really prosperous fire insurance co. is a concern with
a reserve of about £600,000, and, if the Mercantile Mutual
fixed its dividend at 15 per cent., which is a sufficiently
glorious figure, and pegged away a little harder at building
up a really big institution, it would be better for it in the
end.
* * * *
Indemnity Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
(Melbourne), a weak concern which has had bad luck of
late, is selling out as the result of the big Melbourne fire.
Its marine business is under offer, and its fire business,
the most profitable part of its connection in recent years,
has been sold to an English co.—the Norwich Union,
u ls V' a , ; s lt! second Australian fire-insurance business
absorbed by British companies inside two months, and
the process goes on continuously. The Argus sets the
collapse of Australian fire-insurance co.'s down partly to
the fact that their field of operation is too circumscribed
—this is evidently meant as a side argument to prove the
impossibility of State fire-insurance—but some of the worst
disasters that happen to Australasian offices arise through
going out of their own circumscribed field. The once-
prosperous Bacific smashed through that, and the Stan-
dard of M.L., some 16 years ago, came within an ace of
disaster through the same cause, and only grew prosperous
again by drawing in its horns. The Argus also ascribes
the steady absorption to the fact that Australian com-
pames hunger too much after dividends, and build up
insufficient reserves—which is true. Yet some of the
absorbed concerns had very solid reserves, and some of
the British companies which do a good business here cer-
tainly haven t. The preference of the unpatriotic Aus-
tralian for foreign institutions seems to be as much res-
ponsible as anything else.
* * * *
The Australian Widows’ Fund, an institution
with a very good reputation for soundness, issues a new
form of policy under which payment of premiums alto-
gether ceases, without in any way impairing the insur-
ance, while the insured is unable to pursue his occupation
through accident or mental or physical illness. This is
an exceedingly valuable idea, seeing that the man who
dies after a long illness, during which his funds ran out,
P’kcn lives just long enough to let his policy lapse through
j P a y premiums, and leaves his family unpro-
vided for after all.
* * • •
Query: Should directors and managers of
public companies be allowed to vote at the election of
auditors ? The business of an auditor is to find out if the
director or manager is a fool, or a knave, or both, or
neither. He represents the shareholders and creditors as
against the directors. If there is anything wrong, as
there very often is, the directors naturally vote for the
easy, incompetent fool auditor who isn’t likely to find it
out. If the auditor does find out anything, the fact that
he owes his position largely, or perhaps wholly, to the
directors is a reason why he should say little; and the
tact that he will owe his position to them quite as largely
next year is a reason why he should say nothing at all. In
many companies the directors, by their votes and proxies,
are solely responsible for the election of auditors, which
is the same as letting a suspected person elect the Judge
and jury which is to try him.
* * * *
. Sydney Sunday Times allows some one, whom
it describes as a “ well-known financial authority,” to
allege in its columns that there is a tl perfect glut ” of
money in Sydney j'ust now, and that “ two banks alone
have about £8,000,000 in sovereigns absolutely rotting.”
• tS o latest banking returns, all the banks
m N.B.W. only held about £6,000,000 in gold among them.
** do the Vic. and Q. mails close at
bydney P.O. an hour and three-quarters before the depar-
ture of the expresses from Redfern station? In Melb.,
three-quarters of an hour is the time between the closing
of the mails at the P.O. and the train’s departure.”
• * • •
A Sydney syndicate is big with a scheme, which
may be described as a fuel economiser, but which is really
?h 1 ?! 2c /! anica ' ev ’ ce f° r increasing the power of machinery.
With the mechanism affixed, it is claimed that 25 percent,
more power can be got from any kind of steam machinery,
or the same amount of power with 25 percent, less fuel.
The scheme is in process of being patented all over the
world, and has, The Bulletin is told, been favorably re-
ported on, and even enthused over, by some very well-
known Australian engineers. The inventor is a marine
engineer on one of the coastal steamers, and he has had
associated with him an eminent C.E. The principle
of the invention is said to be practically something
altogether new and undreamed-of in engineering, and up-
sets the most cherished of all theories of applied mechanics
regarding the length of the piston determining the throw
of the crank.
r-~-i « * . *
It is stated that Wertheiin’s corner, Pitt and
Bridge-streets, Sydney, where the P. and O. Co. has its
offices, has been sold to Mr. Sam. Hordern for £6O 000
• * * •
H.: “Ae the traffic in return-tickets on the
Vic. railways. While Railway Commissioner Mathieson
cannot fail of success in putting down this trade, he will
have to agree with the N.S.W. Commissioner about some
rebate on unused return-tickets. Else the public con-
science will never be persuaded that the tourist agent is
other than a boon to the community. A Melbourner who
cannot use his £6 return-ticket from Sydney must perforce
feel he has been done out of £2. Now let the Department
give that back to him, and the agent’s occupation is
gone. Then the ticket is destroyed, and the Department
gets £4 instead of nothing out of the party who nowbuvs
from the agent.”
* • • *
A Chinese dealer recently asked a firm of
Southern merchants to increase his credit from £3OO to
£650. The amount being considered rather high en-
quiries were made, and, to the firm’s horror, it was found
that the Chow was on the point of a bad insolvency. It
was recognised that if he knew his solvency was suspected
the firm would get nothing, so when he came in again the
boss received him affably, and entreated him tobuv £lOOO
worth of goods right there. The heathc n was delighted
but somewhat taken aback a little later when it was
stipulated that the little amount owing, £3OO, should be
paid up, “soas to keep accounts square.” Still it looked
too good a chance to miss, so Shoo Fli borrowed the £3OO
from a fellow-conspirator, and came back with it promptly.
But there was a lingering sediment of suspicion in his
mind, and he wouldn’t actually part until the £lOOO
worth was put upon the vans, and the vans started off to his
place. His disgust was indescribable when, on his way
home with the receipt, he met the procession of vehicles
and goods coming back. They had simply driven as far
as his shop door, and the driver had disrespectfully
taken a lunar at the Chow in charge, and then turned
back. Next minute there was a distracted Chinaman
gabbling to the merchant—“ Whaffor ? whaffor v Why
you bling ’urn back tea? You belly well damn,” and
other remarks. The rest of the story was told in a
Chinese schedule filed shortly afterwards : Liabilities
£2556 ; assets, £lO. ’
* * » »
Approximate quantity of ore raised and either
milled or exported by the various B.H. mines other than
the B.H. Prop, during 1897 : Central (Ashcroft’s Process
co. s), 128,000 tons; Block 14,107,500 tons; Block 10,102 500
tons ; British, 95,000 tons ; South, 83,000 tons ; Junction
63,000 tons ; North, 31,000 tons ; Junction North, 18 500
tons.
• * * »
Mr. G. Pitcairn, an English engineer, is the
latest to try his hand on the iigw Broken Hill Proprietary
the British concentrating mills. Also, he has com-
pleted plans for a mill of 100 tons daily capacity for the
Pinnacles. Likewise, he, it is printed, offers to manage
the Burra Burra (Cobar) mine upon a bonus-on-dividends
basis.
• * * *
. B.H. Proprietary, whose parsimony in reward-
ing the men who risked their lives (three actually lost
theirs) and spoiled their Sunday clothes at the Block 12
fire has been universally condemned, distributed among
the men who; have worked in the fire region during the
last few months a Christmas-box of a week’s wages each.
Of course that is a great deal better than the co. need
have done ; still, it’s mighty poor payment for the men—
so.'l'.e , them, anyway. Very few have worked there
'Y 1 !lmf?ly ! many who have done it have lost shift after
shift through sickness—for which shifts they weren’t paid.
B-H- Proprietary calls for “rough miners”;
even Creer’s Labor Bureau was moved in the matter.
Plenty of workmen are hanging about the mine; but
they buck against working in the neighborhood of the
w mch, though “practically extinct” months ago,
still makes fumes enough to sicken the average stomach.
* * * *
Beetaloo reservoir, which supplies northern
bouth Aus., including the Yorke’s Peninsula towns and
Port 1 me, is running so low that prices have been put up
to check consumption. Among those to feel this are the
B.H. companies which smelt at Port Pine—the B.H.
Prop. co. m particular. There has been talk of shutting
down to force the Govt.’s hand; meantime an arrange-
ment has been patched up. Curiously, the cos. never had
to suspend operations in droughty Broken Hill for want
of water.
* • * »
Elsinore tin-mine, Inverell, N.S.W.: 1330yds.
of wash-dirt for over 50 tons of tin. This is a local
co., which has spent a lot of money and taken much time
to get the mine in shape, and well deserves success. It is a
tm lode with very heavy water.
* * * *
Some 200 men thrown out of employment by the
closing down of the Eleanora, N.S.W.
* * • *
Under cable instructions from London the
Pambula gold-mines, N.S.W., have shut down.
* * * *
Hollman s Lucky Hill, N.S.W., gone into re-
construction. The old story, insufficient working capital,
but, if the show is half as good as the writer has heard, it
would not want any.
* * • •
Victory, Forest Reefs, N.S.W. Orange citi-
zens and N.S.W. legislators much chagrined over last
crushing. Writer is assured, however, that the mine is
rich in prehistoric fruits a sort of petrified and slimy
apple which sadly interferes with amalgamation.
* * * *
The Sydney Stock Exchange, it is announced,
has resumed business after the holidays. The distinction
between Sydney Stock Exchange doing business and not
doing it is remarkably thin.
* * * »
Warnings come over from Westralian fields that
a wages cut ”isto be attempted, and that it is for this
Zeb. Lane is enticing men from Victorian fields and the
.Barner. The local assertion is that there are scores of-
°i U -iij WOr^ s iere alrea -dy ; the manager’s reply is that
skilled workmen are still scarce. Zeb. Lane’s popularity
among skilled men, by the way, is remarkable. Though
they may hate him as a not over-scrupulous employers*
representative, they reckon him up as one who knows his
work, and rush him accordingly. He has thus taken
nearly the whole of his old Block 14 staff over
• * » •
Exception already taken to Wittenoom’s posi-
tion as director of the W. A. Smelting co. He has foolishly
regarded it as a personal attack on himself, but he will
have to get off that board or resign as Mines Minister
* • * *
The big rise in Golden Horseshoes, W. A., is due
to the fact that Kauffman, for the PTench syndicate, has
secured more than one-haif of the shares, and is likely to
take over the balance. This is probably one of the reasons
why Kauffman has severed or is likely to separate himself
from gorgeous combination of which Whittaker-
Wnght, Herbert Trower and himself form or formed a
trinity.
• • * *
Herbert Trower, who began his career in Sydney
as tutor and ended it by heavily failing as a merchant, is,
it is stated, honorably paying off his creditors in full—
which he is enabled to do by the huge profits he has made
in Westralian flotations.
• * • *
How’s this for high ? From S.A. Advertiser,
23rd inst. “ Kalgoorlie, December 21.—1 t is rumored
that a phenomenally rich strike of gold has been made in
the Great Boulder in a winze 60ft. below the 200 ft. level
It is practically a seam of 3in. of pure gold.” Now
Baker s Creek, from a 3in. reef, gets, at a minimum, over
100 tons fortnightly. Presuming that the Boulder strike
does not cut-out, pinch out, dip, slide, get thrown aside
(as useless), etc. we may assume, not going into figures
of specific gravity, that 100 tons of gold await the deserv-
ing shareholders: fortnightly value, considerably over
The Boulder has struck it with a vengeance'
Another change made in the management of
Hannan’s Proprietary. Dan Maher, having found really
?r°?, , ore n t * le Orotava shaft, has now cleared. The
H.P. has had more managers than any other co. on the
field.
* * * •
, The a ?* ual gold-production of Kalgoorlie for
1897 is said to be 443,1570 z.
* * * *
At last the Lady Sherry (Menzies, W.A.) has
had a crushing—so tons for 200 oz.—but the market has
given no response.
* * * •
Trump lease, W.A., s|* tons, 7580z.—1360z. per
ton. Owned by five men who did not think the stuff
would go more than 80oz. to the ton. Two years ago
offers of a million might have been rejected for such a
show. To-day it creates only a newspaper-par.
* * • *
A Murchison man attributes the lack of atten-
tion to that field to former flotations without sufficient
working* capital, want of publicity of in the
Eastern papers, and a dearth of mine-buyers and pro-
moters. He gives a list of good recent crushings—natu-
rally omitting, of course, all the poor ones.
* * * *
Waddington the Great, otherwise “ The Boulder
King,” has departed from Hannan’s, and left an aching
void. More fizz flowed during his stay than at any time
since the boom. Waddington and Lane, now known as
‘the Monarch of Mining Managers, ** are in the East,
where no doubt they will be adored as long, as they con-
tinue to cut string and wire and let the cork out with a pop
The clergymen of Hannan’s are protesting in
earnest against Sunday-working of mines and batteries.
The Rev. O Sullivan said that if men were treated squarely
more ore would be sent up in six days than was now done
in seven. Which is Gospel-truth. “ Everyone,” added
the rev. gentleman, “ knew that machinery working con-
tinuously suffered more than would be the case if allowed
to cool down.” But that is “ another story.”
Bayley’s (JV.A.) tailings : 613 tons, 9120 z. by
cyanide. Living on its own tailings-dump.
A Kalgoorlie paper is trying to get back on T.
A. Rickard, Colorado State Geologist, for saying that the
telluride ores of Hannan’s deeper-levels would probably
be of more bunchy character, making in short chutes and
pockets. Rickard, having quoted Pearce, manager of
Boston and Colorado Smelting Works, as the greatest
living authority on telluride, that authority is now quoted
against himself as having said of the Cripple Creek mines
that, though essentially a telluride camp, developments
demonstrated no depreciation of the ores with depth
* • * •
Brookman intimates that it is the policy of the
Associated Mines co. to increase the milling plapt at
Hannan’s until it reaches a size commensurate with the
enormous quantities of ore in sight.
* * » •
Frank Coffee, of Sydney, has visited the Cripple
Creek mines, U.S., in the interests of tellurium, there
known as sylvanite. Compared with these mines, he
says, Kalgoorlie shows are much over-capitalised. Cripple
Creek mines are turning out a million dollars’ worth of
gold a month. Miners’ wages, 21 dollars a week of seven
days, eight hours a day. Coffee is assured that tellurium
is just as likely to go down as anything else.
* * * *
More men arrested at the Boulder for gold-
stealing, which is becoming a common practice there.
Tellurides offer much encouragement in that direction
they contain not only a very heavy percentage of gold,
but the thieves soon found out a way of melting them into
nuggets, which, when rolled in the earth, present every
appearance of having been found there. Gold-stealing is
a more serious trouble at Kalgoorlie than English share-
holders imagine.
* • * *
Absolutely the best monthly circular dealing
witKWestraiian mines is that issued by Clarke and Co.,
of Adelaide. A few items from the Jan. number. With-
out a boom, the market-value of the six leading Kalgoorlie
mines has advanced £4,225,500. The Ivanhoe sale assisted
the mine’s market-value from £400,000 to £1,250,000.
Hu ring the year, upwards of 50 Adelaide co’s have gone
into liquidation, but, being the wildest of wild cats, they
are not missed. Fifteen to 20 more are practically dead.
Adelaide has put up £400,000 in calls and £460,000 in re-
™ctions for year. The total divs. amount to
e va,ue of the gold output is estimated at
£2 /00,000. Kalgoorlie is furnishing more than half the
gold and three-quarters of the divs. Flotations have been
tew and far between, but the year has been marked by
the wholesale slaughtering of “ wild cats ” and reconstruc-
tion of exhausted co’s.
* * * *
Lake View Consols production for Dec., 4990
tons for 96150 z. So far, it is not absolutely clear whether
this is the total output or not.
* * * *
Bulk sa,r ?P^ es from Mt. Reid (Tas.) show the
ore of that mine to con' ain a very heavy percentage of
zinc, about foz. of gold, from 5 to 60 oz. of silver, and a
small percentage of lead.
Bun- em-up companies continue to be floated in
4 Jf; , nr , T f"r eternal legend, “ Names and occupations
04 ,he shareholders and the number of shares held by
each, the names of about six persons occur, each holding
;f° m to 200 shares, and then comes this mvstic story :
B. Blank, manager, in trust for shareholders, 50,000
shares. Some people who do not understand these little
matters want to know if this co. is really floated, or whether
these 50,000 shares are reserved for persons who may
apply for them in the sweet subsequently ? As a rule, the
shares climb up to an extraordinary height, and then
come down with a thump that can be heard from shore to
shore, and stay down for ever afterwards.
* • * •
The fall in copper, which lately knocked on the
head some copper-prospecting shows, followed naturally
on an increased output, which was the quick response to
a slight advance m price. Australian shipments for Sept,
totalled 1665 tons in advance of those for Sept., ’96 ; and
® Vjcrease was mostly due to composite mines—Lyell
and the like. The British engineers’ strike is likely to be
a drag on consumption for many months to come.
* * • »
The 97 yield for Ch. Towers, including cyanide
wa5357,0000z. Thedividends for the year amounted
to £340,243 and calls to £93,000. The dividends give an
mcrease of £B B ,o° o over’96. Mill returns for the year
show 200,5/9 tons for 241,8080 z. The value of Towers out-
put for ’97 was £1,039,000.
* * * •
This year Gympie put out 99,147 tons for
95,5840z.—va1ue, £334,545. Divs. totalled £168,299195. 2d.
ihe amount of stone raised was the same as in ’96, but
the gold-ymld was better, showing an increase of 22,3950zj
while divs. have increased by £54,467 19s. 2d., or 50 per
cent, more than distributed last year. Surplus of divs.
over calls 184,113 10s. lOd. Columbia Smithfield
occupies place of honor with 16,9570 z. from 9175 tons—
totald!vs., £44,400. North Smithfield, the premier mine
rwL 00 " 168 next Wifch 3493 tons for 9308 oz.—divs.,—divs.,
* • * * i
„ yield of gold in Queensland for ’97 is
796,8250 z., or 154,5120 z. better than ’96, an improvement
m hard cash equal to about £500,000. Mining returns for
S?oof hOW a total - vield of 90,3080 z., or an increase of
27,8260 z. over corresponding period of last year.
•*• ' •
Croydon and Etheridge miners carry a big
handicap m the extortionate price charged for dynamite
and gelignite—£s 10s. a case. One big firm has a practical
monopoly of these articles throughout the Gulf • and
when a Croydon storekeeper started to sell at £4 10s. his
supply was cut off until he agreed not to sell under the
standard price. Also, the banks charge 2s. 2d. an ounce
tor , the gold, which is often as low in value as 30s
and 20s. They charge the 2s. 2d. on the silver contents
as well and as this is more than the seller gets for it the
banks have the silver for nothing—which in gold of poor
quality amounts to a considerable item. Average value
of Croydon gold is under £2 10s., so that the banks charge
something like 5 per cent., and on the field’s last-year out-
Pin non ° m they must have cleared £BOOO to
4>1u,000 profit for the mere handling 1 .
* * » •
The mutilation and exaggeration of mining news
* n , tr£ i nsi k offcen re P ders almost unrecognisable. Some-
body has been Piling' the leg of New York Tribune about
the richness of the Band Barton and Albion ” mine The
£ m nnn Can world is told that nearly all the
25,000 people who live m Ballarat work in this mine which
omnfT 6 ™ 00 n l lJeS 0f tunnels > so me at a depth of over
2000 ft. The entrance to the mine-is controlled by the
Corporation, andin 30 years it has turned out 150 million
d °l?; of sold. The supply of ore will last for some cen-
turies. The miners work upward, and the ore falls back-
ward and downward. Then an assurance is given that
the men working m the mine are more comfortable than
men working m a cml-mine, because there are no gases
and the safety of the city above is secured by “ drilling”
the tunnels far apart. s
* * * •
~ Th© ‘cocoa war’ is waging merrily to-day ’
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ for one
of the big syndicates of the pleasing beverage dust is
wUhTJ u n v! ther huge advt ’ U has decorated
with flags and brown monstrosities the ’busses of the
Road Car Co. and every penny passenger is handed a
sample-packet of the syndicate’s cocoa by the conductor
The busses on their various trips are well patronised’
though the city clerks, with the recklessness that comes
of a 255. weekly wage, a pair of spats, and a dropsical top-
hat, are pelting each other with the brown flour It was
the same enterprising syndicate that offered each pur-
chaser of an issue of the Daily Telegraph containing
Whn I ft a hjL a penn F ta “ p and the inevitable
What the cocoa co. benefited is unknown, but the paper
“<** d the periwinkle pride of the B.P. by lending
sideraWy ” UCh a trade trumpeting, and has suffered con-


'A
Cl
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
/ Opposite \
l G.P.O. )
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Society
Endestin
COONAN
Sydney E. News society item :
Mr. Harry Yates, of the Postal department, Tocumwal,
wno left yesterday for Inverell, ori promotion, was, before
leaving, the recipient of two testimonials of the esteem in
which he was held. He was entertained by the ladies at
a social, and presented with a handsome counterpane,
silk and plush crazy-work, having nearly 200 autograph
signatures worked thereon in silk, the centre being hand-
painted ; and, in the evening, a number of leading resi-
dents entertained him at Burbury's Hotel, and presented
him with a purse of 30 sovs.
Of course, Mr. H. Yates is a bachelor—presumably
young, and with a silky moustache. Just think
of the joy of smoking in bed while covered with a
counterpane signed by 200 women ! Probably no
man who wasn’t a curate (or a shah, or a Mormon
elder) ever before had such a blissful experience in
all the history of the world.
* » * *
The latest instance of the curious oc-
casional results of the practice of naming vessels
after women is Sydney D.T.’s sub-heading re the
Balmain ferry-steamer fire —“The Lady Hampden
Gutted.” About the most startling effect of the
kind that The Bulletin remembers was produced
man y y ear s ago by the announcement in a
Melbourne press shipping-column that the
Viscountess Canterbury had been taken into
such-and-such a dock to be cleaned and coated
with anti-fouling composition—the part to be thus
dealt with being gravely specified without any
apparent consciousness of its paralysing apropos.
m . ri 9 ■ * ,
He Sydney Transit Commissioners’ recent
wholesale condemnation of antique and defective
cabs, The Bulletin suggests that the Cominis-
sioners should go a step further and permit the
licensing of no cab that is not sliding-windowed at
the sides and ventilated at the back, or that is
doored in such a way that the occupant, once
closed in, is the cabman’s absolute prisoner. Too
many of the existing vehicles are, in these respects,
either heat-traps or death traps, or both, and the
shding-door arrangement, besides rendering the
passenger helpless in.case of accident, is freight
with other very undesirable possibilities.
* * * * -
The value of gubernatorial auspices is
bound to slump heavily over the fact that a poin-
pous viaticum from “ Thomas, Lord Brassey ” was
round—m company with two revolvers and one
threepenny-bit-on the body of the Victorian
Dead wood Dick who lately raided, a Capetown
bank, Killed the accountant, wounded the manager
and suicided ; and who turns out to have “done ”
three years in Victoria for conspiracy before get-
ting the Governor s recommendation !
* * * *
Melb. Argus “ Lady Brassey and I are
deeply aggrieved to hear of the disastrous fire in
Melbourne.-BRASSEV.” Well, yes-the condol-
ence-business is a vice-regal grievance '
**« ' ♦
i, n° V ' Buxton, away on one of his numerous
holidays, caused great offence by absenting him-
| Glenelg on" 28th’ Dec.™
to;,rWVu»lX S h»s"?er s “en. Vio<,_reSal
Again the much-maligned climate of
Bananaland. During the recent heat-wave no less
thnn 35 deaths from heat-apoplexy were reported
from Victoria. Meantime the' Q. death-rate
didn’t rise anything above the usual, and a great
portion of that sultry land rejoiced in a tempera-
ture seldom rising over 85deg. in the shade,
Torrid Rockhampton, with its Sheolic reputation
is, contrary to general repute, a most healthy
city—its death-rate being considerably below that
of Melbourne and other Southern cities. But
better die at Melbourne than live at Rockhamp-
ton. 1
Writes a
London corre-
spondent :
Was at the hos-
pital the other
evening, and ac-
companied a n
obstetric physi-
cian to a case
in a wretched
street near Wa-
terloo station.
The house had a
different family
in each room,
and the poverty,
dirt, vermin, and
general desola-
tion were weird.
The girl about to
be delivered was
lying on a frowsy
mattress, in a
corner of the
room, and the
family a large
one-were sup-
porting the walls
in suppressed an-
ticipation. Smith
asked them why
the devil they
could not go out-
side for awhile.
But not they !
They didn’t see
“why the ell
they should get
wet ’cause ’Liza
was goin’ to ’ave
another kid.’ So
that they re-
mained' all
through the
trouble, except
when one went
to wash a basin,
to put some an-
tiseptic mixture
in. And this in
a country which
maintains for-
eign missions.
* *
Wonderful
are the ways
of the Y.M.
and W.C.A.,
according to a
Bulletin cor-
respondent :
Ed. B. —ln a
certain centre
not long ago a
male member of
a hcly and mu-
sical family con-
tracted a “ spiri-
tual marriage ” with a female member of another family
of similar proclivities. This “marriage” is to mean
merely two years of combined moral and musical study, by
the end of which period these “ spiritual ” spouses estimate
they will be capable of producing musical geniuses who
shall be at the same time of the most unexceptionable
moral tendencies. Dangerous ! —V.
* * * *
In torrid Croydon (N.Q.), a woman,
charged with “ langwidge,” said she had done it
under the provocation of a counter-irritant mus-
tard-plaster about her loins. The plaster drew
out the langwidge, and, if his Worship’s loins had
been burnt up like hers, probably he would have
volcanoed at the mouth. If his Worship didn’t
believe her, she’d show the court the burns ! And
she leaped into the middle of the court-room and
started to undress. Three policemen muzzled her,
and she was handed over to a local medico for
examination. The doc. declared that she was
frightfully blistered, but the well-oiled beak ruled
that a mustard-plaster was no excuse for
langwidge.
* * * *
Menzies (W.A.) is evidently the ideal
place to be gaoled at. judging from the recovery
from the nearest pub., on Xmas Day last, of a
“prisoner ” with a bottle of whisky and two pick-
locks in his possession, and from the assertion by
the police-sergeant that the recent contraction by
the culprit of a certain disease showed that he
must have been roaming in and out of limbo
pretty much at his own sweet will.
* * * *
The Australian Jack Sheppard seems to
have turned up in a fellow who broke out of
Perth gaol, and has just done the same at Ade-
laide. The strangest Australian case of prison-
breaking is that of Anne Miniver Davis. About
20 years ago she was convicted of the manslaughter
of her employer, at Brighton, Melb., by poison,
and there was much indignation at her getting off
so easily. Though her sentence was not long, she
took the trouble to escape. Being employed in
the household of a former Melb. gaol governor,
she managed to walk away. The authorities were
so ashamed that they gave no information to the
press. Indeed, they seem to have resolved to let
her go altogether on the quiet. However, after
she had been at large some months, a policeman
concerned in the case saw her, and, most unwel-
comely, took her back to gaol, knowing her
period was not nearly up. This time it did get
into the press, with a vengeance. A prisoner once
escaped from Melb. gaol by the novelistic device
of the strips of blanket. The other day there was
a bush case of the prisoner locking the constable
up and taking an unobtrusive departure.
* * • *
The “respectable” press of Sydney
started off by calling the Bennett divorce-case a
“Society Divorce Case,” and then, as the squalid
aspects of the affair developed themselves in
| columns of avid type in the evening papers, the
captions of the morning papers dropped the
“Society” and labelled the suit “A Dentist’s
Divorce Case.”
* ♦ * «
During the hearing, at Sydney, of the
Bennett divorce-case, which extended over the
Christmas holidays, a sympathetic outsider invited
Judge and jury, counsel, and all the parties to the
suit, including witnesses, to a launch-picnic on
Boxing Day. This unique and well-meant kind-
ness did not, however, “ come off.”
* * * *
The locals kick against the frequent refer-
ences to Mildura as a town where liquor-prohibition
has failed. It never was a prohibition settlement,
they say. In the Mildura (official) Red Book, 10
years old, it was set out that, “ while there is to
be no promiscuous and enticing vending of intoxi-
cating drinks, there will, of course, be no inter-
ference with personal liberty as regards the private
consumption of wines and spirits in any way what-
MUSINGS OF AN OLD HORSE.
“ Sydney at last has a penny ’bus service.” —Daily paper.
1ST PRTIRED 'BUS-HOHSE (gazing at passing ’bus): “Ah! they’ve got it down to a
penny at last!”
2ND DITTO : “ Well, what with penny fares, longer journeys, and heavier ‘busses
to enable the New Woman to ride outside, we are—well—eh—
belter off here!”
ever.” It was “ merely hotels and liquor licenses
and not the liquor itself,” that were prohibited.
* * * * .
There was a great rush of Greeks to wit-
ness the ceremony at the grave of Greek Comino,
Sydney's chief oyster-purveyor, and the first of
his countrymen locally buried according to the
rites of the Greek Church in Australia. The
priest, a recent arrival in Sydney, made his spec-
tacular debut on this occasion, wearing a black
silk gown “relieved” with a scarf of pink and
yellow, and on his head the long black cylinder of
his faith. The office of priest in the Greek Church
is, on such occasions, no sinecure, as he must walk
to the ground ahead of the defunct, do most of
the singing himself, throw the dust into the grave
with his hands, and afterwards go round among
the friends and relations with cake and wine. At
one time during the ceremony a riot seemed im-
minent, the officials refusing to allow the deceased
(who was buried in full evening dress and all his
jewellery) to be interred with his feet towards the
sunset, as his religion requires. The disturbance
was quelled, however, by the priest undertaking
to alter the position of the remains on a future
occasion.
* » * *
The longest criminal trial in N.S.W.
annals is the just-concluded libel-case, Carruthers
v. Lonsdale and Norton. The venue was Armi-
ar^est fee ever paid a barrister in
JN. o. vv., 2000g5., was earned by Dailey, for an
unsuccessful defence of a gilded cattle-stealer,
tried at Armidale —which thus holds two legal
records. Armidale is a quiet, easy-going little
place, remarkable for nothing much beyond its
churches, schools, and pubs., and the stolid con-
servatism of its population. It is just the sort of
baby city wherein Mark Twain might have con
ceived his champion idea of “ restful Australia.”
* • * »
Acting-Justice Backhouse will no doubt
receive a vacation spell for the period spent in
harness over the Norton-Carruthers case. But
why should not the courts sit all the year round?
Justice needs vindication in hot months as well
as in cold. In the early days of Australia, Judges
divided the year among them, and the courts
were open every month.
* * * *
The Norton libel record is mild reading in
comparison with some of those made in the early
days. Take that of E. S. Hall, editor of the Syd-
ney Monitor. Hall was found guilty of libelling
Gov. Darling, 15th Sept., 1829. Sentence 12months’
imprisonment. On Dec. 21, same year, he was
found guilty of libelling the same Governor, and,
two days latter, was found guilty of libelling
James Laidley and F. A. Healey. On December
,?. ne later still, he was found guilty of
libelling Alex. Macleay. These are cases in which
verdicts of guilty were returned. The peppery
officials of the early days went for a newspaper
man with the club of criminal libel in both hands
if he happened to print their name with “ Esq ”
or some similar tag or title at the end.
* * * *
The point taken by John Norton at the
opening of the recent big libel action— “that Judge
Backhouse should not sit because lie had once
been attacked by Truth,” was rather naive, as
the Judge who has never had an open letter
written to him by J.N. has yet to be born.
Judge “ First Offender ” Backhouse got even with
John, however, when he explained that he was
not aware that Truth had ever attacked him.
No Judge “ evah reads the papahs.”
The gigantic M ‘Sharry v. N.S.W. Bail way
Commissioners arbitration case will, according to
one of the interested parties, extend well into
August next. As the arbitrator and advocates are
politicians as well as lawyers, provision is to be
made for Federal and electoral business, whenever
either intervenes.
ON DANDENONG ROAD
FOR THE BULLETIN.
1 punctured ber tlpre on tKe
We were cfase when we fell, / C ==^l
J brought" Ker as well; N^<
And, tKo ug.K she was garbed in true masculine mode
A pm- well - somewhere
'TSpuche d Kep^fube
over ffif- Jhe _ e t?- d^n ° r 'g
punctured mi_| heart" on the
We were twent"o| milec, out
With no railways, abociT.
could we get" back to ber cifc| abode ?
shc Cried that" we wouldn't" ,
J prated ; tka>r we couldnlT ,
Keart- was deflated or\Danden°ng Road ,
]B>uf both were made wKole on YCsS^ e *'#'£ /
jH[er tears burned "*
1 patched up Ker fi-jre
Ker lips preyed famine pad the debt" owed;
/ jhen we b°th turned our backs
’’Jo Ike fawn and cur tracks
two parallel orv IKe Koad
/A c lb
MG
WHEN COMES THE CHANGE.
(A Rondeav.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When comes the change from blazing heat
And south winds fan the gasping street,
W e find in Life the old-time zest,
And take the thunder to our breast,
And face the storm with willing feet.
And when hard-up, stone-broke, dead-beat,
How joyously that day we greet,
How burns the bullion in our vest.
When comes the “ change ! ”
But when Life’s past its last conceit
And Death comes nigh on pinions fleet,
Say, shall we welcome it as Rest
From days we cursed and days we blest?
Will failing lips form “ Sad ! or “ Sweet! ”
When comes The Change ?
H.C.C.


Caledonian Liqueur' Whisky
advt
SoftCafyVaS Shifts
Made ’i’o Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
out.the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
advt
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. BIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
"DOSE’S CELEBRATED
TEJYB Xj OTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from ail Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. gSF” Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
U AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians'of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Q
Miss Graham, the humble nurse who started
the-tremendous-Adelaide Hospital rows which for
three years'have been turning S. A. upside-down
and influencing every political and municipal
election, was appointed superintendent of nurses
the other day, whereupon five other nurses imme-
diately resigned. If the Hospital rows, still as
bitter as ever, last much longer, Margaret Graham
will probably take on the Premiership herself.
* * * «
Charters Towers calendar of unpunished
crime for the past year includes murder, dynamite
explosion, arson and mutilation, to say nothing of
a crowd of comparatively trivial offences. The
Towers is the most prosperous city in Bananaland
—perhaps in Australia. Hence—beer, booze,
sport, speculation, and crimp. You can’t confine
your full-fed, full-blooded man in the same con-
ventional traces as the starveling of a city slum.
The most law-abiding man on earth is the
withered, wizened Chow from Hongkong or
Canton.
• * * *
“ Always see that your husband’s shirt-but-
tons are sewn on,” says one of the artless cacklers
of Sydney Sunday Times. The up-to-date woman
doesn’t sew buttons on her husband’s shirts ; she
abolishes buttons and provides the old man with
studs.
* * * *
Melb. : “ I was not aware, until to-day,
that a beginning had been made with the Vic.
Women’s and Children’s Hospital, for the treat-
ment of patients solely by lady doctors, of whom
eight appear on the board, including three sisters
Stone. The premises are next to the Welsh
Chapel, Latrobe-street. There are just upon a
dozen thoroughly qualified lady doctors practising
in Melb. Probably the number will equal that of
the men early next century. The strange thing is
that Bishopess Goe, Dowager Lady Clarke, and
the other influential ladies of the regular Women’s
Hospital, are able to keep down, or out, the lady-
doctoring there. The senior men doctors are not
such opponents as the junior ones, represented by
those who tried to make life not worth living for
the ladies at Melb. Hospital. But a little
thought will show that the juniors are the most
affected.”
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin, — “H.” mourns the alleged
barbarism which deprived his brain of interna-
tional cable news at his Christmas breakfast-table,
but seemingly fails to appreciate the feelings of
over-driven pressmen on the point. Heaven post-
pone the time when the proprietaries of Australian
dailies decide to bring out their journals 365 days
in the year—the first Sabbath issue should have
turned column-rules to mark the pressman’s Black
Sunday.—T.D.
* * * •
Whenever St. Bedstead, of the Review of
Reviews, refers to Queen Vic. —and that’s often—
he always wants to bring in his pet anecdote re
how the morning after her marriage Her Gracious
diaried that Albert was “ the dearest, purest of
creatures.”
The hysteri-
cal young wo-
man with the
curdling story
about a man
with a rough
coat has turned
up, with varia-
tions —and these
variations fur-
ther illustrate
the length to
which the hallu-
cination, or
whatever it is,
will carry the
young woman,
and the cautious
manner in which
her evidence
should therefore
be sniffed at.
This young wo-
man with the
variations ap-
peared about
sunrise the other
morning at the
Broken Hill
police- station,
hereyes red with
crying and her
general appear-
ance that of a
penitent who
had been wrest-
1i n g mightily
with conscience
for 48 hours,
meal - times in-
cluded. Having
made sure that
she was in the
right shop, site
quietly but reso-
lutely demanded
to be taken into
custody on the
charge of mur-
dering her in-
fant. In the three days since it had been buried,
she said, she had had no peace of mind. The
officer in charge smelt her breath, and that passed
muster ; but (probably because he happened to be
very Scotch) he made some inquiries and
then told her to go home and reduce the
confession to order, and after porridge he’d
see about it. However, the vvoman’s sister
presently came along with incriminating let-
ters ; witnesses swore, too, that they saw the
youngster alive and kicking one hour and
found it dead the next. At that point the
young woman wouldn’t have had much diffi-
culty in getting locked up for 10 years or so ;
still, on the off-chance, the body was dug up
when a doctor gave his verdict that death arose
solely through convulsions. By this time the
hysterical mother had got over her desire to be
hanged, and withdrew her statements. But if
the remains had been so far decomposed that the
cause of death couldn’t be ascertained, her posi-
tion would have been precarious. Now, if a
hysterical female can’t be fully trusted even when
she asks the law to hang herself, there must be
considerable space for suspicion when she asks it
to hang somebody else.
THE ROAD TO VIRTUE.
STATE SCHOOL-TEACHER : “ They are going to send
me up to a place in the bush. I’m afraid it
will be so awfully lonely.”
HER FRIEND: “Never mind, dear; if you are
awfully lonely you will be sure to be awfully
good, and if you are awfully good you ought
to be awfully happy!”
Sydney’s own little Princess Alice disaster
will not happen at Circular Quay, but somewhere
near the Heads —perhaps when something goes
wrong with a heavily-laden boat in a big beam-sea,
far away from any chance of assistance. On the
last holiday I travelled by a ferry-steamer which.
—spite of Marine Board or Water Police—carried
far more than should have been allowed on board
her. When coming up the harbor, a capsized
dingy was encountered and the steamer tilted
dangerously as seven or eight hundred thoughtless
persons made a simultaneous' rush to starboard to
get a better view. Had this incident occurred ten
minutes earlier, when the -overloaded vessel was
struggling to cross the Heads, black crape would,
probably, have risen to a premium in Sydney
drapery stores.
* * * *
Charity-payment day at Sydney public
offices. The long, Ibis-like official in a glass cage
beside the statue of Victoria Regina was instruct-
ing the messenger to “ trot ’em along.” A dread-
fully dilapidated old man came along, closely
followed by a woman carrying two babies. “Sign
GOT ’EM AGAIN.
THE CONSTABLE: “Prisoner pleads guilty.”
HIS WORSHIP (after a very wet week): “Remove those shnakes while I pass
sintince! ”
here and here and here,” grunted the Ibis.
“Attend to the lady first,” said the courteous
wreck. The old man stood back until all the
women had been looked after, then he stepped up
for his own little dole, and, as he took the cash, he
said to the Ibis : “ You are a polite young gentle-
man, and, as a member of the community which
employs you, I always like to see my servants
courteous; so if you will kindly send your name
to my residence I will mention you to the Minis-
ter."’ Then he hobbled out, leaving the Ibis
petrified.
* * * «
The Manlyites have at last arisen to protest
that they don’t run The Village simply for the con-
venience of holiday-making ’Arries and Hemmas.
The local aldermen have decided to protest to the
Board of Health against the continuance of that
most hideous of all modern instruments of torture,
a steam merry-go-round, which lately set up on a
vacant piece of land in the main street.
* ♦ • *
In every ease where adultery is made the
ground of divorce, the Argus prudishly substi-
tutes the word “misconduct.” Which is morally
and legally false, as “ misconduct ” is not neces-
sarily a ground of divorce. By the way, the
Argus, in writing of a recent industrial disaster,
alluded to the laborers concerned as “ Mr.” Smith,
“Mr.” Jones, and so on. The transparency of
which bid for horny-handed support is too
ludicrous.
A burnt-out Tas. settler tells Hobart
Mercury :
The water in Mountain River, where the fire crossed, is
full of roasted fish, many hundreds lying about, the water
being very low.
Now, fish-liars !
* • * *
The Tas. bush-fire recalls the fact that on
the Victorian Black Thursday—lBsl—cinders and
burning twigs from the blazing Gippsland forests
were blown right across the Straits on to the beach
of Northern Tasmania.
* • * *
Six lives were lost in the Tasmanian bush-
fire oh New Year’s eve. Hundred of acres of
fruit-gardens were scorched to cinders, and 50 fami-
lies rendered homeless. Never since 1841, says the
oldest inhabitant, has a Tas. bush-fire moved so
fast, and then ’twas on the midland plains. The
latest holocaust happened in the big scrub of a
damp coastal district.
• * * *
Henry Dobson’s pretty little chalet, which
nestles up among the fern-trees on the foothills of
Mount Wellington (Tas.), and was much fre-
quented of local sassiety, was the other day totally
destroyed by a bush-fire. All the furniture and
fittings went up in smoke. ‘ We have lost every-
thing in the place,” almost wept poor Viin
Dobson. “We saved nothing of value, except my
Federation papers ! ” Talk of anti-climax !
* * * *
A certain M.P., when travelling with the
Q. Land Commission, would drink nothing but
champagne, and nothing but a particular brand
of cham., at the expense of his bleeding country.
The coach by which the Commission was travel-
ling, in the back areas, came to a township the
next stage from which would cover two whole
days before champagne could be had. The M.P.,
equal to the occasion, took aboard a case of his
own particular brand for his own particular use.
He chose the inside of the coach, seemingly in
order to guard his treasure. His fellow-commis-
sioners were on top. A dry, fearful day. The
M.P. fell asleep. One by one the bottles in his
case were withdrawn, the corks carefully manipu-
lated, the contents drunk, the bottles refilled from
the water-bags, and the corks replaced so as to
resemble as nearly as possible the real thing.
“The poor M.P. got none!” At the next halt
he had his case taken carefully into his room at
the accommodation-house. What he discovered
there, what he felt, and what he said are “ best
known to hisself by gum ! ”
* * * «
Dear Bulletin, —On the authority of poet
Byron and innumerable others, it is generally
assumed that immorality is mainly a question of
temperature. Which dictum writer cheerfully
disputes and propounds one of his own, viz. :
illegitimacy is mainly a question of Piety. The
illegitimacy-rate of torrid Italia is not appalling,
while that of Scotia is the highest but one in
Europe. Proportion of extra-conjugal offspring
is not much above average in godless Cooktown,
but holy Ipswich, sanctum sanctorum of Banana-
land snufflebusters, heads the bastard list of its
sun burnt province. . . . However, Ipswich is
both hot and pious and the combination is
simply irresistible. —P.L.
* * • •
A.S.R. writes from Melbourne :
Dear Bulletin, —A gruesome speculator rambles in
Bulletin re false teeth being bought and worked up
again by dentists. Well, some crazy men may do it, but
as the best artificial tooth (in any color, shape or size)
costs the dentist only about 6d. straight from the manu-
facturer’s porcelain furnace, why should “second-hand”
teeth be used? The odds are 10 to 1 also that the porce-
lain face cracks in attempting to remove a tooth from an
old plate. It’s not the teeth, but the gold in the plate,
that the pawnbroker is after.
This is no doubt quite true. Gold from false
teeth taken from the mouths of the dead is worked
up into wedding-rings, and new tooth - plates.
This is an unsentimental and utilitarian age.
* * • »
The sublime intelligence of the prison
authorities. Two letters were lately returned
from a N.S.W. gaol endorsed by the prison
officials : “ Diseased ” and “ Gone to liberty ”
respectively.
* * * *
In the Adelaide hospital tender-list this
year the line relating to the “ burial of the desti-
tute ” was put after that referring to the disposal
of “ kitchen refuse.” The old story: “Rattlehis
bones.”
N.S.W. country journalism gains, and
Sydney D.T. loses appreciably, through the
secession of the vigorous and resourceful night
sub-editor Westlake, and G. W. Todd, one of
the most efficient of Australian reporters, from
the staff of the city daily. The pair leave to
become proprietors of the long-established Wagga
Express, and hope to more than renew its pris-
tine vigor, in which venture they have the cordial
sympathy of their many press friends.
A few days back a long, lean vagrant ap-
peared before Melbourne autocrat Pan ton, P.M.
His jaws were moving with the deliberate grind
of a ruminating cow. “ What is this person eat-
ing?” thundered the modern Jove. “’Backer,
yer worship ! ” replied the deadbeat. “ Swallow it
at once,” roared the P.M. The ’beat’s jaw dropped
and he glared. “Swallow it! ” the P.M. roared
again. The prisoner gulped and the quid fell into
the inner darkness. And now-—under what pos-
sible law does Panton sentence unconvicted and
untried prisoners to the poisonous and horribly
indigestible punishment of swallowing tobacco ?
NO NEED.
THE DONAH: "’Elio! Ginger; workin'?"
GINGER : “ Naw, married!”
TVANTED, Lodgings with widow ; no othei
’' boarders.
Rushing to his doom !
In a recent Ascot Vale (Vic.) mainte-
nance-case, the plaintiff (aged 19) alleged that
defendant, a police constable, went out for a walk
with her, then handcuffed her, and “ took ad-
vantage of her.” The Court decided in favor of
the girl, so presumably it believed this story, or
part of it. Of course, a man might handcuff his
best girl, when he went out walking with her,
from the most honorable motives - if she always
clawed him when he tried to make a formal de-
claration of love, for instance, it might be neces-
sary to thus secure her before stating his tale of
love_ at full length. Still, it seems a painfully
official proceeding, even apart from the allegation
that the policeman seduced her in that tied-up
condition.
Mr. C. R. Wilton writes from Adelaide :
Dear Bulletin, — In issue of Jan. 1 you write re the sug-
gestion that Dr. Cockburn may be chosen to succeed Mr
Playford as S.A. Agent General : “ His departure from
S.A., if it really happens, will be another result of the
Adelaide Hospital row, which has been the cause of nearly
everything that has happened in S.A. for two years past.
As a member of the Kingston Government, Cockburn is
practically ostracised by the profession which takes off
your leg for a consideration, and, as a consequence, his
practice is, probably, hardly worth keeping now.” This
is incorrect. Dr. Cockburn, who is an M.D. (gold-medal-
list) of London University, relinquished a most remunera-
tive practice shortly after his first election to Parliament
in ’B4 and for more than ten years he has not accepted a
fee for seeing a patient. He has never attempted even to
establish a consulting practice. On the other hand, Dr.
Leith Napier, Dr. Rogers, Dr. Hynes and some others’who
have remained true to the Govt, in the Hospital row
enjoy very large practices, while the juniors who braved
the British Medical Association have certainly gained
rather than lost popularity and patients. If Dr. Cock-
burn does go to England the Adelaide Hospital will have
nothing to do with the case one way or the other. Unless,
indeed, the influence of the Hospital dispute in solidifying
the Kingston Govt, support may have kept if, in office
long enough to appoint two Agent.s-General in succession.
A NEW YEAR’S EVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The year is going;
You and I,
With Love once glowing,
Say Good-bye.
Once fired with passion,
Heart in heart—
We’re in the fashion—
Now we part ;
Still this “ old Adam ” cannot grieve,
He’ll find ere long a New Year’s Eve !
ADONIS.


advt
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
ft
M
dItRoWR? O !
pWj
jftlM’youtj
eh
/WTI!
9 & ®
© ©
> ©^®
*
Storekeepers and hotel proprietors in
country towns of N.S.W. that can be reached by
rail will have an. opportunity of seeing the
National Cash Register Till. Mr. W. A. Ling-
ham, the general manager of the co. in Australasia,
has just despatched a representative with a set of
sample machines. The traveller is now at Goul-
burn, and he will go right through the province.
Country business people who would like to inspect
this marvellous “money saver” should send a
post-card to the 00. at 393 George-st., Sydney, and
the traveller will not fail to oall.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 11, 1898.
Mr Dear Myfe—
The color-line is a flexible boundary in England.
Lady Anne Coventry (sister of Australia’s Lord
Deerhurst), one of the most aristocratic of the
aristocrats, is announced to be about to marry the
Maharajah Dhuleep Singh. What would the
Four Hundred of New York think if one of its
beauties were to contract an alliance with Pete
Johnsing—or, to bring it near home, how would
the historic families of Mossvale or the Western
Districts take to King Billy as a son-in-law?
One of the scientists who have come to Sydney
for the scientific corroboree, now going on at the
’Varsity, is Prof. Kernot, presiding deity of
cycling in Melb. He shed the radiance of cul-
tured patronage on the wheel at the time when it
was considered undignified for fogies in the
learned professions to mount a jigger. The
“Prof.” takes an expert’s delight in the scientific
principles of ’cycle-building, and sticks to the
original and correct pronunciation of the word-
talks of “bi-cycles,” not a “6f-cycle.” Theoreti-
cally, everybody endorses the first pronunciation,
and practically, everybody uses the second.
The appalling lengthiness of the titles of papers
read at the scientific camp-meeting now in full
swing doesn’t seem to frighten ambitious women
who wish to be known as cultured ; they turn up
all the same at the lectures with their little blue
leather membership tickets pinned on their chests.
At Mrs. Russell’s afternoon tea-drinking, at the
Observatory grounds last Friday, most of the
visitors appeared with cool, easy clothes and the
unworldly, dreamy eye of the man-with-a-hobby.
The company roamed over the buildings and
peered curiously at a big telescope and other
mysteries. The Victorian weather - fictionist
seemed interested in the room where the meteoro-
logical photos, are kept and our local weather
manufactured, but Wragge and all his storms were
conspicuously absent from the rival weather-man’s
tea-party.
At the circus there’s a good cartoon suggestion
going begging in the attitude of the elephant seen
sideways as he sits at table, which is distinctly
like the contour of Premier Reid as he sits in the
’Ouse. One night last week the trick pony, which
is guided by the fairy in hand-painted satin skirts,
did its act of letting off pistols and unfurling flags
with a slight variation—the pistol which releases
the Australian flag didn’t pop, probably from a
desire to economise powder, in view of the D.T.’s
scare about the lack of ammunition in N.S.W.
The crimson-habited girl is a horsewoman who is
good to look at, and is guyed by an inflated clown
with a pneumatic tyre on his chest. If he were
jabbed suddenly in the waistcoat with a pin, his
humor would expire through puncture with a loud
hiss.
Some of the pictures rejected by the judges for
the Walker Exhibition of Australian works of art
are gladsome bits of color, and original enough to
make a local show of “ Masterpieces that haven’t
gone to England,” an event that would brighten
up this dull mouth. An appreciative public would
gladly push its silver coin through the pay-hole to
see that large yellow “ sunrise ” that went the
rounds of all last year’s shows, and was unani-
mously crowded into oblivion by all the hanging-
committees. Competitors, in a few cases, sent in
explanatory notes with their canvasses. One con-
scientious worker staked his hopes on an idyll of
bush life —a damsel plucking wild flowers in a
shady nook near a creek, his explanation being,
“ The lady is supposed to be one of a picnic-party,
and has strayed from her friends gathering flowers ;
you cannot see the rest of the picnickers, as they
are all on the other side of the creek.”
The Ladies’ Club entertained the scientists in
an original manner, on Monday night, by giving
an “at home” on the Phillip-street tennis-court,
next door to the club-house, and beginning the
revel at the latesome hour of 9.30. The guests
entered through the advt. hoarding fencing off the
ground, and crowds of well-dressed people insert-
ing themselves into the party at a late hour
through a glaring notice of Somebody’s Gin had
an odd effect. The place was festooned with few-
and-far-betVveen paper-lanterns, some tables and
chairs were set about, and a string band lurked
somewhere in the gloom and buzzed like an en-
raged mosquito : but the shadowy forms prowling
about in the dark eyed each other nervously and
furtively. The entertainment didn’t hum much ;
the shivoo was late, the moon was later ; but the
scientists were the latest of all. Somewhere
towards midnight a search expedition with dark
lanterns was proposed, but a contingent of morn-
ing-dressed men and high-necked women were
dimly seen to be the expected visitors. Some of
the women were in full evening rig, and others in
a prudent compromise, but all cats are grey in the
dark, and all looked equally shadowy. The men
were mostly hatless and seemed to be dismally
conscious of coming colds in the head in conse-
quence. One man with a boxer was excitedly
trying to conceal it all the time lest it should re-
veal the damaging fact that it wasn’t a crush-hat.
The party drifted away in distressful sections
shortly before the cold gloom of midnight settled
down over the asphalt-court once more.
, The wedding of Miss Thorne, of Potts Point,
affd Mr. J. Brunton, at St. John’s, Darlinghurst,
last Wednesday, united two well-gilt families of
Sydney and Melbourne. The bridegroom is eldest
son of Hon. T Brunton, of Vic. Leg. Council.
The weather did its best to wreck all the “ pretti-
ness ” of the ceremony, as the bride had to struggle
into church against a strong head wind. The
white satin bodice was a study in tuckery, the
lines of this fashionable mode of trimming all
running diagonally across the back ; she changed
her dress for a travelling-gown in blue and snuff-
color with leather fixings. The same high wind
thinned the ranks of farewellihg guests at the
final shivoo on the departing flagship the same
afternoon. The trip over the bobbing waves gave
a malaisey feeling to many of the guests which
waltzing on board the Orlando didn’t help to
smother. As souvenirs of the time-expired flag-
ship the officers handed round little red-white-and-
blue coekades. The “crimson thread of kinship ”
has been strengthened several times during the
Orlando’s stay in Australian waters. The retir-
ing Admiral’s secretary was married (when in
England) to a Melbourne girl, daughter of Widow
Menzies, of Menzies’ Hotel. A Hobart lady,
Miss Mac Hardy, a universal social favorite, was
the latest annexation : she married Lieut. Grea-
torex, and goes per mail-steamer to rejoin her
husband at the voyage end.
The Premier’s progress in the Mudgee district
last week was shared by Mrs. Reid, and at
different towns on the tour prominent citizenesses
lined up to greet the lady with the orthodox hand-
fuls of flowers. Part of the trip per buggy was
glorified by a mounted escort, who sat about with
drawn swords. Mrs. Reid’s jaunty and beflowered
hat was exchanged for a comfortable sun-bonnet
en route, and at the first sight of the cotton head-
gear the escort sheathed its weapons as though all
thesmartnessof the expedition were quenched. The
female deputationists waiting at Gulgong craned
their necks expectantly for the Premieress, quite
unconscious that the lady under the large bonnet
was the expected distinguished visitor. But after
a while Mrs. R. appeared topped off once more by
her smart millinery and best veil, and the whole
party pulled down its vest and felt that it had
some style imparted to it.
His Ex. of Victoria and Lady Brassey are tour-
ing in this province. The family yacht is still
moored in Farm Cove out of commission, but the
owners paid the craft a visit before leaving for the
Blue Mountains, which they are beholding “ on
their own,” as the suite is enjoying himself in Syd-
ney. The suite had his day out at Canterbury
Park and the theatre at night, thereby causing a
little flutter among the chorus-girls, who are all
interested in the above suite.
A daily paper lately wanted an interview with
the three lady-doctors about whose non-appoint-
ment to the Sydney Hospital there has been so
much discussion in the papers. The tactful chief-
of-staff wisely picked out for the job a young and
nice-looking reporter noted for his gleaming collars
and cuffs, and by arrangement the scribe met the
three at the house of another lady doc. He was
shown upstairs into a pretty little sitting-room,
and the four medicals all sat with their backs to
the light, gave the pressman all the information
he wanted, and fed him with afternoon-tea and
fresh fruit-salad, “ which I made myself,” said the
hostess artfully. So the interview was entirely
favorable to the girls’ professional aspirations.
The “ Babes in the Wood ” continued their
plaint about “ their mother in Heaven ” to a
crowded and grown-up audience on Saturday
night. That wearisome, infantile wailing about
the Babes’ dead parent is making even the stage
props feel tired, as the cot in the bedroom-scene
promptly shut up with a babe inside it. J. J.
Burke’s new song caused one vast blush to spread
itself over the d. c., which was mostly occupied
by country visitors. The high-toned Saturday-
nigh ters are all “out of town,” or pretend they
are, although the family funds may not permit of
a more expensive jaunt than a trip to Botany and
back per tram. A box was adorned by the Vic-
torian Aide, Shaftesbury, who is soon to take his
departure for ’Ome. He will long be remembered
here for his enthusiastic stage friendships and will
be missed as Australia’s only specimen of the
stage-struck British nobleman.
Woman is not getting her fair share of the con-
solations of religion at St. James’s Church, where
a strong ritualistic feeling has set in and the parish
is worked by celibate curates. Lady members of
the congregation feel hurt at being ignored by
these St. Anthonies in all the attractive side-
shows, which are now rigorously kept for men
only. Smoke-concerts and walking-tours have
been going on for some time, and all the share the
snubbed sisterhood have in them is to look en-
viously on at their brethren having a good time.
The latest effort to keep alive the spiritual flame
was a grand Xmas dinner of roast beef and plum-
pudding for over two dozen men. But the church-
wardens don’t fear a female exodus, for they
know that if the church is popular with men the
women are bound to follow.
The religious and devotional variety of drawing-
room ballad, which owes its rise to the popularity
gained for itself by “The Holy City,” is very
much on the increase. No one is surprised now-
adays when the evening-party tenor uprises and
pours forth a full confession of his most sacred
beliefs in song. “The Vision Divine,” by Joseph
Adams (Ricordi and Co.), is the latest composition
of this type, and it is of so emphatically sacred a
nature that the words seem to have strayed
aimlessly out of some hymnal. The music is al-
most as holy as the words. The same publishers
send out a new waltz, “ The Bohemian,” by
Bucalossi, from Puccini’s up-to-date opera. The
cover is embellished with a most fascinating
maiden, early Victorian as to garb but modern
French as to expression. If the waltz weren’t
half as good as it is, the cover-girl would make up
the money’s value.
Paling’s Piano Album is a lavish shilling’s-worth.
Among the new pieces which it contains are one
or two musical chestnuts which a much-vexed
public would gratefully consign to oblivion. The
once “ Merry Peasant ” has lost much of her
mirth since he cast in his lot with the “easy”
classics in the piano instruction-books, and
Weber’s Last Waltz suggests nothing now but
early morning “practice.” Emily D. Paterson
has prettily set the words of “The Banjo’s”
poem, “ Black Swans,” to music (Paling and Co.).
The accompaniment runs in dreamily rippling
arpeggios which suit the lines most effectively. A
serenade by “ Hinemoa ” Hill is bound to become
popular. It bears the somewhat confusing com-
mand to “ Come beloved one to wake not, but
hear me ” by way of title. Signor de Beaupuis
has sent out to the musical public a snappy little
Prdlude for a Xmas composition.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The adoration of the celestial Prince Ranjit-
sinhji broke out at the conclusion of the inter-
national match when the dusky potentate was
mobbed at the gates of the M.C.C. Ground
by a fatuous‘push,’ mainly females. Here and
there a red, hysterical person in skirts hurled
garden stuff at the gritted Indian, and all made
audible little comments about the ‘darlingprince,’
and his ‘expressive eyes, dear,’ and fought, and
gasped, and giggled about God’s image in coffee
until the princelet shrieked for a cab, or a balloon,
or something, and was borne away, trembling,
whilst his admirers reached for scraps of his ward-
robte, and got off with a shred or a button
or two. Ranji is having a patent boiler-iron
suit fitted up in order to obviate the possibility of
his having to race to his hotel one of these days in
a tattered umbrella and a pair of braces. Heaven,
or the Firm, send us a beauty actor at once to
divert female Melbourne from this chocolate hero!
“Lord William Nevill, who has been achieving
such evil distinction in the English law-courts, is
the same pallid young man who toured Australia
when this stricken country was infested with Deer-
hurst and many other titled personages. Nevill
at that time created big interest by publicly “going
over to Rome” (he was at. the time courting a
daughter of the then “ big ” banking house o
Murrietta). The ceremony took place at St
Ignatius Church, and the priest responsible for
the precious convert was the well-known Father
Kennedy. At the time there were great hopes of
Nevill joining the priesthood, but the unwhole-
some-looking young man seems to have got less
spiritual-minded since he left here, for he couldn’t
have been much of an anchorite on the .£15,000 he
beat the Jews for. There was great joy among
the R.C. ranks at the time of the conversion; now
it is the other camp’s turn to smile.
“Besides the particular transactions in which
he obtained the signatures of a confiding Life-
Guard juggins, through holes in the paper cover-
ing what Nevill alleged were documents concerning
a strictly private family matter, this ornament of
society appears for years to have been trading
upon the ill-placed confidence of young men of
means—his dealings in this way with the money-
lender who sued Nevill’s latest dupe having
amounted to £BO,OOO.
“ A handsome Melb. society-girl came out of a
shop to find an admiring young man standing on
the kerb beside her bike. She took painful care
to avoid catching the young fellow’s eye, but, as
she seized the machine by the handle, he raised his
hat and stepped forward, so that his presence
could no longer be ignored. Accordingly she
raised her eyes, gave him a killing glance, and
turned her back, wheeling the machine into the
middle of the road. But the apparent Don Juan
was not to be denied. * I beg your pardon,’ he
began, following the lady into the street, ‘ but I— ’
‘ Sir! ’ she cried, in a frenzied tone, ‘if you persist
in annoying me, I will give you in charge.’ ‘But— ’
E leaded the youth. But it was too late; to escape
im, the lady made a hurried jump into the saddle,
and the next moment was floundering in the road,
and giving the hated rou4 a bigger display of limb
and lingerie than he could have got in ten ballets.
As the blushing girl vainly endeavored to disen-
gage her dress from the angles of the machine the
young man came up and helped her to rise. ‘ This
wouldn’t have happened if you’d stopped to listen
to me,’ he said, sternly. ‘You know you can’t
ride a diamond-frame with skirts on. You see,
that’s my machine; yours is over there, on the
kerb.’
“ Rightly or not, one doesn’t associate fashion
and fine feathers with a district labelled the ‘ Isle
of Man,’ so the simple dressing of the ‘Manx-
man ’ characters comes as no surprise. All the
same, Maud Jeffries, as the Landlord’s lovely
daughter, apparently owns a plentiful supply of
fresh cotton frocks in pinks and blues ! In warm
weather what more can a girl want ? It’s not so
easy for poorish people to maintain high-water
dress level in winter, for furs and things costly
enough to look cosy come expensive. But most
summer sartorial sins can be laved away in the
laundry.
“ Up North, where washing wear is perennially
possible, women are fond of accusing impecunious
belles of possessing only one frock and ‘ doing it
up ’ nightly. Wretches, as if it wasn’t absolutely
heroic for a heat-worn girl to swelter over
nocturnal box-irons and boiled starch, so as to put
her best foot foremost by day.
“To go back to stage-land. When the cruel
Manx Fairy ‘ falls upon the thorns of life ’ she
keeps on curling her hair just as in brighter days,
and breasts the waters of tribulation in the bright
blue Eton suit and cream vest she happened to be
wearing when the deluge overtook her.
“On the boards, as a rule, she-victims smile
through their tears in tight-fitting black or grey
gowns and turned-down white linen collars and
cuffs. But in this work-a-day world, even when
the whole universe seems to be going smash, suf-
ferers like Maud Jeffries generally just go on wear-
ing what they have on hand, always supposing, of
course, there’s no funeral in the case.
“So far, Melbourne girls have obstinately
nourished regrets for a vanished stage idol, and
Claudian in all his glory could not blot out
memories of a shapely predecessor casting off a
misty blue mantle to stand revealed in glove-fit
white. But the ‘ Manxman ’ is going to change
all that. Already women are chortling over the
delightfulness of Wilson Barrett in Pete’s rough
blue woollens and unveiled braces as they
never did when he wore braces and had
fillets in his hair. Probably an instance
of ‘ beauty unadorned, adorned the most! ’
Yes, that frightfully ill-used person, Mr. Peter
Quilliam, is bound to be popular. Worst of it is,
that Barrett’s interpretation of his character, even
more than Hall Caine’s conception, makes one re-
gret more bitterly than ever that in the last scene
the much-tried hero desists from his axe policy,
instead of righteously making mince-meat of the
whole boiling, false friend, pitiless wife, snuffling
pa-in-law and babs included.
“ Gov. Brassey always makes a practice of read-
ing the lessons whenever he goes to church in the
country. Visitors to a fashionable mountain re-
sort had this treat the other Sunday before the
vice-regal clan left for Sydney, and, what with
the long drive to the tabernacle, and the heat and
flies, and his Excellency’s slumbrous style of elo-
cution, the congregation simply couldn’t keep
awake. The reader’s own belongings kept their
eyes open somehow. ‘Forewarned is forearmed,’
and, in preparation for what was coming, they
had probably steeled themselves to the ordeal by a
jorum of strong black coffee. Anyway, they sat
up like ramrods and smacked their lips over the
responses as if they liked it. Sister-worshippers
were glad of their company, for speculations re the
way the visitors did their hair helped to drive dull
sleep away. The coiffures were so high at the
back that hats could never have sat on the erec-
tion had not a sort of division-path been left for
the centre rear rim to fit snugly down into.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
No less than 375 Syrian and Indian
hawkers received licenses at Redfern (Sydney)
police-court the other day.
Tnit Bulletin acknowledges the following subscription*
in aid of the fund to get SuflSeld fair play and an open
enquiry. Previously acknowledged, £44 8s. 6d. “ Job,"
2s. 6d. ; T.P.A., £1 Is.; Holden, 11s.; Fox Bros., 10s.;
“ Legax,” 5s. ; Dr. O’Dwyer, £1; W.J.H., £1; H.M., 5s.;
employes “ Woolerina,” £2 ; J. P. Jones, 5s.; A. Grace,
£1 5s. ; Anonymous, 4s.; M. Fitzgerald, 2s. 6d. ; G. Fitz-
gerald, 2s. 6d.; J. Heffernan, 2s. 6d. ; J. H. Wood, 10s.;
A. S. Gordon, 6s.; Peter Anderson and Co., £3; R.
Darbyshire, 7s. 8d. ; Hopkins, 3s.; Harris Curry, 6s.
Total, £67 15s. 2d.
♦
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
Blotting-paper towels are the latest English
novelty, and are made like a suit of pyjamas.
You climb into the paper suit, and in a second or
two are dry as a bone.
Dear Bulletin, — In your Xmas issue ap
pears a par. relating to my late brother, Fred.
Croft, which is only partly correct. He was of
English, not Irish, parentage. Also the line,
“ He loved wit and whisky better than work, and
so went under,” seems to convey an idea that his
end was in some way owing to drink, which it
certainly was not.—Yours, &c., Herbert Croft.
The one spark of humor during the recent
Melb. heat-wave was the spectacle of Mayor
M‘Eacharn sitting, throughout a “big” day at
the City Court, amid the heavy odor of vagrants,
and enveloped in his huge official ’possum-rug
robe. The heroism of a Highland piper or a
Bendigo miner is as nought compared with that
of the civic dignitary who must needs look
picturesque in a police-court.
Writes John Shaw, Parramatta :—
The Suffield case raises the question whether the
Goulds, the Slattervs, and the O’Connors can possess the
slightest conception of the true meaning of the terms
“ responsibility ” and “justice.” Each has confused
Justice with legal Formalism, and Ministerial Responsi-
bility with obsequious compliance with precedent-hedged
routine. “Minister of Justice” is a big phrase and
should mean much in the way of executing discrimination
and righteousness. A Minister of Justice, who, Gould-like,
shirks the real responsibilities of office, consenting to be
the tame follower of narrow precedents, the servile regis-
trar of departmental decrees based on traditionary syco-
phancy towards judicial procedure, is an official to be
publicly despised and abhorred. The wav in which a
Minister deals with a Suffield case proves whether he be
a statesman capable of precedent-creation in the spirit of
sagacious discernment, or just such a soulless, mechanical
organ-grinder as Gould by his acts has writ himself
down.
J. B. Castieau, in the essay on Australian
Literature which gained first prize in the Vic.
A.N.A. competition some months ago, took the
trouble to complain about a Westralian story pub-
lished in The Bulletin— and suggested that “ the
sickening performance ” of murdering a black-
gin, there described, gave an untrue impression of
certain Australian facts. That particular sketch
happened to be true to the life; but this paper
didn’t think it necessary to say so, because Cas-
tieau is a well-meaning young Australian who is
getting older and wiser every day—and Westra-
lians knew all about the truth of the picture, any-
way. It occurs to The Bulletin, however, to
recommend Mr. Castieau to read Chief Justice
Onslow’s remarks on the Westralian slave-system,
apropos of the Anderson murder case; and to
suggest that he should thank the writer whose
dramatic art succeeded in disgusting him, and
(but for Mr. Castieau’s passing youthful bumptious-
ness) might have succeeded in enlisting his aid to
wipe out a black stain on the Australian name
and nation.
“ Drover” to The Bulletin :—
If Sleath, M.P., would ask the N.S.W. Watering-Places
people a few questions about the leasing of bores and
tanks to stations on this road, he would add to his chances
of re-election. This Wanaaring-Milparinka road is one
of the worst in N.S.W. for feed and water at any time,
but by leasing Osaca bore to Urisini station, and Buri-
goolpa tank to Salisbury Downs, the Govt, helps to make
it a good deal worse. There is Clifton bore running to
waste, two stations—Salisbury and Yantara—getting the
benefit of the water for nothing. At the other two places
mentioned the stations are running thousands of sheep,
and the travelling public can only get a drink (of course,
by paying), and then have to go miles to look for a bit of
feed. I am told the squatters only pay a few pounds
annually for the use of them. [How’much do they pay?
—Ed. B.] Then again, from Osaca bore, we have to
travel stock nearly 30 miles to the next bore, Cullabulla,
unless we can beg a drink from Urisini; while at the
91-Mile, between the two places, there is a bore shut down
with a splendid pumping supply. The least the Govt,
should do at these places is to fence in the reserves, so
that the travelling public can feed a horse or two of a
night when they can get water. As it is, the country is
eaten out for miles around the bores. Lessees of bores
are only supposed to water so many head of large and
small stock —I think it is 30 head of large and 100 sheep.
[How many is it ?—Ed. B.]
A Bananaland political prophecy :—
At least one of the present Cabinet will have to white-
wash owing to Mt. Morgan boom and land blight. Thynne
will anon seek to win Tozer’s electorate when the latter
resigns to become Agent-General. Tomjoe Byrnes will
be Premier vice Nelson, retired to the Leg. Council,
Palmer getting a satisfactory solatium. Bumptious Pat
Leahy will figure as Minister for Lands, and, as a sop to
Cerberus, the billet of Minister for Mines will be offered
to (and probably grabbed by) Andy Dawson, the bright
particular star of the Labor-party. Dawson has more
genuine followers than Glassey, and his championship of
Byrnes last session was a coming-event sore of a proceed-
ing. Anyhow, Dawson does not hesitate to avow his
partiality for Tomjoe. Dawson can command at least
eight followers, and this would break the back of the
Labor-party and make Tomjoe “ good iron ” with the
ultra R.C. Labor crowd. Which may sound like moon-
shine, but there have been bigger somersaults up this way
ere now —witness the Griffilwraith coalition, the admis-
sion of Powers to the M'llwraith Ministry, and Donaldson
do. do. The Q. electors may have a very pretty problem
set them at next election. Perhaps, after all, Diokson
knew a bit when he came into the betting early.
Sands’ Sydney and Suburban Directory
for 1898 is just out, and is, as usual, a publi-
cation indispensable to any business man who
knows the value of the time he will otherwise take
in hunting up things. In addition to the names
and addresses and occupations of every resident in
Sydney and suburbs who doesn’t change his lodg-
ings every fortnight or so, the directory contains
an index to N.S.W. squattages, with holders’ and
station names —a very useful item—and a variety
of other useful information which only a system
born of 38 years experience is capable of amassing:


BAKER & ROUSE, LinjiUd.
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. IfS.
Catalogues Fkee.
advt
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
975 CrEORGE Street, SYDNEY;
960 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
IH*l|
m\\
Ill'll
/,(»
ft
Ml
■lit*:*
If™!
i
JM!
ass
fiiTii
jMllllll'l
v;
n»j
iflll
Ifi!
3iii
f|
(Hli!
IM*
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Another king has gone under— poor old
Jerry, of Mannum, S.A. A Primitive Methodist
parson preached at his grave.
The weather has been hot in Tasmania,
but it will be cool now. Iceberg Gould, N.S.W.
Minister for Justice, is in Hobart.
Hiccupy member to Haynes, M.L.A. :
“Rubbish, rubbish. Your speeches are all froth.”
Haynes : “ First time you ever objected to any-
thing with froth on it.”
By a strange coincidence the two ladies
most prominently mentioned in a recent “big”
divorce-suit are daughters of old-time Sydney
police-court solicitors, contemporaries.
Brisbane Worker finds remarkableness in
the fact that ex-Gov. Norman should resign the
Q. General-Agency just after the Q.N.B. sewage
had been stirred. The clean-souled old soldier
couldn’t stand the stink.
D. D. Gazette (Toowoomba, Q.) says that
Boss Tozer “has > tact which might well be the
envy of Beelzebuv. himself.” But the Devil is a
gentleman and no lawyer, or he wouldn’t have
lost his landed estate in heaven.
Of the four N.S.W. baronets, two (Cooper
and Samuel) are English - born, one (Nicholson)
Sootch, and one (Read) Irish. Nicholson has
started into his 90th birth-year ; but all appear to
have given the Psalmist the slip.
Some birthdays in January—Edmund
Barton, 49 on the 18th ; Jenkin Coles, Speaker of
B.A. Assembly, 56 ; and David Gaunson 51 on the
19th ; Henry Britton, of the Australasian, 51 on
the 24th ; Judge Holroyd, 70 ; and Stanbury, the
rower, 29 on the 25th.
Before prosecuting anyone criminally for
libel, always remember this : It takes 12 jurymen
to justify the prosecutor, whereas, no matter what
the merits of the case, one dissenting juryman can
justify the defendant in the eyes of the population.
Nothing fails like failure.
RANJI BOWLED AT LAST.
“Dear me! Is is possible? ”
When Parkes visited the sporting district
of Coleraine (Yic.) a number of young men met
him with a drag and entertained him with
athletics. After viewing the sports the old man
■aid that the local youths might beat him at run-
ning and jumping, but in one line he claimed the
ohampionship. “At courting a pretty girl I can
lick the lot of you.”
The official heads of Sydney Roman Catho-
licism usher in 1898 as publicly-announced figure-
heads of newspaper and wall-poster advertisers’
tonics. Card. Moran stands forth as patron of a
particular wine, Monsignor O’Brien as the pan-
jandrum of a Choctaw - named indigestion cure,
and Dr. O’Haran as solemn voucher for a certain
brain restorative and nerve tonic.
Gov. M‘Gregor, whom they talk of send-
ing to West Africa, has made no secret of it for a
long time past that he expected an appointment
in civilisation after his ten years in New Guinea.
In fact, one of the Australias was almost promised
him ! What a life has been his —and what a liver
he must have ! Fiji, New Guinea—and the Gold
Coast ahead ! Scotchman—a man whom you
oan’t scotch.
Hon. Geo. Thorn, one time Q. Premier,
writes advertising testimonials for patent medi-
oines, in return for which favor the proprietors
describe George as “ex-Premier and veteran
parliamentarian.” Thorn’s career is further de-
scribed as “brilliant.” To anyone who remembers
the series of fiascos which resulted in the above-
mentioned Premiership, these little flights are
indeed humorous.
Dr. Walter Brown, who lately died at Par-
ramatta, was a steady smoker in his early days.
Nearly half a century ago, however, he visited his
brother, at the latter’s station in Queensland, and,
in pursuit of nicotine enjoyment, accidentally
dropped a lighted match in the tinder-dry grass of
the run. When the conflagration was suppressed,
or burnt itself out, the doctor vowed that he would
never smoke again, and he stuck to the resolution
till death.
The resignation of Dr. Norton Manning
as N.S.W. Inspector-General of the Insane may
be due, as stated, to ill-health ; but it is probable
that the very scurvy treatment extended to the
doctor by the authorities has also much to do
with it.
The Bulletin was in error in setting
down Capt. Samuel as heir to the newly-created
Samuel baronetcy. It is Mr. E. L. Samuel, well-
known in Sydney as a mining-operator, who is
Sir Saul s eldest son. Mr. Samuel is married to
a daughter of the gilded house of Cohen (Sydney
and Tamworth).
Melb. boy-faced dude-barrister cross-
examining ancient party as to age of a damsel s
Well, I will have a definite answer! Some
women wear short skirts and think they’re girls,
you know.” Witness: “Yes, and some boys
wear high collars and think they’re men, vou
know.” “Silence!”
Mrs. Carew, convicted at Yokohama of
poisoning her husband, has placed over his grave
a handsome monument, inscribed to her “loving
husband,” and mounted with a sentimental bit of
Tennyson about the e ening star and twilight
and the moaning of the bar, and so on. Hysterics
and homicide, no doubt.
_ Minister Gould, about four years ago,
visited the gaol in which Suffield was (and is still)
confined. He then interviewed warders as to
transfers, &c. Suffield had his name down for an
interview. Yet the N.S.W. Minister of “Jus-
tice,” without saying whether he would see the
man or not, left the gaol without seeing him.
Delicious explanation from Sydney D.T. :
Hr. A. C. Shadier, who was a witness in the Norton
libel-case, was referred to by the presiding Judge as a
person unworthy of credit. Mr. Shadier complains that
this observation has been misunderstood by many per-
sons, who have assumed that it was an attack upon his
commercial credit. As a matter of fact, it alluded to the
credibility of his evidence only, and not in any way to his
commercial standing.
Here quote Shakespeare on the purse-and-trash
theme.
H. : “I note a reference to the testi-
monial heartily given by the employed at Book
Arcadian Cole’s, Melb., on the return of Mrs. and
Miss Cole from Europe. About 20 years ago
Cole advertised for a wife in a Melb. daily,
devoting a column to a full description of the sort
of lady required. This was generally taken as an
advertising joke, but Miss Jordan, of St. Kilda,
answered the advt., and Cole married her. Also,
they lived happily ever after.”
John Norton, during the criminal-libel
trial, applied to the Judge for police assistance to
help him trace the sender to him of a telegram in
French: “Salutation after the downfall; come
to our home in Hell.—W. Freeman Kitchen.”
(A pet aversion of Norton’s who lately suicided.)
The Bulletin fails to see why Norton should
object so vigorously to this cheerful offer of hospi-
tality. _ The theory (apart from the Calvinistic
belief in the damnation of unbaptised infants) is
that no one need go to Hell unless he chooses.
Of interest to a numerous Australian
family. Per last census the great clan Smith
numbered 410,000 in England and Wales —or one
out of every 79 of the whole population. Scotland
numbered 60,000 of the same illustrious family,
Ireland 30,000. Total for the United Kingdom
half-a-million—outnumbering army and navy by
two to one. There are 19,300 widow Smiths ; the
Miss Smiths tot up to 30,000, and the married
Smiths —but stay . . . About 26 Smiths die every
day, and 42 are born every 24 hours, so that the
whole habitable earth will soou be the domicile of
this ravenous brood.
A-top of all N.S.W. Opposition-leader
Dyne's political trouble comes this printed testi-
monial to him from a Sydney pen-lady :
He spends in his home the time some other men in pub-
lic positions are said to occupy in running after strange
goddesses, and he has nothing to fear from anything that
may jump to light.
This emanates from the guileless scribess who
plaintively remarks, a few inches further up :
There comes a time in the life of every girl when she is
tired of being alone, and she feels she wants a husband to
love and a home of her own. No girl can deny that. The
fever commences about the age of 24 and lasts till 30,
when despair enters the heart and changes the nature. I
don't know whether the same longing, or sense of loneli-
ness comes over a man ; probably it does, but disappoint-
ment, in his case, does not bear the same fruit.
A M‘Gooey story about Parkes :
The late Henry Parkes, in his young days, could ride
a bit, and, while engaged post-and-rail fencing, in the
Penrith region, was given to borrowing horses. My
uncle once lent him an old fire-eater to ride out for
good splitting timber in the Regentville district. In
those days, bullock-bells were as much valued, and as
much spoken of and worshipped, as goats are at the
present day on worked-out diggings—and that’s saying
a lot. Parkes, in his hunt for splitting material, found
a bullock-bell, and tied it round the old horse’s neck.
Then he pointed the head towards home, and mounted.
Ding! dong! . . . The horse did the 14 miles home in
some few minutes. Parkes limped in, on the evening
of the third day, minus hat and left boot, which he
had left in the stirrup, and plus a sprained ankle and
skinned hip. The horse brought home the bullock-bell
only. My uncle sold the bell for 17s. 6d., and drank
the money, and Parkes had the price of the saddle and
bridle stopped out of his fencing-pay.
Amos Nicholson, of the West Coast (M.L.),
suicided in a business-like manner :
“ Reefton, Dec. 13, 1897.
“ To the Coroner.
“ Dear Sir,—l will be at a great disadvantage when we
meet to be introduced, as I will not be able to return the
hackneyed phrase of ‘ How happy,’ &c. Still, to save
trouble, I will give you and jury particulars that may
help to shorten proceedings :
“ Name—Amos Nicholson, carpenter, late of Reefton.
“ Age—Fifty-nine on Feb. 27, *9B.
“ Religion—Church of England.
“ Married —Yes.
“ Cause—Want of rest.
“ Revolver was bought at Bob Forsyth’s about five this
evening.
“ Height—6ft. 9in. Kindly check this, as I like to be
aocurate.
“ I cannot think of anything else you require to know,
so I have the honor to be yours truly,
“Amos Nicholson.”
Verdict —“Temporary Insanity!”
Cabled that Judge Boucaut (S.A.) has
been knighted. Boucaut was in his time a “ big ”
S.A. politician, and distinguished as much for his
ability as for his vitriolic temper. As a Judge, he
is not so popular with the lawyers as Way and
Bundey. A smart Adelaide practitioner once
remarked that Way breeds sheep, Boucaut
thoroughbred Arabs, and Bundey dispenses jus-
tice. Boucaut’s great hobby, besides his horse-
farm, is collecting first editions.
THE BULLETIN’S AMATEUR ART-GALLERY.
LANDLORD: “Hi! gentlemen! I'll turn down the light a bit—the police may
be about , and ”-
MAOTONALT (who is explaining Highland Fling to assembled clansmen ):
“ Dinna fash yersel', landlord! That’ll be a'richt! I’m a member
of the Licenshing Bench! That’s a'richt! ”
A retirement from N.S. W. Supreme Court
Bench is expected within the next three months,
thus giving Premier Reid one more opportunity
for the exercise of patronage. There is but one
Supreme Court ex-Judge on pension at present—a
fact which makes an addition to the list seem more
tolerable than it would have been some years ago.
W. K. Simms, the recently deceased S.A.
sporting - brewer - Brokenhillionaire, left behind
him about half-a-million. He made his first rise
out of a big brewery float, and then got into
Broken Hills at the start. Simms was an excel-
lent judge of a racehorse, although he never
raced, and made a pot over Carbine’s Melb. Cup.
On “the 28th”—S.A.’s Anniversary Day
—the thermometer ran up to 110'8, having on the
two preceding days registered 106 T and 105’8
respectively. So Kingston, speaking at the cus-
tomary banquet—“ With the thermometer at
somewhere over 105, may I not be allowed to ask
* Who fears to speak of ’98 —who trembles at the
name ? ’ ”
The woman concerned in the Hess-
Labouchere row is, it seems, Mrs. George Augus-
tus Sala No. 2, who sold to Hess a number of
letters long ago written by Labouchere to “her
beloved husband.” Hess incautiously paraded his
intention to publish these, whereupon Labouchere
promptly injunctioned him, it being clearly estab-
lished in law that the copyright of a letter vests
in the man who writes it, and that only the paper
on which it is written belongs to the recipient.
JOHN NORTON , as
depicted by Phil May.
Dear Bulle-
tin,—i2e “T.M
T.’s” correction
of my “legend”
anent Margaret
Catchpole and
the Reibys. I
don’t know any-
thing about the
Rev. W. Cob-
bold’s history of
Margaret Catch-
pole. and I can’t
think where that
gentleman’s
apology was need-
ed, if he did fall
into the error your
correspondent in-
sists upon. All I
do know is that
ever since I can
remember and
that’s not a week
ago—the story of
Margaret Catch-
pole’s identity
with the lady who
originated the
Reibys was ac-
cepted as gospel.
And as that story
was current in
Tasmania, and
was never contra-
dicted in circles
in whioh the
truth of the mafc-
ter should be known, I, and hundreds of
others who have believed in it, may be forgiven
for our faith. Anyway, the loss is all on the side
of the Reibys. Margaret was a grand woman,
and any healthy person should be prouder of
springing from such a source than if ne boasted
the blood of the St. Albans and Richmond and
Ohurohill crowd of sluts and harridans.—G.B.
The long missing Q. Attorney-General
Tomjoe Byrnes told a London scribe that he was
much interested in Ayr, because it was Robert
Burns’s birthplace ! Byrnes, Tomjoe—Burns,
Robert ! Also, that the country around Glen-
dalough (Ireland) had a special interest for him;
“the name of O’Byrne is very common in this
par of the country.” Rumored that he comes
back with the letters-patent name of Tomjoe
Robert Burns O’Byrne Byrnes.
Patrick Jordan,
who died the other
day at Ham 1 e y
Bridge (S.A.), has
the mature age of
I*'3 inscribed on
his tombstone. But
there was no very
reliable system of re-
gistration 100 years
ago, and this being
a rather new com-
munity its centen-
arians mostly hail
from Europe, and
there is really no
local or available
evidence of their
age save their own
hazy recollections.
Also, the reputation
of being 103 years
old is worth a good
deal in local cele-
brity and —if the
old man has a thirst
—in beer also, there-
fore the bogus cen-
tenarian is always a
possibility.
R. : “ Demise.
Sir Charles Mor-
daunt, an English
baronet of very
ancient lineage. He
married one of the
beautiful Miss Mon-
crieffes, daughter of
Sir Thomas Mon-
crieffe, the other
three becoming the
Duchess of Athole, Lady Forbes, and the Countess
of Dudley. Lady Mordaunt made damaging ad-
missions to her husband, which sent him to the
Divorce Court in search of marital freedom.
One co-respondent was Albert Edward of Wales,
who denied, in the witness-box, that there had
ever been improper intimacy between himself and
Lady M. ; despite this, however, the divorce was
granted. Australia’s gay and giddy ‘ Lady
Munro ’ is more-or-less closely related to the Mon-
creiffes through the Dudley marriage.”
Baron von Mueller steered clear of small
details, such as worry ordinary folk. His thoughts
were always “in the skies.” The writer one day
met him riding a pony, without saddle, but bridled.
He led another animal (with a saddle on) by a
headstall. The unconventional character of this
arrangement was pointed out to him. He looked
around wistfully. “Aeh!” he said, “ der sattel
on der wrong horse ! It should be on der donkey,
mineselluf. ” He got off, and mounted the saddled
pony. But he never changed the headstall for the
bridle, but jogged off as anomalous as ever—hat,
like the Tower of Pisa, balanced at the back of his
honest head, and his pale blue eyes fixed on the
far-away horizon of abstract thought. There was
a lot of Don Quixote about the Baron.
Wahanui, who lately died in Maoriland,
was “ Premier ”to the late King Tawhiao. He
had a magnificent physique, and boasted a 56-inch
chest. Also, he was a famous trencherman. He
once told Edward Wakefield that he had eaten
half a sheep at a meal—no doubt a lie. Wahanui’s
brother, Kahu, was built on similar lines, and
weighed 18|st. The present writer met Kahu in
the Mokau country in ’B5 when travelling that
region under safe-conduct from Wetere Te Rerenga
—it was just after the amnesty granted by the
M.L. Govt, to all rebels against Kuine Wikatoria.
Wetere told off Kahu to obtain firing for the
writer’s party, and instead of passing the order on
to a person of meaner birth as would have hap-
pened in a European community, Kahu harnessed
himself to a bullock sled, and inside an hour
appeared at the camp sweating in the trace
and with six or seven cwt. of timber in tow.
A monetary recompense for Kahu’s exertion was
offered, but the giant replied : “ Kahore ! (No).
You teach ee me sing ‘Annie Laurie.’ That the
utu, by Ka’ris’! ”
AN.Q. policeman was asked: “How do
you like Parry - Okeden as Commissioner of
Police?” “Ugh, the divil take Parry-Okedin.”
“ Why ? what have you got against him ? ” “Be
jabers ! it wor Parry Okedin what foined poor,
dacint Consthable Y foive poundh for bein’ under
th’ inflooence.” “ I suppose he was very drunk ? ”
“Drunk ? Be L, he wasn’t dhrunk at all, he wor
marely under th’ inflooence. I putt it to you,
now, as a fair man, if a consthable was foined
foive pound ivery toime that he got under th’
inflooence, wid all his chances of gettin’ under th’
inflooence, he’d soon be a rooind man ! ”
On an Island blackbirder was a pet billy-
goat, and the other day, when the skipper had sur-
rounded more nigger-rum than he could carry, and
was lying helpless on deck, billy got on to “the
old man’s ’’ whiskers and chewed them clean off
on the port side. There was a first-class circus
when the skipper woke-up; but, after libating
copiously to the billy’s destruction, he got re-
pnmed and collapsed onoe more ; whereupon the
goat came along again and chewed off the star-
board whiskers. A week later the goat was killed,
and a day after that four of the crew were hove
overboard, amidst the mutterings of the rest about
their narrow escape.


“TECEIEB GOOD TmiM'GJ-S ”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire
Holbrook’s *«*■*“*
Holbrook’s Pure Malt
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
Holbrook’s Sauce h *s been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES !
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
18 BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT."
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
MR. F. TRESCOTT, of ALICE-ST., NEWTOWN
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVERE
INDIGESTION, writes
“Two doses of Loasby’s Wahoo relieved me, and by the
time I had taken half a bottle I was entirely free
from pain, and have been well ever since.”
Loasby’a ‘ WAHOO,’’
2s. tid. Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby's ‘Wahoo’ Manufacturing 1 Co. Ld
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
FRAAZ JOSEF
PILSEKIER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
S.S. : “Be strange deaths—here is a Car-
digan (Ballarat) story: A man had undressed to
go in for a swim in one of the quarry-holes in a
paddock. Whilst standing on the high bank,
preparing for the first dive, he was butted by a
steer, and driven into the water. The shock dis-
located his spine. Black snakes were not uncom-
mon in the waters of those quarries on hot days,
apd we boys who went swimming there were
always careful to watch for a time before going
in. The man of my yarn was bitten by a snake
whilst in the water. He was also drowned. The
M.D. at the inquest said death would have
resulted from the spinal injury, and probably
from the bite of the snake, but it was really a case
of drowning. Verdict accordingly.”
* * * *
Bear Bulletin, — Another snake yarn,
cfltto a tight place. Jack Barber lived in the
usual stringy-bark hut with the usual slanting
E®@f. When he lay on his bunk his face was
about 2ft. below the lowest part of the roof.
One warm Sunday morning he woke rather
late with an idea that a cold hand was being
passed over his cheek. When he opened his eyes
he encountered a dark, indistinct object sus-
pended directly over his face. A second glance
convinced him it was a snake, a large snake, two-
thirds of the body of which hung from the divi-
sion between two sheets of bark on the roof. The
body came to within two inches of his lips, turned
upwards again, and the lean, deadly head, from
which the tongue darted, oscillated with a rhyth-
mical circular motion. Barber lay for a moment,
frozen in flesh and blood, and simply glared, ex-
pecting death, but the snake’s diamond eyes were
fixed upon the wall about six inches above his
head, and it continued its strange, methodical
movement. Then the power of action returned to
Barber’s limbs, and he simply flung himself from
the bunk and jumped for the iron fire-bar. When
he turned around the snake had not altered its
position, and still its head went slowly round and
round. The navvy’s watch hung open on a tack
in the wall, a ray of sunlight fell across the glass,
and it was about this shrine that the snake was
performing its quaint devotions. The snake con-
tinued its actions even when Barber approached
it, when a blow from the bar sent it squirming to
the floor with a broken back. Jack was sure the
brute had just looked in to see the time of day,
but I have since seen a snake performing some-
what similarly in the presence of a white glass
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES (leading lady in the Wilson
Barrett Co.).
Photo., Talma.
bottle standing in the sun.—Silas Snell.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — To procure employment
in the bush difficult ?No name for it! A swaggie
lately asked a Riverina cockey for a job at har-
vesting. “ Pull up your pants ! ” sternly de-
manded the man of wheat, caterpillars and rust.
Swaggie, who wanted work badly, did. “H’m!
you’re no uster me. Waste too much time lacing
your boots. Why don’t yer wear ’lastio-sides ?
Besides, yer don’t wear socks. Men who don’t
wear socks tear up everything about the place for
‘ Royal Alberts ’ (foot-rags). A Cockney cx.ap I
had here onst used up a brand-new tarpaulin that
way. ” —Fact.
* * * •*
The dignity of the average shire council is
a fearful and wonderful thing. Two way-back
Vic. councils have recently been standing on their
dignity towards each other with respect to the
matter of a dead horse. It appears that the horse,
a disused and disowned neddy, wantonly died on
the ploughed line dividing the two shires, and
right in the track of worshippers attending the
little bethel that holds a monopoly in saving grace
thereabouts. Then the question of removing and
disposing of the offensive equine remains began to
agitate local politics, and each council resolved
that it was the other’s bounden duty to provide
decent sepulture for the dead horse, and a policy
of masterly inactivity was adopted on both sides,
until the stench from the remains awoke a distinct
echo in the hills, and the good people of Bingey
Bingey and Yalladorg were compelled to walk a
mile round when they wished to get religion. At
this stage a diplomatist suggested that it would
be wise to cross-cut the animal directly over the
border, and leave each shire to bury its own half.
But, unhappily, no man could be discovered who
would be hired to venture within a hundred yards
of the pestilent quadruped, and the dignity of the
councils hardened into bitter antagonism. One
morning it was found that the public nuisance
had been hauled bodily into Yalladorg territory,
but during the following night some person or
persons unknown went with chains and tackle and
a draught-horse, and towed the decayed animal
back into the shire of Bingey Bingey. This ex-
change of compliments continued for nearly a
week, when two towing parties met at midnight,
and a riot was fought out in the solitudes. Next
morning five councillors were found to be more or
less damaged and incapable, and the defunct horse
was scattered in malodorous fragments pretty well
all over both shires, just as if the opposing
factions had fought bitterly over the horse, and
then bombarded each other with junks of the
malignant remains. After this neither shire
council found it incompatible with its dignity to
gather up all the scraps within its jurisdiction and
burn them, and each subsequently indulged in a
lavish banquet in celebration of its triumph, but
Yalladorg and Bingey Bingey are still on their
dignity, and all diplomatic relations remain off.
For the next Australian diction-
ary “faker ” :
Swagsman : General term for person with
“ swag.”
Traveller : Term used by better class Aus-
tralians for genuine seeker after work and
wages. Mostly met on the long, bad stages
W. and N.W. Always clean, walks upright,
and travels 20 to 40 miles a day. Mostly
strange to track.
Swaggy or Swagger : Abbreviation of
“swaysman,” used by children and larrikins
of all classes.
Sundowner : Professional loafer with swag.
Carries three sets of ration-bags, and sticks
to short stages mostly in sheep country.
Etymology obvious. Mostly well-patched and
dirty ; knows the ropes. Travels five to
seven miles per day, and knows where he’s
going to camp.
Tramp: Tendegre.es below “sundowner,”
the height attained by broken clerks, coun-
ter-jumpers, waiters, civil-servants and larri-
kins. Keeps to towns and thickly-populated
districts, such as coast roads and railways.
Eloquent; wears dilapidated store-clothes,
and burns down shelters when leaving.
Smokes cigarettes. Travels one mile a week.
Lives well.
Whaler : Riverina sundowner (supposed to
have a lien on the local squatters and
farmers).
Hatter : One who travels alone and camps
alone. Either “ratty,” or has money, or
does it to avoid bad society, which is about
the only society going in the bush.
Squatter: Large landholder. (Combines
the offices of Providence and natural enemy
to swagsmen). National scapegoat.
Farmer: Expert agriculturist (mostly a
foreigner).
Cocky: Selector who plants things, which
sometimes grow. ( May develop into farmer,
but not likely.)
Selector: Ignoramus who takes up land
and clears it for a mortgagee. (Mostly a
“ broker.”)
Pumpkin-squatter: A little cocky with a
swelled-head.
Planter (pron. “ Plantoh ”): A five-acre
cane-grower, with two niggers, a buggy, and
a large opinion of himself. Sometimes' nomi-
nal shareholder in a central-mill, but in-
variably mortgaged up to the eyes.
Jackeroo or Silvertail: A “ haw-haw” per-
son pitchforked into an officer’s billet. Occa-
sionally turns out a white man, but not often.
Manager: Head jackeroo. (Overseer : Ac-
tual manager, with warrant-officer’s rating.
Western rivers : Sand or gravel indenta-
tions fringed with stunted timber. Mostly
dry.
Western trees: Shadeless, shelterless libels,
used as look-out stations for crows.
Western crows : Supreme owners and
pirates of the backblox. (Supposed to be
reincarnated swagsmen andsquatters.)
Blight flies : Supposed to have (migrated
from Egypt. Very intelligent and persevering. Always
attack the eyes.
Sandy blight .- Blindness caused by unrelieved gazing at
western “ grass.”
Barcoo rot: Sort of scurvy and blood-poison, combined
with every other disease.
Lizards : Northerners. Too dry to sweat. Skin rustles
like a lizard’s. “ They don’t die —they dry up and get
blown away.”
THE INEVITABLE COMPROMISE.
CUSTOMER (in Sydney restaurant , to waiter): “I’ll have pigeon-pic.”
WAITER: “ Pigeon-pie off.”
C.: “ All right ; I’ll have liver and bacon.”
W.: “Liver and bacon off.”
C.: “ Well, I’ll try rump-steak and tomatoes.”
W.: “ Tomatoes is off. Try steak and onions.”
C.: “Naw! I’m off!”
Maoriland philosophers have been much
troubled about some “ancient rock paintings”
found in Weka Pass, at the back of Canterbury.
The learned men of the south had declared these
paintings to be some 500 years old, and alleged
that they showed the rude art of the ancient
Maori. Whereupon an early settler wrote to
Christchurch Press :
I know two of the party who, in the early days of the
West Coast diggings, executed these paintings. They
were travelling with sheep and cattle, and were rained up
at the Pass for some days, and amused themselves by
making the rough sketches which have since so deeply
interested the savants of Mac-band and of Europe.
About 18 years ago one of these gentleman told me all
about it, and explained the real significance of some of
the designs. The “ serpent” was simply a stockwhip, the
helmet was a pith-helmet hat worn by one of the party,
and the plume was a store of flax crackers, twisted by the
owner, and stuck into a hole in the hat for convenience.
The gentlemen I have mentioned still reside in Nelson,
and I shall be glad to give their address to anyone who
wishes to follow up the subject.
* * • *
The humors of Mongrelia : A Rockhamp-
ton Chinaman (Ah Poo) sued a Cingalese (De
Silva) for eighteen pence, value of a water-melon
supplied. Summons cost Ah Poo five shillings
and he also hired a lawyer. Defendant paid six-
pence into Court, alleging this was full value.
The P.M. thought Is. 6d. a fair thing, and gave
verdict accordingly, with ss. costs. Worth noting,
by the way, that the Chow is usually honest in
business transactions, but the Cingalese is nearly
always a rogue.
* * * •
The buffalo-season on the Alligator River,
Northern Territory has been productive of ter-
rible slaughter. Cahill, champion shooter, heads
the list with 1601 buffalo. Tingha follows, his
seven rifles fetching down 1250 head. Then
comes Cooper with 1100 —a total of about 6000.
At this rate the buffalo will soon be a thing of the
past in the Par North.
* * * •
Blacks who have been reared with whites
have exalted ideas of their own importance. The
greatest insult you oan offer one is to call him a
blackfellow. He simply abhors that race, and
wouldn’t be seen talking to any of it for a trifle.
He’s a blanky white man, with no spots on him.
The writer travelled with one Once on the road
with cattle. The man in charge was a skinflint,
and his tucker was rough. Said my colored white
mate : “ He reckons this tucker good enough for
us. Why, it's only fit for blacks to eat.”
• • • •
Dear B.,—Re your recent par. about a
ram’s attempt to break up a cart. My father was
considered one of the strongest men in our dis-
trict, but was gone in one leg from rheumatism.
One day the. old man and myself had been
mending a fence, using a 281 b. hammer to drive
large stakes. Crossing the paddocks home, a ram
charged us, and I bolted for the nearest fence,
while Dad, who couldn’t run, prepared for action.
Dropping on one knee, he swung the 281 b. hammer,
and brought it smash upon the ram’s forehead.
The hit was just enough to steady the brute, and,
backing for about 15yds., he came again, meeting
another blow from the hammer, wielded by 15|in.
biceps. That ram kept the game up for 15 suc-
cessive charges, and then he wasn’t tired. —J.P.D.
[Next, please ! —Ed. P>.]
* * * *
Bill—or perhaps it was Jim—had worked
on Run-dry Creek station for over two years, and
saved up a tidy little sum. “ I think I’ll have a
spell, after shearing,” he said one day. “Atrip
to Sydney or Melbourne ? ” “No ; I know a nice
little waterhole fourteen mile this side of Hay.
It must be a spring. I’ll do a camp on it for a
month or two.”
Another beautiful
instance of climatic un-
certainties in the West.
A few weeks ago a
Winton carrier drove
his horses down to
drink at a waterhole in
the bed of a creek.
As there had been a
long dry spell, the
place was boggy and
seven of the team were
soon stuek as fast as
flies in a treacle-pot.
But it happened to be
raining just then a few
miles up the creek, and
down the waters came
a banker. Before the
unfortunate carrier
could do anything he
had lost three of his
team by drowning.
This was in the middle
of a drought.
♦ * *
Dear Bulletin,—
In reply to “ 6xB,* I
wish to say that the
laughing jackass
(Dacelo gigas, Bodd)
never killed nor is it
ever likely to kill a
full-grown snake. This
is one of the wretched,
senseless, tin-pot, irra-
tional fictions which
the Johnnie Raw or
the Johnnie - Come -
Lately delights to re-
peat and perpetuate,
and one which wants
stamping upon vigor-
ously. In com m on
with many hawks, but-
cher-birds, night-owls,
&0., the jackass kills
small and young
snakes; but this pitiful
and long - exploded
“yarn” about itattack-
ing in concert and kil-
ling full-grown ones
deserves to be men-
tioned only to be ridi-
culed. It is on a par
with the absurd new-
chum libel that our
flowers have no per-
fume, and our birds no
song!—H. J. M'Cooey.
* * *
Scene, dining-room in bush pub. Plates
of soup laid round the table. Girl notices that
Mr. Janies Hogan, selector, has not got a spoon.
“Oh ! wait a minute, Mr. Hogan, I’ll get you a
spoon.” Mr. Hogan (lifting up plate): “■'-hure,
don’t trouble, me dear. Oi’ll ait it wid me face.”
The Suffield Case.
He’s true to God who’s true to man
Wherever wrong is done,
To the humblest and the weakest
’Neath the all-beholding sun,
That wrong is also done to us ;
And they are slaves most base
Whose love of right is for themselves,
And not for all their race.
JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.
PRESS AND OTHER COMMENTS.
Balclutha (M.L.) Fees Press (Dec. 17,1897): “ It looks
as if a grave miscarriage of justice had taken place.”
Grey River (M.L.) Argus, -in leading article (Dec. 17):
“ We have not the slightest hesitation in saying that we
believe Suffield did not commit the offence for which he
is now undergoing imprisonment, and that the evidence
he brought forward, and the only satisfactory and con-
vincing evidence submitted to the court, did not receive
that weight and consideration that it was fully entitled
to. It would appear as if the jury acted on that old
thqory known commonly as ‘splitting the difference.’
Between their awe of a stern, positive, and implacable
Judge, and their natural sympathy with a fellow-citizen
in a position of great peril, they doubtless thought they
were doing the best thing in the circumstances by
acquitting him on the more serious charge and finding
him guilty on the minor offence.”
Otago (M.L.) Daily Times (Dec. 25): “ A strong case is
made out for a revision of the trial, for a suspicion is
created that the penal laws of New South Wales are some-
times savagely administered, as well as obstinately inter-
preted, by officials enveloped in red tape.”
tg-Writes Dr. Leighton Kesteven, formerly Q. Govt. Medi-
cal Officer, Brisbane: “Hyde Park Terrace, Sydney.
I have read the medical evidence in the Suffield case,
and have no hesitation in saying that there is nothing
whatever in the symptoms described te warrant the con-
clusion that a rape had been committed, or even attempted.
Without definite evidence of the presence of spermatozoa
in the blood-stains, or on the plaintiff’s clothes, it is im-
possible to consider the act proved ; and the symptoms
described by Drs. Harris and Stapleton could have resulted
from several quite ordinary causes. The fact of profuse
menstruation having come on points to the strong likeli-
hood of the injuries having been caused by the violent
shock a bull would inflict.”


waeneb’s safe cube is a specific foe liveb and
KIDNEY DISEASE.*
The Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’
Alliance, 90 King-street, city, is early in the
lts first * registered ’ novelty for
1898, full particulars of which will be found in
advertising columns.”*
advt
iljiiiini
it
<e>
I She ms a Piltr-We
Ivras a -Well no matter, '
We need not go into (hat.
/questioned the Poter-Maiden,
§fs Pdifer-peoiple; do,
do the Poster Races
Became said !lie PusterMaidcn
[’Tliedflllarsarejosfajft-
bitrifilyagifl for Rardr
u
II
CYCLES
(Fitted with. Dunlop Tyres).
In connection with these easy-running machines, we have just issued a daintily
got-uj brochure fully illustrated, entitled “ Cycling for Ladies," containing
some very useful hints for beginners, and for those who are anxious to look as
smart as possible when wheeling. A really good hint given and received at
the right time often decides the all-important question of whether a lady looks
awkward or elegant when cycling. For those interested in cycling from the
racing Standpoint, we have also issued a little souvenir booklet, containing an
account op the distinguished *
n
r i der : who 7 se appearance ALONE on the scratch mark of the
Austral Wheel Race made the Swift the cynosure of all eyes. This Xmas
season we are sending to all our old customers an entertaining Xmas storv
entitled “ Xmas m Australiaillustrated by our own special artist. Should
my of these esteemed patrons be accidentally omitted from our list which A
a ft Ver f lone one -~ a P°A-card to any of our depots will command instant
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139441 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
.and!e-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers
Warrnambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Nante and address must appear on MS.
fio liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in
and, in no case will MS. be returned unless stamp's
(of any province) accompany.
Kybosh : You deserve to fry in Tophet till the
drought breaks J.B. (L.) : Tedious R.C.C. : The
salt tears” are handy F.H. : Sorry there’s only room
tor one verse of the dying-swagman “ poem you have
wrote. More would give this paper swollen feet:—
‘As he lay one night neath a tall gum tree, his reason
came and went.
And he writhed in agonies by his fire, and he thought of
his life lllspent.
Then he calmly slept his last long sleep, starvation was
his death,
He thought he lied neath the sunny smiles, of his mother
sad bereft.
Next morning an old swagger, passing by the dell,
Saw the remains, stifled a sigh, and muttered another by
hell.” •’
W.S. (Wellington): Received E.M. : You can get
Dr Roth s book from Govt. Printing Office, Brisbane •
believe price, 11s., posted F.W. : Jingle takes too-
small hops too often . J . J . (Surry Hills): Wail too long
' Kindly wail short, cheerful wails, with plenty
of hot gravy......A.J.V. : Sextet to hand-not seen other.
Joronzewing 1 ; Needs a dash of humor P.A.M •
Both you and he are trading on second-hand stuff, oniv
you ve clipped a little lower down R. (Muswellbrook) •
Green-looking verse covered with fungoid growths.. .
James P. W. : Send it to the Consecrated Press Nunc
est Y: G00d... A.J.B. : Utterly revolting Norman
H. . Our terms for acceptable sketches? First send the
acceptable sketches ... A.H.T. (Rockhampton): Thanks
for Twelve Pound Lump,” But why on earth don’t you
also send us The Dream of Eugene Aram ”or “The
Ancient Manner ”as original ? C.A. : But, then, Chief
J “ stl ° e Parley isn’t the first Irish N.S.W. Governor to
attend the Sydney Highland sports. Gov. Hercules
Robinson was Irish . ..R.A. : Nice idyll ; wants climaxing
for print. Why didn t you mix the artist and the girl and
Jge /ed steer and the river in one whirling finale’
W.M.F. : Not good enough Arthur Connor : Yes -"see
™n ce above leader C.C. : Can’t use advice Drover :
Will print...... Heather: Stale and unsavory... . Louis M
A Lover of Our Old Nobility, Ricarda and Bunabogie : Re-
ceived J.M.L. : Items not usable
Trumpet: Feeble tootle Gurney:
Humor forced, and long preamble
superfluous Winda : Interesting, but
unsuitable forß Rock Cod : Example
of the dreadful things that happen to
an editor : “ He was a farmer craftiness
and energy the motto, two daughters,
liz and bety, full-bloon.” Phil B. :
You can start your weep right away.
Your poem is very defunct Mega-
pod : Welbchosen penname. Your
poetic foot is large and flat J.
Krook: Might be worse—for first at-
tempt—which is the very best that can
be said Ida: “Wen the wind is in
the west.” Don’t like wens or tumors
or things like that Bronzewing :
Too long-drawn A. G. W. : Not force
enough S. : Ulverstori story red-hot,
from a legal point of view. .H.C. (M.) :
Do you really expeot any newspaper to
printsueh statements about ladies ?
Loto : His lordship had shockingly bad
luck. He was a genuine English dude
enough, and said “heah” and “theah ”
and “ naise,” and otherwise talked as if
with hot potatoes in his mouth ; also
he was kind enough to say, in the regu-
lation English mannah, that he was
“astonished to find Austwalians so
much up to date, you know,” So far,
he Beemed to be all wool M.B. (Sydney) : Thanks.......
• The o, 'iffinal of your parody is hackneyed
now -" B.D. : Old as George Thornton—
or George Coppin Steel P. : A good story A.P.M.:
“f etc^® 8 very old-fashioned in style. Also—please tackle
something distinctively Australian. Your themes are all
London PuNCH-y and ScRAPS-y Patrick : Too baldly
gruesome. . R.G ; Very nearly good enough. Try again.
••, Gome along and run the paper Grace ::Pars.
good , note posted M.P.K. : Received—the old verse
wasn t niuch, and the new one’s much less much De
n P< V , merel y J-A.P. (Melb.-) : Don’t drivel
aDout other fellows’ drivel—surely you can drivel 14 on
’J-J.h.P. : What’s your inference from
Customs-Collector Powell’s preparation of his answers to
Gratuities Committee on Customs officers’ evidence ?
Point doesn t appear as put Croydon : There are as-
sayers nearer than Sydney who would test your gold—
Charters Towers, say. Probably £oz. of yours would pay
its own fee. Pars, good Cargo : Jettisoned with all
speed.. Brian OLynn : Worthless C.C. (M.L.): Very
flat and tired R.G. : Possibly D.S.Mc.: Consider-
ing ...Epsilon: Right; but ink too weak and statement
too long . J E.A. : Its “Demerit” is mediocrity—worst
g all W.H.Y.: No interest L.M.D. (Westralia) :
Please send your address to sub-editor, Bulletin'..
S!' vv - V'.ir. , s * OO rmi °h like a made-up story White
(W- A .-): A little too violent, thanks A.E.F. :
Most Mb. is better type-written, but we’d rather read
your own handwriting than type Alonzo : Bulletin
does not even attempt to read pencil MS. Most of the
members of its staff are about half-blind, and only
struggle through their work per aid of glasses Fred B.:
Magpie story old ; dramatic sketch probably unusable,
and certainly undecipherable. We get so much MS. that
we can t waste time in deciphering hieroglyphics
‘“Hens ” funny, but over-reminiscent of Steele
Rudd. Gingerbeer” well-written, but hardly interest
'v, ' : Devil-personation yarns too common..,.
W. Dorothy : Graceful, but nonsensical in places. What’s
a mushroom gender,” for instance 8.D.: Just a
touch of power L. Lee : Mere ghastly, gory horror
Crock : Yes, that’s your pegasus Manda : Delicate
xt U ?t> , " woeful lack of experience. Persevere Rex :
No, Becke couldn’t have taken the title from Stevenson,
£ e S a ” Se^ two years before publication of latter’s “ Ebb
ii 1 * ’ i.™ Bulletin had printed a story of B’s called
At the Ebbing of the Tide,” which title was injudici-
ously selected by Fisher Unwin as the superscription of
the volume including the story in question Jeanne:
But we couldn’t print it A.P.M. : Girl-and-chloroform
story is a realistic bit of psychology, but it can’t be
printed ... Reader (Nyngan) :So far as The Bulletin can
nnd out, there is no Government department which
KISH THE BUKE.
OFFICES (to plaintiffs who is giving
evidenee before being sworn in ):
“Please kiss the book! Will
you kiss the hook, madam?”
PLAINTIFF (pointing to his Honor):
“Kiss the book yerself, ye
spalpeen—don’t you see I'm talk-
ing to this gentleman?”
THE NEW “ UMBRELLA ” SAIL.
Photo., C. D. Abraham.
would take the slightest interest in the matter Keltsa:
You gravely ask us to append to your screed both your
pseudonym and autonym. Which looks as if you consider
your literary reputation too massive to stand on one leg.
FROM THE HEART.
THAT IS THE WAY MINISTERS SPEAK.
No class of people in the community have a
deeper interest in the welfare'of the people than
ministers of the gospel. They feel great interest
m the welfare of the members of their congrega-
tion, study their wants, and are consulted on all
subjects. Of late years, pastors are becoming
well versed in those things which contribute to
the physical as well as spiritual comfort of their
people. Many pastors are also physicians, and all
seek earnestly for those things which they believe
to be worthy and valuable.
The following statement, bearing upon this im-
portant point, is most valuable. Rev. Wm.
Riding, Zeehan, Tas., writes : u X have pleasure
m saying that I have derived much benefit from
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure.”
lhe advent of the first sail on the
“ umbrella ” principle to the waters of Syd-
ney Harbor, and probably to those of the
Southern Hemisphere, created much interest
among the many ferry passengers between
Circular Quay and Lavender Bay on Sunday
week. Aquatic men who are up to date in
their reading will know what a stir has been
created in England by the claims made for a
new invention in the shape of a sail on the
umbrella principle. It is alleged for this
sail that the boat to which it is attached will
not heel over, and that she will carry at
least twice Ihe area of canvas. It was with
a view of testing the theory advanced by
the English inventor of the umbreJL.-sail
that Mr. Charles L. Garland designed the sail
and fitted it out on the little craft shown in
the accompanying photograph. Mr. Garland
is satisfied that, the theory is correct, that
there is a big future for the umbrella-sail,
and that and lasting 1 changes are ap-
proaching in the matter of constructing, ri<>--
gmg and sailing all small craft. The Vofa
is the name of the little boat, upon which Mr.
.Gailand has fitted his newly-designed sail.
She is 14ft. long, 15in. deep,' and has 30in.
beam -a rather ticklish craft whereon to try
anew design of sail, where the principle
involved demands a movable mast How-
ever, as the wind was light, there was little
risk in experimenting, arid Mr. Garland’s son
a boy of 12 years, worked the mast from
port to starboard, as required, without diffi-
culty. The Vola was tried on all winds, and
worked to windward with ease, whilst she
shovved excellent form in all points with the
wi.nd abaft the beam. No sitting-out was re-
quired, and the sail possesses great lifting
power There are no sheets to the sail, and
the only attachment to the boat is the foot
of the spar, which is fixed to the keelson by
a swivel. The mast is about 12ft. long, and
the sail encircles the mast about Bft. up.
standing out on all sides at right angles
and is stayed both above and below by
are’brouX'^ 8 ’, 128 •"* nu ™ ber ’ Sixty-four of the lines
ui ii Kh *u a ,1 , 0lnt and are attached to a halliard
which passes through a block at the mast-head and the
remaining 64 secure the 16 radiating battens which
spread the sail.to a ring secured to the lower portion of
the mast. These are the lines that have to bear an V
strain to which the sail is exposed, and their united
strength is equal to,any demand that a strong southerly
may make upon them. Although Mr. Garland ’has
adopted the principle involved in the construction of the
English invention, the make of the Vola’s sail is entirely
different The English sail folds horizontal! , and'the
Vola s vertically, round the mast.
The great heart of Charleville (Q.) is rent
by the discovery that the hospital-box at the Ideal
station had been stolen. For the year ’96 that
article contributed to hospital funds the sum of
fourteenpence and it is supposed that the rumor
thereof got abroad and attracted some of the
skilled cracksmen from Bananaland’s metropolis.
, Senior, who has been chemist
to the N S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for heil-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
®fP eri ® nc ®> can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4 2/6
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.* ’
LIVERPOOL MADE FAMOUS
by the industry of cigarette making. Ogden’s
for quality 8 made a »d unsurpassed


'
j|%»’
Wp^lllTTii^M
.
' r m/
KoiUk
: a^
)
/
Crusoe." //
M&
r kT i
\J~\ NL '^NOt^ E
-Few/
To
W\ \ V*
llpi I
A^ h o&S^a-/
.At O I
(jOPPIH
Coi_uMP)iNiL
i_
HT
■ ilotfri
I'ORJP
As>
\im\ AT<.wi
n/y ,w
$
y '£>joo
'ffefrvj
i
„ A k *
\ /\LD£K.^ a,j
\ 'T7txv^A,'kße. r 'l
z' ,^ic<WH*TTmcT°i'U
v /
m
, AS
\s
k, *
pim ' I,N %Raa ‘ n«>(JN
W'
|\ , n
r °^p =a * ,r
m *iW
- a—
in 'S’slfe.
THE MELBOURNE PANTOMIMES.


THE STJHDAV OPENING OF THE ZOO.
Worldly-minded Flamingo : “ I s’pose this ere Sunday
openin’ means no end of extry buns for you ? "
Moral Bear : “ Not a crumb-! Facfe is, people as patron-
ise free shows is not the sort as sUngs their buns
about promiskus, believe me ! ”
“ Even then, by way of spirits and ;obacco,
thousands of these persons voluntarily‘contributed
to the revenue. Whenever he saw the smoke
arise from a, workman’s pipe, he said to himself,
'That man is working for me.’ ” —The Premier on
the incidence of taxation aj, Mudqee ,
BY THAT SAME TOKEN.
IT lm'l n' “ T hu "! you ru ° ni “ s tha S P oo ' i»«»1 ”
and, teoSe” w‘ drootTaZtS/r ~ ““ <*
« y nLZS“rpta T 'ut'!L W g "r“ S f ° r
a >» s »»»r ~d<»« «»»»«*
•in Sydney. ig f tfae Solence Congress, how sitting
goldS jlds to paaa tba Alaskan (ronSr S.T I” 1 "*
" -WA “*•
DIVORCE PROCEEDINGS FROM TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
The Petitioners; respondent so-respondents, and interveners,.
As painted by themselves before a bighly-intelligent'juiy of twelve.
The petitioners, respondents,, co-respondents, and 1 interveners:
As painted by a highly-intelligent jury of* twelve.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


“HOW ARE YOU?”
“HOW D’ YOU DO?”
is an old form of salutation that is rapidly giving place to
And with reason; for whilst the former suggests an enquiry as to your worldly position, the latter is a plain, straight out question regarding the state
of your health. Therefore, HOW ARE YOU?—how is your health?—is this all that it should be, or are you conscious of any of the following symp-
£ oms . Nervousness, Palpitation, Irritability, Dizziness after Exertion, Shortness of Breath, Alternate Fits of Depression and Elation, Loss of Memory*
Shooting Pains in the Limbs, Numbness, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Frequent Headaches, Restlessness, Fainting Feeling, or that very common complaint
Anaemia ? If you are so conscious, read what the following testimonials say in regard to the great modern restorative— MINERVA TONIC.
1 St. Mary’s Cathedral.
“Dear pleasure in bearing testimony to the value of your Minerva Tonic. During the holding
of the Grand Australian Fair it was greatly appreciated by the clergy and others, who found it most palatable and
energising. Every one who has had experience of it pronounces it admirable.„ DENIg p O , HARAN „
‘DENIS F.
[Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran is Private Secretary to His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney.]
“ South Yarra, Melbourne.
To the MINERVA CO. .......... T ,
“ Dear Sirs —Action- upon the recommendation of my medical adviser to take a tonic, I c-hose the Minerva, and
> every REASON TO BE SATISFIED with the result. . . . Whenever I feel run down I have recourse to your
tonic which invariably has the desired effect. It will be a PLEASURE TO ME TO RECOMMEND IT.
’ (Signed) “ L. HART, F.R.M.S.”
[Mr. Hart was at one time Government Photographer in New South Wales. He is now a Lecturer at the Ballarat
and Bendigo Schools of Mines.]
“ ‘ Roslyn,’ Fraser-road, Lewisham.
“°Dear sirs —I have derived so much benefit from taking Minerva Tonic that I think it only fair to write and
thank vou for the same I have TRIED ALMOST EVERY TONIC on the market, and consequently can speak with
some authority I have no hesitation in stating that I have NEVE! FOUND ANYTHING TO APPROACH IT. I
have taken four bottles of it, «ith the result I FEEL TEN YEARS YOUNGER.
(Signed) “ W. H. COLE.”
[Mr. Cole is a very well-known citizen. He was at one time head-master of the 0. of E. School at Petersham.] J
“ Feldheim, Gottheil and Co.
“To the MINERVA CO. , _ . , , ......
“Dear Sirs—During my last trip, when at Orange, I was unfortunate enough to get laid up. . . . I com-
menced taking Minerva Tonic, and THE RESULT WAS VERY GRATIFYING, as in a few days it ENABLED ME
TO RESUME MY DUTIES. lam recommending the tonic to all my friends. ... IN MY CASE IT WAS
WONDERFULLY EFFECTIVE. O_T 0 _ T „
(Signed) CHAS. E. SELBY.
[Mr. Selby is one of the most popular of our commercial travellers. He represents Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf
and Co. in Western N.S.W.]
“ Meadowbank, Sydney.
“To the MINERVA CO. . t „ . . , _ .
“ Dear Sirs,—l have personal knowledge of the benefits derived from the use of Minerva Tonic. A gentleman
staying in my house was subject to extremely violent headaches, caused by an injury to the head, and after the use
of a portion of one bottle the pain was allayed, and so far as I know the complaint has not recurred.
1 (Signed) “JOHN HAYNES, M.L.A.”
[Mr. Haynes is the member for Wellington in the N.S.W. Assembly.]
“ Parliament House, Sydney.
“To the MINERVA 00. A J . A . .. .
“ Dear-Sirs —A few weeks ago a member of my family was afflicted with severe neuralgic pains. To afford relief
I obtained some Minerva Tonic, and after the sufferer had partaken of it a cure was effected. The remedy is invigo-
rating, and appears to steady the nerves. In the case referred to two bottles were sufficient to effect the cure. I can
therefore express my appreciation of your admirable tonic. (Signed) “ E. W. O’SULLIVAN.”
[Mr. O’Sullivan represents Queanbeyan in the N.S.W. Assembly.]
MINERVA TONIC has been referred to in complimentary terms by the leading 1 newspapers
of Sydney. Among others which have given absolutely gratuitous commendatory notices may be
mentioned: —Evening News, Sunday Times, Freeman’s Journal, Truth, &c. The Tonic is on
sale by all Chemists, or may be had direct from the Depots, as given below, by Post. Insist, however,
on your Chemist supplying you, and take no substitute for Minerva.
MINERVA TONIC is not the only Minerva Preparation, but one of a comprehensive list,
the whole of which are equally well recommended. As instances :
MINERVA DIGESTIVE is a purely Vegetable Preparation, of unique value in all troubles
caused by that fell complaint, Indigestion. Its action is speedy, and the cure it effects unfailing.
Dr. Purcell, L.K. and Q.C.P.1., L.M., L.R.C.5.1., 13 Jamieson-street, Sydney, says : “I have tried
Minerva Digestive in five cases. In every instance it has given me entire satisfaction. In one obsti-
nate case of indigestion, accompanied by hiccough and sickness after eating, its action was specific.”
MINERVA DIGESTIVE
IS ON SALE by all CHEMISTS, or may be had Direct from the Depots, as given below, by Post
MINERVA LIVER PILLS (Pink)
are the Modern Family Aperient.
ALL CHEMISTS; DIRECT FROM THE DEPOTS BY POST,
Minerva Little Nerve & Brain Pills (White)
Feed both Nerves and Brain, to which they act as a Tonic.
ALL CHEMISTS ; DIRECT FROM THE DEPOTS BY POST.
Minerva Compound Iron Pills (Yellow)
Enrich the Blood and Tone up the System.
ALL CHEMISTS.
DIRECT FROM THE DEPOTS BY POST.
THE CO.,
Proud of the very high character of its many Testimonials, Testimonials the equal of which have never before
been given any proprietary medicine in this Country, offer to pay the sum of £lOO to anyone producing proof
that they are not what it claims for them-STRICTLY GENUINE IN EVERY PARTICULAR.
A FREE INSPECTION OE THE ORIGINALS WILL BE AFFORDED ANY RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
XMAS PRESENTS AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Most Artistic, Unique and Up-to-Date Jewellery Display. Beautiful Chased Silver Plate for Presentation.
v
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 26a.
Any Name or Motto Free.
/ \
A. Saunders.
160. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 6s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
lt& Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 6a.
6 Diamonds, StA 4s. Very strong brooch.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
15a Gold Pure Diamond, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 8-bar Amethyst, t 5&
16c. Gold „ „ 455.
WTS
A. Saunders.
Ue. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
£2 10s.
A. Saunders.
150. Gold 5 Pure Double-cut Diamonds, £4.
Neat and strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
18e. Solid Gold Nurled Edges
Drea* Keeper, engraved, 25 a.
Raised Flowers, 30s.
Send lor Size Card.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £6 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10b,
£Blos, £lO, £l2lOB,
£l6, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 160.
Gold, 20s and 80s.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s
16c., 80s, 265; 18c.
16s, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Diamonds,
£3; Double-cut Dia-
monds, £3 10s and £4.
Send for illustrations.
18c,jGold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
iiiiiii!
advt
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. , 15c. Gold,
15s; extra heavy, 255. 18c? Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
oard.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d; extri, strong, 10s.
16c. Gold, 16s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s od.
mu
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
16c. Gold (as above), 355.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s; Large, 21a
15c. Gold, 265, 30s, 365, £%
Pure Silver, 3s, Is, 6s.
A.. Saunders.
Pure Silver Plated Butters, Cut
Glass, 15s 6d ; Large size, 20s.
Send for illustrated book.
&
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
85s. £2 6s. £3 : extra.
£5, £6 ; with key pad-
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
A. SAUNDERS
FOR STRONG RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
I-land-flnjshed, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheape
and beet timekeepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s,
£6, £7, £B—3, 4,5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key
or Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Shortwind Keyless, 7s fid,
11s fid, 12s fid, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality. 20s guaranteed. Gold, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherham’s and Waltham Levers.
Send for price list. Send for price hook.
No. 1.
15c. Gold Front Stud Diamond,
Fo. 1,15 s ; Nos. 2 and 3,14 s;
Ruby or Sapphire, 18s 6d,
12s 6d, 10s 6d. Pin and Screw
Front Stud, No. 1,25 s and 30s;
Nos. 2 and 3,21 s, 255.
Plain Gold Studs, 3s 6d and ss.
Newest Style, very pretty.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin.
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s
255. Gold, 26s 6d.
Quite New.-
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
16c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone,' 355,
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 13s 6d.
Links to match, 13s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Initials on Brooch Free.
Our Silver-plate Department is worth inspection. Butters from 3s 6d to
30s. Jams, 10s to 20s. Dinner Cruets, 32s 6d to £4. Entree Dishes,
67s 6d (4 pieces). Hot Water Teapots, 33s 6d.
Send for Complete
Illustrated Price Book.
Post <Free. .
Tea and Coffee Sets, £2 10s, £3 2s 6d, £4 4s, £5 5s to £l5 15s. Teapots,
10s 6d to £2. Mind—We sell cheaper than down-town sellers, because we
“ buy for cash and sell for cash ” only.
Send for
Price List.
A, SAUNDERS,
“ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS REQUIRED.”
THE JEWELLER, 815 George Street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), Sydney, N.S.W.


Fitzgerald Brothers’ Huge Combined Shows, including Carl Hagenbeck's Zoological Circus, now playing opposite
Redfern Railway Station, Sydney.


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
An<J especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF ;
Australia gives us BILLY TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !!!
Let them “ train ” upon GBANUMA,
“The finest of the wheat.”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA !
—From “ Bards of the Wood Blocks”
THIS IS TO CERTIFY that,
since the issuance on 9th January, 1897, by the Insurance Superintendent of New York
State, of his official Certificate accepting and endorsing its 52nd Annual Report, the
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY has filed said Report with the
Insurance Departments of
Eighty-two Separate and Distinct Governments
throughout the civilised world.
This Report has been scrutinised and accepted as satisfactory by every one of such
Governmental Departments, and this Company is to-day operating under the super-
vision and with the sanction of a larger number of the civilised governments of the
world than any other life insurance company.
New York, Ist Nov., 1897. RUFUS W. WEEKS, Actuary.
\
This Company requires the services cf a First-class AGENT in the City and Suburbs.
THOMAS P. PURVES, General Manager.
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNTEY.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 321 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
i
OUR CHIEF.’
THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
mPOBTII
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
On all the Australian State railways
theatrical companies are allowed to go first-class
on second-class tickets. What say the Clergy to
this?
S.A. Labor-party nominates Hutchison for
M‘Pherson’s East Adelaide seat, despite the fact
that Hutchison isn’t a lucky man, having already
fought and lost three elections.
The N.S.W. Opposition having no policy,
is having one manufactured for it by its enemies.
And, as its enemies own all the daily papers—
well, what more remains to be said ?
Obit. : Bundaberg Leader. Tory money
and influence have told, and Labor-lead er
Glassey’s chances have been further lessened—
perhaps—for re-election at Kanakatown.
Q. Labor-leader Glassey ; “It is a deplor-
able state of affairs that eleven men who represent
nobody ” —meaning a majority vote in the Council
of 11 to 7 —“ should dictate to seventy-two men
who represent every corner of, and every interest
in, the province.”
Q. Leg. Council absolutely yawns for
Hugh Nelson. Stubborn old Bullocky Palmer,
however, blocks the way and, apparently, a pen-
sion is the only thing to make him abandon the
Presidentship. And the leading metropolitan
papers are calling for the retirement of every
ex-Q.N.B. director from the precincts of the
Council, while the Courier significantly reminds
the President that his place most of this session
has been filled by a substitute. Sooner or later
the old linguist will have to pack.
Dear Bulletin, The
W.A. sand-groping Forrest
Govt, has a great penchant for
importing second-hand Eng-
lish clerks. It takes them as
job lots. A draft of telegraph-
operators lately arrived at
£l9O per annum, with right
of a pension after five years’
service; and very recently
there arrived a large package
of English railway clerks,
picked up. during the Jubilee
festivities. I suspect they all
have a tinge of blue hlood.
Minister Wittenoom shows the
same desire to pitch foreigners
into good, fat billets. As an
instance the magistrate in the
town which I have the wretch-
edness to inhabit is a fat
Dutchman —one of many suou.
—Sandy Blight.
One hon. member illumi-
nated the dying moments of
the Q. session. Felt-hatted
and waving a “brolly,” he
sat on a back bench (the
House was waiting a message
from the Council) yelling in-
termittently, “Ashurn !” The
message came. Premier Nel-
son moved the adjournment.
The hon. member arose, and
swept the atmosphere with his
umbrella —-“ Misher Annear! ”
Speaker Cowley : “ Ordah !
Will the hon. membah please
remembah that the Speakah
is in the chair, and not the
Chairman of Committees.”
The member was sorry :
“ Misher Cowlish, I ’polo-
shise ” The Speaker
wailed : “Ordah ! Ordah ! ”
The member lost the thread
of his ideas, but amicably
waved his gamp, with his hat
on the end of it. “ Orright,
plent’ time,” he said, and put
the hat bn his head, and
shook the umbrella at Provi-
dence generally, and started
walking in circles on the floor.
Then Speaker Cowley called
out “ Ordah ! ” some more,
and the hon. member ran out
with his umbrella and his hat
in front of him.
Cabled that Thomas M‘H-
wraith is shortly coming back
to Brisbane, presumably to
fight things out over the Q.N.
Bank. And Thomas, even in his old age, is
a mighty fighting man from his boots to the
crown of his hat, so the chances are that a
good many people who have been saying nasty
things about him will apologise considerably.
M‘ll wraith should be able to wreck a good many
characters if he tells all he knows about that sin-
ful bank.
At the bye-election for Burke (Q.), in
1890, Hoolan, Browne, and Sim contested the seat
and finished in order named. To-day the three
represent three contiguous Gulf electorates —
Burke, Croydon, and Carpentaria. All three are
democrats—and bachelors (so far as the parson
knows, anyway).
It is true, as contended by Haynes, M.P.,
that the Minister for Justice should be a layman.
A lawyer Justice-Minister having his own private
practice and legal social status to consider, must
defer to the Judges, law-officials, and legal pro-
fession, and simply cannot act impartially between
lawyerdom and the public.
A member of N.S.W. Public Works Com-
mittee, totting up his items of income for a month
thus jotted : “M.L.A., .£2s(and oing nothing);
P.W.C., £5O (with travelling exes.); journalism,
£10; commissions at 2J per cent., £31 —t >tal,
£ll6, or at the rate of £1392 annually.” And
journalism was the only hard work on the list.
Brisbane (Q.) Worker is wisely sounding
the tocsin of Leg. Council destruction, in readi-
ness for next election. Every time in Austra-
lia that a Council has been swamped with new
members the swampees have begun to love the
Council in a week. In a month they have sworn
that it is a sacred institution. “And ever shall
be, Amen ! ”
Note how Australia is absorbed in a boys’
play-game of cricket, while such a momentous
affair as the division of China is on the board. In
short, this continent is not a whit English, except
when something is to be got out of England. If
Queen Victoria attempts to lean on a cornstalk —
enlarging this to all Australia —it will pierce her
hand right through.
When the Maoriland Leg. Council was
“ reformed ” it was agreed that the o'd life-mem-
bers should simply be allowed to die out, but all
new appointments should be for seven years only.
Only three of the seven-year crowd of democrats
sent up by Ballance and Seddon voted against the
Old Age Pension Bill, but they were all members
of the first batch appointed (in 1892) under the
new system. The longer a democrat holds office
as a nominee legislator, who is not responsible to
the people, the worse, as a rule, he gets; there-
fore the 1892 nominees are naturally the most
gamey of the new crowd.
TENTATIVE POLITICS.
“Did you hear that Reid is contemplating a bachelor tax?”
“ Yes; but if Lyne had nous enough to propose giving a bonus with
wives he’d beat him hollow!”
Adrian Knox, the only member of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly who, at the opening of Parlia-
ment, directed in writing that his £25 per month
should be paid back into the Treasury, was pre-
sent at just 13 divisions and counts-out during
last session. Mr. Knox, who conscientiously
objects to payment of members, seems to as
strongly object to doing members’ work.
The veteran Douglas,
Govt. Resident of Thursday
Island, has been too plain-
spoken for the Boodlewraith
re the Japanese invasion of
the North, and the ruling
gang would gladly shunt him
to Port Moresby into Governor
M'Gregor’s billet. This may
account for Douglas’ recent
visit to Brisbane.
“In view of the fact
that 10 per cent, of the
Hawaiian race are affected
with leprosy, it becomes a
serious question as to what will
be the effect of the absorption
of this tainted population
upon the health of this (U. S. A.)
country,” says skin - expert
Prof. A. Morrow in the
North American Review.
He concludes that leprosy
is latent in the mass of the
Hawaiian people, and that in
a short time Molokai will
swallow up all of them.
The Victorian Alliance
has formed a “Civil Rights
Vigilance Committee,” the ob-
ject of which is to secure
“That no person shall be
disqualified from being ap-
pointed as a magistrate by
reason of his connection with
any temperance or religious
organisation.” The Alliance
is also passing around the
hat to pay for an appeal to the
Supreme Court against the
recent refusal of the Licen-
sing-court to entertain objec-
tions to Panton, P.M., adju-
dicating in wine cases. It
is noteworthy, however, that
though the Alliance demands
that the man who belongs to
a “ temperance or religious
association ” should be eligi-
ble, it doesn't ask that the
man who belongs to a licensed
victuallers’ association, or
anything of that kind, shall
have an equally good show.
B.J. : “ Why does The Bulletin object
so bitterly to Scripture reading in State-schools ?
Isn’t it wanted badly enough? If the soothing
word had been turned on earlier, perhaps 17-stone
Vic. Labor-member Trenwith would have asked
for the small Yarrabanker Fleming’s shirt instead
of snatching at it forcibly as he did at the Trades
Hall rumpus a few weeks ago.
One striking difference between Parkes and
Reid is that, when the former was challenged for
inconsistency, he always labored to prove either
that he wasn’t inconsistent, or that he was incon-
sistent only with the best motives, or something ;
whereas Reid, in similar circumstances, merely
fires-off a jibe and goes rejoicing on his way, as if
political honesty were really not a thing to be
worried about.
As the result of the bit! er stonewall kept
up all last session by the Maoriland Assembly
Opposition, and the wholesale chucking-out done
by the Council, about fifty measures were left un-
finished at the end of the session, besides those
actually rejected. Seddon’s new arrangement
whereby all these will be taken up next session
where they left off should save about two cubic
feet of Hansard.
Q. Attorney-General Tomjoe Byrnes used
to aver that politics were ruining him professionally
and monetarily. A Parliamentary return shows
that, besides his political salary of AlOOO a
year, Tomjoe has received from “ the Crown ”
£6491 7s. during the last seven years. Wanted to
know, moreover, how much of this consisted of
fees given out by the Attorney-General’s depart-
ment to practising barrister Byrnes ?
Premier Reid : ‘ ‘ The Local Government
Bill was lost under conditions well known.” Quite
so. The Reid Govt, wanted to give the property-
holder anything up to sixteen votes or so at muni-
cipal elections, but on the motion of the Labor-
party he was cut down to four votes. Whereupon
Premier Reid said something to the effect that he
would rather not have Local Government at all
than deprive the Fat Man of his 16 votes, and
withdrew the Bill.
The British ought to stay in Egypt—a
Professor Spratly has put that beyond doubt.
Having searched back 6000 years or so, Spratly
concludes that ancient Britain was colonised from
the banks of the Nile, that the British race has
the blood of the Pharaohs in its veins, and hence
—the “ hence” is the best part of it —hence “we
ought to retain a foothold in our ancestral acres.”
Spratly’s logic doesn’t prove that the Egyptian
should own Britain —only that the Briton should
own Egypt.
When Labor - leader Glassey tables a
motion in Queensland Assembly Ministerial and
“ Independent ” members don’t enquire what it is
or oonsider any of the arguments—they simply file
into the House when the question is put and vote
against Glassey. This is partly the fault of
Boodlewraith, and partly the fault of Glassey—
who is suoh an incapable and half-hearted cham-
pion that it’s a pleasure to oppose him on general
principles. Glassey is about the most melancholy
item in the most melanoholy Labor-party in Aus-
tralia.
A QUESTION OF ORIGIN.
MRS. MULLAREY : “I came up to tell yez, Mr. Peddy fog, that ye
mustn’t tache Latin to little Micky.”
PEDDYFOG : “It was only to teach him the derivation of the English ,
madam. ”
MRS. MULLAREY (hotly): “Faith, and it would be far better to
tache him Oirish, so that he could get his own derryvation.”
Dear Bulletin, —Why should the munici-
pal franchise be exercised by ratepayers only ? My
landlady rents a house at Bs. per week, and has
her name on the ratepayers’ roll, She lets rooms
unfurnished. There are four of us lodgers alto-
gether, and, combined, we more than pay the
rent. Her rates come out of our rent. In other
ways we contribute far more to the revenue (in-
cluding the municipal subsidy) than she does, for
she neither drinks nor smokes. She is a most
charming woman and votes most regularly— for
the local baker. But, seeing that each of us in-
directly pays his full share of the rates, why
shouldn’t we have a vote, too?—F.C.
The election for East Adelaide to fill
Labor-leader M'Pherson’s place is fixed for 22nd
Jan., when Premier Kingston and many other
prominent party chiefs will be absent at the
Melb. Convention. Despite the exhortation of
the dying leader to his followers: “Stick together,
boys ! ” there is a likelihood of a split in the
Labor ranks over the election. Hutchinson, one
of the proprietors of Quiz, is the chosen candidate,
but Salmon, who at the last three contests was
chairman of M‘Phersbn’s committee, thinks he
has a special claim on the district, and threatens
to oppose him. Salmon is a Charlestonite, which
means “ one of those damned neuters who in
their middle way of steering are neither fish, nor
flesh, nor good red herring.” The Conservatives
have never returned a member for E. Adelaide
since the resignation of Dutton Green in May, ’B6.
How the politicians do yearn after Feder-
ation ! The Convention is due on the 20th. The
finance committee, which was going to devote the
recess to the preparation of a carefully-thought-
out scheme of Federal finance, now thinks of
meeting on the 17th, so that it will have two
clear days to tackle the toughest and most com-
plex problem in Australasia. Fysh, of Tasmania,
however, wants the meeting postponed till the
19th, in which case the committee will have one
clear evening before it, and Turner implores the
committee by telegraph to brace up and be
there on the 17th. In fact, it seems that most
of the members of the finance committee are
so busy opening the pumpkin show at the town-
ship of Jones’s Dog that they really can’t arrive
in time.
At latest advices Wise, Reid, Neila and
other people were still writing to the papers at in-
tervals about the circumstances attending Reid’s
election as N.S.W. Foreign-trade leader, and con-
sidering that none of their stories at all resemble
each other, one begins to wonder if any human
being is really capable of remembering anything
accurately, and if any evidence or history is of
any value whatever. The following, from Reid’s
reply to Wise, is interesting :
He speaks of his having resisted a great temptation, as
if the leadership were offered to him. What occurred
was this : Names were being proposed, and someone pro-
posed Mr. Wise No human being got up to echo the
wish that he should be leader, but he writes as though the
position had actually been pressed on him, and he had
exercised heroic self-denial in declining it. I was absent
when my merits and demerits were being discussed, so I
am perfectly ignorant of what occurred.
This positive assurance on the part of the man
who also says that he is perfectly ignorant is very
beautiful.


&
\\
Everywhere..
Over this grand and glorious New
South Wales, ladies are wearing my
BP-TO-TBE-MTEST
Boots and Shoes.
What s the reason? Because they’re
good. None can give you better.
See them. If you live in the country
drop us a line, and we’ll get there
all right.
OHN HUNTER The Boot King of Australia
City Boot Palace, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches all over the City, in the Suburbs and Country Towns in N.S.W. and Queensland
Kerosene being used as gas for cooking is
now nothing new. The difficulty hitherto with
the old “.Primus ” stoves has been the objection-
able hissing noise they make whilst burning, and
this has been entirely overcome by a new kerosene
gas stove called the “ Jupiter,” which has later
improvements and burns silently. The gas has
simply to pass through a cylindrical burner before
being consumed, which subdues the noise and
makes the combustion more complete. The stoves,
with the cooking apparatus, can be seen working
Messrs. Brandt Bros., lamp manufacturers, 236
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
advt
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
S3T Send for Price List. Tgii
The Sydney Carriage M’n’fg Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage ManVg. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r-«#
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE CO
buyers of Light Vehicle*.
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &e., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
advt
STOVE,
i “Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. Noise-
less burner fitted to any-
stove.
“Primus” Stoves, 9/6
each, by post 1/6 extra.
Send for catalogues.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
_ 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
a SILVER WATCH FREE.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE?
T*E E*G*l*H E*E**lT.
We will present to every person solving the above puzzle
one of our splendid
Silver Watches,
Ladies’ or Gent.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 60s.
Send your answer at once, with an addressed envelope
to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so, and vou
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to wear
with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent, securely
packed, free by registered post. Address,
_ THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd..
105 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SCHOOL OF MINES
(BALLARAT).
TmSSehool, with its Large Staff and Extensive Appli-
Whlcl ? L ar6re Editions have lately been
Phfmi’o. ff n 8 S , pec,al » dva ntages to Students in Assaying,
Chemistry, Geology, Electricity, Metallurgy, Mineralogy
MIDe Mana » e,uent and Treatment
Duties resumed 31st JANUARY.
Prospectuses on Application.
FRED. »T. MARTEEE, Director.
Government Notices.
'PJEALTH DEPARTMENT OF NEW SOUTH WAT,res
Office of the Board of Health.
applications m lm ltS d S“ai™? - ouS,i.
PR ACTITIONERS for appointment to
the following poste under the Public Health Act, 1896
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Metro-
politan Distncts; salary, £750.
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Hunter
River Districts; salary, £7OO.
The selected candidates will be required to devote their
whole tune to their duties, which will be such as are pre-
scribed by the Act, and such as may be ordered by the
Board from time to time. They will be required to reside
in such part of their districts as the Board may approve.
Applications, with statement of age, qualifications, testi-
monials, &c., should reach the undersigned not later than
Monday, 7th February, 1898.
O. A. SIMMS, Secretary.
[6855]
Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House
t t Sydney, 21st December, 1897.
INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT OF 1895.
N * . W given, under section 30 of the above
101V7 , Returns of Income received during the year
1897 for the purposes of the assessment of Income Tax for
the year 1898 are required to be furnished to the Commis-
sioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before the Uth
\ day of February, 1898 ; and all persons who are in receipt
. °‘ income, and all persons liable under the provisions of
the Act m any representative capacity to furnish returns
I for the puiposes aforesaid, are hereby informed that the
i prescribed lorms of Returns are now available, and, ex-
“?P t „ t 2 10 | e forCompames, may be obtained on application,
j at any Post Office, Police Office, Customs House, Railway
Stotwn and the Office of any Clerk of Petty Sessions in
New South Wales, Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney, or at the Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney
P?lTnffi 0r C °"?P. anl f c fn be obtained at the Stamp
rw ’ Ph ,lh P- s^ re ft, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or pro-
fession on their own account are required to furnish In-
i' 0 ” 16 Returns irrespective of the amount of their income •
but no Return of Income is required from any verson in re-
ceipt of salary or wages only if the gross annual amount
of such salary or wages does not exceed £2OO.
employers of Tabor, whether they themselves are
liable to make Income Tax Returns or not, are required to
furnish to the Commissioners of Taxation the name,
occupation, and address of all employees whose salaries or
for the year 1897 aggregated £l6O and upwards.
Public attention is called to the fact that a penalty not
exceeding Twenty Pounds is imposed on any person
neglecting to furnish the Return required of him within
the time above mentioned, and that persons failing to
furnish such Return are not relieved from liability to the
penalty by reason only that they may not have received a
notice to furnish the Return, or that the prescribed Form
may not have been delivered to them.
The attention of owners of taxable lands subject to mort-
gage is minted to the necessity for furnishing the requisite
particulars, in order that they may derive the benefit of
the deduction to which they are entitled in respect of the
Interest on the mortgage of their lands, including im-
provements thereon. Without these particulars the Com-
missioners will be unable to make the statutory deduction
from the tax on the unimproved values.
Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained on
application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the above date.
N. LOCKYER,
R. N. JOHNSON
L. S. SPILLER,
f Commissioners
1 of
1 Taxation.
Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms of Return. 2-c-4.
System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national (ash Register
key
saves
. I
pressure
on the
Brain
advt
- IS .A. .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments.
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGJIA M,
General Manager for Australasia.
advt
PATENT SOSTENENTE
WHY DO
PALING’S PIANOS
Sell so readily, and prove easily VICTORS over
all competition ? It is because of the over-
powering magnet of well-known and honor-
able names, such as
Steinway & Sons, New York PIANOS
John Brinsmead & Sons, London PIANOS
Rich. Lipp & Sons, Stuttgart PIANOS
Julius Feurich, Leipzig PIANOS
Gors & Kallmann, Berlin... PIANOS
Uebel & Lechleiter, Heilbroun PIANOS
Estey Organ Company’s
-ti.uj.X'jXV.LVj.fl.XN VJiUjrAiNO
Boosey & Co., London,
_ „ „ BAND INSTRUMENTS
Besson & Co., London,
_ BAND INSTRUMENTS
Couesnon & Co., Paris,
BAND INSTRUMENTS
etc., etc., etc.
I , These names are sufficient in themselves to vouch for all that is meritorious and excellent
vervbesYma C t e erkl U a b S Tk” °u Ur °T guarantee that in every instrument sup-
plied tiie very best material and workmanship have been used, and that they excel in all-round
LEADS THE WORLD.
nierit and intrinsic value. . In beauty and
chaste elegance of design they are far in advance
of competition.
m
IV. H. PALING & CO., "Limited
Sydney, Newcastle, and Brisbane.
A Lady Journalist’s
opinion of
Dunio.r Tyres
I'UNCH Office,
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. Ltd., 23rd ’ 9? ‘
247 Swanston-street, Melbourne."'
Dear Sirs, —
“ I have been a cycliste for three years and (with
brief and dreadful interval of a few months) have ridden a
Dunlop Tyres
I have tn 7 6 n eminen «y a success all the time
I have toured over a great part of Victoria and into Soutl
Australia, and gone over roads not even marked in Broad
ben h S ffia P‘ Aether in the mallee, down by the fea o,
on the mountains, Dunlop Tyres are ever to be rel’ied
upon on the worst roads. le l
My last experience of their lasting qualities was o,
Saturday evening, December 18th, when ridine- on ■
suburban road. A road hog without lights to his cart
was on his wrong side, and before I could escape had
driven right across my bicycle. Howl escaped sudde^
Si; *ss •, "i; *s??* ™ —pm*
wrecked. But that it is built by an eminent English firm
it would have been reduced to scrap-iron. Both rims
were buckled, dress-guard and gear-case looked as if they
dmn b ?i7 StrUCk by lightnin S'> ba ck stays and both
dropped bars were injured almost beyond repair
tho U r S m an pf ° f aU * neither of the Dunlop Tyres was i
the slightest degree injured, though they, like mysel
must have been only the fraction of an inch beyond tb
devastating wheel of the road hog’s cart."
Yours truly,
(Signed) Mrs. DONALD MACDONALD.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd,,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Ghristohuich ( N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Money to Lend.
FIIUYHEK REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W. n , r-
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERBAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery ;
6d. per month for every <£l to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £oo
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
CITY
THE
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HIIITER. BLIGH & CftSTLEREAGH STS,
SYDNEY.
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
ANNUAL INCOME AND INYESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability ...
Total
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill. Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackkllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker. Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Mii.son, Esq. F. W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The 'tank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ (SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will .be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
X
Regifyald A. F. flOrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, .
prepared to enter into engagement
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
THE UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE
Elder Conservatorium of Music
(To be inaugurated in MARCH, 1898).
EARLY APPLICATIONS are invited for positions as
follows: —
I. —Teacher of Singing (Solo and Class). Salary
£4OO per annum.
11. Extra Teachers for Pianoforte and for Singing.
111. Teacher of Organ playing.
IV. Teachers of the following orchestral instru-
ments : Double Bass, Harp, Flute, Oboe,
Clarionet, Bassoon, and Horn.
Applicants to furnish testimonials, and to state
i : /e, qualifications, and experience.
For further particulars apply to
THE REGISTRAR.
29th November, 1898.
'MALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Ulients, 31st December, 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department — Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,706,590 12 10
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. 43,409 7 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett. Esa.; Andrew burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia, Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP «. ~ £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY ... - 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. - 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THF. —
Queensland Rational Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security : receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
A mou 11 1 of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.O.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard,
j London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaijy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo
Paid-Up 31,407
Subscribed 251,260
0 0
10 0
0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address —Kiemseil.
Code— Morexng & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
BOX No. 267, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. . . , , , .
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
ree on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, January 15,
-Tyrian, Saturday, January 22,
Gabo, Tuesday, January 25, 5
2 p.m.
2 p.m.
p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, January 25, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, January 25, 5 p.m.
No transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 15, 2 p.
•Burvvah, Tuesday, January 18, 5 p.
Leura, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.
838
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 15, 2 p.m.
-Leura, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Jan. 25, 5 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily. 1
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO All PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Strreet, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ WIARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract, with the
French Government, calling’ at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines. „
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc . and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydnej’.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
J 4fi>
4/y
—VIA —
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT JSARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the foiibwing favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
ATRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN &. M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, ’
Melbourne Ore Testing & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. ‘ Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
vh^LmT^woops
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
VMember Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Shave Brokers,
55 QUEEN STREET,
Telephone No. 1716. JV(clbo(iri)e-
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent -B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, January 18.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
i.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, January 18.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) aboul
January 17.
BRISBANE
MACIIAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Franklin, Tuesday,
January 18.
Best & Cheapest Moute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U- S. N- Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddelev & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON. __
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydnev;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies. •The
S.S. P. It. Luitpold and following steamers w ill call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. .1. MERGELL, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


KEDDIISG PRESENTS and NEW YEAR GIFTS.
ONLY VISIBLE DEMONSTRATION CAN CONVEY AN ADEQUATE IDEA OS*
otbwakt dawsokt «s& oo:s
MARVELLOUS ESHIBITIO
OF SUPERB AND CHARMING NOVELTIES
NOW ON VIEW AT THEIR
SYDNEY SUP MELBOURNE ESTABLISHMENTS.
EVERY VISITOR TO EITHER OE THESE CITIES IS CORDIALLY INVITED TO CALL AND VIEW SAME.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2s.
m
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, 155
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
sss s
is '
ms
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies ar.d
Diamonds, £2 10s.
&8
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
i
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
f:
M
m
m,
>
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; 4-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15et. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB
7s£in., £ 1 Is.
Ladies’ A i BERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
1 5s. 6d. ; 15et., f 110 s.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
■:
Very Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
m
mm
m
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
i
ms
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Ilali-hoop BRACELE,’, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
o
H
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ot. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; loot. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
Oct. Gold, £1 155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
■sazis
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
€1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, BJ4in.j £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies' ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, l)ct. Gold, £1 Is.
15ct. Gold, £1 17s. 6d.
Silver, ss. (id.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £i 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 5s
m
m
Jv's
M ■ :
-■; il
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by ±'s 17s. 6d.
SB
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling- Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
Elegant Diamond STAR, .1 50. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
m
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, 1.7 12s. 6d
w
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE TOR. PRESENTS, have never been approached,
't wenty thousand Founds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
George-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


Piles and How to Cuke them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Dep6t for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
John Norton, editor of Truth and re-
former of N.S.W. libel-law, has just emerged
victorious-in-a-manner-of-speakingfrom two heavy
actions. In one of them, where plaintiff claimed
■£2ooo, a 40s. verdict was given against Norton,
carrying some .£2OO or more in costs. In the
other, brought by Minister-for-Lands Carruthers
against Norton and Geo. Lonsdale (the alleged
writer of a letter to Truth calling in question
Carruthers’ lands administration), the Arinidale
jury failed to agree after a twelve-days’ trial; and
defendants were discharged under recognizances
to appear again for trial if called on. The
onus of the charges against Carruthers was
that he had improperly used his influence
in the matter of certain peculiar exchanges of land
—particularly one connected with the Salisbury
Court squattage, where Carruthers used to go
shooting. To buttress his general case against
Carruthers’ character, Norton produced Susan
Blackburn, a young woman who swore that Car-
ruthers used to have immoral relations with her,
and to whom Carruthers admitted having given
money—£lo or £20 —out of kindness of heart
and without any consideration. Carruthers de-
nied all the charges. The jury failed to agree.
As to what were the respective numbers for and
against acquittal, there are various printed state-
ments ; the defence avers that there were ten
jurors on its side, while the prosecution declares,
per medium of the Government morning organ,
that not more than two held out in favor
of defendant Norton (whom the Crown law-
office cordially detests, and against whom
the prosecution was mainly directed). During
the trial it transpired that Carruthers had
been semi-privately divorced by Judge Windeyer
at an unusual hour on Saturday morning (which is
not a regular sitting day), and that successful
efforts had been made (not, as Carruthers alleged,
by him) to keep press and public away. Interest-
ing question—Then who did instigate the secret
sitting? A noticeable feature of the libel-trial
was the extraordinary interest taken in the pro-
ceedings by the Crown Law Dept.—the in-
fluence of the police and detective force
being apparently utilised to a remarkable extent
on behalf of Carruthers, while a private letter was
read from Attorney-General Want to Carruthers
stating, in reference to a conversation with Nor-
ton, that the latter “ would find out when he was
doing two years for the libel.” The Crown-law
office gives it out that Norton is again to be tried
in April. From this The Bulletin infers that
Attorney-General Want intends to resign mean-
while, as it is altogether unlikely he would be
guilty of the indecency of personally filing a bill
against the man who seemingly is in his opinion
guilty and deserving of two years’ gaol. Both
Mr. Moss, counsel for Lonsdale, and Norton, who
defended himself, made very able addresses to the
jury—of the damaging character of which the very
meagre reports in the Sydney papers give no idea
whatsoever.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Rev. Nat. Kinsman, wholesale marriage-
expert of Fitzroy, Vic., hurrying to open the
door for a couple of customers, fell, and after per-
forming the ceremony discovered that his leg was
broken. That is the sort of man the Rev. Nat. is,
and that is how he does business.
Kreiarman, & Snelson,
. . The Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speedy. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
AND THEY JOURNEY
FROM ALL SECTIONS
TO THIS
GREAT MECCA OF HEALTH.
THE SICK ARE CURED, AND THE
SCEPTICS LEFT TO WONDER.
In this nineteenth century science has made
rapid progress in treating with disease in every
form. Researches and study have brought to
light many remedies that are invaluable to suffer-
ing humanity, but, without doubt, the greatest
and grandest in the annals of medical science is
the accurate location of disease, which it would
seem from the great errors that are made could
not be acquired, but must be a direct" gift front
birth. That the POLYPATHS can, without
feeling the pulse, looking at the tongue, or asking
any questions of the patient, locate unerringly
each disease of which a patient may be suffering,
is a fact that can easily be tested at their Insti-
tute, 84 Collins-street, Melbourne. Never in the
history of Melbourne has any body of men created
such a sensation or been the object of such wide-
spread comment and universal praise as has been
accorded the POLYPATHS since their Institute
was founded in Melbourne. But it is as it should
be, and only goes to prove that the citizens of
Melbourne are fully competent to discriminate
between the good and the bad. Their success has
spread like wildfire far beyond the borders of Vic-
toria among those who had given up all hope of
ever being well again, and they are by hundreds
availing themselves of the Polypathic system in
both the diagnosis as well as the treatment of
chronic disease.
Here begins the very first starting point of van-
tage with the Polypathic school of practice, for its
chief exponents are men who from a natural and
overpowering sympathy with all forms of disease
and suffering are able to determine by quickened
sense, surely and with determination, the exact
cause of all that makes life a burden to thousands
all over the land. The highways of medical prac-
tice are strewn with the wrecks of wrong diagnosis,
with the going out of innumerable lives because of
improper location of disease, far more than from
the use of remedies of themselves hurtful. Here
Polypathy plants its foot firmly down and de-
clares that not alone the instinctive, keen sense
of its consulting chief should be taken as a finality,
but that what he determines is the real trouble,
with all the causes that led him to the clear
conclusion, shall be placed before the full faculty
of the Institute and his judgment meet their
approval.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the
good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has
formulated special treatment for itself in all
chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and
applies them in the light of nineteenth century
progress.
The success attending this new system is almost
miraculous, but it is in accordance with natural
and applied science, and wins its constant vic-
tories over disease because of the true following
out of that which natural ability and the highest
developments of Medical Science has shown to be
sure and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
fullest investigation of the POLYPATHIC
MEDICAL INSTITUTE, of 84 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. Wm. HENRY GAZE, M.D.,
L.S.A. Lond., L.R.C.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. Eng.,
is Physician in charge.
Those who cannot call personally, can
write. All communications are strictly con-
fidential, and an opinion will be given in all
cases by return mail where the consultation
fee of Ios. is enclosed.
More capital invested, more physicians
employed, more cures made by the Poly-
pathic System, than by any other similar
Institution or body of Physicians in the
world.*
&
A NOVELTY!
ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
\ natural perfumes. j L
Obtainable of Chemists,
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
®*cf Streep
There is Merit in
An article which steadily gains in reputation after being
tested by the public for years.
That is the reason for the great popularity of
Massey-Harris- Bicycles.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Bbanch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 385 George Street. Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
HUMBER CYCLES
(AMERICA)
reduced
Lady’s
Gents
<£
26
25
•• These are produced by the same methods so those In vojrue at our Beeston Works, and are of the Most Approved American Design. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the SAME GUARANTEE
a, with the beeston maohines.” oo(jotky wanted. The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Partisans of either side can lay down various
fines of argument on the question of the cracked wicket
in the second test-match. An Australian barracker will
say that the wicket must have been all right for the Eng-
lishmen's first innings because two of the tail-end men
made 100 runs between them, and must have been equally
all right for the follow-on, seeing that Maclaren and
Ranji. took the score to 65 before the second wicket fell.
Why shouldn’t the super-excellence of Australian bowling
and fielding get full credit for the awful defeat of the
other fellows ?
Then the English barracker puts in his little
lot of statistics. The Australians, winning the toss,
scored 434 runs before the fifth wicket was taken, so the
state of the ground, which was then beginning to help
the bowlers, accounted for the rapid downfall of six men.
All out for 520. Then the visitors went in and scored 22
runs for 1 wicket on the Monday evening, 289 for 7
wickets next day, and only 155 for 12 wickets on the
fourth day. How would it have gone if Maclaren had
won the toss ? To all this the kangaroo barracker may
reply that the team which couldn’t get rid of more than
three batsmen during the first day deserved to be jolly
well beaten, anyhow. Which is The Bulletin’s argu-
ment. Sauce for the goose in the Sydney match was
sauce for the gander at Melbourne.
• * * *
The English captain’s policy of putting Richard-
son aside for a long spell when only 12 runs had been
registered against him was imitated by Trott in the case
of Trumble. The long Victorian who went to bed on the
Monday night with a record of one easy catch (Maclaren’s)
missed off him for six runs, out of a 22 total, didn’t re-
sume bowling on Tuesday until the Englishmen had put
on another 130. Trumble had 4 wickets for 54 at the end
of the innings.
* • * •
Rather noticeable that none of the Melbourne
Eapers commented on the Englishmen’s bad luck in
aving Hayward hors de combat just when his bowling
services were most needed.
* • • •
For versatility of talent in catching a cricket-
ball, straight from the bat or off the ground, the writer
would like to back bowler Jones against Ranjitsinjhi and
humanity in general. *
* * * •
An old dog for a hard road. The board showed
8 wickets for 224 when little Johnny Briggs marched out
to take his first innings in the second test, and the
“ veteran ” (Johnny is aged 35 or so) cast an eye over the
figures on his way to the wicket. At the drawing of the
stumps, an hour later, Johnny was not out with 45 to his
name —and didn’t he get a reception from the members’
reserve 1 A good many people, seemingly, had backed
the visitors to make 300. Briggs was their blessed salva-
tion.
* • • •
Maclaren is at a disadvantage on the M.C.C.
ground. Melbourne is the home of his bride-elect, and
the knowledge that the brightest angel in all the wcrld
will nearly break her little heart if he doesn’t make a big
score troubles Mac. considerably. Anyway, he has shown
some weak, nervous batting in Melbourne this trip.
• • * •
Judging from the rival first-innings scores in
the two test-matohes already played, the next will be
decided by the toss—given a hard wicket at the outset.
And the fourth match? Well, why not arrange for the
side that wins the toss in Adelaide to lose it in Melbourne
and let the fifth struggle be for the odd trick ? Then we
would have the question of supremacy settled with the
minimum of luck either way, and the maximum of gate-
money always.
* » • *
The mercury in the Giffen thermometer fell
from Hero to Zero last week.
• • • •
Iredale, after the Sydney match, predicted that
the Australians would do better on the faster Melbourne
wicket. When the Melbourne match fell due, all the
“ experts ” were astonished at the slowness of the
wicket, and the Australians won in a walk.
• • * *
When Jones had provided the sensation of the
second test-match by bowling a stump in twain, a cynical
question was raised—” Would the promoters deduct the
price of the stump from Jones’ account?”
• * • *
The lamentable inferiority of the Australian in
catching, referred to in a recent Bulletin, was further
shown in the Melbourne test-match. On the second day,
while the Englishmen were making 20 odd, three chances
were missed, and for one of these no less than three Aus-
tralians made a wild rush. The necessity of putting
“ Tracker ” Forbes, the boss high mark of the Vic. foot-
ball field, into the next test team becomes more apparent
every day.
* « * •
“The wicket in the second test-match looked
worse than it played, and was a big factor in the easy
defeat of be visitors,” says a Melbourne authority. In
other words, they funked it ?
• • * *
Revenge is sweet. The first man to wring
Noble's hand when he bowled Ranji was Jones.
• * * *
Ranji’s criticism of Noble, who clean beat and
bowled him, is distinctly good : “ Noble bowled very well,
but he had a certain amount of luck in having things
come his own way.” And then he goes on to say that
Noble had three chances missed off his bowling. This
looks much as if Ranji feels bound to feed the inter-
viewers with copy at any price, padding with tommy-rot
when he has played out his cricket sense.
.At last the public begin to wonder where the
idiotic rule about playing out a match on the one wicket
came from. For years past nobody has dared to question
the wisdom of the Marjdebone Club, and thousands of
cricketers all the world over have tamely submitted to a
set of rules made by a mere handful of men in England—
to the domination of the English cricket-Pope, in fact.
If sportsmen of all sorts were not the most pig-headed
and Conservative class extant, some of them would have
long since seen the absurdity of compelling perhaps
three-and-a-half innings to be played on a pitch like a
washing-board, or in prohibiting the erection of any pro-
tective covering after playing hours. By far the most
sensible course, and one obvious to all but those blinded
by fetish-worship and prejudice, would be to prepare, say,
four pitches on a ground and allow the batting team each
innings to have its pick. In case of rain the pitches
should also be covered. And what earthly reason is there
why all matches should not be played on matting as with
most first-class Australian junior teams? Matting would
provide a splendid surface and eliminate much of the
luck of the toss.
* » * •
The exceeding Hinglishness of Ranji’s walk and
general style makes one smile. The dark gentleman has
such an awfully jolly Johnbull air of don’tcareadam about
the bowling, bai jove 1 He is as English as Sydney’s
Chinese Anglican clergyman, Soo Hoo Ten—who,‘viewed
aft, is the most English-looking and gentlemanly member
of the N.S.W. Angiican “ cloth.”
* • • •
Talking about the no-balling of Jones, and the
question whether Richardson “ throws,” recalls the time
when Coningham was no-balled, and was alleged by most
of the Press to have thrown the ball at Stoddart in a rage.
The true in’ards of that affair may or may not have
escaped all print, but they certainly never appeared in the
big papers. Coningham, vexed, took the ball, and meant
to “ throw ”it on the ground. Seeing where it was going,
he said, even before the ball had time to hit, “ I beg your
pardon, Mr. Stoddart.” Stoddart replied, “It’s lucky
you apologised, or I’d. have punched your head.” Autho-
rity : Austin, who was at “ slip ” in that particular
match.
* * » •
The snobbish “Mr.” distinguishing the ama-
chaw and professional cricketers of the English teams
seems to be completely dead, and the daily press now
honors all members with the prefixing initials, hitherto
confined to the “gentlemen.” Among the latter K. S.
Ranjitsinhji figures as if he had been baptised Kumar
Shri. As a matter of fact these words signify “ His
Nibs,” or something of that sort, and as Ranji is no
longer a royal highness, but merely a claimant to the
throne of a kingdom about as important as Collingwood,
he should by rights figure as simple Ranjitsinhji.
.£7650 was put through the totalisator at the
Q.T.C. summer meeting.
• ■ * *
Jack Brewer’s lease of Rosella expired the other
day, and he sent the ruinous mare back to Bill Long with
many curses on her head. Brewer was going to make
millions out of Rosella —win the Caulfield Cup with her,
for instance—but she dropped his money every time.
• * * »
It looks as though Auraria will run again at
Flemington in the autumn, notwithstanding that she
shaped last Nov. like one gone wrong internally.
* • • *
Embrasure and Mischief, winners of the Stand-
ish and Bagot double, at Flemington on New Year’s Day,
came from the one stable, Mark Whitty’s. While the
gentle public was paralysed at seeing the unthought-of
and 25 to 1 Embrasure collar the Standish, the stable was
joyfully rubbing its hands at first leg of its double. Mis-
chief was the other.
• • * •
A Wallace that is not the Wallace has been
entered for the Newmarket Handicap. A two-year-old
Amberite is among the entries for the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes, and a Vigil, not the crack jumper, is in the same
race. Horse nomenclature is ever poor in new ideas.
• • • •
Entries for Caulfield Futurity Stakes, a ,£3OOO
experiment of the V.A.T.O. to be decided next month,
number 56 cracks, canterers, and crocks. People who
should know say that about a dozen will start, and that
the club will drop or alter the Futurity in future.
* * * *
Le Yar, winner of the Perth Cup, is owned by
A. G. Jenkins, ex-Attorney-General Burt’s son-in-law,
and himself the lawyer-Mayor of the goldfields’ centre.
The horse carried the money of the goldfields’ “toff-
push.” R. B. Pell, whose career on the Eastern turf was
meteoric, is—many will be glad to hear—among the heavy
winners.
* • • *
Wonderful the change wrought by the new S. A.
Gaming Act. Hundreds of people crowded Grenfell-street,
Adelaide, under the old system, and the Cohen sort of
tobacconist tote-shop flourished in every lane. Tote
books were made on every race in Australia from Melb.
Cup to Smith’s-Curse Plate. All this has vanished, and
the tote man now has to do his business down a sewer or
in a remote back alley, with the risk ever before him of a
heavy fine or six months.
* * * *
“ The American jockey Tod Sloan lost .£lOOO
by coming in second, on Keenan, in the November
Handicap,” writes Thb Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ but, nevertheless, he closed the English racing season
amidst a bunch of laudatory rockets. Five mounts in
six races against the cream of jockeyhood, resulting in
four wins and a second, merited the thousands waiting
ankle-deep in half-frozen slush to cheer the popular
lightweight. Sloan holds half a million dollars, and is
miles ahead of his English confreres in intelligence,
education, and horse-sympathy. He says he lost Lord
William Beresford’s big wager to nothing simply owing
to the going being so ‘rotten,’ Asteric, with 6st. 61b.,
giving Keenan, at 7st. 31b., a bad beating. It is ex-
pected the Yank will return and settle here, where
there is big money for Chris. Moores and Jimmy Hayses
without unpleasant risks.”
• • • •
The League of Vic Wheelmen, in its judicial
oapacity, has bitten the very dust. Reduced to a cash
capital of £5OO odd, and with the risk of an unsuccessful
race-meeting staring it in the face, the league cast aside
its poor little bit of “ frill,” and made a desperate effort
to resuscitate Bilmartin. Bill, in days of yore, was a
never-failing attraction, so the League advertised that he
would come to the assistance of Saturday’s meeting in
the event of his disqualification being removed by the
S.A. League. Subsequently a Melbourne petition to that
end was despatched to Adelaide; also, the secretary of
the L.Y.W. sent a telegram announcing William’s readi-
ness to star at the local show if the S.A. authorities would
relent. Which telegram was a shocking waste of silver,
considering that the L.V.W. might just as well have posted
an old newspaper with Bill’s name looming large in the
ad. The iron-jawed plugger didn’t get his disqualification
annulled. Moreover, the Adelaide League dropped some
nasty remarks concerning the L.V.W.’s financial policy,
and as soon as the Melbourne people begin to grasp the
full significance of those remarks they will denounce
“ the governing body of cycling” as a vain thing. The
almighty dollar is the ruling power on bike-tracks. Cir-
cumstances, beyond the control of anybody in particular,
will always prevent man-racing from being bossed to the
same degree that horse-racing is made respectable. And
heaven knows the management of the Australian turf
doesn’t command all possible respect.
This was the Vic. League’s telegram to the
S.A. League : “Megson, Barden and Kellow disqualified
for a month from January 1. Places us awkward fix
owing to engagements at our meeting. Wire result
Martin’s appeal first thing, as he is entered in anticipa-
tion,” The awkwardness of the fix was mitigated by
quashing the local disqualification of Barden and Kellow,
and leaving Megson to work out his sentence.
* * • *
The Melb. crowd, which stayed away vigorously
from recent bike-shows on the Friendly track, showed
that it has not lost interest in the sport by rolling up at
the Exhibition last Saturday when Green and Walne met
to contest the Brassard which Meg-son forfeited by his
disqualification. The one-mile event was a splendid race
—the best, in the opinion of all followers of the game,
this_ season. The pacing was by singles, and the
brilliant dash of Barden for Green, and the steady, solid
plugging of Body for Walne 'was worth going miles to
see. The dash of Barden got Green a lead of five lengths,
which the Maorilander stolidly carried Walne over, leav-
ing them to enter the last lap level. There was no wait-
ing ; they raced all the way, and when Walne beat the
Englishman by half-a-wheel, the time showed the fifth of
the mile to have been turned off in 22 4-sth sec.
The second race, over the ten miles, was a
smellful-looking affair. Numerous accidents to the
pacing triplets took place, but there were still enough
left to act had they done what was expected of them.
Walne’s teams rode splendidly, but some of the English-
man’s pace was most suspicious-looking. It seems
incredible that a team of experienced pacers should not
be able to shift a triplet faster than Green could ride
sitting up, yet that is how the Englishman did ride for a
great part of the way—indeed, for half-a-lap he actually
rode “ hands off.”. He repeatedly called for more pace,
but could not get it, and so disgusted was he at the end
of 33 laps that he rode off the track. Walne rode splen-
didly throughout, and finished alone with a great sprint.
Green was so “narked ” that he refused to get
up for England in the pursuit-race, Great Britain v. Aus-
tralasia, and consequently the dear old mother country
fell rather badly, all its men dropping out, whilst only
two of the Southerners’ four were beaten. “ Newhaven”
Jackson beat Body by about 20 yds. for first place.
The 25-mile championship in the evening was a
fine race, little Gargurevich scoring his first big win.
Gargyis oneof Vic.’s most popular riders. He is a first-
class man, has performed always well and honestly, and
yet he has never won more than a £lO prize in bis life
prior to this. He is especially good behind pace, and
possibly he may have a go at the Brassard later on.
« * » *
Ainsworth, the English crack, is horrified at
the number of “ wobblers ” that infest the Australian
tracks, to the danger not only of themselves but of better
riders. He attributes this, with some degree of truth, to
the athletic ambitions of the average Australian .youth.
“ As soon as a lad here can raise the cash for a bicycle,”
says Ainsworth, “he rushes off and buys a racing-
machine, although he may never have been on a bike in
his life previously. The result is that nobody can follow
a strange rider with a feeling of safety.” But the worst
of Aust. wobblers are men who have been years at the
game and who have won big prizes.
THE LEATHER-HUNTERS.
(Inspired by It. Kipling.)
Where do we hunt the leather
By stubborn fingers stitched ?
On hill-tops crowned with heather
Our wicket stumps are pitched J,
Across the droughted grasses
Of southern station lands
The restless red ball passes
From eager hands to hands.
Cutting the Capeweed wayward
Or bruising shamrocks low,
It madly rushes havward
Or merely dribbles slow.
Otago’s sweetest clovers
Are born to bear the brunts
Of running maiden overs,
And long-day leather-hunts.
Our slim white-blousbd sisters
At wave-washed Warrnainbool
Send down their curly twisters
To ’tice the bearded fool.
And where Gib.’s rock unyielding
Frowns darkly on the main
One sees our sodgers fielding
At furthest point of Spain.
’Tis warmed by Austral gum-fire,
’Tis fixed in frozen zones—
The Hempire of the umpire
Who no-b’led nimble Jones.
Through regions green and barren,
In climates cold and hot
The trumdling of Maclaren
Is credited to Trott.
We hunt the bounding leather
Which batsmen “ time ” and “ place,”
Where e’er we herd together
To breed God’s ruling race ;
Where e’er the bit of bunting
Proclaims Great British state,
There do we hunt the leather
For glory and for—Gate.
Melb.
E.P.


CYCLISTS of the Better Class
RIDE
REP BIRDS!
Their Excellencies
The EARL and COUNTESS OF ABERDEEN.
Distinguished Patrons of the RED BIRD.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 64 King-street, Sydney.
Factories :
Brantford,
Canada.
245 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE ;
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Agents Everywhere.
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4|in.
I read, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
*® a^lires of the New <£ls Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
TGrgcr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY; I
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(iJoIf American High J|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. 4ST Everything fancy but the price.
~ I
English« American cycles
Sent to me as Samples j
By various First-class Makers. I
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GBIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIM LEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
KING OF
CYCLES
Price,
£l2 10s.
TN€ RORP
the most wonderful value ever offered.
SPECIALITIES. —WeIdIess Steel Tubing through-
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZACKEKLEY,
ir'liiz ” Cycle VSTorlss,
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
T
H E
LAST
O F
SIX
PRICE— Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-lAghth) Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
&J e « Bire ? eauty ’ Li^ tness » Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an «
Duplicate parts always in stock. IMPERIAL.’
pm£,^ SU , PpIyA . GEI * TS and BALERS at FACTORY
pievnfi o ! carnage added), and will send a SAMPLE
Icf ur u an J-P art of Australasia (where not already
■established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. I
Reai, German Hollow Ground
fiitpe
advt
advt
advt
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LON2O'!
iM
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
„ _ BD. per 1000.
»EO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
: COMFORT IN WALKING.
( wefMm 9 s
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS ft BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM ft SON, Chemist, Cheltenham
England. '
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO,
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Melbourne
Missing Friends.
C®? t n d T ? t^w n< ? w t! ? e "hereabouts
PATRICK CROW last heard of in Cook
S writing' to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hanw f niwl ethl - ng i° h i S ac J vant^ e - Information
hankf ully received and acknowledged.
Hotels.
T?OR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THU CTtESt’EiVT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis' King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Hi 1
1
advt
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOTEL - -
VICTORIA
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
J. E. HATES
PbOPBIETOB.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
Choice sree .Luncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a
sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
M,W.G, HE ARNE,_DearSir,-I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed, At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until
reading m the Aon of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
Alter taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up • and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. Yours
E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old
andhaving been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. _ After taking three bottles of this medicine
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
m the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it ALEX t
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.” 8 ' J ‘
‘‘We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly'successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed bv
Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the nro-
pnetor, W G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong™ VictonV
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Lcadipg Pipe.
GBD
Wholesale Depdt:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
! SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
Publications.
The Music Book of the Year.
THE
Melbourne Musical Magazine
PRICE, ls.j POSTED, Is. 2d.
Allan’s
IiHH
Musical
Magazine
5.v t V
m
m
«MOWd •
I ON VN V* DM g
•tm W*M«d S.cftf T.m W<wr»fl «
«Orlnkln« - *r2t&*
a BUSIE-ÜB-*.» .
«tsa**
advt
contents:
1. Oh, Yes We Did. Sung by Tom Woottwbll.
The Greatest Chorus Song ever sung in Australia.
2. I'm Wanted. Sung by Tom Woottwbll.
Witty and suitable for clever Amateurs.
3. Pat Malone forgot that he was Dead.
Sung by Johnny Colkman.
An Irish Comic Song of Exceptional Merit.
4. In the Luggage Van Ahead. Sang by
Miss Onslow Mackay.
A Touching Little Song with a Story.
5. Love’s Sweet Story. R. M. Stults.
A Charming Ballad suitable for a Concert Number.
6. Say Yes. A Pretty Encore Song.
7. Could You? Would You? Should You?
Another “Tit for Tat."
8. The Village Blacksmith. Weiss.
The Song that will Never Die.
9. Many Happy Returns of the Day.
The Popular Birthday Song.
10. Oh, the Ocean Wave May Roll.
The Popular Rollicking Chorus Song.
11. Drinking. The Popular Bass Song.
12. Susie-ue, Hew Washington Post Dance.
Founded on the Popular Song.
Obtainable from all Music and Booksellers in
Australia and New Zealand, or direct from the
Publishers.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
Collins Street, Melbourne •
TJLLAfiS 1
'ABSOLUTLY'
jhe'Best ■
advt
TfiEir Contain
PfANO SOLOS I
PfANO DUETS 11
SOCAL DUSTS (i
SO/VOS +• )
kISTS
ILtD
;ee
%
SL'
advt
G-eo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale !s Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy ami Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English & Colonial Celebrities
mu mmol
SECOND
YEAR OF
ISSUE,
. ....JUST 0UT....
Chronicle of N.S.W. Events. AlphabeticaUy
One Shilling.
Arranged. Well Indexed.
WANTED Complete Files of The Bulletin
for 1882. Apply, Manager.
KTEW MUSIC.
nf Mv w e ,“°™ l Waltz - hy Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; Tops and Bottoms," a right merry
Barn Dance by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse"
? 3 p ur n k . a ’ by Emile Larkozy, “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka
rks - Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.’
P/l ™ SICS ?,I Ie !?‘ . or the publishers, W.
GO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues fnost freel
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c , at 3d. eaeh 3
JJENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
•Trn and T v IANO \ Martha,” “Robert Ie Diable,”
Crown Diamonds, ‘Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
’>* ««r sU TT * <Un ? a,l ° in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore, Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all
from the Publishers, W, PAXTON & Co LonrfVm
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE. London,
TbeSoffield Case.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OE SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cfpbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and SMffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CipbrocatioQ.


The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
"> - . 2
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell,Mass.,U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
advt
Ladies. -Call and
see our CHEAP
.ti ACH INKS, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
TTE
TOBACCO.
>-
V-
U J
vi>
0
OOA
XI 7
MASCOT! E
MASCOTTE
advt
Deafness
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieved
Believe all conditions of Deafness
[and Head Noises, where medical
,skill fails. The only Scientific
lAjjeal Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9to 12.
E. LENTIIALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Sydney Sunday Times geography: “Hayti,
the black republic in the Pacific. ”
When the great Jubilee orgy was in pro-
gress, the Cape of Good Hope got so especially
drunk that it promised to present Britain with a
splendid battleship. Then it cooled and sug-
gested that Britain should build the ship itself,
and the Cape people would pay interest on the
cost. Now it has frozen hard, and doesn’t quite
see its way even to pay the interest. Considering
how many people asked Australia, at that great
Jubilee whisky time, if it didn’t feel ashamed of
itself for not presenting a battleship also, this
result is highly interesting.
Cabled that 104,388 Scotchmen have peti-
tioned the Queen (Heaven only knows what she
has to do with it) that the terms “Britain” and
“ British ” be more widely used instead of
“England’’and “English.” It is mighty hard
to satisfy some people. The victories of the
“English” army everybody has heard of, still,
when the English army runs away, isn’t it always
described as a lamentable British defeat ? And if
these 104,388 Scotchmen are always remembered
when the skedaddle is in progress, what are these
104,388 Scotchmen grumbling about ?
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest,' best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Many tales are told of Gov. Brassey’s visit
to Mildura. This isn’t a tale; only a-fragment.
Euston, like all towns on the Gov.’s route, wished
to be c-n fete, and the leading townsman gathered
flags from the four winds, so to speak—anyhow,
they were a pretty ragged lot, and wanted wash-
ing before being strung on a clothes-line across the
street. He was busy fixing them on to the line,
when a neighbor came along to do the overseeing.
The leading townsman knew nothing of nautical
lore —he was only learned in dust and horses and
wool —but he had heard of the.signal-code and the
Sunbeam, so, when the neighbor assumed a sneer-
ing aspect and inquired what on earth he meant
by placing this flag and that in this and that posi-
tion on the line, he felt awkward and doubtful,
and took the offending banners off again. Then
the line looked gappy, and the leading townsman,
with his hands full of banners, grew hot and cross,
and the neighbor grew more arrogant and lectured
him: “Don’t you know that Brassey can read
flags like anything? Some of them-banners might
read as a welcome, and others he might take for a
blessed insult.” “Well,” decided the leading
townsman, “ he can take them any way he likes.
Anyhow, I’m going to hang up the lot! ” But, after
all, Brassey didn’t see them. It was midnight when
he reached Euston, and instead of stopping at the
pub. and shouting for all hands, as was reasonably
expected of him, he went straight from the punt
out to Euston station, without so much as looking
in upon the town or its decorat.ons. Same thing
next morning on passing through the town ; and
the dry and disgusted Eustonites didn’t even raise
a cheer. “Is that what we pays Governors
for ? ” asked the local publican of the crowd ; and
the crowd supposed so.
PENNY
5255*3
GO TO KELL-
JGOLANI) for Preity Stamps. We
Sell the Set, of 14, unused, for Is. fid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudin & Co.
74 ELIZA ISETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Before Starting
■ism.
52
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Hut Tonic.
• A Sure Remedy for Sea-sickness.
Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2s. 6c3L. and -is. €scl. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-PoisonouSm
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, "HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Toronto Hotel,
Tjalze
Macquarie »
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating-, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Barge en
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
eive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
MtCC.
Plum
PCD
THE
‘Plum’
( ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Jt Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rlce \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle? in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WA.BLB.A.3STT of A.r»r»OIKTTM:E3NrX to “ THE QXTBBKT.’'
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE”
Schweppe
ASK EOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODAWATER, &c.
t 7
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott, Bros.,' Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo,, Sydnejh and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


“BOWBIDGE’S 5
AS USUAL.
Elizabetb-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “ FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
am.
SaEuhiSSSMHQAt
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
‘‘GeNTlkmen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it> possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TOMC
—is the—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It' makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. (id. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fa cluing & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faci.ding & Co.
VICTORIA,. Messrs. Felton, Grim wade & Co.
THEN TRY the :
Thistle, Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. ' Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Hapdle, 12s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d., 55., Os., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
po YOU SHAVE ?
$
special;' l
Olhij.
?s>:*
WA
v m
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
SS*
Sf
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye ;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT/ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ' henow ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE of CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its us e pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.” — {From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
ME AD ACHE and Disordered Stomach. —“ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years,
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT .’
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
66
igagwji
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending November 30,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE.—
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or tientleman’s Rolled Gold Watches ~ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches ~ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers ... ” £| | S .
Cloth Bound Books £lOO
-- "SWJdGHr'SOAP/
mr does
A WOMAN
LOOX OLD
SO ONE! THAN
7
SEND THIS TOP PORTION
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to LEVER BROS., LTD , 63 PITT ST„ SVbNEV.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
. PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . .
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ Products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IST
. . • ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. JT. & D. CURRA_]\r,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
advt
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from s/fi each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, o/ti, a ll real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worthed up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzc'll,
110 William Street,
oorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List-
Prompt attention given to Country Orders,
advt
POWER WITHOUT GAS OH STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from 2J to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Fxplosions Impossible
Always Ready for Use.
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECT'ON INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR.AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
BT
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
fl
H
H
H
H
tl
H
H
H
IT
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, eash,&c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
GRIEFENDORFF’S
‘ kb: pro:
TESTIMONIAL.
Maldon (Victoria), Hist September, 189 b.
I have much pleasure in stating that the South
German Gold Mining Company has used Griefen-
dorff’s “ UKVHO ” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. We are pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director South German G.M. Co., Maldon.
\ LSO useful to Squatters for COATING
lx Waters Tanks ; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vo <els. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Assents,
ALFRED LAWRENCE & CO.,
527 Collins Strekt, MELBOURNE.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.


FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS 1
0 HUGE
COMBINED SHOWS,
INCLUDING
Carl Hagenbeck’s Zoological Circus.
t&r CROWDED, PACKED, JAMMED NIGHTLY.
THE GIIEAT NEW COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT •! First Grand Change |
j-u j of Programme. f TO-NIGHT
EVERYTHING NEW.
The Lion and Elephant riding a Tricycle
THE ELEPHANT IN NEW ACTS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 O’CLOCK.
LOCATION:
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
PRICES— 4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
Day Shows -Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Doors open at 2 ; Performance at 3.
The Splendid Band under the conductorship of Herr
Von der Mehden. Box plan at Nicholson’s; and the
Office, Hotel Australia.
TO ARRIVE ! TO ARRIVE ! Per S.S. Sonnenberg-
direct from Hamburg. The greatest animal novelty ever
seen—Watch for it. '
A LEXANDHA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Splendid, Realistic, Powerful and Romantic
Stage Story of Modern Life,
Parson’s OatH.
CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
« T 3a.es Manxman..”
The next Production will be Sheridan Knowles’s Famous
Play, “ VIRGINIUS.”
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
JJIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the management of Miss Ada Juneen.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, Jan. 13) and until further notice.
GORGEOUS XMAS PANTOMIME
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
EVERYTHING UP-TO-DATE.
__ O. VVard General Manager.
TTARMSTON’S GIGANTIC CIRCTT 4 ? ATvm
“ ZOOLOG aS^oYm”
LOCATION: PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESS!
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
R. Love, Manager; C°i. c. B. Hicks, Representative-
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent. ’
miiEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SUPERB XMAS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON.
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Uusual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Acting Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr H
R. Roberts, Mr. Percy Ward; for Messrs. Holloway and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hardy. y
A^TLVER~WnfCH
Gri’VJESnxr
HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
rrY? WATCHES, listed at £2 10s
(Lady s or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
folio win g PUZZLIf•— 3 ° ORRECT READING of the
S*C*E*S T* F*D*R*T*ON.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
i our soiia
_. . t SEND NO MONEY.
fo T ard y° ur answer and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won a watch. ou 11
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
„t v. EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have received the watch and chain per terms of the
l^ 6ment ’ and “ P erfec * order, and the qualUyof
which gives me more than satisfaction.—Yours &c y
Mrs. W. M’CARTHY, South Broken Hill."
Address—THE MANAGER
The English and Jewellery Company
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd FLOOR)
PITT STREET, SYDNEY •
AND AT S 3 and 35 OLD EXCHANGE, ADELAIDE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
• a " d STVT t CHEAPEST ’ and moat
xijibu Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
advt
Our Suit to Order at 42'- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3 To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
", e su Pl>ly Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/d. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefullv, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned!
We have built-up our immense business by beinsr tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
' { &T, Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST,, and 234 FLINDERS ST
ijIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Overwhelming Success of the First Pantomime of the
_ _ Season,
JACK, THE GIANT KTT.T.TTR
The array of Talent engaged for Mr. Rickards’ first
pantomime is the talk of Sydney. PRICES-3s, 2s and Is.
Book seats at Paling’s. Matinees every Wednesday and
Saturday. Children half-price.
T I Y P P 1 T HEATRE, SYDNEY.
_. _ s ° ,e Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
ihe Coolest Theatre in Sydney owing to the Sliding Roof.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MR. AUSTIN Runn
One of England's Star Comic Vocalists; Author and
Composer of Every Song he Sings.
Reappearance, and Magnificent Reception Nightly of
Mr - Harry Ricltarda.
Furore created each evening by
® "A'he Kellinoes S
The most marvellous Gymnasts and Acrobats yet seen.
T H o K , T OPE i tA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
T J^ Bsee & Man - Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE MOST SENSATIONAL FURORE
Ever Known in Australia Nightly Created by the three
HiEGaL^iiyrA.iixnKrs.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
JOSEPH — THE WALDRONS ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
IST - TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING!
LYCEUM GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON UP TO DATE.
160 UPON THE STAGE 150.
An altogether new and original version of the famous
story of Dick and his cat up-to-date, up to Dick, and up
to the most exacting requirements of the vast Lyceum
audiences.
The same Popular Prices—2s., Is. and SIXPENCE.
J. and C. MACMAHON.
ORITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
Frank Thornton—“ Charley’s Aunt.”
Undoubtedly the Greatest Success ever Produced.
It ran for over four years in London. The Record Run
of the Record Reign.
THE SUN NEVER SETS ON CHARLEY’S AUNT.
3s, 2s, Is—Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is. No early doors. No
extra fee for booking. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
XTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
•*'* Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening. Matinees, Wednesday & Saturday.
The grand, gorgeous, spectacular, comio pantomime,
Tbe Babes ii> tbe Wood.
Interpreted by a Great Burlesque Company.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Our 1898 Registered Novelty “ Bird Brooch.
Surpassing the old style of Twin Swallows for Strength and Durability.
9ct. Gold,
15s.
15ct. Gold,
20s.
POST
FREE.
<3f § -Alliance
JTejf/sferec/
advt
CLOSED
ISct. Gold,
with
Rondella
Bead
in centre
of
chain,
225. 6d,
O PEN
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone
(Merry Thought) Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
pearl centre, 20/- each.
Plain, large size ... 7/6 each.
»> small size 5/- each.
Pearl Set all round 20/- each.
advt
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Pine Diamonds, jE7 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £B.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Solid Plain Plat.
9-carat, 17 6, 20/-, 25/-
15- 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 5/-
RICHLY CHASED.
9-carat, 17,6, 20/-, 25/-
16- 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 4/-, 5/-
Tusk Links.
Silver-mounted, 4 6 pair.
Gold-mounted, 13/6 pair.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Silver-Mounted
Gold-Mounted
4/6 each.
13/6
Biall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE! VALUE, £1 Each.
Hundreds of other Novel Designs
—IN —
RINGS, DINKS, BROOCHES, &c.
POST FREE
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant,
13 6 each.
With Bell and Chain Pendant, 12/6 each.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/ T .
Ruby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
Plain Band Bing.
. 9-carat, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
15-carat, 20/-, 22 6, 27/6
18-carat, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
With any name, 1/- extra.
9-ct., 22/- pr. 15-ct., 37/6 pr
Sliver, 4/6 pr. 6 patterns.
advt
advt
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
90 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Cellular Atl £,
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling 1 ,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/- and {5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
\ Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
• . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New)
Address: /
73 & 75 King 1 Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO., Sole Agents
for New South Wales.
K
<n
.A. Groia WatctL for Ladies Free.
What Words are These
* *
D C*L*N**L G*R * S!
c. j are Reliable 1 imekeepers. List Price. £5 10s ’
bend your answer at once, with an addressed envelope, to know’if vou have won the PTJT7T? rr
W , AT?^ OU ih P e Urch n Se K on \ of our REAL GOLD LADIES’ CHAINS to iS wUh the PRIZP
WA.TCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by registered post. Address— E
The Manager, The GlobelWatch Company, Ltd.,
(V 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Great Dental
Divorce Case.
ft
R
%
4
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE:
Did you suggest to R ds that he should take
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness: I may have; I think he was taking it
at the time. I think that is in answer to a tele-
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness.
Have you had a drink to-day ?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
Mr. W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nut Tonia*
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yea.
Do you find it good for you ?
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.)
Ihe Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size'and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
Ultimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro*
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
“ALOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter: What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “ Oh! my favorite reviver—
ALOE, with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOB
“ALOK”
Mighty “ ALOK ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MTT.K
If You Do Not Specially Order
“A.LOK,”
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
IN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
KOK/fidperGMSS.
2s. 6d. & 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR—
“ALOK”
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
PHARMACY:
337 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OEEICE),
SYDNEY.
■ In the Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.


Stocktaking Closing-Out Sale
—AT—
FINNEY (£L€£ & CO.’S
IS NOW ON.
GOODS in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED for this
CLEARING-OUT SALE.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Any Change over, after executing Orders, will
be at once refunded, and COUNTRY CUS-
TOMERS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, with the ex-
ception of certain heavy or bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods are thus Delivered to all parts of the Colony
AT BRISBANE CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Closing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed. In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sold, authority should be given for
us to substitute the nearest. In substituting goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
Finney isles & cd., Brisbane,
IELUTS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
suoplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
2£AIIt»KESSEetS A\l» WIG MAKERS
** l<> the Trade.
landed. Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
Variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak- ■'
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks'
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs’
Crynpmg Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
vanetv of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mir ors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles
rv. Ur , Cl 'P pe U nnd Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
PeHumety Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, & c
f‘~7 • 6 engage m ? n for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. bd. fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from 5s 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scaloets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 d 683 George Street, Sydney,
Vour Life or thatSi6al£.T tobacco?
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
PALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
A Russian chemist has found a new anaes-
thetic several thousand times more powerful than
chloroform, which volatilises most readily and)
when mixed freely with air, will act at great dis-
tances. Experiments are being made to see if it
cannot be enclosed in bombs, with a view to put-
ting opposing troops to sleep instead of to death.
In N.S.W. it is not necessary for a
death to be registered prior to burial of the
body, and a medical certificate as to cause of
death is not obligatory. The Australasian
Medical Gazette draws attention to the need of
tresh legislation in the public interest and for
private safeguard.
George S. Perrin, Tic. Conservator of
lorests, avers that Boyle’s “giant” gum, stated
by Baron von Mueller to be 500 feet high, is but
zlj feet 6m., the latter height being established
by a theodolite survey by Engineer Fuller, of Yio.
Water Works Department. Also, that no tree in
Victoria has yet been found which is up to or over
400 feet. Up to now the story has gone that there
were lots of 400 ft. eucalyptus in the Cape
Otway ranges.
A mechanical marvel is the new monotype-
machine, which will cast its own type, set, and
properly space-out its matter, without being
touched by a human finger. The matter to beset
is first punched on a roll of paper in round holes
corresponding to the position of the matrix of the
type on the composing machine, and this roll is
then ted into t e machine, which casts and sets
the types separately and places them in lines and
columns on a galley without further human agency*
Justification is rendered possible by the fact that
although the line is set forward, the machine sets
it backwards, and thus has the key to the spacing
before the line is set at all.
The late Earl of Peterborough was a iioted
character in London drawing-rooms for his consia-
tent intoxication, and other things* He once went
to a reception by the Duchess of Lansdowne, and
arrived early but full. Unluckily, as he ap-
proached to pay his respects to the hostess, art
ottoman interposed, and the old gentleman—whose
best-known nickname was ** Early —fell sprawl-
ing on the floor at the feet of the duchess, and
there he remained, perfectly content to lie till
morning. But the lady was indignant. “ Get
away, you drunkeii wretch!” she said, spurning
him with her foot. “Early” raised his head irt
pained remonstrance —“ Not drunk, duchess,” he
assured her, pathetically, not drunk i only very -
very tired 1” '
The Patentees —Macniven & Cameron Ltd.—
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.”— l)over Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen. The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Dear Bulletin,— Re Texas (Q.) tobacco-
growmg. _ The persons responsible for the Chinese
invasion include some very big squatters and
pastoral companies. I hear there is enough
tobacco to last for six years, and although some
of the small men have to knock off for want of
funds, there is no decrease in the number of
Chinese ; on the contrary, people are still renting
ground and sub-letting to Chinese. To give an
idea of the beauties of hard graft, I know a man
who has just got £4 6s. for over twelve months’
work at tobacco, and another has received about
>*4oo as his share of 40 acres Chinese-grown leaf,
j This man pays Id. per acre per annum for his
lease of 4000 acres. As Tex As gave Foxtort 33 of
his majority of 50, and made him Minister for
Lands, he will no doubt do something for them. (?)
It was in Fox ton’s paddock that the Chir c -~*>
grew tobacco here. Why people want Chinese is
a puzzle, as some of the tobacco-growers have men
working for ss. per week. Chinamen would take
prussic acid rather than accept such a wage. Most
of the Chinese employers are natives. The Aus-
tralian is the most unpatriotic animal on God’s
footstool.—H. S. R.
“I'U Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken,6Bo-682 George - st„ Sydney
A BOON to SYDNEY.
advt
FOUR
[IVES
Up sy
BY THE
Centennial Insect powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas,- Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO. LIMITED, 62 Queens-
land Offices, Bridge-street, Sydney.
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
“If you damped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
DE. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
v\
KRUSES
advt
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and G-arden*
Destroys Aphis and Other
Carden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs* Fats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
Harmless to animal life.
CAUTION-— Beware of Imitatioiis*
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S*
m
PMRoT
BRAND'
advt
st*oI Juy**v* j
62 Solo) SW9«<S>
SqwooM Swi^£
raiHO
MELBOURNE.
IMPOST FREE-^v
Watches-Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
Wedding tGtoisTEiMc Presents
h-N.EV/MANI- 1755177-ELIZABETH 8*«
OPPOSITE CiP.Q-
MELBOURNE.
| —godalla Clieese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
|—{odalla XJams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
VI lON.—It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
bodalla
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholes aue Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYBNEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Windl Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLFAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
MilW
DEAF
W
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
|Completely overcome Deafness
Bar.d Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ear* as glasses are to the
*X es- Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
advt
TTIOLINS, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
¥ 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
465, 60s, 90s, and 106 s {
Violin Strings) “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set J
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
645, 755, 90s, 1355; AUtO-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 35s j
Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
_ . „ 17s, 18s, 25s and 30s; Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. 0s and 90s; Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Aither Banjos /5s and 90s ; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Mouth
Organs, 2s 6ril; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, 01' Is, U'eehhf. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges, Send for our New
illustrated Catalogue*
J. ALBERT & SON. 118 King-st,, Sydney,
w
tanglefoot
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
res PIPER.
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W, TEUM CO,,
AIICH;, UiS.A.,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
("NLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine ChlorodynO.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked whieh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Kelts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, w'e give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not w'e will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely vvhat we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
advt
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter. J
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/oOS WeakQeSs - - .
AND
Ccr'bro-SpiQal Piseas«i>,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD
whieE has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and >vill be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.


.mrn
mm
rp. JTelepUve,36 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney Exchange.
30 " tn THE L .
T — ■ >nd «. billiaei
.to. '£ *-** *•»«<*.»«*■«. M „„„»
andH°t Sa.lt Water Baths ( a Sure Cure for Rheumatic onlvone mfnff Swimming Baths; also, Electric
Boating ; also, splendid Stabling- Accommodation P ) ’ only one mmutes walk from hotel. Fishing anc
Terms: From 25J- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“ LICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
“^at'Famed^rticll- 0 a G °° d Wife; and especially happy is the wife when she
A. Soyer’s Bakiog Powder.
early s "to useU^lidTs nse and be 80 hght ’ that the good wife rises
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle
DENTAROMA 1/fi S Tf UNUT TON I C ’ 2/3 - This is a pure article-guaranteed.
NTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER 1/6
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Pat&s.
TRUSSES,. SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoo H.SoOI & Co., m’sp.s.,
153, ISO. and 233 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
CRurcß-street, Parramatta.
, /tj
/ Ji
7, rg
a
PCI
W,
ii——i
®5®S
M
I
Adams's Hotel and fflarble gar
AND
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
0
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
Hotel and Caf4 have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
s' room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
j other hotel in the colony.
i Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Telephone 728.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
engines
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
AVALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Cotontat
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE. Manager.
advt
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d>, & 1/- each.
GOODALL’3
CUSTARD POWDER,
instructions give, .«
„ . . Proprietors: GOODALL. Backhoikp * <’<» i uufv?? VJIS« *“• Glve,tatr,al -
Sole Agents for New South Wales
.3ACKWHJ<p
11LL0CK & Cu.. i* uiN i
C'»
... Li
«.HHD3. ENG.
STREETS. SYDNEY.
Bedstead and Woven Wire Mattress Combined.
•at .^ ade ,Y i<; u e l xtra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wir«
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loos«
o ins ann snalrv imnto
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in twc
minutes. No tools required to fix them.
2ft. Cin. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
. 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPRING WOVEN WIRE MATTRESSES.
French, lin. posts, very strong
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do.
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No. la, Extra close woven double wires
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands
No.. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires...
3*5
.
LIT;
;>OR CLUBS, HOTfeLS,
-BARRACKS,
, SCHOOLS.
HOSPITALS A, OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OF MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy JSedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
Mattresses
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want!
APTj we ask.
Try us for your Bedsteads, Bedding, Kitchen, Dining,
and Bedroom Furniture, Austrian and American Chairs,
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS. —Now is
the time to Replenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
but Call and See, or Write for our New Wholesale
Catalogue, with Designs and Prices. If you want
with LARGE STOCKS to crivo win, ■ , * , *° , bu y in the CHEAPEST MARKET, WE ARE READY
know von are AMrmT ot nc t A * th ?. klnd of vakle to draw Trade to your Stores, and letting your Customers
cw/and Snlelhie . YV k the + atter you. When Goods are Cheap, buy freely. Ours are always
sending- lis vnnr orrfpv« P tlon must I " c f? ase - J)o not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
orTyie^amJsDOt° r< Nc) S chaii < eT‘customer; why not ours? We have been established more than 30years
certainly'evidence ofmerß M^eJSj? lUreS ’ bUt COntinUed and P ro^ess ‘ The above fac4 are
John Lawler m Sens,
TELEPHOOT! B 6 STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No. 4, 6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
’ Established 1860.
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
I
J3OOK OF iNATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d ’
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French. Is • bv
post Is 3d. ’ J
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It. Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion; pest 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post, j
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
The Serpent Tempted Her : A Confession, Is 3d
posted. Mv Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
+l, tj? " C I RKS op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d. 8
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
. Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
- 1?8' aUJjhe tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is: post
fee Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
POKER MACHINES
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE EOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
suiAvonoj a in joj iMa^y
miimiit
11
MUOIS 3HJ. Nl o£dOHa
NOWIKIS >l3l IN IN3DI
ia^rjaafeg^Sas
33HJ SHV3IO
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS-
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutiery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers'
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
—AND —
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
?SHjPkA» EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c. •
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £100." Cash or Time-Payment.
t 0 a, ' y pa i lt °f.n ustral,a 0n roce 'Pt of remittance. The Tr ,de supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony. PP
rir
SIMMONS,
Tobacco iilercliant & Importer,
HAYMAIIKET, SYDNEY.


“APENTA,”
The best Natural Aperient Water.
Believes the kidneys, unloads the liver, and
opens the bowels.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co., Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W. #
Professor Hartigan, of West Virginia
University, U.S.A., reports in New York Medi-
cal Journal (Nov. 13) the birth of a tremen-
dously, big baby. Scanzoni (Italy) found, on nine
thousand births, an average of 71b. weight. Lusk,
of Bellevue Hospital, New York, got an average
from 200 births of seven and two-thirds lbs. But
Hartigan’s case—a young woman of 21 years, first
child—went up to 181 b. As a check, the father
and the doctor and another physician weighed the
child. Both parents were small and young.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian srems.*
AS AN ESS is
FULL OF MEAT,
MARK FOY’S
Replete With
Seasonable Benefits.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Cooling. Sparkling. Fresh.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
- A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
CIGARS FRE
? i
DROPSI IN THESLO
m
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS EOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street
- Sydney.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
/ THE M OST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORI.D.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES*
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/- each. .
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEE OS. ENG
Sole Agents for Slew South Wales:
XII«I<OCK & CO., KENT and EIVERPOOE STREETS, S fDNEV,
His Own Sauce!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Morton the missionary hated Chinamen
tike—a Cornstalk. The feeling was an actual
part of the man—one of those despotic instincts
without which he would hare been simply some-
body else.
“ The worse Christian, I! ”he dolefully acknow-
ledged. “ God made the Chinaman, and Christ
died for him” (this was conventional) “but”
(and this was the man himself) “ I almost wish He
hadn’t 1 ”
So, when Kum Sang Lo, the chief trader of
Tibak, in Borneo, laid a fat, familiar paw upon
the gospeller’s shrinking shoulder, the white man
responded with a most ungodly kick. A Dyak
would for this have split his skull, a Malay would
have stabbed him, and another white man would
have knocked him down. Kum Sang Lo did none
of these things. He didn’t jabber curses either,
which was a bad sign; and he smiled benignly,
which was a worse one.
“Why you that?” he said quietly. “Me
Clistian ! Me b’long Singapore. Me Baba—
Blitish subjick, all same you ! ”
Then Morton knew that he had done a foolish
thing. The Baba, the Sirigapore-born Chinaman
—with the patience of one race, the intelligence
of two, and the rascality of a dozen —is about the
most solid and effective enemy any man can make.
And when Kum Sang Lo, still plaintively assert-
ing his British nationality, had shuffled away
amongst the sugar-canes, Morton told himself that
the climate of Tibak would hardly be a healthy
one for him in future. “I’ll get out of it to-
morrow ! ” said he.
But the latitude of Tibak is exactly 0, and such
intimate association with the equator is not con-
ducive to promptitude. The morrow came, and
Morton didn’t go—then another morrow, and he
couldn’t go, for it found him lashed —pending the
completion of a commercial transaction—to a post
of the head-house.
The business didn’t take long. Kum Sang
Lo, “Christian and British subject,”of the one
part, did engage and contract, upon receipt of the
body of one Moritun, a white man, to make over
and convey unto Joga-Rut, Orang-Kaya, pagan,
and subject only of himself, of the other part, ten
Rusa jars in good order and condition.* The
high contracting parties lighted each a cigar-
puffed—exchanged—puffed again—laid the cigars
end to end on the ground between them—and
Morton was the Chinaman’s chattel!
Not without protest. ‘ ‘ Thy father, Matu, would
not have done this thing,” Morton said, as with
rattan lashings he was being trussed neck-and-
heel for transport. ‘ ‘ Not for a hundred Rusas
would he have sold his friend to this yellow
reptile! ”
Matu had indeed been Morton’s friend, and
Joga was hardly his enemy. But Joga was
greedy, and the price was big—about .£l2O of
British money. So he made answer—sucking
durian-pulp the while:
“ My father, Matu, having made a bargain,
kept it. This bargain is made, and I am my
father’s son. There is no more to be said.”
• * * *
Unbound, but caged and left alone, Morton
wondered what was to come next. But not till
evening did he know. The trader’s pig-eyed
satellites brought him food, and them he ques-
tioned. Malay he used; then Dyak ; lastly Eng-
bsh ; but the fellows were newly-imported
binkehs—native-born Chinamen—and not a word
did they understand ; so Morton, hungry, turned
to the food they had brought. Stewed fowl and
yams, maize-bread and pratehan. Pratchan—
prawn-paste—is good, but it is fiery-salt, and
Morton instinctively took the cover off the big
water-jar in the corner. It was full, and, re-
assured, he set to work upon the solids. But
presently the pratchan told, and Morton dipped a
brass cup and drank—one mouthful only ! The
water was sea-water!
This was to. be it, then ! A heavy price for a
kick I the thirst-death of China; known also
well in Borneo, and not entirely unpractised by
the paternal Hollander upon the recalcitrant
Javani. The door? —the floor?—the walls? No
use ! The bamboos—smooth as glass and flinty
hard—let in between them light and air, but
would have held an elephant. What light there
was by this time was moonlight, and the prisoner,
peeping-through a chink, saw, black and moveless
on the glinting sea, a big Malay prahu.
• m ■ * m
When Morton, half-a-dozen years before,
had saved, in Singapore, the life of Radeen Alang,
he had made, unwittingly, a first-class investment
in gratitude. Beset by bhang-drunken Klings
upon the Tanjong Passar road, the little Malay
skipper—but for the sturdy man of God, his fist,
and foot—would have been bambooed to a jelly,
and quietly dropped thereafter into the mangrove
swamp. And now the prahu Morton saw was
Radeen’s, across from Singapore for cocoanuts and
sago, and loaded up this night for sea. Radeen,
ashore at midday, had seen the white man carried
into Kum Sang Lo’s house. The beard was long
and the hair grizzled, but the Malay eye is sharp ;
Radeen knew his man. The trader, questioned,
grinned and said nothing; whereupon Radeen,
ruminating, went off to his vessel and made his
crew a little speech.
At moonset they came ashore in a body—Madura
men and Sundanese—and, when the craft got her
anchor up at dawn, she had Morton and Kum
Sang Lo as passengers—the Chinaman against
his will. All day the. prahu slipped along eight
knots before a ‘ soldier’s wind ” and at night,
while Morton slept, she left behind upon the
moonlit water a little raft of empty casks. There
was a naked man upon it—Kum Sang Lo —a tam-
bok of salt fish, a jar of pratchan, and —well, he
had the whole ocean to drink from.
.Next day “ cooked ” the castaway, but not “ in
his own sauce,” after all. A shaven crown, an
equatorial sun, a mad plunge over, ana—a well-
dined shark.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
* Antique jars of peculiar make figure largely as repre-
sentatives of Bornean wealth. The Naga jar is worth
about £8, the Rusa £12, and the Gusi, which is extremely
rare, is value for about £500 worth of property.
The Fight at Brannigan's Hole.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brannigan’s Hole was like a racecourse. The
fence by the creek was lined with buggies and
hacks, and everybody was talking about Uncle
Jim and “Stiffener” Welsh. “Crook” Moore
and “ Spud ” Maloney marked out a ring at the
bottom of the slope, where Brannigan had set up
a cask of beer. Uncle Jim came over the bridge
looking hot and flurried ; several bookies, who
had come up for the Skinner Flat Handicap, ran
over to meet him, and said he’d better have a rub-
down after his walk. Uncle Jim kept at a dis-
tance and waved them off.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “ I’m as fit as a nail-can ;
I’m trained to the hour.” He walked to the ring
and scrutinised it closely. “A man can’t be too
careful about his ground when he’s depending on
his footwork and reach,” he said. “ Reach and
footwork will pull me through, boys.”
(Uncle Jim has a wonderful reach. When Aunt
kept a boarding-house at Mudgee, the butcher
used to drive up under the window, and walk
round to the side-door for orders. One of the kids
would watch until his back was turned, and sing
out “ Now ! ” Like a flash Uncle Jim would reach
out of the window and collect all the loose corned
beef and sausages that happened to be at the
bottom of the cart. Uncle Jim’s reach is some-
thing above the average).
The crowd shifted suddenly, and everyone said,
“ Here he is.” “ Stiffener ” Welsh skipped out of
a buggy and shook hands with “ Crook ” Moore.
About 60 men left the cask of beer to ask
“ Stiffener ” how he felt. Stiffener didn’t say
anything. “Crook” Moore went up to Uncle
Jim, and told him that over a hundred pounds
would change hands on the event, and he wanted
to know whether Uncle would put up five pounds
as a guarantee that there would be no faking.
Uncle Jim looked into “Crook’s” one eye.
“ S’pose I lick hell outer Welsh, how much will I
git?”
“ A purse of fifty quid,” roared Crook, “ and
the championship of the Castlereagh.” Uncle
Jim took a long breath and looked at me.
“ Don’t mix it with Stiffener,” whispered
Crook—“hit him from a safe distance.”
Uncle Jim peeled to his singlet and tightened
his belt. Stiffener Welsh jumped into the ring;
he was stripped to the waist and eager to begin.
The referee asked Uncle Jim to take off his
singlet, but Uncle explained that he was afraid of
catching influenza.
“ Time ! ” shouted Crook. Uncle looked white
and haggard as he moved out of his corner ; some-
body said he was the dead image of Corbett.
Nobody laughed. Stiffener leaped forward like a
runner off the mark, but Uncle Jim retreated
cleverly. Stiffener followed, swinging his right,
but Uncle whizzed away and never gave him a
single chance.
Round 2. Stiffener jumped out at the call of
“Time.”. Uncle was soon away at the other side
getting in a lot of useful footwork, and never
allowing Welsh to become really dangerous.
Uncle ended the round in fine style, with Stif-
fener sprinting hopelessly after him.
Round 3. More footwork and comments.
Round 4. “Crook ” Moore advised Stiffener to
go in and disembowel Uncle. Stiffener replied
that if anyone would -lend him a good horse and a
week’s tucker, he’d ohase Uncle over to Condobo-
lin. The referee said he couldn’t allow remarks
of that kind to pass, as they were injurious to
Uncle’s reputation.
Roimd 5 and last.—The crowd closed in, and
Stiffeher suddenly cornered Uncle Jim, and swung
his right with a terrific hang on his ribs. Uncle
drew up stiffly and sighed.
“ Holy Moses! ” said Crook. “ What the h—l
was that ? ” You could have heard the blow half-
a-mile away. Stiffener looked at his fist and
breathed on it, and then held it between his knees
for three minutes by the referee’s watch. “ Time! ”
shouted “ Crook.” Stiffener stepped back a little,
picked up his coat, breathed on his fist, and
walked right out of Brannigan’s Hole without
saying a word. “ Crook ” Moore went up to
Uncle, and handed him a big, fat purse. Nbbody
spoke or made any remark whatever, and in three
minutes a line of buggies was tailing off towards
Skinner’s Flat.
I followed Uncle home, and when we got inside
he closed the door carefully, and began to laugh.
“ Took ’em all down, by G—d ! Did ye hear that
punch Stiffener gave me ? ”
I said it sounded like the bang of a wool-press.
“ They’re a smart crowd,” he chuckled. “ Syd-
neyites and spielers, every man of ’em. But the
brains are in the country, my lad, and there’s
many a wrinkle picked up in the backblocks.”
He stripped off his singlet, and X saw hundreds
and hundreds of wrinkles; his chest was cased in
crocodile skin, and each vulnerable' point was
studded with brass knobs: the skin interlaced like
a pair of stays. He looked hard at me, and threw
it under the bed. “Splendid thing for th’
kidneys,” he said. “My word, that bi J of hide has
saved me a heap of pain. ” He brought out the purse,
weighed it in his hand, and tossed it to me, play-
fully. I pitched it back; he refused it skittishly, and
tossed it back again. I opened it while he gigtrled
over my shoulder. The purse was fairly stuffed
with silver and gold. A half-crown slipped from
my fingers and dropped with a thud to the hearth-
stone. Uncle picked it up and bit off a piece. I
shook up the purse and emptied about a hundred
little Jubilee medals on to the table. Neither of
us spoke. I went out for a stroll and stayed away
until dark. When I returned he was standing in
the same position.
ALBA DORION.


When I entered the profession most of
the Judges had married their mistresses. The
rule _ was that the barrister (on attaining the
bench) must either marry her or cast her off.
■Lord Campbell.
Hordern Brothers (Pitt - street). Hew
Mosquito Net Price List (and catalogue). Get
one. If you write on a post-card it will do, and
will reach us safely as long as you put
Hordern Brothers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only),
Sydney.*
EASY RUNNING
NEW HOME'
SEWING MACHINES.
advt
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
hand machines
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES. CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-inown
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post, 6d.
advt
advt
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE No. 14.
«9 9a. CASH. £lO 101. TIME PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST (Haymarket), SYDNTY. •
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
advt
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
D . ■ lnv 'gorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and. Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
advt
advt
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated "Prototype" Band In*
strnments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
VICTORY” Compensating Piston Comets, as per Illustr’n., £l4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL <fc CO.
227 Lit. Colllns-st.,
Melbourne.
AGENT FOR F. BESSON & CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS
IN
Fio?St at)d Largest WareboGS?
lIKT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON^'PLANO
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS ’
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE !mf™? lIEDMAYER & SOBHNE PIANOa
iHE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
all THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
syidotey,
The Seaman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, a song of the heart she lilted,
As we strayed in the evening’s haze,
And watched the strange, dim, distant range
Flush red in the western rays.
I remember the word she whispered
And the flash of the downcast eyes :
The low, hushed talk and the homeward walk
By the sheen of the starlit skies.
But the love that she dreamed at daydawn
Died down with the morning mist,
lake a breath that played on a gleaming blade,
Or a wave that the shore has kissed.
She has driven me out before her
With a g be and a scornful laugh,
And bowed her down for a tinsel crown
At the Shrine of the Golden Calf.
And . . . what held her wayward fancy?
The trick of a wastrel tale ?
The deep-voiced lays of the rovers’ ways—
The sons of the scud-clad gale ?
Was she led from her land-locked city,
From the glare of the wind-swept streets?
Did she face the surf from the spray-splashed turf,
Where the heart of the ocean beats?
But the vision was soon forgotten,
With a smile at the passing dream
Of some old, grey town, where the ships go down
On the breast of the mighty stream.
For how could she know the voices
Or the call of the yearning seas ?
Her heart’s o’ the land : should she understand
The song of the seaward breeze ?
So passing, she leaves behind her
Just the sting of a new-wrought wrong,
The low-breathed word the night-wind heard
And the ghost of a drifting song.
But the sea-breeze, high in the tree-tops
Is crooning the old refrain :
“Return to the track of the drifting rack,
Oh, Child of the Outer Main !
“We are sent of the sea to call you
By the strength of your early love.
Go down: she waits at the rock-bound gates
Where the Night-Guides gleam above.
For the tramp rides out at moorings,
And the liner will sail at noon,
And the coasters bide for the ebbing tide,
And the light of the waning moon.”
I have bought the pride of freedom
At the price that my heart has paid,
And I’ve lain too long with the town-bred throng
For the sport of a wanton maid.
There are spots in the reef-strewn ocean
(In the life of a soft south moon)
Where a man may rest on a ripe brown breast
By the side of the still lagoon.
Let the liner stand out for London
And the bellowing Biscay nights ;
I’ll sail again to the Wicked Main
By the track of the Great South Lights.
So it’s ho ! for the flying spindrift,
And the hiss of the creaming seas,
And the drunken reel of a trader’s keel
To the rush of the off-shore breeze.
M.L.
V.R.B.
Compensations.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had said, “Aw ! go on, Steve ; she’ll
hang long enough.” And his mate, a green hand
just starved off a drought-ruined farm, bankrupt
now in purse and in spirit, had been ashamed to
show his fears ; for, after all, they might only be
due to his new-ehum ignorance. But when, two
hours after, Hawkins, dropping his hammer,
cried, “Back, back!” Steve Turner, the green
hand, still clutching the drill, looked up at the
overhanging ore face to know why. That wasted
moment cost him his life.
His widow, querulous as women hre apt to be
who bear many children in the midst of misfor-
tunes begotten still faster, cursed Hawkins, know-
ing none else to curse. Besides, she argued, in
justification, hadn’t the jury said that Hawkins
had not exercised sufficient care?
Which Hawkins knew even better than the jury
did. He was a fool, he said to himself, to have
taken a new-chum on as mate ; but having taken
the new-chum on—well, he alone was clearly re-
sponsible for the safety of the workings. And
the neck-band of his shirt always became unbear-
\ ini en he recallecl those words of his—“ Go on
she 11 hang long enough. ” That he had used them
was the torturing secret of his life
Turner’s widow distractedly wrote to the com-
pany asking whether they wouldn’t do something
for the penniless family of a man killed in the
mine.
For reply she got some type-written sympathy •
as to any claim, they begged to refer her to the
verdict of the coroner’s jury, which she would see
absolved the company from all responsibility
Ihe jury’s verdict blamed the mate. So she
sent the letter, with some parts underlined, to the
already tormented Hawkins.
I can t see no’t else to be done,” Hawkins said,
desperately j 111 have to marry her —and her six
Ung u uns * G ’blime, though, others can have all
the other new-chums for mates to do their bul-
iockm —no more for me.”
She married, of course. What else could she
do . And married him, too ; who else would have
her—in her condition ?
Two months afterwards he heard her still speak
of him as the man who killed her husband.
Yet he was patient. “It will be orlright,” he
’t. a^ter t * le child is born ” —Turner’s child.
But the months dragged through their course, the
child was born, and the load of his silent agony
was not lifted. 6 J
A quarrel would have been a relief. It might
have cleared the atmosphere. But she would not
quarrel.
“ Oh, yes,” she simpered, when appealed to, “ of
course I care for you ; ” then added, “I am quite
resigned.” It was torment.
She was utterly unreasonable, no doubt; but —
and his accusing secret softened his further
thoughts of her.
“ re we never to get any more pleasure out of
01 J r ii v ? s ' asked, half-confidentially and
wholly in sorrow.
“ Pleasure ? ” she echoed, with what might have
been either a sigh or a sneer. “ Pleasure ’ Oh
yes, by all means But don’t bring the woman
here. That's all.”
Another woman—merciful heavens !
“ When I go under,” he said, stung at last, “ I
hope to God you’ll be so provided for that no
ether poor devil 11 feel a call to marry you.”
M yes. No doubt the company’ll compensate
me handsome for the loss of you,” also with unac-
customed bitterness.
“ The comp’ny compensate you ? , It’s an idea,
certainly and about the only one worth a curse I
ever heard from you.”
* * * *
The mine-timber was on fire. The engine-
whistles shrieked a tremulous call to all hands,
r roin the men gathered early at the shaft-mouth
awaiting the change of shift volunteers were
sought to rescue two workmen—some said that
three must be cut off—and to beat back the flames
from the shaft, if yet there was time for that.
Hawkins was the first man in the cage.
ffwo limp and helpless beings, grimy with
smoke, and bruised and bleeding, were brought to
the plat and sent up. And while yet the cage was
swiftly to the surface with them,
niL T groped his way back along the level.
Ihe flames roared in the stopes ; the clouds of
heavy pme-wood smoke rolled over and fought
with one another in their race to the outlet of the
open shaft.
Hawkins was still missing. No answering
sound came from the drive to the calls of the
rescue-party. Hawkins—and perhaps a third
man.
Toot by foot the gasping miners who sought
them were driven back.
“ Into the cage ; it’s no use. I won’t risk more, ”
the manager shouted above the roar. “ He’s suf-
focated by this. We’ll send the cage back, in case
he reaches the plat.”
The knocker-line was pulled, and the engine
answered in an instant.
1 resh volunteers sought to descend and search
for the missing rescuer ; but already the smoke in
the shaft was impenetrable.
*_ * * *
The shift-boss told the story of Hawkins’
bravery—how, having helped to rescue the two
men, he had crawled into the choking, blinding
darkness for the third man, whom he, no doubt
supposed to be cut off. And the shift-boss told
how the hero had been fully conscious of the
danger which he faced ; for he had called back, as
he disappeared in a rolling smoke-cloud—“ Good-
bye, chaps.”
The newspapers drew parallels with battle-field
scenes, of course; the coroner alluded to “the
subject s heroism; and the jury gave up their
fees to the widow.
And Mrs. Hawkins received another letter of
sympathy from the company, signed this time by
tne chairman, with a postscript notifying that a
cheque for -2100 had been sent to the secretary of
the relief fund.
“ <8280! ” she said—“ .£230 from the fund, and
±lOO insurance he had into the bargain,
wickxl j^ ,w ' clns cou ld ha’ done anything so
But the widow didn’t finish the sentence. Tor
what she had said to Hawkins—her one “idea”
worth a curse—was her secret.
P.
. .
A smart young man fell-m badly in Mel-
bourne, the other day. He had been sentenced to
18 months for bike-stealing. Now, a sentence of
two years or over carries a possible remission of
a quarter of the term, whereas any shorter sen-
tence only loses an eighth ; also the longer sentence
carries sundry other advantages, such as tobacco,
an increased dietary scale, less isolation, and a
better chance of a good “billet.” So this smart
youth, having got his 18 months, forthwith sent
for a detective and confessed to a paltry little
burglary with a view to getting six months more.
And that is where he slipped, for Magistrate Pan-
ton—knowing a thing or two—only g a warded an
extra three months. And now Pent ridge contains
one man who kicks himself severely for getting
advanta -es m ° nths without an y corresponding
An Arbitration Case.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wk were talking over the M'Sharry case in camp,
a u the legal cormorants their pickings,
when Martin volunteered to tell his experience as
an arbitrator.
j .? ma .tt er o’ 10 year ago that I was nosin’
round Maonland quiet-like and struck a God-for-
gotten little place up Lawrence way. There was
two queer old codgers as was perpetooally bangin’
round the shanty there—kep’ by Missis Mills—a
widow-woman, so ’twas said. An’ one day these
two old chaps came to me mysterious-like and
arst me would T hact as harbitrator.
Well, I ain’t had no experience to talk of,”
says I, , but I ve knocked round some, and if the
case ain t too blessed technical, and the money’s
good, I’ll take it on.”
Then the old chaps ups and says as how it was
this way. A matter of four years afore, the
younger of ’em had picked up with this Mrs.
Mills in Noo South Wales; married her; and
taken her on to a contract where he had a goodish
job. Then old bloke number two comes along,
and gets a start. He gets friendly with the first
bloke and his missus; then he gets his job ; then
he takes hjs missus and both of ’em takes their
hook with the first man a-follerin’. Then a third
man comes along ; snavels the woman ; carts her
over to Maoriland; opens this shanty; dies and
leaves it to her.
Meantime my two old chaps has drowned their
sorrows together, and reckons to try their luck at
Lawrence. When they comes they finds me lady
the owner of a pub. and willin’ to take one of ’em
in on the old terms, providin’ they fixed it up
comfortable between themselves.
There they was stuck. Neither would give way.
if it had only been the woman they could ha’ fixed
•it—but the pub ! That was a different matter.
1 hen they thought of arbitration. Well . . . I
arbitrated ; and it ain t what it’s cracked up to be.”
Martin stopjied to fill his pipe.
“ Why ain’t it? ” asked'Smithers.
“Well I dunno exactly,” said Martin. “I
reckon where I fell in was in listening to the
woman and reserving my award. I reserved it for
a month—but we had to barricade the place from
the inside.”
He paused and rubbed an uglv scar on his cheek-
bone reminiscently. Then he turned up his right
trouser-leg, and gazed at an extraordinary mark
just below his knee.
<ip This is wot they call soovvneers,” he said.
I ve a few more of ’em distributed round sorae-
wheres. She was a fine woman, and the pub. was
all right, but it was a hot time. And, in the end
she chucked me out; and I never got rnv fees
from the old chaps neither.
” So that’s why—I think—this here—Barton—
maybe—hasn’t got such a soft thing as it looks,”
ended Martin drowsily.
We fell asleep pondering the matter.
N.S.W.
L.R.M.


AN INVALID FOR FIVE YEARS.
Pale, Emaciated, No Appetite,
COULD NOT WORK.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cured Him.
Edward Graham, Collingwood, Melbourne, Victoria, writes
Gratefully of His Cure.
m.
m
n\\»v
In 1890 I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, and for nearly five
years after the fever left me was a confirmed invalid. I had no appetite;
became pale and emaciated, and was unable to work. I tried various
remedies but found no relief until I began taking AYER’S SARSAPA-
E-LA. This medicine greatly improved my appetite, restored my liver
and stomach to a healthy condition, and now my food digests perfectly
and I am better than ever I was in my life. For this I am deeply grate*
ful, and take pleasure in making known to others the value of your Sar-
saparilla.”
The wonderful success of the great blood purifier
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
has led to numerous imitations. The name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Re-
fuse all substitutes.
Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
Bonningtons Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTERATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
PURIFIER.
Remove*
Boimington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LI VER STOMACII, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulate*
and Creates a Healthy System.
HEADACHE
Readers of this paper shoufd
Know that Bishop’s Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
highest award at the 'Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache. It is
pleasant to fake and will be
found most refreshing after
shopping, or as a mowing
restorative. The “ Lancet” com-
mends it. Of fall Chemjsts in twd
sizes. A Booklet on ‘Headache
sent post free on application.
Inventors and Solo Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, B.
CURED.
Whitehead’s .JEriVL *.
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Dkspatcii Stork: Washington-st., n «___
near Druitit-street. U QUIjQ oAXj »
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
WHEN YOU BUY™ ' *
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents ; Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Gentr®
of City. First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
I
252 :
Bfeglll'
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Perms: ... ... {
A. E. Peacock, .Manager.
®J*ISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
• should note that the
• Imperial Hotel
s unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
led rooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Worth a Guinea a Bo
has passed into a proverb
expressive of universal approval
concerning a medicine of rare value.
This Notable Verdict,
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly
must secure the confidence of sufferers
in all climes and countries,
and
ever-widening fame
of
BEECHAM’S PILLS
of
ever-widening* fame
and
in all elimes and countries
must secure the confidence of sufferers,
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly.
concerning a medicine of rare value,
expressive of universal approval,
has passed into a proverb—
orth a Guinea a Box,
Iv..*.
""r'rflW*,
Si
' Up
r.ji
TV
-W,., •:
•Wi
NOP HIS PART.
Manager : Quick, post Bill out there, he’s forgetting his lines ! ”
Hamlet O Egg : “ I’m not a Bill poster, sir.”
MOSS
» r COLDS (recent or chronic),
rp, f J V, J Ll ; L() : ss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
v Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd. per bottle.
Boi)i)ii>gtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver. ° ’
Is. a Box.


:M
i.’Y
What isJEealth?
J*h eumatism, Sciatica,
Jvinnlatrjo, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA UK Kit, 345 Victoria Paradk,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
ru
‘ i'
y.
- Ballet fjirl
With 22 Racy Illustra-
tions, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid.
Post Free, Is. 6d.
‘On the Diggings,’&, Other Tales of the Colden Fifties.
ILLUSTRATED. POST FREE, IS.
To be had Only of
IVE-A. 13 A. 3*0133 PA.BTZA,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
Wortbiogtoi) P(in)pii)g Ei)gii)c Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) fill!0.pS011 (Australasian Branch.)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
m
1
yaga
. ..
!!B^^
REGULAR PATTERN.
TRADE MARK*
Sydney,
.A.ges:n.es:i.O£
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace, .
ADELAIDE.
Queensland : McLENNAN & CO., Alioe-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHIES' G-TQ N Pumps for all Services
in Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
F%r A BLESSINO IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLQWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
11. There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these gi and medicines have not oeen
recognised hy thousands of su ferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. £«?"' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be v/nable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro -
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
LTD.
J
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fisk, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King* Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be maCe at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agerxts Everywhere. JJ PATESON, MANAGER.
IMPROVED 6ft. FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
advt
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Ernes” sold to-
day than all other Tanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being “ just as good as the True.”
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Yanners are now all fitted with
v 4 , | “lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES EREE ON APPLICATION.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
OSCILLATOR puT fw qtttptt
fING MACHINES. UIIAA±T“ kjJLllUll
Bafflers
INSOLVENT ESTATE
WE A DON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUIMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE .COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels
walnut stock, double grip, box spring I risers, best stee
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete
Usual prise £.B, reduced 2 17s 0d each, complete.
5 Double-ba.rre< Breech loading Guns, snap action, wal
nut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual pri
AlO 10s, reduced fc3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-toading Guns, engine-turnec
rib, extension rib, rebounding: locks,.snapaction, left-hanc
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke
with all the latest improwmientSj with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £f
each, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breeqh-loadinjf Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maohiiresandcleanerscoinplete. Usual price 1 21, reduced £7l Os ea. complete
8 Singlebarrel'Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel looks, double grip, snap action
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 8(i, reduced £2 7s 6d each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improv ements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. 10 10s, 'reduced c 4 15s eachgcomplete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds. Usual price 815,
reduced -85 5s each.
0 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price £7 10s, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at fh (id per 14)0 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun,
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. 345 Bour&e-st., Melbourne.
Steam Engines in Stock (Horizontal and Vertical) from 1 h.p.
'
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Ludlow’s Open Gate Valves.
Mason’s Reducing Valves.
Pickering’s Steam Engine
Governors.
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors.
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges.
Every description of Engineers’ Hand and Machine Tools in Stock;
ALSO,
all kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
