

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
PURE cocoa
aktd extract of malt.
107 Kent}
Sydney,
Mining Kant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
'll,
y
SOLE AGENTS*249 GEORGE
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery!
BAND OR CIRRIII AP Mil i o et»d Ai«v™ei7t nr ■ v
BAND OR
17p-tO"Date
CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS.
lw:a ' clli nery, Engines & Boilers,: Steel -Win. clxxx ills.
Mills Greeted and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
-CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
Cl CARS
a rar
'iLvmAGowr
smoke
IB9MR
WBmm
m
8
Is
■- —-
MEurnr^c^sypNQ
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° se put street, SYDNEY.
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
SAMUEL OSBORN & CO.. SHEFFIELD.
Makers of R. Musket’s Special Self-Hardening Tool Steel
Machine - Cut Piles, Mining Steel, Wheels, Rollers,
Sheaves, Spur Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel Castings.
'lll
Colonial-made Wire Wetting*.
■A.m-«3L see tlaat you get it;.
.4, A-a >ju
JOOHd
&
30*!g
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices —Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
iooyd
30
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITOR?.
JbMPOiE | GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeSfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guinea* per Week.
HOBART.
-— zm —
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
vLjC&b Cud,
■
Sa
PIONEER
m
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the N.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWfCI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Uriah urn, Queensland ; Vcilli, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War (Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
XXigliest Award.* wherever Exhibited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan -
EbfSW&fe
nfs
ECONOMY IN
- - CURRENT.
longTlife. >
Equality of Light!
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless.
Imitations.
THE pn Stiff
United Electric Light
C'o., Ltd.
Australasian Branch
16 Carrington-atreet
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., LtxL, Australian Building's, Melbourne*
The Bulletin
Vol 19. —No. 972 j
[Saturday, October 1, 1898.
Fef stered at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T> Y appointment to his excellency tiie
-D GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBE.3iT.3ON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORIENTAL.
Hall Caine’s Tne Christ,ian, New Colonial Library Edi-
tion, 2s (ill and 3s (id, post 5d extra; Williamson's Lady
Man , -2s Oil and 3s (id, postage 5d extra ; Wilson’s Light
Side of Science, 2s Oil, post. 25.10 d ; Chesney’s Adventures
of an En ineer, ,2s (id, post 2s l(ld ; Wilkin's Silence,
2s Oil and 3s 6d, posta m 5d extra ; Maxwell’s Tmvn Re-
fuse, Ids, post, Ills ; Dibdiu s Purification of Sewage. 255,
post 26s Oil ; Begeer s Rand Metallurgy of Gold, Os, post
(is 3d ; The Modern Marriage Matket, by Marie Corelli,
Flora Annie Steel, and others, 2s, post 2s 3d ; Muller
(Max), Chiin German Workshop, \ < >l. 2, ss. post 5s i)d ;
Beale’s W n-k and Play (Girls’ Sell m s), 7s (d, post Ss 3d ;
Macleod's In I ian Currency, 3s, post 3- 4d ; Harris’s Tales
of Home Folks, (is, post 6s Bd.
Just received :
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY,
By A. S. Murray,
With fac-simile illustration in Colors by the Author.
Oblong gilt edges, cloth 425.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper,,2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
ABISHAG THE SHUN AMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon., King of Israel, and
Sesonehis, King ol’ Egypt.
By Francis Myrrs (’’ IN it-mac bus”).
Just Published ;
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. H. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s 6d, post Bs.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s Gd.
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN :
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORG'S ROSE tTAON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal notes, or postal order, to "The
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, and
boons will be forwarded by return mail
POST FREE at prices given.
BOOKS WORTH BUYING.
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems, by Victor J.
Daley ; ss.
Pictures of War, by Stephen Crane. Paper,
35.; cloth, 4s. This includes “The Red Badge
of Courage” and “ The Little Regiment and
Other Stories ” work more brilliant than
Kipling’s.
The Open Boat and Other Stories, by
Stephen Crane. Paper , 35.; cloth, 4s. This
is the author’s last book, and some of the
stories are masterpieces.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boardx, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
The Triumph of Death, by Gabriele
D’Annunzio. Paper, 3s. This is the most
powerful and interesting novel published for
years. Vide Red Page notice.
Way-Back People far from boob stores may
ordir any book desired by sending pub-
lisliir’s price and postage (which may he
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a £d.
stam . Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY a GENT,
George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, Tue Bulletin.
• NOTICE TO
Cameo Smokers.
CAMEO CIGARETTES CAN BE OBTAINED AS FOLLOWS t—
-11 Cardboard Boxes oi Ten in a Box.
Flat Tins of Ten in a Tin.
Round Tins ol Fifty,
Ask for Cameo Cigarettes.
THE RED RAGE.
The string; is pulled—
That “cry of Sappho’s”'—" the. moon has. s t, nud the
Pleiades; it is vi'ilniht, the lime is j/oiiiy l/!, • ml I sleep
alone”— has haunted me ever sit ce you printed it. Tell
us some more about Sappho
and the figure works obediently.
* * » *
‘"■Sappho, the one great woman poet of the
world, who called herself Psap| ha in her own
iEolic dialect, is said to have been at the zenith of
her fame about the year <>lo li.o. Bpt, balancing
all the evi l •nee, Fynes-Clinion, in his I'm i Mel-
Icnici, tak ;s (vie years 011-51)2 B.c. to be tin* period
in which Sappho flourished. < uat she was a
native of Lesbos, an island in the ditgean Sea, is
universally adm -..t • 1.” “Nowhere, writes J.
Addington Spm. >u s, “inanyag •of lareek history,
or in an v art of i Leilas, did toe love of physical
beauty, 'ikn sensibility to radian t scenes of nature,
the consuming fervour of personal feeling, assume
such gram! proportions and receive so illustrious
an expression as they cud in Lesbos. There seems
to have been something pas donate and intense in
the AColian temperament, which made the emo-
tions of the Dorian and the lonian feeble by com-
parison. At first, this passion blossomed into the
most exquisite lyrical poetry that the world has
known : this was the [lower-time of the yEolians,
their brief and brillia t spring. But the fruit it
bore was bitter and rotten. Lesbos, the centre of
Aeolian culture, became a byword for corruption.
The passions which for a moment had flame 1 into
the gorgeousness of Art, burnt their envelope of
words and images, remained a mere furnace of
sen nra ity. The voluptuousness of Aeolian poetry
is not like that of Persian or Arabian art. It is
Greek in its self-restraint, proportion, tact. We
fill’d nothing burdensome in its sweetness. All is
so rhythmically and Sublimely ordered in the
poems of Bapplio that supreme art lends solemnity
and grandeur-to the expression of unmitigated
pas i mi.
* • * *
Beyond the fact that Saw ho lived and loved
and wrote, -nothing is certainly known of her.
There is a tradition that she “ took the Leueadian
leap” and so perished in love of lovely Dhaon.
This Leueadian leap was a leap from a cliff over-
hanging the sea, and the virtue of ending hopeless
love was ascribed to it—if the leaner survived :
frequently se was killed on the rocks below, and
end 'd love and life together. _ Addison gives an
imaginative account of jSapplio’s leap in the Spec-
tator, and adds that “Alceeus, the famous lyric
poet, who had for some time been passionately, in
love with Sappho, arrived at the promontory of
Leucate that very evening in order to take the
leap on her account ; but hearing that Sappho had
been there before him, and that hjjr body could
nowhere be found, lie very generously lamented
her fall, and is said to have written his hundred
and twenty-fifth ode upon that occasion. ’’_ Part
of the cliff is called “Sappho’s Leap” to this day.
★ * * *
Henry Wharton, from whose monograph on
Sappho these facts and quotations are taken,
thinks it necessary to try and whitewash his sub-
ject in the interests of respectability. For Sappho
is traditionally credited with having loved women
rather than men, and sapphism is still a current
term for the habit. But the adage connecting
smoke with fire has some validity ; and, a priori,
the predominance of male elements in Sappho
would, according to local dogma, account for her
preference. And though such a preference be ab-
normal, and rightly to be deprecated in the in-
terests of society, it is wrongly called “ un-
natural ”' from the individual point of view. As
Kra it-Ebing says in Moll’s study of the subject
(still the leading clinical manual), “ tout amide la
verite et de l’humanite apprendra avec satisfaction
que le perverti sexuel est un malheureux, et non
un criminel; qu’il n’est pas un prdfanateur de la
dignite humaine, mais un veritable desherite de
la Nature mariitre, et qu’il ne merite pas plus le
mepris qu’un individu venu au monde avec une
malformation physique. ” So that Respectability
need make no wry face at the worst stories of
Sappho, if only it be scientific enough not to be
stupid.
• * * *
Sappho, says Maximus Tyrius, was “small and
dark ” —une petite brunette —“ est etiam fusco grata
colore venus.”
The small, dark body’s Lesbian loveliness
That held the fire eternal.
-%WINBURNE.
This is likely enough. Sappho was transcendency
vital; and the evidence goes to show that, on the
whole, dark races and individuals possess the
stronger vitality. And. as for littleness: every
distinguished woman-writer has been little. Even
in the small Australian way, six times in ten the
woman who can write a story or a poem rather
more intense than the ruck turns out to be a little
blaekavised creature with a bright eye and her
clothes bundled on anyhow. Four times in ten
she isn’t blaeka vised ; but she never fails to be
little. Her brains have stolen the energy that
makes other women’s bodies grow. Sappho’s
bright eyes are mentioned also ; and somebody
calls her sweet-voiced.
* * * *
The poetry of Sappho was characterised by a
peculiar poignancy of emotion and expression.
Addison says her soul seems to have been made
up of love and poetry. And Addington Symonds
writes- -
The world has suffered no greater literary loss than the
loss of Sappho's poems. So perfect are the smallest
fragments preserved that we muse in a sad rapture of
astonishment to think what, (he cnnijOete poems most
have been. Of all the poets of l.'i • wmJ I. of all the illus-
trious artists of all lit s a tores. Sn ; ho is the one w hose
every word has a peculiar perfume, a sen I of absolute
perfection and illimitable grace, in her nit she was un-
errin<r. Even Archilochus so ms connnon| liH-e when com-
pared with her exquisite rarity of phrase. Whether
addressing the maidens, whom even in Elysium, as
Horace says, .Sappho could not forget; or embodying the
prolotmder yearnings of an intense soul after beauty
which has never on earth existed, but which inflames the
hearts of noblest poets, robbing their eyes of sleep, and
giving them the bitterness of tears to drink—these
dazzling fragments
Which still, like snorkles of Greek fire
Burn on through Time, and ne’er expire,
are the ultimate and finished forms of passionate utter-
ance diamonds, topazes, and blazing rubies, in which
the fire of t he soul is crystallised for ever.
» » * *
And practically all of the works of this incom-
parable poet have been destroyed. There remain
one complete ode—“ To Aphrodite ” ; a consider-
able fragment of an ode to Anactoria, a pupil
and lover of Sappho’s ; and 1(53 smaller frag-
ments —sometimes a verse, sometimes, only a
line or a word—to show how bitter is the loss.
“Sea’iter says that the works of Sappho and
other lyric poets were burnt at Constantinople
and at Rome in the year 1073, in the popedom of
Gregory VII. Cardan says the burning took place
under Gregory Nazianzen, about 380 a.d. And
Petrus Alcyonius relates that he heard when a boy
that- very many of the works of the Greek poets
were burnt by order of the Byzantine emperors,
and the poems of Gregory Nazianzen circulated in
their stead. ‘ Few indeed, but those roses,’ as the
poet Meleager said, are the precious verses the
zeal of anti-paganism has spared to us.” The
fragments now extant occur mostly as quotations
in the writings of ancient grammarians and critics
of. style.
* • » •
The unique thrill of Sappho’s phrase cannot be
preserved in translation ; and the English versions
of the ode to “ Aphrodite” are not inspiring. It is
notable that although the poem refers to a female
lover, the translators (with the exception of Swin-
burne) decorously change the she to fee—-thus mis-
representing the author. The fragment of the ode
to Anactoria is more intense; and Swinburne’s
“ dilution and dilation ” of the spirit of it in his
‘‘ Anactoria ” does not yield as strong an impres-
sion as the brief original. For the rest, Wharton’s
prose versions are generally superior to. the poeti-
cal renderings which he quotes, and the justifica-
tion of the Encyclopaedia Britannica critic’s cavil
at his scholarship is not apparent to the ordinary
reader. ‘ ‘ Sappho’s poems or mele were undoubtedly
written for recitation with the aid of music ;
‘they were, in fact,’ to quote Prof. Mai taffy, ‘the
earliest specimens of what is called in modern days
the Song or Ballad, in which the repetition
of short rhythms produces a certain pleasant
monotony, easy to remember and easy to under-
stand. ’ What Melic poetry like Sappho’s actually
was is best comprehended in the light of Plato’s
definition of melos —that it is ‘compounded out of
three things, speech, music, and rhythm.’ In this
practice and definition there seems to be some-
thing kin with Sidney Lanier’s idea that rhythm
in verse is the same as rhythm in music—an idea
to which he gave such fine shape in ‘ The Marshes
of Glynn, ’ and which he might have succeeded in
firmly establishing had he lived a few years longer.
* * * •
An American poet of some capacity, Maurice
Thompson, has woven several of the notable
fragments of Sappho into verses of his own ; and
though the shape of one or two of the fragments
has been altered, and the body of Thompson’s
piece is generally undistinguished, his result re-
mains ingenious and interesting. He prints the
Sapphic fragments in italics.
TO SAPPHO.
Up from the Caribbean
The wind comes like a paean
As on my fragrant orange-bough I swing,
Dreaming, and wondering,
And piping Sapphic fragments o’er and o’er.
Along the shore
The surf foams madly and the breakers roar
Strange odors from afar,
Spice, amber, nard, and tar.
And Lesbian roses grown in Mitylene,
And violet breath, and waft of myrtle green,
Steep me in visions passionate and wild
Of love, all undefiled,
Whereby was Sappho’s bright
Rose garden of delight,
Flooded with starry splendors of old night.
A bower of J tine,
With morning freshness lingering after noon
Upon the petals of the passion-rose ;
All round through apple boughs the cool air blows,
Shaking soft slumber doivn the dusky leaves
Where still the subtle violet-weaver weaves !
Eden of Love’s own choice.
Haunted of Love’s own voice.
Thy ways I could not take—
Nay, not for Sappho’s sake,
And leave my orange grove
And the fresh promise of the land I lov® I
Liberty
Wild liberty,
Not licence, give to me !
Give me the glory of what is to come—
Fill me with prophecy—-the mighty hum
Of swarming yeah; and wonders yet to be 1
And still, 0 Sa >p,io ! still I turn and sigh
That all but tins' stray notes of all thy songs
should die :
That these chance' fragments old _ _ <
Of things men- golden-than the virgin gold,
To music set bevon 1 all melody,
1 i.ave eu i i to me
Of all thy treasure blown across the sea I
Mad maid of Mitylene,
Song-slave, son ' mistress, an 1 s.»ig-queen:
Blessed the n pitiiigale
Whom thou didst sing
And hail
As tender messenger of Spring !
Sappho, 0 thou
Sweet-apple on the bouuh !
Yen, hi unking on the top spraji of the tree,
Whom nil the. apple-gatherers fa Uni to nee,
Nay , nine, but could not reach, and cannot now ;
Thy son ; perforce will fill my throat
And burn it with each golden, molten note.
Who knows the best
Kn >ws never peace or rest,
And yet his every thought
Is a joy from Heaven caught:
And his heart flower open blows
Like a dark-red L ■ 'ran rose !
God-like he thrones him* , who si ’s by thee,
And feels the dear delirium of thv word*,
And of thy*lau ihter hears the tender chords t
The vision thrills my heart; for if 1 see
In merest glimpse thy form, my voice fails me,
My tongue is numb, with,lire my blood is shot,
My ears hum, and my straining eyes see not;
My frame, bedewed with madness, quivereth
And paler than pale grass, I look like death !
Oh, not in wanton whirls
Thy singing bevy sweet
Danced round thee on charmed feet,
O blessed girds !
Who felt thy song-breath on their shining curls,
And thy fierce flame of longing in their veins !
What delicate, deep, delicious bitterness,
What stress _ _
Of overmastering, sad ecstasy within
Each quivering heart! What glorious din
Of girlish voices and love-smitten lyres !
What incense from what all-consuming fires l
O Sappho ! didst thou sing
This haunting, saddening thing?—
Ever shalt thou lie dead,
No more remembered,
Since no Pierian roses blew for thee ;
Unnoticed’mid the shadow; dim and dread —
Alone in the hereafter shalt thou be.
Didst thou,mean me?
But what care I?
I shall not die,
For Liberty lends to me her deathless wing;
My land is the eternal home of Spring,
Beyond all clouds my purple dome of sky,
The nations hunger for the songs I sing,
Making the New World’s groves with Freedom’s
transports ring!
Naught have I for the tomb,
Blooming, as centuries bloom,
Fairer with each new day.
No petal of my song-flower shall decay!
Not so with thine,
Veined like the lily’s, as the rose’s fine ;
Plucked by the vulgar hand of comedy,
They scent the desert (lust and sweeten all the sea!
Pressed thin between the pages
Of the torn book of ages,
Suggestive of what fragrant thoughts it is
To find a bloom like this :
Last night I spoke with Venus in my dreamt
Ah, in what bower of bliss,
By wliat Pan-haunted stream,
Didst thou the lips of Aphrodite kiss ?
What bitter-sweet
Wild love shook thee from head to feet,
And tore thy breast,
Like a wind that rends the oak-tree on the moun-
tain’s crest?
What garland didst thou wear?
And who was Atthis fair ?
Loved once, loved madly, loved so long ago ?
And oh !
for whom didst thou lie lonesome when the moon
had set,
And the Pleiades were down ?
What purple gown
Didst thou quit wearing when thy love came not ?
And (0 delicate thought!)
For thy lost girlhood crying all in vain,
What strange, wild joys were caught
And tangled in thy pain?
Far in the night,
When the moon sails high and white
In the rich, dark firmament,
And the sea-wind is spent,
And the magnolia’s heavy flowers are hung
Like ghastly death-bells waiting to be rung,
I yearn
In a low, many-toned, deep, sweet nocturne,
To guess
And so express,
The lost notes that, once stricken from thy lyre,
Touched all the world with fiery tenderness,
And filled the air with veins of tender fire ;
But of my longing cometh unto ml
Never the bubbling honey, nor the honey-beet
Nay,
Never tongue may say
What founts of inspiration and delight
Forsook the day, what stars shrank from the night,
When all thy songs,
Torn into shreds and smirched with foulest wrongs,
\.Vere scattered,
Bettered,
Bruised, and so left to lie
In places lone an 1 high,
Dark petals of a hyaoin 'li, odorous still,
Crushed by rude fee '; on m my a windy hill t
“ Bures ” : “ Nature imitating Streetonis not
“an Oscar Wilde idea, ’as yon '.nee sue ■rested. Wbflp read-
ing “The Decay of Lying with “T.« Green Ca iw »<m " -
(in Imtli the idea is utilised) I remember. <1 .lusu-el.
(Fai tasio sits down withB|.mi.k): tit. : “ H<nv miserably
that- sunset is done I Nature is wretched thisevening.
Just look at the vail y down t here, and these four or five
sorry clouds climbing up the mountain. 1 used todnlaud-
scapes like that when I was twelve years old, on the back
of my school copy-books I’’ Musset died in ’57.
S.E.O’B.—Be Warn'd llai/. This is made from
two (rood flour or corn sacks, carefully cut open, and
stitched together ; forming a rnjr both cheap and service-
able, which has served faithfully in the swag and bunk of
many a bush man when blankets were nuich dear r and
harder to oh'ain. “ Wa.-ga, ' presumably, fr m place of
first use in N.S.W. h n u ty j have heard all over
Australia, applied to the last flay of a week s rations; a
hungry day on tramp: and by n'bscri iug Carbolics. I
have heard Friday so called. In fret, any d u on which
victuals were poor or scarce. [But the expression is not
An-itralia’ii.]


.r*
»KsSWs, V3>V
wsk*vk*!W&<
S| JH . . 'M -
. IP
fi I i
:\j
.■^S;
0
fTC
Sydney’s tending Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
m
Wl
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
tliis miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at band ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing' himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse _ that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
u
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the more verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
ar.d, if you have any of them, you
which has made both fame and
require the remarkable treatment
fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
*
In the Laboratory
WALLACE.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms: —
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremblet
Do you feel shaky T
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the can?
Is your blood poor?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms: —
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
.Alt Trams stop at the Boor.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility', and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
Mi
<1
'&> TYPE.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
R€Scti?d at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300_ pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner —in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
S3TDKTBY.
Please mention this Paper when writing .] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, an (
completed bis studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
fitudy of pRIVATE NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his.unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of iriore mature ago, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands ahd feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which yon will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS —Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and . the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £1 —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address *ll communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Uicord,
Bostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No 1
in a reinai ka dy shm t time, otten a lew days only,
removes au discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious dieea c es.
THERAPION No. 2
for impur t» ol .on mood, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blolches. pains ami swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystem through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nerv.ius exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemists Hint Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Theravion ” as it appears on the Government
Btamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrafion— FELTON, GBIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPBITT & Co.
RUPTURE,
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-1
|lief from pain; security from Strangulated [
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.
1 Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic!
r Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at/
' what you will learn. This Truss positively/
’ does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
'ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
__' BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free 1
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and. X-ife.**
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD Sc CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
rATROPHY in Men y
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melbourne.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street. Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
("N LORO DYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. J never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”


TATTERS ALL’S
• • • Monster Prize List*
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTXIRSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5*
Name
Shares in the above.
Address
Mii/L BOURNE C. November 1,
100,000 Subscribers at S'.
To TATTERSALfr.
Please allot me
—shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTER SALtc
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne
To be Drawn
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot tr
0. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION,
at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
ie Shares in the above.
N ame
A ddress
£
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Hedncers
friends of the family’
—AND—
dp-to-date merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. • .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,'
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriflt, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, See.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO,. LTD,.
16, Beyis Marks, kondon, England.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and.
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HE ARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to he in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your r Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Tours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents. ......
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
-V
a
HAuPINHYi
C 3-0 TO HELT-
IGOLAND for Prelty Stamps, but
If you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price -
llsts gratis.
a _ «» f - m | Established 1849.
llCiStralgao N&tcsal Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established *
0 « The Oldest Mutuaiwie QNLy which DEQLAREg A B0NUS EVERY YEAR.
Tkmvnrrmn • The Hon Sir J P. ABBOTT, K.O.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
DlREOTOEB .—The H°n. SJr BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTr,
Esq li J BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
Animal Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,009
TTeac3. Office s 87 Fitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Skcretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s.. £lO 10s.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &e., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
'SES ’33 35.8E 1
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
pair producer $ JleAtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLEWE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
smmmidm
.
m
mm
P events it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tub World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey JTair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other
injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
Pilot ogr apliic Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
and S'4 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
__ junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£8 Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship.
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
CAMERAS:
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA, i-plate.
The DUPLEX „ i-plate
The POCKET VICTOR „ for plates,
The POCKET KODAK „ for films,
, 255.
255.
21s.
21s.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to £5O.
Send for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready,
Post Eree on Application.
ft m
relephone, 36 KOGARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing- Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall tvill accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
fHE
‘ Plum’
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, \n e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake..
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a,
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle** in beautiful case, 30s.
lie;listered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK A.X OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
S SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
<£B.lB. 6.
Note Our Only Address:
Send
N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
for Onr Illustrated Catalogue.
Various Versea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A curious case, in which a plaintiff, aged
12, sued for injuries before birth, was decided by
the Illinois (U.S.A.) Supreme Court in June. His
mother had been taken to a hospital, and was in-
jured in a lift between two of its floors. One side
of her hip and body was injured, and, according
to the documents in the case, the unborn child
was bruised in his left side and left arm. His left
limbs and the left side of his body have been para-
lysed since birth, and there is a serious shortening
of the left leg. He claimed $50,000, and was shot
out of court, but not unanimously, on the ground
that he had no cause of action.
Dream.-Echoes.
I.
I love the Morning Star—
O love pure and tender I
In Dreamland very far
She dwelleth in splendor.
Her bosom hath a spell
For cooling, for healing;
Her beauty is a well
Of mystic revealing.
The flowers on a bier
Have some of her sweetness,
And the leaves that grow sere
In autumn’s winged fleetness.
11.
The sirens are singing
Sweeter than music of lute,
Or harp of mortal stringing,
And the angels are mute.
0 desolate sadness !
O notes elusive and vain!
Ecstacy touched to madness I
Deepness of yearning pain 1
111.
Love that brings the laughing tears
Of an April day
Comes but once in all our years,
Comes but once for aye.
Roses shadow forth fair hue,
Violets sweet breath,
Lilies hint of form so true,
Marigolds of death.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITH.
The Deep Sea Sings Her Dead.
A band there sleeps in the Sea-King’s hall
Whose couch is a blend of blue,
Of sea-weed pale is the twining pall
That laps them in tendrils true;
0, wondrous deep is that last long sleep,
And wondrous soft the bed,
While to list’ning star and to beach and bar
The Deep Sea sings her Dead.
With Joy, deep Joy, in the Days of Birth,
The young hills rent and rang,
With Joy, deep Joy, in the Loves of Earth
The Sons of Morning sang;
But sad and long is the low, soft song
That lulls each once-loved head,
Where to list’ning star and to beach and bar
The Deep Sea sings her Dead.
From North and South and East and West
She draws her children home,
And well they sleep on the heaving breast
So soft in its billowy foam ;
And none may wrest from her halls her guest,
Or part whom she once hath wed,
And her every surge is a noble dirge
When the Deep Sea sings her Dead.
She sang her song when the Heav’ns were young,
So sweet, so grand, so drear,
Till the Deeps of Space with the music rung
And the Angels bent to hear;
She will sing her song thro’ the Ages long,
When the last salt tears are shed,
From the moaning bar to the fading star
Will the Deep Sea sing her Dead !
Q.
P. LUFTIC.
A Song for the Sea.
lam the Sea ! I hold the land
As one may hold a pebble in hand ;
Hold it fast, with sleepless eyes
Watching the continents sink and rise :
Out of my bosom the mountains grow :
Back to its depth they crumble slow ;
The Barth is a helpless child to me,
I am the Sea l
lam the Sea! the land I sway t
Granite to me is as potter’s clay.
Under the touch of my ceaseless waves
It rises in towers and sinks in caves ;
The iron cliffs that edge the land
I grind to pebbles and sift to sand ;
It is all but a moment of change to me—
Time with me is Eternity.
lam the Sea ! In my bosom deep
Wealth and Wonder and Beauty sleep ;
Wonder and Wealth and Beauty rise
To changing splendor of varied skies ;
I comfort the land with rains and snows
Till waves the harvest and blooms the rose;
Flower and forest and man have breath
With me have life—without me death.
What if the ships go down in me ?
I am the Sea !
J.H.


WASHINGTON H
160 a. 2m-
gfnvsrj4
EVERY NOVELTY,I
!
Brilshes.
o CI S
es MpderafV 5 !" 7
Qualify Unexcelled
,AANuF ACTurf
'—***'<■ * GIJARAH TEE THt
IIifERS Baking tewili
■'Joltl-'f' -r
R.m | S TES
Perfumery |
HOTEL - -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
1 rams, cfcc. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Managbb,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Euberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
/q iaj-u ji , p . . , . cheap, cool, clean ; and its weight
(o-lUtlis that or iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
NS
p Lf
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH A CO. LTD:.o’Connei 1-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandfoed & Co., Adelaide
Messrs. Ross and Jack, 10 Custom House
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
THE MARBLE BAR,
•• PITT STREET, SYDNEY ..
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS jJT
OF AUSTRALIA!
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Paintings.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says : «Do not miss The Marble Bar.”
W. J. ADAMS, Manaobr.]
IPa.in.lesa Dentistry,
THE ....
Condon Qental
Institute.
1)R. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
liow difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
only— 98 KING ST., SYDNEY-only.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Oalvert & 00., Manchester.
CH n
QMPA
LIMT?
OINBUR
m
to
Trade
Mark ;jjj
ycctc/i/yirfud)
5c DsidiEßS CortPANYt 5
Edinburgh.
«§§jli§i
***r* U T m,M t'i* 6 j +
Drink
|||oiiratsl|.
Take a little Whisky
“forthestomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulan t.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
Cfoolg'ardie
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all coiners.
CHEAPEST -
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BOCK
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzlbb. Sec., T H . Jackson.
HI
r
.
'
tem
§§i
,
: . -
:
'
iii§
Si
■


The Bulletin
Reg at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 972.
SAIUKDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1898.
Pbiob, 6d.
TWO WICKED LITTLE BOYS PROMOTE A DOG-FIGHT ON THE STEPS OF THE TEMPLE “SOOL ’EM!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
I ’otany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you mag pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
‘to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return- all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
A nyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical dvaivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to bere-draum —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<se Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 33 Uont st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— TP. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, ivith
6s. Gd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition <>fl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage-lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Tht/nne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
rillelxm,.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1898.
The 41 Corporations of Sydney.
The antics of Sydney’s unpaid aldermen are
pleasant diversions for a semi-insolvent city
to witness. Sydney has a debenture debt of
£1,410,000 and a bank overdraft of £123,000.
The total debt equals over £l5 10s. per in-
habitant (the population of the city of
Sydney is estimated at 97,000). The bulk
of this was borrowed in London for loner
terms at high rates—4, 5 and 6 per
The only per cent, loan of the lot was
raised in Sydney. The city has a fine,
healthy deficit of about £36,000 a year, and its
unpaid aldermen are in the main deaf to all
serious proposals of retrenchment. Adustyre-
port which is filed away somewhere amongthe
rats shows ways and means of saving £24)000
a year, and a small increase of rates, and a
more vigorous collection of the rates already
existing would make up the balance, ]but
the dust gathers on the report, and the
aldermen still slumber. When Sydney got
in a very tight place before, it simply per-
suaded the country to take over about
£700,000 of its liabilities and put them
into the general debt, and but for
that relief the city would probably have
filed its municipal schedule long ago.
Apparently a similar clean-up is getting
nearly due again. The other 40 metropoli-
tan municipalities are in yarious stages of
solvency and insolvency, but,- taking°them
altogether, they average about the same
1 1 men table prospect as Sydney itself. Some
of them are better ; some worse ;-bjit the
general result when they are ail added'up is
failure.
* * • •
The only visible remedy worth calling such
is to strike the whole institution fatally on
the head with a club, and build something
completely new in its stead. The first essen-
tial is to put the entire metropolitan district
under one central authority. It may be cut
up into small' constituencies, each returning
its own alderman, and there may be cast-iron
rules about the expenditure within each dis-
trict of its own road-repair money, and all
manner of other precautions, but the need
for one central authority is urgent. The
420,000 people who constitute the metro-
politan population can’t afford to maintain
41 mayors, town-clerks, complete official
staffs, sets of offices, town-halls, and all the
other pomp and majesty that appertains to
the grocery alderman. The 39 different
municipal debts are a grievous waste of
interest. If they were all consolidated with
the security of the whole metropolis behind
them a saving of per cent, interest would be
easily effected, and that alone would mean
£33,000 a year, for the credit of the small
baby municipalities is so low that they mostly
pay between 5 and 7 per cent, for their
accommodation. The auditing of 41 different
sets of accounts, and the publication of the
same, and the publication separately of 41
different sets of municipal notices —notices
of aldermanic meetings, notices about arrears
of rates, about goats and dogs, about elec-
tions, about all manner of things—are all
items of waste. The attempt to run 41 little
Parliaments for 420,000 people is too much
joy in every way. The Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board contrives to do the work, in
its line, of practically the whole county
of Cumberland. In Britain, such small
casual places as Birmingham (501,000 popu-
lation), Bristol (221,000), Leeds (400,000),
Liverpool (629,000)), Manchester (529,000),
and any number more are able to run their
municipal show with one Mayor and corpor-
tion, and, seemingly, do it well enough.
Ihe pocket-handkerchief municipality is
mainly an Australian invention, and a very
bad one.
* * * »
Even supposing that municipal federation
left the alderman as stupid and incapable as
he is now, the saving by the consolidation of
offices atid debts should not be far short of
£BO,OOO per annum. But it need not leave
him as stupid and incapable. It is quite
possible to find one good Mayor where 41
are unobtainable ; New South Wales can
raise a decent Premier now and then, but 41
decent Premiers would be very hard to find
at any time. Moreover, to be Mayor —the
popularly elected Mayor—of Greater Sydney
would be to hold an office almost equal to
the Premiership. The Foreign Secretary
of Great Britain has sat as Chairman of the
London County Council and been proud of
the office, and many of the ablest poli-
ticians in the country have been private mem-
bersof the samebody. TheCoimcil of Greater
Sydney would attract the best financiers and
business men of the city instead of being
filled with small, unbusiness-like potato-
merchants and the like. If to be a member
of it was such a billet that it would be
worth an able and ambitious man’s while to
struggle after it—a billet that might be a
short cut to the Premiership or the Agent-
Generalship—then able men would come
into the Council. And if the Council
managed the business concerns of 500,000
people—nearly half the population of the
province—it would be just that kind of a
billet. Moreover, if the whole Council
went out of office say every three years, and
there was a large, stormy general election,
the matter would probably attract sufficient
attention to make the public take an intelli-
gent and useful interest in its municipal
government and the policy thereof. The
present quiet little annual bye-election
attracts no notice except when Joins Nor-
ton is a candidate, and no one has ever yet
heard of a municipal policy in New South
Wales.
* * * *
The pocket-handkerchief municipality sys-
tem is full of disadvantages, in addition to
the needless salaries and expenses, and debt
interest ; ; d the contempt into which it
brings Mayors and aldermen when there
are 41 sets of them all within eye-range of
Sydney Post Office tower ; and the needless
incapacity of these same individuals arising
from the fact that no city can produce 41 sets
of good administrators at once. There is
not one decently straight thoroughfare of
any length in all the 41 crooked municipali-
ties. There are plenty of places where the
making of one would vastly increase the
value of property, but the consent of seven
or eight corporations is generally necessary
before it is made, and seven or eight corpor-
ations seldom agree about anything. The
private gas monopoly sits tight because 41
corporations can’t arrive at any comprehen-
sive municipal electric-lighting scheme. It
isn’t worth while troubling much about
slums in many cases ; if two or three muni-
cipalities divide a really foul slum among
them it. isn t worth the while of one to start
the purification process by itself. A muni-
cipality-of Greater Sydney could build its
own North Shore bridge and make it pay by
levying moderate tolls ; the straggling 41
can’t for want of union, and so the work
waits for the Central Government, and the
Central Government waits for private enter-
prise, and private enterprise waits to find
out how much the scheme can he floated for
in London. There would never have been
any popularly-owned tramway service if the
Central Government had not taken the
matter in hand and.also annexed the profits,
foi 41 independent corporations are incap-
able of organising any Ihi ng. There ought
to be a cheap municipal ferry-service to all
the waterside suburbs, but it isn’t the busi-
ness of any one Mayor to get the other 40
together and shout for them (40 sixpenny
drinks—£l) while the matter is being dis-
cussed.. All the good work in the way of
municipal socialism that is being done by
such corporations as those of London, Glas-
gow, and Birmingham is impossible under
the regime of the 41 Mayors of Sydney.
• • * •
There is no prospect of any improvement
if Parliament waits for all these corporations
to take the initiative, or even to give a pas-
sive consent. No one could ever persuade
41 Mayors and corporations even to decide
which public-house they would meet in to
discuss so momentous a question. Moreover,
the other 40 Mayors don’t want to abdicate,’
and the other 40 town-clerks are attached to
their billets, and the people who have lent the
small corporation money at 7 per shent. don’t
want the debts consolidated at 3 per cent.,
and the small suburban paper has no desire
to lose the job of printing the dog-and-goat
notices and the municipal balance-sheet. The
short way is for Parliament to strike the
present system on the head with a hard,
business-like shock. And The Bulletin
waits with confidence to hear how Parlia-
ment doesn’t do it.
We—and Land Monopoly.
The Bulletin doesn’t often hear from the
angry Single-Taxer now, therefore “ G.L. W.,”
who writes under the reproachful heading
“You—and Land Monopoly,” is rather an
agreeable change. His plaint—a few non-
essential parts omitted to save space —is as
follows :
Your political views are unsound economically, and
Tory to the last degree.. You advocate Protection. Pro-
tection is undemocratic, and fur several hundred years
was associated in England with Tory landlordism. Every
now and then Conservatives of the Howard Vincent type
or that of the Duke of Itutland, try to get a rehearing for
the poor old played-out .game. In America it is associated
with gruesome and unspeakable monopolists of the Car-
Neoie sort-. In Victoria a good many persons flourished
by Protection at first who were smart enough to grab
what they could before the principle became general—
and imperative. The price paid by the country is that
business is rotten to the core in Melbourne and elsewhere,
as I know to my cost. Nine tenths of the business people
in that depleted province are hopelessly entangled with
those beautiful institutions, the banks, who are enabled
to batten on the people’s industry through the action of
the fundamental error of our social system—land
monopoly. Profiting not by universal experience else-
where, New South Wales may yet give Protection a tem-
porary footing, but it will be by the retrogres-
sion of a single wave—the tide will continue to
rise all the same. The ignorant may be per-
suaded that by paying the taxes levied on indispens-
able commodities (and so protecting the fat fellow’s
pocket) the industries will be localised; and all the
other chestnutty old crammers that have donedutysolong.
But, as surely as you have a bank-account, the country
will get to work before long, with or without your assist-
ance, to put the land-laws in satisfactory order. Federa-
tion may come or stay away, it matters little, so that the
infinitely greater question of land-reform is settled. Fede-
ration will do little towards making Australia a sweet and
wholesome home for whoso is willing to work. And that
is just what land-nationalisation will undoubtedly do.
You have given up all pretence of caring- for restoring the
land to the people. You saw clearly enough that land is
the agent through which all monopolies, at the last
resort, exist. You preached that the owner of land can
impose arty terms or conditions on labor. You traced
villainies and corruptions of all sorts to the baleful system
of allowing private property in land. If these things were
true then, are they not true now ? But you have turned
your coat. You found that the A.M.P. Society would
suffer. If, for instance, a 6d. tax on land-values were im-
posed, the mortgages of that excellent institution would
deteriorate, and the bonuses, and the other fat pickings
would lose some of their rotundity. Also, Protection
would die finally, for want of anybody out of a lunatic-
asylum to take the least notice of it. Come back, before
it is too late.
* * * *
It sets The Bulletin thinking of the bygone
days when the Single-tax crowd sent in letters
like that 18 times a week or so. Those good
old days ! And the letter is just the same old
splash—same whoop—same utter inaccuracy—
same cheerful assumption ! England never had
“ several hundred years of Protection ; ” the
British Protectionist policy lasted about 150
years, and it left Britain the boss manufactur-
ing and commercial nation of the world. In
the dark, semi-barbarous six centuries or so
which followed the Conquest, England went in
mostly for Ereetrade, or something nearly
approaching it, and direct taxation—mostly
land-tax. And there is something unspeakably
lovely in the loud assumption about the “ uni-
versal ” failure of the policy which is followed
by Germany, France, the United States,
Russia, Austria, Queensland, Maoriland, Vic-
toria, South Australia, and any number of other
communities ; and the universal success of the
policy which is backed by England, Ireland,
N.S.W., Turkey, China, Persia, a few bar-
barous nigger States in the African interior,
&c. Also, it is so beautifully easy to say that
the bloated Yankee millionaire is the horrible
product of Protection, and that the bloated
English millionaire isn’t the product of Free-
trade ; and that the policy which is followed
by Maoriland and S.A.—the most distinctly
Democratic provinces in Australasia and well
up among the half-dozen most Democratic com-
munities in the world—is barbaric Toryism,
and that the policy of Turkey and China and
of England in the Dark Ages is enlightened
Democratic sentiment.
* * * *
Curious as it may seem, The Bulletin backs
Protection because it is the democratic policy—
in Australia, anyhow. The fact that the big
landlord in England or in Jupiter may be, or
has been, a Protectionist is nothing to the
point. The big English landlord let out his
land for wheat-growing in a wheat-importing
country, and he wanted Protection to keep
wheat out. The big N.S.W. landlord mostly
grows wool in a wool-exporting country, and
he is mostly Freetrade, or else utterly indiffer-
ent—because there is no foreign wool in his
case to keep out. And the N.S. W. Freetrader
yells with the big landlord in his own country
for the sake of being against the big landlord
at the other end of the world. He ha,s im-
ported his fiscal ideas from a country where
the conditions are upside-down. Metaphoric-
ally-speaking, he keeps a big fire at Xmas
because they need big Xmas fires in England,
and he tries to dig up his potato-harvest in
August because in England potatoes ripen in
August.
*- * *
And The Bulletin, it seems, is not solid on
the Single-tax idea. It doesn’t yell loud enough
and curse with sufficient fury. Perhaps that is
because there are two kinds of democratic
organ, and this is the other kind. The easiest.
way to be a Democrat is to say with a burst of
great flame and blanky that something ought
not to be and that something else ought to be,
and that somebody ought to do it somehow •
to form societies for alleging that something
has got to come about, and to shout generally—
without once showing the way to bring "the
change to pass. It is so much easier to leave
the finding of the way to the other fellow, and
clo the loose pounding of the big drum oneself.
The more honest way is to take the responsi-
bility of showing how the thing is to be done.
The Bulletin tries to do this, and that is why
it can’t blast quite so loud as the people who
accept no such responsibilitjL Taking N.S.W.
for an example, the Single-tax situation is this*
so far as The Bulletin can see. N.S.W. is
an expensive country to govern, because there
is little population, and vast area, and
stupendous debt. Land values are low, because
the country is barren and droughty and thinly-
peopled. To get enough revenue to run the
country on the Single-tax basis it would appar-
ently be necessary to tax private lands to their
full rental value—in other words, to confiscate
all the private land of N.S.W. For if the
State sells a man land worth £5O a year, and
takes ,£l5OO from him in payment, and’then
charges him just the same .£5O as if it had
never got anything from him at all, and yet
keeps the £l5OO, it confiscates his land or his
money (it can be put either way), and no
amount of explanation will get away from the
fact. Yet. the State can’t give hack the money ;
if it borrowed the requisite sum, then the in-
terest on the loan would swallow up the rent
and the Single-Tax ideal would be as far off as
ever.
* * * *
For years past, whenever a Single-taxer who
seemed worthy of discussion has sent along his
anathema about how the State should own all
lands and run the country on the proceeds, this
paper has asked him whether he is prepared to
advocate this huge confiscation in order to
bring the thing about. Or if he proposes any
other way to bring it about. And not one of
them has sent along a definite reply. Not one.
they went right along and blasted in gener-
alities just the same. The Bulletin doesn’t feel
equal to saying, straight out, that the 30,000 or
so small landholders who eke out a hungry sub-
sistence from their little farms should have
almost all their very small wealth taken from
them. The above correspondent’s loose plaint
about the big, rich landholders of Britain
(which is a very long way off) sound eloquent,
but half the N.S.W. landholders are not rich
they are smq.ll and poor and less able to stands
bad shock than almost any other section of the
community. The wrecking of the A.M.T.
Society and others of its kind by the confisca-
tion of their mortgages, doesn’t seem much
when one speaks of these in the aggregate as
great, bloated corporations; but the A.M.P.
really represents the savings of about 130,000
people ; most of them are poor people, and
their interest in the concern is worth, on an
average, about £l2O per head. The partial
smashing of the Savings Bank by the confisca-
tion of its mortgages w'ould also strike a class
which isn t at all wealthy, and the wreckage
of the private banks by the same cause would
swamp the small depositor who keeps a little
hungry shop as well as the rich one and the
shareholder. The rich landholder and insurer
and depositor don’t arouse The Bulletin’s
sympathy much. But it is a cheap and easy
hypocrisy to get over the difficulty by assum-
ing that all the people of these classes are rich.
And as regards the Victorian banks that “bat-
ten ”on the people—they don’t “batten.” They
wanted to batten, but they didn’t manage it.
In the last eight years they have lost among
them just about all they ever made since the
first Victorian bank started. Out of five Mel-
bourne-owned banks, only one now pays its
original owners even a microscopic dividend.
These banks have been a curse to the people—
and to themselves.
* * « *
Of course, there would be a per contra. If
the Single-tax idea prevailed, and the land as
the alleged “sole source of wealth”—which
it isn’t—became also, by this process of
chucking - out, the sole source of revenue,
the big, rich importer (often an agent of a
Britishfirm) who doesn’t own land, would escape
income-tax on his gilded pile. So would the
lawyer, and the pawnbroker, and bill-dis-
counter, and manufacturer, and the publican,
and the jeweller, and the ship-owner, and the
gas-monopolist, and the man whose cash is in
State securities, and the leasehold squatter.
Drink and tobacco would be freed from duty,
and though the small agricultural freeholder
might go down wallop, the man who owned a
seven storey city building erected on leasehold
ground would escape. If it is desirable to
relieve these people from taxation, then let the
Single-taxers say so. But people who write
blasting letters to this office don’t explain.
They simply keep on blasting in general terms.
* * * *
The Bulletin advocates everything which
seems like a definite move in the direction
of repressing the big private landholder
and the big monopolist of other kinds. It
preaches the abolition of State land-sales,
and their replacement by a leasehold sys-
tem ; heavy absentee-tax, to discourage the
worst variety of landlord; and heavy
graduated land-tax so as to break up big estates
and prevent the formation or continuation of a
landholding oligarchy. It also advocates the
steady and compulsory repurchase of large
properties by the State, and the leasing of
them to small holders; the experience of be-
nighted Maoriland, where the undemocratic
policy of Protection is on top, has proved this
possible and profitable. It calls for a State
Land Bank so that, among other ad van i ages,
the foreclosed property will fall to Ihe State
instead of to the private money-lender. And
it advocates building a new Federal capital on
a large area of State land which shall remain
Federal property for ever, so that there shall
be one city to begin with which, with all the
agricultural district that is bound to grow up
around it, will be national property. In most
of these matters—the last especially—the
Single-tax crowd has given little assistance,
yet they are all movements, more or less, in the
direction of Land Nationalisation, and each


one of them is a perfectly practicable move-
ment with experience behind it.
But now and then this paper receives a long
sheet of yell and blither and denunciation
asking why it doesn’t reverence Henry George
more than it does, and be a slavish copy of
him ; and why it doesn’t go the whole instan-
taneous theoretical hog on Land-Nationalisation
and Single-tax. And the sender always wants
to point out that Henry George, who was
brought up among a wholly different set of
conditions, believed in Land-Nationalisation
and Freetr.ule, and wore a big overcoat at
Xmas. So lie holds that nobody can be a true
Democrat unless he also wears a big overcoat
at Xmas just like George. And though it is
in such strongly protective provinces as Maori-
land and S. A. that the most has been done to
repress the private landlord, he says (without
a shadow of proof) that Land Nationalisation
will be the end of Protection. Which is chiefly
lunacy, and the rest ignorance and servile
copying of his idol’s weak points as well as his
strong ones. Land Nationalisation is more
likely to be the end of that abject subjection
to the importer, and that doctrine of the sur-
vival of the cheapest, ■which is called Freetrade.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Grab for the Capital.
The proposal of the Reid Ministry to demand
that the Federal capital shall be in N.S.W.,
and the unofficial demand that it shall. be
located in Sydney, arouses Melbourne Age to
state Victoria’s views on the matter. Victoria
gets so many of its political opinions ready-
made at the Age office— David Syme keeps a
tank-full of opinions on the premises, and the
suitable opinion is handed out to David’s
bleeding country as the occasion arises—that
the above is a short and yet reasonably accurate
way of putting it. The opinion in the present
case is something like this : If N.S.W. demands
that the clause providing that the capital shall
be Federal territory is to be abrogated, and that
Sydney shall be the capital, Victoria will putin
a similar demand for Melbourne and fight the
matter to the bitter end. Then, doubtless,
S.A. will put in its claim for Adelaide and
there will be chaos. If it is demanded that
the capital shall be in any other N.S.W.
town, but that the said capital shall remain
N.S.W. territory, Victoria will kick against
any province having absolute possession of the
Federal city. If it is demanded thafthe capital
shall be anywhere in N.S.W., on territory that
is the property of the Federal Government,
Victoria —or the D. Syme who runs Victoria—
is perfectly agreeable, provided said capital is
as accessible from Melbourne as from Sydney.
This implies that the distances must be about
equal ; that N.S.W. will, if necessary, connect
the nearest Victorian border railway with the
Federal capital, so as to give Melbourne and
Sydney an equal chance at the trade of the
new city; and that N.S.W. will so adjust
freights as to give Melbourne the same chance
as Sydney. Of course, if this sordid bargaining
once begins, S.A. and Queensland —if she is in
it—will put in similar claims, and all the bene-
fit of the wise compromise arrived at by the Con-
vention will be lost. And the Federal railway
problem will raise its head again in the confusion
—in fact, it is bound to do so, anyhow. For, if
N.S.W- got the capital, and located it half-way
between Sydney and Melbourne, either on the
existing line or somewhere else, and it supplied
the Federal city with cheap freights and abun-
dance of railway communication with Sydney,
and no railways or heavy freights on the exist-
ing railways, to Melbourne, undoubtedly it
could seize all the trade of the growing Federal
city as its own exclusive property. If the
railways are not placed under Federal control
the province which gets the capital is almost
certain to do that unless the Federal district
is placed where three provinces meet, and even
that would be only a partial remedy. If the
railways were placed under Federal control it
would make the way quite easy, but so far un-
federal Australia refuses to dream of such a
thing.
4 .
Rats.
“ T.” offers his contribution to the eternal sex
problem :
Dear Bulletin.—l wish to say a few words in reply to
“ the Baron ” and Creeve Roe and your other sex-
problem writers, and the burden thereof is mainly
“ Rats ! ” Very large rats and many of them. My own
individual theory about the sex-problem is that there
ain’t any problem. Or, rather, there is no special and
separate sex-problem. There is one big composite ques-
tion which overshadows everything—the question where
everything came from, and where everything is going to,
and what everything is, and why and how it is. But the
alleged sex-problem by itself is no more remarkable than
the water-problem, or the tree-problem, or the problem
why we are hungry just before dinner and thirsty just
before beer. No one ever worries you with long ietters
about these other problems. Why? Well, my theory is
that convention (another problem) has decided that the
alleged s-x-problem isn’t Respectable, therefore the dirty-
minded section of the community likes to write about It
and get paid for its copy at so much a column. The
alleged sex-problem offers facilities for dreary maunder-
ing about the human race with its clothes off. If the
human race didn’t wear clothes (and personally I would
just as soon it didn’t) then it couldn’t be considered with
them taken off, for you can’t take off, even in your
mind, what has never been on. Then I believe that 99
per cent, of the sex-problem maunderers would maunder
no more. Remember, I don’t object to them because of
their mental frowsiness ; their frowsiness is solely their
own frowsiness and doesn’t affect me. But they are
Bores. Not one of the sex-probletn essayists ever starts
by defining his problem or proving that there is a pro-
blem. He merely starts off about “ the sex-problem,” or
sometimes he calls it “ the problem of the relation of the
sexes.” And he never offers any solution, because all of
the problem that comes within his reach solved itself
many thousands or millions of years ago, and has been
solving itself every day since, and will go on solving it-
self just the same even if he drivels in 24 big volumes.
The moist and shapeless infant is the outward symbol of
that solution. No one can tell why there is such a thing
as sex unless he gets back to the Creation (if there was
one), and then he would have also to find out
why there is anything. No one can tell why
there is what is called an affinity between the
sexes unless he can find out what life is and what death
is made of, and many other impossibilities. But, for all
practical purposes, there is no sex-problem, and notone
of the Bores who wail about it in print has ever attempted
to define it —because be can’t. Simply calling it “the
problem of the relation of the sexes” is merely labelling
it with a long name —it is no more an attempt at defining
it than if it were labelled the bunyip, or the bandersnatch,
or the whangdoodle, or the Bagdad-Nebuchadnezzar. If
these people proposed to tackle the mystery of sex and
sexual affinity and procreation in its scientific aspect, and
If they had the million years or so which would probably
be required to arrive at any knowledge worth mentioning
on so tremendous a question—then there is no reason why
they shouldn’t go ahead to some useful purpose. But the
footless worms who crawl poetically to no purpose over
the surface of their alleged subject are a Bore and an
aggravation. They are a fraudulent conspiracy, whose
object is to get paid by some paper for dreaming
about _ somebody mid nodings on. I don’t object
to their dreams, or to the ideal mid nodings on, or to
anything except the stupid, purposeless monotony of the
whole soul-blasting outfit. And I rise up to ask these
people : “ What is the sex-problem ? What wants doing
to it? And what do they propose to do to it?” This
world is pretty old and grey by now, and for goodness
knows how many thousand ages it went right along and
solved its sex-problem every day of its life, apparently
without knowing that there was one. The legal status of
the husband and the wife and the shapeless, moist infant
varied, and will keep on varying, but the problem settled
itself every time. All the morbid little mites that chatter
and canter round it, and get paid for their hazy remarks
about it, make not the slightest difference in the result.
Some of them are half-brother to the indecent Ger-
man photograph and the seduction-case ; personally I
neither care for nor object much to either of these things,
but if I were the indecent German photograph I would
like to kick a lot of these relations of mine for their fee-
bleness and haziness and utter incompetence. About
the most enthusiastic sex-problem writer that I am
personally acquainted with is a bottomless mine of blue
stories, and has twice run away with another fellow’s
wife. I don’t object to that, either, but both the wives
were ugly and commonplace, and one of them was a very
tall, thick woman, who perspired dreadfully in the sum-
mer, and that is unpardonable. Most of the other pro-
blem-writers of my acquaintance are bards or alleged
artists, or people with a carefullj’-aequired wildness in
the hair, who have got into a dreadful habit of talking
about the “wood” in Greek art. I don’t in the least
object to the “ nood ’’ in art—in fact, I object to very
few things, except the dull things that send me to sleep,
and the loud things that wake me again before I am ready
—but, then, these people, so far as I know them, mostly
don’t know art from Gomorrah. “ The Baron,” who holds
forth in a recent Bulletin, is a very fine example of the
sex-maunderer. He says, among other tangled moans,
that “ we have lost the balance and dignity of the
ancients in our conception of the sex-relationship.” How
is that for high ? The ancients—well, it is probable that
the mere catalogue of the names of their old. nations
would fill the Encyclopedia Britannica with small print.
And we have fragmentary records of some dozen or two
who brought up the tail of the procession—the last dozen
or so of sand-grains on a sea-shore whose other end is out
of sight. And by reason of these scraps “ the Baron ”
goes on as above. Hats 1
In the Lean Man’s Interests.
Brisbane (Q.) dailies are beautifully unanimous
in agreeing that the proposed abolition of the
attachment of wages for debt was a wrong
thing, as it would “ injure deserving people
who would otherwise obtain credit.” What a
good old wlieeze it is, and how the Fat Man is
worried—not for fear he may lose one of his
means of dragging his pound of flesh out of the
Lean Man, but lest the abolition of the dragging
process will injure the Lean Man ! There was
a time when, if the Lean Man didn’t pay up,
his wife and. children and, if necessary, himself,
were realised upon in the slave-market, and
when that was abolished no doubt the Fat Man
was much worried lest traders, no longer having
this security, would stop the Lean Man’s credit.
When life-imprisonment for debt was abolished
he was also deeply grieved and concerned lest
the debtor’s interests should suffer thereby. In
the old English days the man who didn’t pay
could be gaoled until he did (for his natural
life if need be), and as he didn’t like being
gaoled for life, he naturally did his best to pay
(if he didn’t bolt or cut his throat), and
traders, because they knew that he had this
inducement to pay, gave him credit. That was
the theory, anyhow. Crave Fat Men were
quite worried to death lest the abolition of the
life-imprisonment of the Lean Man should pre-
vent him getting credit and thus do him irre-
parable injury, and they reckoned that a
serious wrong would be done to their Lean
Brother if he lost the blessed privilege of being
gaoled for the rest of his days over a small debt.
Many Fat Gentlemen sacrificed their natural
rest through mourning over this matter, and
didn’t recover for quite a long while. Accord-
ing to their own arguments, the Brisbane dailies
should howl for a return to these good old
principles. The same logic which calls for the
attachment of wages for debt calls in quite as
loud a roar for the re-establishment of slavery,
or life-imprisonment for debt, or for the cruci-
fixion of the defaulting debtor. If “deserving
people” can get credit when they otherwise
wouldn’t because the creditor knows he lias a
remedy to fall hack on in the shape of attach-
ment of wages, then it is equally certain that
“deserving people” would get a lot more
credit if there was a bigger remedy to
fall back upon. If the remedy (say cruci-
fixion) were only made certain and horrible
enough to furnish absolute assurance that the
debtor would rather swim in blood than not
pay, a deserving person could get pretty near
all the credit he cared to ask for. And, if it is
a desirable thing that the deserving person
should get credit, which the Fat-Man argument
takes for granted, then the fact that Fat Man
should fix some such horror as this on the Lean
Man (strictly in the Lean Man’s interests, you
know), becomes as conspicuous as Cheops’
pyramid. The Bulletin’s idea is that the
less credit the deserving person gets, and the
less remedy his debtor has against him, the
better it is in the end for both parties.
Sydney D.T., in a recent leader entitled “Free
Education,” says : “A sentimental idea has got
abroad . . . that the practice ” (of payment of
school fees) “creates two classes in the public
schools of N.S. W.—the payers and the paupers.
Carried away by this sentimental idea, the
House decided by its resolution to put all the
children into the pauper class.” As a slab of
sheer imbecility, that ought to break all records.
The people will pay the cost of education
through the general taxation, and, because they
all get what they all pay for, they will all be
paupers. Free education (so-called) means that
there will be no pauper children in the public
schools ; when every child receives the benefit
of what his father pays for, pauperism can’t
come in anywhere. By the Telegraph’s pro-
cess of logic, the people are also pauperised by
being supplied with a gratis police force,
defence force, and judiciary ; by getting their
gaols and M’s.P. for nothing; by having the
interest on their public debt paid for
them by some beneficent outside source,
and by getting all their public works
absolutely free of payment. None of these
things are paid for by a direct levy of 3d.
a week per head, after the fashion of the school-
fees. And if the abolition of the direct levy of
3d. a week and the charging of the whole edu-
cation bill to the general revenue is pauperism,
then they are all pauperism. The miserable
3d., by the way, doesn’t nearly pay the cost of
State education in N.S.W., so by the Tele-
graph’s logic everybody is a pauper, anyhow.
But the difference between the humiliated
alleged pauper child who hasn’t the 3d., because
its father is out of work or for some other cause,
and the dignified partial pauper who has the
3d., involves an amount of public insult
and degradation that six threepennies wouldn’t
compensate for. And the pauperised newspaper
which is carried all over the country at the
expense of the taxpayer —the paper which is
spoon-fed by the State, and which lives on
charity all its days, and which defends the
pauper-newspaper system with all its might —
looks remarkably low and mean when it gets on
a racket like this. To educate the children of
all the people at the expense of all the people
isn’t pauperism—it is merely a matter of every-
body paying for himself. To subsidise the
business of a few newspaper owners at the
expense of all the people is pauperism—and a
pretty bad variety, too.
The Executive of Vic. Miners’ Association has
adopted a Bulletin suggestion re the Vic-
torian Accident Relief Fund, which was founded
to succor the sufferers by a Creswick mine dis-
aster, and has decided “ to urge the Minister of
Mines to deal with the fund so as to form the
nucleus of a national fund for the relief of suf-
ferers through accidents in connection with
mining in this province.” Unfortunately, the
Vic. Relief Fund, which is controlled by a
mixed body of trustees, consisting mostly of
Mayors “ for time being,” is itself in difficulties.
Years ago .£20,000 was advanced to a tobacco
firm on a Queen-st. property ; and the mort-
gagor now seeks to be relieved, offering the
property and £lOOO. It is estimated that the
loss would amount to about <£ll,ooo if this offer
were accepted and the property were at once
realised. Yet, even if this gloomy estimate
proves right, there remains something to
start with ; for the demands on the fund on
account of the Creswick accident have now
fallen away to very small proportions.
Up to last week, it was commonly supposed
that a Victorian Leg. Councillor coukl do no
legal wrong in his own country. The result of
the Wallace v. Wallace case proves that a
member of the Hupper ’Ouse can do wrong, but
only on the distinct understanding that he
thought he was doing right all the time.
Although John A. Wallace, M.L.C., was
ruled unfit to retain the trusteeship of the
Monahan estate, he left the court with the
most unstained character on record. Bench
and Bar asserted the defendant’s honesty ad
nauseam. The court adjourned for two or
three hours, in order that defendant’s counsel
might interview defendant as to whether he
would prefer to remove himself altogether from
the trusteeship, or partly remove himself, or
leave it to the Judge to decide. Under the
circumstances, nothing was more surprising
than the trustee’s compulsory retirement from
the billet. Chief-Justice Madden’s previous
utterances had led everybody to suppose
that arrogant old Wallace would be per-
mitted to keep a finger in the Monahan pie.
For a long time the learned Judge “saw nothing
to justify the removal of a trustee.” His
manner of addressing Wallace, M.L.C., was
almost obsequious. He allowed the witness to
carry on as though the Court were his private
property, to bullyrag the counsel who sought
information from him, and to make a holy show
of the Law’s partiality where legislative fatmen
are concerned. Judge Madden (there can be no
doubt about it) was ridiculously kind to old
man Wallace, and very slow to realise the
necessity for dealing with him as any Judge
would have dealt with any smaller trustee of
equally proved incompetence. Hence the belief
that Judge Madden took judicial advice on the
subject, and didn’t arrive at the determination
to remove the Monahan estate from Wallace’s
hands until he had been persuaded that the act
of sacrilege was inevitable.
4
Melbourne people— i.e., the few who try to
understand what’s the matter—are getting very
tired of Judge Williams’ “severe reflections”
on his brethren of the local County Court.
Judge Molesworth seems to be the principal
object for attack. There is an old-established
legal gag to the effect that Molesworth gives
wrong reasons for arriving at right conclusions.
According to Supreme Court jargon, the
estimable Molesworth is weak in legal expres-
sion but strong in judgment, and the fact that
he is therefore a Judge after the public’s own
heart probably accounts for his unpopularity
with two or three of his—haw !—superior
officers. As the late Arthur Orton would
have summed up the case: Some Judges has
plenty law, but no common sense, and others
has plenty common sense but no law.
Molesworth is one of the others. When his
County Court rulings have been overruled by
the Chief Justice (as happened in two or three
notorious instances), or by any other Supreme
Court luminary, the opinion of the public has
usually been unfavorable to the overruling. In
the instance which provided ground for the
latest attack on Molesworth’s legal character,
it happened that his decision was upheld. It
would be better, perhaps, for the level-headed
Molesworth to condense his wise judgments
into the smallest possible word-space, leaving
the argumentative Supreme Courters to show
orthodox cause and reason why their law is
generally regarded as a hass.
4.
Labor member Thomas, having wearied of
waiting for that comprehensive Local Govern-
ment Bill which has been the bunch of carrots
before N.S.W. Parliamentary ass Tor 25 years
or more, has introduced a little amending
measure providing for one-man-one-vote at
municipal elections. Considering what very
poor results have been achieved under the old
principle of some-men-many-votes, this experi-
ment seems worth trying. But if the Bill is
pushed on it will open up a curious political
complication. Premier Reid’s last Local
Government Bill (the abortive thing that
pegged out wearily three years ago and was
never revived) allowed the Fat Man about 16
votes at a municipal election. On the motion
of Reid’s allies, the Labor-party, assisted by
some Opposition votes, the Fat Man’s
minimum was reduced to four votes. There-
upon Premier Reid decided rather to sacri-
fice the Local Government Bill than the
Fat Man, and withdrew the measure altogether.
Since then he has persistently alleged that it
was rejected (whereas it was never rejected at
all) by the Opposition (whereas the amendment
at which he kicked really came from his own
camp). And, after flatly refusing the Labor-
party’s demand for a four-vote minimum, Reid
now finds the same party asking for a minimum
of one vote. But now the Labor-party holds
the balance so securely that it could fire Reid
out on the sole of his head by a big majority
at any moment—while three years ago it
couldn’t. So what will happen ?
Of <£74,231 2s. 2d. set down as Tas. public*
works proposals for 1899, only ,£7190 is appor-
tioned to railway items. Roads, bridges,
buildings, and other non-productive works, take
the bulk of the money. Two-thirds of Tas.
territory—nearly all highly mineral-bearing—
is covered by impenetrable “ horizontal” scrub,
yet a mean little £B5OO is all the Government
of Go-Slow can spare for cutting tracks. But
while the said Government can only put up
>£7190 for State railways, it proposes to give to
the Great Midland and West Coast Railway
land-grants and other concessions, which the
Government’s own railway-manager reports
will bring in more than ,£200,000 a year, on
condition that it spends £200,000 in building 60
miles of railway, and keeps the railway, and
charges any freights and fares it darned well
pleases ! Obviously if the Braddon Fishy
Government built that line itself, and threw in
all these privileges along with it, it could make
that glorious 100 per cent, for the country.
Think of the awful incapacity or dishonesty of
a Government and a Parliament which throws
away a chance like that !
John Haynes, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), w'ants it pro-
vided, by way of his little amendment, that if
the Federal House of Representatives twice
passes a Bill which the Senate rejects, the
House of Reps, may then pass it “ on its own”
without any reference to the Senate. The
Federal Senate will be elected on the same
liberal suffrage as the other House, and paid
like it. And it will probably contain the best
statesmen, for the Representatives are to be
chosen on the constituency plan, and all the
mean little pumpkin-and-culvert men will be
there, while each province will elect its Senators
as a whole. The Senator will be the man who
can get the vote of all N.S.W. or Victoria; the
Rep. will be the man who can get the vote of his
own little hole and corner. But it is necessary
for the Democrat to be against such an Upper
House as N.S.W. or Vic. possesses; and some
of the bogus specimens of him, having learned
their creed parrot-wise, propose to be
against the Democratic Upper House of the
Commonwealth just the same. Haynes
actually wants also to deprive the paid
and manhood-suffrage-elected Senate of all
power of initiating new legislation, and re-
serve that authority solely for the Federal
House of Culverts. And he asks, on top of all,
that amendments of the Federal Constitution
should be treated just like any other form of
legislation—therefore, after twc rejections, the
House which represents the small constituencies
only could, by its own sole act, abolish the
Democratic House which represents whole
States. The aldermen to have power to abolish
the statesmen ! The representative of Boggabri
to have power to abolish the representative of
N.S.W. !! The irony of it 1 !
4
“Homeo” dogmatises on an interesting sub-
ject :
“ Old children ” and their characteristics are wrongly
conceived by “ Vilain,” in his criticism of Sept. 3rd. That
the children of aged parents “should never by any
chance be of sound mind,” is contrary to all experience.
Some of our best men and women have been the children
of aged parents. A score of instances may be cited to
encumber the columns of The Bulletin. “Vilain” says
that “ the old child is often clever, and sometimes
healthy, but never by any chance mens sana.” A little
reading and some personal observation might tell him
more. He would then learn that the child of young
parents, “the young child,” so to call it, is endowed with
more muscular and less nervous power than the child of
old parents. The latter is a nervous and timid being com-
pared with the former. But, none the less, the child of old
parents has a “ vitality” not always possessed by the others.
“Vitality” does not mean muscular strength in this
case. It means that power which pulls the patient
through fevers and afflictions which kill the merelv-mus-
cular being. The child of aged parents lives to be aged
also. The child of young parents becomes an athlete, a
prizefighter, a soldier and sailor, and a navigator ; a
hewer of wood and worker in mines—an animal sort of
man in strength and way of using it, and one, also, who
dies off early, as too many do of our athletes. The ner-
vously-built child —the “ old child ” —goes in for occupa-
tions of less-arduous kind so far as muscular strength is
concerned—occupations of the head more than of the
hand. More human than animal is “ the old child,” but
for that reason all the more sound in mind. “ Vilain ”
will find that the tenants of our lunatic-asylums are
mostly those whose bodily strength has proved too power-
ful for their brains. They are rarely the children of old
parents.
4
“ Nauticus ” writes on an important Labor
question :
Dear Bulletin.— Some of the Australian steamship cos.
have been in the habit, during recent years when the
carrying trade in European waters was slack, of engaging
large cargo-carriers of the common tramp class at very
moderate rates, just enough to pay the owner better than
laying; up to rust and rot. These ships sign-on a
crew for, perhaps, three years in a British or Continental
port, latter for preference, as the low wages are still
lower on the Continent. On arrival on the Australian
coast the ship and crew is handed over holus-bolus to the
local co. and proceeds to work in opposition to the Aus-
tralian-owned boats whose crews are signed-on under the
local agreement at double the rate of wages. A local
man with coasting exemptions is put in charge, and the
vessel pays no pilotage dues.
Apparenrl.v there is no clause in the Local Navigation
Acts compelling vessels trading on the coast for a period
of six months and upwards to sign-on crews at local
wages, as there should be in justice to crews of both
classes of ships.
Boards are appointed to fix rates of wages and minimise
sweating as far as possible in other trades, but here,
through some legal flaw, what is practically sweating
(because to compel a man to do coast work at deep-water
scale of wages is nothing else) is allowed to go on not
only unchecked but under the sanction and approval of
the law.
Insert a clause in the Navigation Act of each province
that no vessel shall trade interpro.vincially unless her
agreement is a, local one and the wages current on the
coast are paid to the crew, and all such cases will drop
instanter. What M’s.P. will take up the case?


Best Vompanv 'SoiS s 'P & that does MZt
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
KSSW-a&'X 82 r*?r. *«*>*>«• ~ *.
Policy-Holders by in, other Company in £ £l5 and '«»'"» «~mtt paid to its
“Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,437.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 7s. lOd.
ANO EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONtJS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this verv Ifve and rmina- p n „™ m , ... ,
Manreer at either ol its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, AdSd“ Perth or Hrflrt » ilh the
magnitude. 00 "^ 86 “* S ' ,h “ «V “her Company’ name but ot less
Z. C. BENNIE. General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY aßia ‘
SoftCaov/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. 7*7 ICE JiRO l HERS,
Gentlemen s Emporium, BRISBANE, Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. “ Sporting- Life.”
Her Ma.testv’s “La Poupee.”
Lyceum “ The Southern Cross."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Criterion “ The Dangers of London.”
Opera House Mammoth Minstrels
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Under the Red Robe.”
Buou “ Jane.”
Theatre Royal “ Sons of the Sea.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s last Saturday “Pop.”
.Bland Holt’s newest drama, “ Sporting
Bif e i ” leaves behind it a pleasant recollection of
splendid scenery, careful finish, gas, glitter and
rich coloring, as all B. Holt’s dramas do. From
a literary point of view, however, it is below the
usual B. Holt standard. As in most sporting
dramas, the noble but ruined Baker has planked
the last cent of his own money, besides all he can
borrow from the benevolent Jew, on a horse, and
that horse carries lOst. of the bad man’s curses on
his back as he goes out, and wins the Derby in a
canter. If he didn’t win, the ruined character
couldn’t marry his best girl; as it is, he is able to
buy back the ancestral ’all, and be happy. The
story is complicated, as usual, by the fact that a
remorseless enemy has staked £50,000 against the
horse, and illegally sets fire to the animal’s tail the
night before the race. As a further complication
the enemy wants to marry Baker’s girl, and his
own wife (he is going to get rid of her in some way
not explained in order to marry Baker’s girl) was
formerly Baker’s other girl, and still wants to
marry Baker or rum him—she doesn’t care which
And Baker s girl’s young brother is madly in love
with Baker s other girl, and that siren gets him
to forge Baker s name to a £6OOO bill, which she
discounts with the benevolent Jew (one reason
why Baker’s last cent is on the horse is that he
has sold the ancestral ’all to take up the bill and
save the misguided youth). Also, Baker’s girl’s
sister has been seduced by the prize-fighter on
whom Baker has laid his shirt ; and her father,
nearing of it from the enemy, hocusses the de-
cmver; consequently Baker has to get into the
i mg in and personally plug the opponent.
On top of all these troubles the young
man af orem entioned, hearing at the keyhole that the
siren never loved him after all, steps in and
strangles that lady. Naturally the police get a
warrant for Baker’s arrest. The reason they can’t
find him is that he has gone off in haste to save
his horse from being set on fire the night before
the race, a policeman having warned him outside a
pubhc-house, and has been kidnapped by bad
characters. And next day everything clears up
with a bang, for the missing gentleman is found
sitting straight up in a van for no particular reason.
His horse wins. Nobody says anything more about
his intended arrest. Nobody says anything more
about the young man who did the murder. The
dead woman remains on the floor, and nobody
says anything more about her either. And by this
tune Baker’s girl and Baker’s other girl are so
mixed up that it is best to drop them altogether.
I hey are hereby dropped.
* . * *
The benevolent Jew of Bland Holt is about
the most finished character in a performance that
is excellent throughout, though the queenly-look-
ing Miss Frances Ross comes close up in popular
estimation. Miss. Watson’s siren, too, is above
that lady s usual level ; she is a deceiver whose
white teeth gleam like a danger-signal above a
sunken rock, and as a cleaner-out of the affluent
dude she is highlyimpressive. Arthur Styan, late of
the Cartwright co. takes Cosgrove’s old place as the
affable hawk, and does it well on the whole, though
he doesn t put much strength into the part. Seve-
ral or eight other people—Mrs. Holt, Miss Fitz-
maunce Bill, Baker, Albert Norman and Charles
Brown, but principally Brown, whose moist and
unctuous P°( lceman . is a cop of great tonnage—are
hereby dismissed with three well-deserved cheers
A willing go between two real pugilists, M’Gowan
and Iweedie, who biff each other in a manner
worthy of the old Sydney nose-blood days, is an
episode which will probably fill the Royal for
many weeks to come. And, barring the curious
break-down of the tale towards the end, there isn’t
much to complain of after all.
** * *
The “ Southern Cross,” partly by the Rev.
Geo. Walters, of “Joseph of Canaan,” was pro-
duced at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. Australia
bears up reasonably well beneath the shock, and
hopes to recover under careful treatment, provided
it stays in bed and has a mustard-plaster put on
its back. It is a pretty bad shock all the same.
Ihe drama is called the “Southern Cross ” for no
particular reason, except that the crude Austra-
lian author always wants to arrest that scrappy
constellation and bring it into his tale under strict
custody. It would be just as appropriate for
J lnero to call his next comedy the “ Great Bear ”
or the Pole Star,” for the poor old Cross has no
more relation to the show than the egg, or the
Lmperor of Germany, or the elephant. It is a
cheap horse and bushranger Deadwood Dick, and
the scene is laid somewhere out west or north or
south, on the mountainous plains where the wild
billy and the kangaroo-tail soup have their lair
1 he exact address is in the Northern Fijerritory
of New South Queen victoria or thereabouts. Par-
son Walters’ hero is a rich squatter with a
gorgeous city home beside Sydney Harbor, and
Ins gruff and brutal manager arrives there in
evening-dress and insultingly presents the lower
part of his coat-tail to his boss’s friends—having
come all the way from Out Back to ask if he will
sell a horse. Obviously it must have cost him six
times the horse in travelling: expenses. The
squatter, through the machinations of a hidden
enemy, presumably the manager, is constantly
being arrested on bogus charges of horse-steal-
ing. Rev. Walters possibly thinks that a rich
squatter, instead of being a great howling deity
who sits on the bench and gives the population six
months in a perfectly off-hand manner, is only a
small wreck with one cow whom the police run in
pretty much as they please.
* * • *
The squatter, being arrested as usual oil
suspicion of a horse, gets so mad that he breaks
away and turns bushranger, and three ridiculous
’rangers (who can’t ride to any great extent) stick
up a ridiculous little bank in a town that is built
of logs in the American fashion, and steal one
small bag of money without resistance. The
manager takes the squatter’s Wife on as house-
keeper (what has become of the station and the
Darling Point mansion doesn’t appear) and has
designs on her virtue. The girl that the manager
seduced disappears, and the manager explains, on
his own undressed assertion, that she has been led
astray by the late boss, now bushranger. In the
end, the girl comes back and explains, and the
late boss comes back and explains also, and
gives up ’ranging. The original mystery about a
wealthy pastoralist being driven to crime by sus-
picions regarding a horse is left just where it
originally was. There are 14 short scenes and 13
of them end ineffectively. The dialogue is pain-
fully ordinary. The manager (Diver) is beastly
uncivil to his boss, and hauls his boss’s wife
about m a fashion which should get him the per-
emptory sack. Among a long list of characters
Miss Julie Woodville, who looks very pretty and
dresses gracefully, and plays the thin part of the
girl who went astray admirably throughout, leaves
a solitary footprint on this paper’s memory. And
the rest is a shadowy impression of a persecuted
squatter being yanked across endless plains of
dust and saltbush on baseless suspicions about a
certain or uncertain animal —which the present
writer doesn’t believe there ever was any such
animal at all.
** * *
A further intelligent consideration of “La
Poup4e ” at Her Majesty’s half-inclines this paper
to the idea that that little opera is getting better
as it goes along. Regarding the Doll there was
never any possible doubt, but some of the other
characters seem to have settled down better in
their places, and to hustle the little streak of
humor along to better advantage. At all events,
the Doll waves her wooden joints seven times a
week to profitable business.
s ** * *
Miss Ada, Reeve is due to-morrow (Friday)
at Sydney Tivoli, and as Juleene’s Electric Organ
has also arrived there and takes up a good deal of
space on the programme, and Biondi has got a
new sketch, which is quite as remarkable as the
old one, someone has to be sacrificed to make
room. Therefore, conjuror Winton’s last week in
Sydney is announced, and as Winton has been
there a long tune, and has probably used up most
of his wonders, it is just possible that his loss will
not be irreparable. The G-ovell sisters also depart
this week.
** * *
Mr. John Cosgrove, for a very long time
of Bland Holt’s co., opens at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday with Scudamore’s drama, the 1 ‘ Dangers
of London.” Said literary effort is new to Aus-
tralia, and is a capacious spectacle of great possi-
binties. Drama at the Criterion is rather an un-
usual departure, but that pretty little house has
taken _ turns at opera, comedy, mesmerism and
trained horse, so there seems no reason why the
spectacular play should not boom there also. Pro-
fessor Kennedy, whose mesmeric show was lately
m possession, has moved on. The Bulletin’s Syd-
ney representative hasn’t taken the trouble to in-
quire where he has moved to, but if he has moved
to the only place that his kind of show ought to
move to, the_ said representative trusts, by leading
a spotless existence for the rest of his days, not to
meet him there.
** * *
Sydney Palace Theatre, the most beautiful
house of amusement in Australia, is to re-open
after a very long closure, on Saturday, October 8!
Dante, a conjuror who is alleged by experts to “lay
over even the renowned Carl Hertz, is to be the
attraction, and the able and popular Louis Lohr
will be m charge.
** * *
The almost-forgotten Alhambra, down on
Brickfield Hill, Sydney, re-opens on Saturday
under the management of W. J. Wilson and St.
John. Also, the Mammoth Minstrels have con-
trived to keep the luckless Opera House open for
several weeks; so that the show business is rasing*
with unusual violence in Sydney just now.
** # *
‘Under the Red Robe,” introduced to
Australia, on Saturday, at Melb. Princess’s, is an-
other adaptation from a novel. The first-night
reception of such plays as “Red Robe,” “Little
Minister, and ‘Zenda” throws little light on
their prospects for a first-night audience mostly
knows the novel, whereas the people coming after
being less acquainted with the original yarn will
be less prone to comparative criticism, and also
less easily interested. To those who have already
met Stanley Weyman’s characters in print
Edward Roses drama explains itself. Thev
know what sort of person the hero, Gil
de Berault, is meant to be a dare-devil
gambler, no longer young, who feels, for the
first time in his loose career, the influence of a
noble, gilt-edged woman, and is carried by roman-
tic circumstances from one chivalrous deed to
another. Circumstances press him into the posi-
tion of a spy in a house where truth and hohor
reign, and feminine graces soothe the savage
breast. The spy goes to capture the rebel brother
of an adorable girl, but remains to befriend him.
Love transforms the “hard-case” into a self-
sacrificer, and the maid and the worldling, s 6
strangely brought together, are left to live happily
ever afterwards as in the novel.
* * * *
Stanley Weymail’s plot, laid in France at
the time When Cardinal Richelieu ruled the king,
is mainly an equestrian plot. It covers a lot of
open ground. In the play there are no horseback
journeyihgs, and things get pulled together rather
violently and clumsily between the four walls of
the Chateau de Cocheforet. Gil de Berault (he
has character points in common with our old friend
Don Caesar de Bazan) cuts a meaner figure than
the hero of the novel, although he is not subjected
to so many humiliations. For instance, he steals
from a cupboard the sachet containing diamonds
(which in the novel, he casually picks up from the
street), and hayingburgled the sachet he restores it
almost immediately in an unsatisfactory way. He is
not given sufficient time for mental struggles. He
loves the girl in too much of a hurry, all things
considered; likewise, the girl’s fondness for him
is unduly sudden. The plot of the play will seem
forced to most people, and, but for the spectacular
dignity of Gordon’s scenery and the general
fixings, there would be little hope for “Under the
Red Robe.” In London it appealed to a wide
circle of Stanley Weyman’s readers. The Melb.
circle is small. But Melb. is always kindly dis-
posed towards a handsome show, and the dresses
will count as an attraction. None so rich and
genuine-looking have been seen in any previous
drama hereabouts. If purple and fine linen can
make a new and gloomy entertainment go, this
will go for some weeks.
• * * •
In the present writer’s opinion, “Under
the Red Robe ”is very faultily acted. There are
fine parts, and fine clothes, but the performance
is never fine. Julius Knight, after a spirited
duel with Richard Stewart in the first scene,
declines into a heavy, monotonous hero of bow-
legged appearance. Velvet “smalls,” big boots,
and a hanging wig don’t suit the ex-Roman
Prefect; he wants more inches as well as a larger
assortment of moods and tones. Miss Ferrar
carries her beauteous gowns effectively, but she by
no means rises to the full height of her opportu-
nities, and sometimes her indignant bend of the
back verges on the ludicrous. Mrs. Maesmore
Morris is valuable as a lovely, shrinking wife in
the background, but when she is put into the fore-
ground of a tragic situation the play loses some
natural force. As for Mrs. M. ’s husband, whose
concealment, capture, and release are matters of
chief importance, he turns out to be Harry Hill, a
wooden, _ _ mechanical young actor. George
Majeroni is a commendably lean and weird dumb
servant; but Cecil Ward, as the weak-minded
Captain of guards, is out of the picture. He
might be the inane fop of modern comedy mas-
querading as a Cavalier, and it seems absurd for
the vengeful dumb man to drag so flimsy a joke
over a precipice. Neither is Gaston Mervale an
artistic Cardinal Richelieu, for he merely wears a
red gown and sham white hair, and intones his
lines in short lengths after the manner of the
Black Elphberg in “Zenda.” “Under the Red
Robe ” is to have Wednesday matinees.
* * *
“Jane,” at popular prices, came back to
Melb. Bijou on Saturday after a long lapse of
years, and Pattie Brown’s reappearance in the
pink cotton garb of the name character was joy-
fully received. “Jane” is a three-act farce that
hasn’t outlived its usefulness. The authors—there
were two of ’em —managed to break away from
the beaten _ track where the penitent husband
expiates his harmless razzle-dazzle under the
baleful eye of his mother-in-law. The male
sinner in this case is a gigantic bachelor, with a
tame best girl, and a long-lost uncle, and a couple
of domestic servants who have just been made
one. In a troubled moment he borrows parlor-
maid Jane for mock-matrimonial purposes, and
clothes her in white silk and trimmings. Also,
he endows her with a borrowed baby, and omits
to explain things to William, the man-servant.
Wherefore William finds himself waiting on his
plump young bride in a menial capacity, and falls
a prey to horrible suspicions, whilst Jane sits
threatening him with instant dismissal and a
week’s wages. “ Jane ”is a roaring complication
all the time. She handles her real husband and
her borrowed belongings with great discretion,
and displays Pattie Browne at Pattie’s best. The
company otherwise differs from the co. that ap-
appeared m Sydney last month. Long Mac Vicars
is the deceitful bachelor, and Sweeney gives a
rather heavy sketch of William. Miss Eloise
Juno, Oily Deering, and Fred Cambourne fill
their respective places; likewise Miss Noni
Rmkards is a bright boy in buttons. At the Bijou,
as m Sydney, they raise the curtain with “Her
Good Name,” which 20-minutes tragedy brings
Miss Beatrice Day and Mac Vicars into favorable
notice, and leaves Walner Gregory dead in the
adjoining room.
** * *
At the Opera House—where Ada Reeve
tp°k a lucrative farewell matinee on Saturday—
the latest addition is Geo. Beauchamp. Geo.
Wood got there a week earlier, and the Poluskis
are returning next Saturday, so the programme
will contain sufficient man to balance the festive
fettle cast ing doubt on man’s
.entity. Ihe variety show at the Gaiety finished
its Melbourne season on Saturday, and Phil New-
bury’s next “Pop,” at the Town Hall, will be his
last for the present. The parting “Pop” is to
bring forth an allegedly great pianiste, Celinski by
name. J
** W W
At the Royal, a sanguine management
decided to withdraw “ Round the World, ” and to
set up “Sons of the Sea ”on Saturday. The dif-
ference between these two harmless experiments is
scarcely worth mentioning, for they are both like
pantomimes which have erred and strayed from
the ways of Xmas. Perhaps “Sons of the Sea”
errs more unforgivmgly than the other entertain-
ment. It has a solemn side to it, and sometimes
the feast of lunacy and flow of soul suspend opera-
tions, whilst a castaway mariner tears his tangled
hair on the Island of Balker. The mariner and
his female son get lost on the Island soon after 8
o clock, and they appear again at 10.15 or there-
abouts m a frost-bitten state, waiting to be rescued
by the other members of the co., who have
been enjoying sundry small jokes and volcanic
eruptions and ballets meanwhile. The ballet is
their best enjoyment from the audience’s point of
view, although the volcano provides considerable
fun and fireworks. The jokes, not less than the
frozen residents of Balker, are lacking in human
interest, and the drama as a whole will not do.
Ihe Bulletin is sorry to feel quite positive on the
point. All sorts of unexpected things can be made
to do m this world, but there isn’t money in an
ice-bound extravaganza that bears no author’s
name on the cover, and is said to have been built
in Germany. Charles Maurice. Kins* Hedley.
Miss Minna Phillips and other people, who ap
pear m “Round the World ” are doing their best
for the new show. Also, the scenery is good, and
the interpolated girls have a soothing effect.
At Poverty Point.
Australee Man ” : Heard Melba 15 months ago at
Oovent Harden. Glitter, icebergs, glaciers, showers of
pearls, electric light, flash, coruscation, dazzling perfec-
tion—but no love, tears or throat-swelling in ner song
One even got tired of its exquisite brilliancy. To hear
her cost me 10s. 6d. Eighty in orchestra and the two
De Rezskes thrown in. Also, there were dukes thrown
in. Didn’t go back on her nights; had enough. Went
to see Patti. Sunshine, love, laughter, fountains play-
ing, birds singing. There is a caressing, honeyed tone in
her voice that makes a man want to hug her. 1 sat in the
front row and saw' plainly the ravages of Time, but old
woman as she is, I feel, when I think of her voice, as
if I could travel all the way across the world to ki«s her
Then again, 1 think of old wheezy Nicolini down in the
kitchen cooking for her, and insisting that she should
eat a sufficient quantity of Fat. But I went to five of her
concerts at 10s. fid. and would have kept on ad infinitum
had they continued. I have heard the best of ’em all for
25 years, and none but she makes the music-tired man
want to go two nights in succession. No wonder Auber
cried when he “ heard her first.”
Surry Hills (Sydney) boasts a novel theatrical enter-
tainment. A bottle-dealer gives a performance in an
empty house (himself and two sons constitute the C o )
Admission—front seats, three bottles ; middle, two ordi-
nary or one pickle; back seats, one bottle of any sort.
Says he averaged 150 bottles for three performances
“ Where is’Olt alongside that?” he queried. An oppo-
sition “ bottle-admission” show is going to start in East-
street, Surry Hills. Twelve performers!
Of course, the new Sydney Markets concert-hall proves
a sad alderinamc mistake. It was first used for a Plevel
concert on Saturday night, when the doorway was
blocked by small boys and other curious folk, and women
in evening attire had to crush their w'ay throich the
crowd. Inside, the atmosphere was stifling, and many of
the.audience left before the programme was half through
Also, the hall has only one exit, and will he about the
most dangerous in Sydney in case of a fire-stampede.
Its acoustics are all right, comparatively, but the hall is
only of a size for “sassiety” functions, and “sassietv”
will fight shy of those dreadful Markets.
When Oscar Wilde wrote his play of “Salome” in
French, he gave a copy of it to Leslie Thompson, now of
Pattie Browne’s co. Wilde was then rehearsing one of his
plays with Beerbohm Tree’s co., of which Thompson was
a member. He wanted an English translation made of
the play. “Do it for me,” he said, “ and I shall ever be
your debtor.” Thompson, a good French scholar, com-
pleted the translation, and sent the MS. to Wilde. Wilde
at once sent him a 400-word telegram, in which he rhap-
sodised about the eternal beauties of this piece of trans-
Jating. It was a thing of beauty ;an imperishable jewel
of literature; a pearl beyond price. The next thing
Thompson heard about “Salome” was that a translation
of it by Lord Alfred Douglas had been published with the
“™ or ’ s sanction. And he subsequently learned that
Wilde had got a small army of people to do translations
for him, and had thanked most of them in 400-word tele-
grams expressive of his rapturous joy !
Harry Plimmer has gone to the western piovincesas
leading man of the Firm’s new dramatic co., and will
perpetrate Marcus Superbus, Wilfred Denver, Rudolf
Rassendyll, N. Bonaparte, &c. As Marcus Superbus
Plimmer ought to lay over Julius Knight, and it is a pity
that he can’t also do a spell of “ Claudian.” Both are
mainly leg parts, and Plimmer has got all the legs that
even the short-skirted Roman could ask for. Considering
that that end of Plimmer would be as great a novelty as
the same end of the imported star, for the public
never saw that end of Plimmer before, what was the good
of importing a scar in preference to the local mo-a, any-
how ? J
“Tromboner”: I remember Poussard as the musical
conductor of a disastrous opera season at Melb. Opera
House. His wife was billed as manageress and bright
particular star of -the co.,and poor old Horace P was
seemingly the one man in the theatre who found music
in her voice and joy in her presence. Every night the
lady would get a “ treble encore ” for the dullest of dit-
ties. Six people, more or less, clamored for the encore on
each occasion, whilst the rest of the audience smiled or
squirmed derisively at the precious “demonstration.”
But Poussard believed in the singer and the applause.
His eyes sparkled as he gave the signal for the orchestra
to repeat the music for the last verse—and again—and
again. The old man’s admiration for Madame’s tiresome
performance was quite pathetic. I marvelled that a
musician’s ears could be so deaf to the melodious truth.
Tweedie and M’Gowan give a first-class couple of rounds
in “ Sporting Life ”at Sydney Royal; and Walter Baker
does not make half a bad showing in knocking his man
out. Lord Woodstock’s get-up, however, does not show
Bland Holt’s usual minuteness of detail. Baker fights
for a fortune in a stiff-starched shirt, trousers braces,
and leather-soled boots.
The condition of Perth is illustrated by the tact that
several Saturday evenings have lately passed without a
theatre or other public place of entertainment being open.
“Haresfoot ” : The highest literary water-mark of the
purely Australian stage, I think, was reached in two
original blank-verse tragedies, written and acted in Mel-
bourne. First in order of time was “ The Gladiator,” by
Jaffray, a pressman, of the Agb ; and, second, “ Bernardo
del Carpio,” by John Finnamore, a lawyer’s clerk, whom
I had the pleasure of meeting* the other day. During the
long intervening years, Finnamore might have done some
good work, if encouraged. But what manager could
possibly afford encouragement to the blank-verse-tragedy
industry ?
Latest reports from the London ’alls speak of Charles
Godfrey as being more recovered than ever. He seems
to have found a new constitution stronger than the one
that fell to pieces in Westralia.
The subscription for poor old Sims Reeves gets along
very slowly. W. S. Gilbert set a good example to sassiety
by weighing in with a £lO-note.
Clement Scott —the London critic who hurled “ vile as-
persions at mummer morality, and then repented of his
outspokenness—is hobnobbing with hactors as of yore.
Charles Wyndham has referred to the journalist in public
as “ my dear old friend.”
A man lately sang “Paradise Alley” at a “sacred”
concert in M.L. The pious hall-proprietor arose and told
the audience he did not know they were going to sing
comic songs. “If I’d a knowed it,” he said, “ I wouldn’t
a let ’em ’ave the ’all. Even now, if the ’all was lubri-
cated with gas, I’d turn the lights out on ’em.”
“A.H.”; Why must the stage contralto insist on re-
minding us of the vasty deep from which she calls her
tones, by beginning each phrase with a “Yah-hurru-
roop,” as though she were calling for the steward?
“ How do they know they are men ? It’s only a name
they give themselves.”— Peggy Pryde, on Women’s Bights.
“ Theorbo ” : Poussard had died out of mind in Melb.,
which he hated. His last appearance there was as
entrepreneur of comic opera, with Lottie Montal as prima
donna, in “ Madame L’Archiduc,” but it was a Polar frost.
Many old-chum Australians who remember the inter-
esting marriage and untimely deaths of Miss Furtadoand
comedian John Clarke, may have wondered what became
of their two orphan infant children. The girl, Teresa
Furtado Clarke, a charming young actress, was married
in great style the other week to McLean Barradile, a
theatrical potentate. Barradile’s bride has said good-bye
to the stage.
Olga Nethersole was to re-appear in London (at Her
Majesty s) on Sept. Ist, as the heroine of Louis Parker’s
new play “ The Termagant.”
Bessie Doyle, the Sydney violinist, was very badlv
spoken of by Continental audiences. One excited
foreigner exclaimed after a concert—" I went to hear a
violin, played by a player. I only heard wood. I did not
go to hear wood.” Shortly after this Miss Doyle got
married in a most unassuming manner, and disappeared
to America.


ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLT-NER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydne v .
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MKUCHA NTS, \
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
“Tb* R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. *
Harrison & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors,
JJ
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Oollins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
♦ * • *
When the improvement comes this way, gas
shares should get a good lift from the introduction of
the new Welsbach burner, which needs no chimney or
artificial draught, is not affected by variation in pressure,
and gives a better light with the same consumption.
• - * * *
Apropos “ half fine to the informer.” A Sydney
shopkeeper accidentally gave an unstamped receipt to a
man who had a “ down ” upon him. “ See,” said the
latter, “ I’ll lay an information against you for this,” and
departed. Shopkeeper hurried up to “Old Hemming,”
the Commissioner, laid information against self, and
secured half the fine. When the “informer" proper
arrived, blue was the div.
• * • «
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
* * * *
When an tip-country storekeeper smashes, the
stock is usually sold in one lot to highest cash tenderer.
Cash stipulation bars the local traders, and a city man
generally picks up the crumb at a low figure, and—sup-
plementing it with cheap auction and warehouse lines
and discarded portions of his town stock—advertises a
“monster cash clearing sale,” at which prices (thanks to
his many advantages) are much under the local figure,
and thus scoops the cash which should have reached the
locals in payment of long-standing scores. The city mer-
chants are then surprised at renewal-requests from the
regular price-paying storekeepers, and have not sagacity
to see that their own methods are ruining their best cus-
tomers for the benefit of the insolvent-estate shark—
usually a direct importer of his requirements.
* • • *
Some of the Australian provinces export dried
apricots to England, and are quite surprised to find that
they are subject to 7s. per cwt. duty, while tinned apri-
cots from California are admitted free. The idea that
Britain is a Freetrade country receives some hard knocks
now and then.
* « * *
From a letter written to Australia by the prin-
cipal of a very big English firm trading here :—“ General
Expenses : In consequence of what has transpired re-
cently we are compelled to scrutinise your account very
closely, and we now notice an item under date 4th April
for clerk’s tea, 2s. We should certainly think that 6d. or,
at the outside, Is. should be sufficient, 2s. being ample for
lunch—food being much cheaper in the colony than in
London.”
* • * •
The new air compressor at the Long Tunnel
mine, Walhalla, Victoria, is giving great satisfaction, and
has made a continuous run, night and day, of over
18 months, without once stopping. Manager Thomson
speaks in the highest terms of it. The plant is a 350
I.H.P. cross compound double stage air compressor, with
Corliss type air and steam valves, and reflects great credit
on the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South Mel-
bourne, who manufactured and erected it. This firm has
lately purchased the plant and stock of the old-established
Langlands Foundry co., now in liquidation, and, as it
has all the patterns, can supply duplicate parts of any
machines made by Langlands.*
* • * *
Libel-actions by the dozen having had no other
effect on Henry Hess than to fatten his paper, the Critic,
bis enemies (the London boomsters and boodlers) are now
threatening him with horsewhips and pistols. One
Hurnby having been described in the Critic as the asso-
ciate of a certain shark in nine out of fifteen of the latter’s
swindle#, he wrote Hess that he did not care to spend
money in law, hut as he understood that Hess was about
to spend the summer holidays at Flushing, he would meet
him there with any weapon he choose, and have it out
together. Also, that he would prefer the old English
method of fists, but, was doubtful if Hess would care for
that style ; if so, however, he promised “ the damnedest
thrashing you have ever received.” If Hess declined any
method of extermination, Humby says he will treat him
as a coward whenever and wherever he meets him, as he
is not going to permit “ a German with a tainted record
to elect himself a censor over his actions. If he had done
anything wrong he was ready to face a jury and answer
for the consequences.” Hess declines, remarking that he
may be twice over a coward, but that does not make Mr.
Humby less a swindler.
Mysterious Age matrimonial advt. (Sept.
21) t
TT/'IDOW, 27, 1 child, wishes to correspond with
” gentleman, surname Rogers, with view to matri-
mony. L.X., G.P.0., Ulverston, Tasmania.
The protean Dreyfus-case breaks out in a
fresh place every day. Esterhazy (admittedly a
German spy) now puts responsibility for his ad-
mitted forgeries upon Colonel Sandherr, president
of the court-martial which condemned Dreyfus.
And Sandherr is “the Man who’s Dead,” once
more !
Grein, alias Rougemont, to an English
interviewer: “ It is, as you may suppose, a very
grave mistake to think that I am spouting out the
whole story glibly. Indeed, the connected inci-
dents come to me only very slowly, and I cannot
tax my unfortunate head for more than a couple
of hours at a time.” Naturally a man can’t lie about
cannibal kings, and ash-buckets of virgin gold,
and dogs with tails for rescuing drowning sailors,
&c., &c., all day long without stopping. You
must give inventors a leetle • time to let their
imagination hitch its pants up and get its boots on
the right feet, in a manner of speaking.
Mr. Chas. Harris, dentist, of St. James’
Chambers, King-st., Sydney, advertises that he
has made a discovery,which enables him to prepare
and fill teeth without pain. Mr. Harris has
brought out a book explaining the many and
various methods for saving the teeth, filling them
with gold and other metals, &0., &c., and to people
who are thinking of consulting a dentist, this book
will prove of great service. Mr. Harris’ rooms are
handsomely appointed, and every modern im-
provement is at hand for the comfort of patients.*
Attention is called to the advertisement
of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion which appears in
this issue. This preparation is justly called the
Greatest Discovery of Modern Times for all Eye
Affections arising from any cause whatever.
Hundreds of unsolicited testimonials have been
received by the manufacturer from all parts of
Australia. Now that the Summer is approaching,
it behoves residents in the country to prepare for
the many complaints which affect the eyes at that
season of the year, and they cannot do better than
give this acknowledged great Australian remedy
a trial.*
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, 1
36/387.
ithartre,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
_ All Mining' Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery,
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mblbournk ;
11 P%tUst. f Sydney; 68 Currie*st. 9 Adel ; (Jueen^st. , Brtik
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Victorian revenue for year ended 30th
June, 1898, was 6,887,463 ; ordinary expenditure,
£6,682,704 ; surplus, which has been applied in reduction
of the old deficit, £204,759.
* * » *
Item from a manifesto lately issued by the
Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association (Mel-
bourne) :—“ At the present time, owing to the demand
for Government debentures, the very high premium at
which they are quoted and the great dearth in the supply
of these securities, even at abnormal rates—money has to
remain in the banks on current account, earning no
interest whatever. This is a most unfortunate position
for beneficiaries, and there seems to be no immediate
prospect of relief.” Victorian 3 per cent, stock is selling
at £lO3 or a little more in Melbourne. There is no English
quotation to comp ire with, but 3 per cent. N.SAV. stock
is only worth £llll 10s. in London. In the flotation of
new loans £lO3 in Melbourne is really equal to £lO5 or £lO6,
or even more, in London, because tV"’ latter involves (1)
payment of heavy stamp-duty to Bull Government; (2)
payment of heavy expenses to the bank which does the flo-
tation (in Melbourne it is done by the Treasury at practi-
cally no extra cost) ; (3) payment twice a year for 30 or 40
or 50 years or perhaps for five centuries of exchange in re-
mitting interest to London ; (4) payment for a few cen-
turies of a considerable sum annually for management of
the loan in London (in Melbourne it only costs the salary of
an extra Treasury clerk); (5) permanent loss of income-tax
on the interest (the London bondholders being exempt from
income-tax, while the Victorian ones pay that impost) ;
(6) loss of probate duty when the holder dies, and
the probate duty runs as high as 10 per cent. Yet, with
all these advantages in favor of local flotation, and the
fact that Victoria offers a bigger price than Bull and is
simply howling for Government securities, Premier
Turner only proposes vaguely to float £500,000 of his new
loan in Melbourne, and the other £1,000,000 and all the
conversion loans are apparently to be floated in London !
If Turner would offer 3 per cent, interminable securities
(repayable solely at the State’s option after, say, 20 years)
in Melbourne at 99 (and 99 in Melbourne would be worth
a great deal more than he is ever likely to get in London),
he could almost certainly get seven or eight millions.
That is provided he kept the stock on sale at the Trea-
sury, and let the money drift in gently, instead of asking
for a huge lump at once.
* 6 » *
Westralian Premier and Treasurer Forrest
cheerfully estimates that the revenue for the year to June,
1899, will be £2,905,350, or £150,603 more than it was last
year. He made this estimate late in August, when the
revenue was already falling about his ears like a paper
city struck by an earthquake. For July and August, the
revenue is £42,372 less than it was for July and August
last year, and, instead of £150,000 increase, the year will
probably show a drop of £250,000. Then Big John esti-
mated the year’s expenditure at £2,714,134, or £542,778
less than it was last year, and talks glibly of paying off
last year’s deficit and having a balance to the good. In
the roaring days, when the boom revenue rolled in beyond
the dreams of avarice, Big John was a good enough Trea-
surer—it was hardly possible to be otherwise then. In
the bad days that are looming, he promises to be the
worst financier these provinces ever saw or heard of.
» * * »
Westralia has managed to place the balance of
its £1,000,000 3 per cent, loan (the one which failed so
miserably a few weeks ago) in London privately at £94 4s.
Stamp-duty and expenses will probably bring this down
below £93. Allowing for the loss on repayment, Westralia
is paring 34 per cent, for its money, And it lately raised a
loan in Australia with much less trouble at the same
price.
* * • *
South Australia for the year to 30th June, 1898
—revenue, £2,566,611 ; expenditure, £2,598,939 ; deficit,
£32,328. For the year to June, 1899, estimates—revenue,
£2,649,899 ; expenditure, £2,619,220 ; surplus, £30,679.
Like Forrest, the hired optimist of Westralia, Treasurer
Holder doesn’t provide any new sources of revenue ; he
simply squares the accounts on paper by assuming that
the old sources will grow. And that is” how S.A usually
gets left.. In the last 23 financial years S.A. has had 11
surpluses and 12 deficits, but the four largest deficits were
£361,000, £295,000, £272,000, and £201,000 ; while the
four largest surpluses were £133,000, £129,000, £109,000,
£109,000 ; therefore the accumulated shortage is close on
a million. And, in addition to this, the Northern Terri-
tory has a deficit of about £560,000, which isn’t taken into
the S.A. accounts, though if S.A. doesn’t pay it no one
else can, unless the Federal Government takes it over.
* * • *
S.A. railway revenue for year ending June
shows a loss of £80,768, or nearly £30,000 more than in
previous year. Net revenue only provides 2'98 per cent,
on capital. Earnings, £984,228; expenses (including in-
terest, £461,523), £1,064,996.
* * • *
“ Robert J. C.”: What The Bulletin said about
the Victoria Insurance Co. was true. And you care-
fully dodge every issue it raised (that the dividends
have been sometimes beyond earnings ; that the co. ex-
hausted its profits in immense dividends while there were
heavy losses, through depreciation of assets, unprovided
for ; and that it is consequently much poorer than it was
a few years ago). You talk vaguely about the age of the
co. and the wealth of the shareholders, but quite shirk the
real question.
* * * •
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania’s half-yearly
report to 31st August is at least a trifle more cheering
than that of the previous half—the previous half repre-
sented the Commercial’s worst on record for very many
years, therefore even a slight improvement is acceptable.
The net profits for the half-year are £3823, equal to
£2 6s. 2d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds
(capital £141,492 ; reserve £190,000). Considering that
the Commercial of Tasmania is a very old and deep-rooted
institution (it is now 66 years of age), that it never re-
constructed, and that it makes no mention of having any
jpsses to provide for, the earnings are certainly very
small and they vaguely suggest the idea that an overhaul
of the securities might not be amiss. The recent profits
have been :
June, 1892 ..£13,393 December, 1895 .. £3700
December, 1892.. 8352 June, 1896 .. .. 4199
June, 1893 .. 6589 December, 1896 .. 3833
December, 1893.. 5586 August, 1897
June, 1894, .. 4345 (8 months) .. 4969
December, 1894.. 4378 February, 1898 .. 3463
June, 1895 .. 4610 August, 1898 .. 3823
The usual 5 per cent, dividend and dividend-tax thereon
absorb £3714, and the remaining £lO9, with previous
balance, leaves £747 at credit of profit and loss.
The Commercial of Tasmania shows, as com-
pared with last half-year, a decrease of £94,000 in de-
posits, and the cash (£334,000) shows a decrease of £34,000.
Nine years ago the Commercial paid 20 per cent, dividends,
while the National of Tasmania, having a vastly smaller
reserve to earn profits with, paid a humble 7£. Also,
the Commercial showed a year’s profit of over £30,000,
while the National earned less than £lO,OOO. Now
they both pay 5 per cent., but the small National has
rather the larger profits of the two. This doesn’t neces-
sarily mean anything; still it shows that the fading of
Tasmania’s biggest bank, from a profit-earning point of
view, has been somewhat remarkable. The reserve of
cash and State securities now equals 32 percent, of all
liabilities to the public, and the fact that the Commercial
keeps a much larger cash-balance than in the old 20 per
cenc. days accounts for part of the drop. It also keeps a
much smaller reserve of State securities, which isn’t espe-
cially good policy. If it put 1100,000 of its cash (which,
should be easily spared) into State securities it would
make the half-year’s profits about £5400 instead of the
depressing i'3823.
» * • *
The British Bank of Australia —probably the
most decomposed financial carcase left over from the
boom—is near the end of its liquidation, and is expected
to yield the creditors 2d. in the £ all round. This is pro-
vided the debenture-holders don’t succeed in establishing
a prior claim ; if they do, the depositors will get abso-
lutely nothing. The rema ning assets appear in the
books as worth £469,476, and the liquidator has sanguine
hopes that they will pan out for £2016. Calls in arrear
(£47,925) are expected to yield £2OO ; most of the share-
holders have already been crushed and panned off, and
the survivors are only good for a speck or two. The
British Bank obtained £153,000 from depositors, and
invested it mostly in buying three times as much property
as it could pay' for. When the slump came, the mort-
gagees took the property, and the 8.8. was left. It didn’t
live long enough even to make a decent rise for the boom-
sters who van the show —but that was nothing unusual.
Even the brightest of the booms'ers was 45 per cent,
knave and 55 per cent, fool, and, while he left the public
badly, he invariably ended by getting left himself? He
didn’t deserve to be hanged any the less, forr /he
generally intended to be 100 per cent, knave and no fool
at all, but he hadn’t the needful brain-furniture.
The Premier Permanent Building Society, that
huge concern whose smash, seven or eight years ago, was
the first sign that the bottom was falling out of the Mel-
bourne boom, seems likely to pay its first and last divi-
dend shortly. An English absentee co. has offered to buy
the old stupendous wreck in one lot, and give the depos-
tors 2s. lOd. in the £ payable in five years with 3
per cent, interest, or 2s. in the £ cash. The offer
is being seriously considered. Seven years ago all
the dreadfully smart men in Melbourne were buying
these deposits at 16s. in the '£, and cackling a fruity
cackle at the thought of how they had taken the deposi-
tor in. And six years ago the depositor had begun to
feel glad he had sold and rescued at least the bulk of his
money out of the fire ; and he went and put that money
carefully in Colin Longmuir’s bank so that it would be
quite, quite safe. And most of the years since then both
parties have wished they were dead.
* * * *
The latest report of the South Australian Co.,
the big absentee land-owning concern which has become
so notorious in S. A., shows a profit of £28,861 for ’97, and
its Fat Men shareholders, most of whom have never seen
S.A., received a div. of 10 per cent, for the year. In the
last 13 years the lowest div. has been 9 and the highest 15
percent. Premier Kingston promised to enquire into
this rack-renting co.’s dealings awhile ago, but nothing
more has been heard of the matter. The great S.A. Co.
trouble doesn’t lie so much in the dividends, handsome as
they are, as in the accumulated surplus. The co. pro-
fesses to have £284,000 paid-up capital and a Very' modest,
reserve of about £35,000. But if it wrote up its assets to
their present value—which would be very unwise policy—
it could show a real reserve of about £750,000, and if it
sold out now it could, after paying excellent dividends for
a generation and a half, give its shareholders their money
back three or four times over. So the S.A. Co. has been
an eminently prosperous absentee, and has ground the
bones of the Crow-eater to some purpose.
* * * *
The N.S. Wales Assurance Corporation has
about finished its liquidation. It was killed mainly by
its London business, which landed it in a dead loss of
£15,397 in addition to expenses. The Pacific, which 15
years ago was the biggest N.S.W. fire-insurance concern,
died from the same cause ; and the Standard of Maoriland
lost almost all its belongings through its foreign business
about 18years ago, though it hassince retrieved its position.
European losses have swallowed up an enormous amount
of good Australian money in the insurance line, and the
most prosperous co.’s now keep pretty closely to the local
business—the most prosperous one of the lot even keeps
inside a single province. , The interested wail of the
“ expert,” that State fire-insurance is impossible because
it will necessarily be restricted to one province is a very
tattered lie, in the light of past experience.
• • * *
Every man who has a life-assurance policy to
leave to his descendants should carefully strike out of his
will that old familiar phrase, “after payment of all my
just debts.” In fact, he should leave out all mention of
his just debts, which will probably take mighty good care
of themselves. In several of the provinces a life-policy is
more or less protected against creditors, but the clause
above mentioned destroys that protection, and the “ just
debts” swallow it along with the other assets.
* • * *
The Excelsior Land Investment and Building
Co. and Bank (Sydney), shows for the year ended 31st
July, ’9B, a profit of £448 —about Bs. sd. per cent, per
annum on paid-up capital. Present prospects look not
especially bright. The Excelsior got a year’s exemption
from interest on its deposits, and now pays only 24 per
cent., yet even on these easy terms it just about
makes ends meet. About £lBO,OOO of alleged visible
assets produce a gross income of £2 18s. per cent.,
and the property and mortgages which yield only
£2 18s. per cent, are generally worth on the
whole a good deal less than their paper value.
The Excelsior’s third biggest “asset” is accumulated loss
£32,483. Its fourth biggest is “calls unpaid £8020,” and
the fifth largest asset is a painfully vague item called
“ suspense account, £1372.” Among them, therefore,
£41,875 of the Excelsior’s assets, or about one-fifth of the
whole, are mere book entries. The deposits should be
very respectable value for the 7s. 6d. in the £ they have
been lately selling at, or even for more than that, but the
present prospects of the shareholders look like not much
in the £.
• • * *
Melbourne Age reckons that the disgraceful
Standard Bank will yield 3s. in the £to depositors. The
Bulletin estimates that, though the paper assets are
equal to more than the liabilities, the Standard won’t
yield over 2s. in the £ altogether. It wouldn’t be sur-
prised to see the old wreck pan out for only Is. 6d.
• * * *
The Central Mill business, like the guarantee-
railway system, is going to land Q, Govt, in a pretty
pickle. Up to 30th June, ’9B, there had been advanced
£430,000 on Central sugar-mills. A total of £4BOO had
been paid to the Treasury in interest thereupon, and
nothing in redemption. There is owing in interest
£33,000, and in redemption-money £25,000 —a total of
£55,500. Of course, sugar-advocates will tell you, “Oh,
Govt, is amply secured by its mortgage on the "properties,”
but every man knows in his heart that the State won’t
foreclose. Queensland sugar-kings have had more pam-
pering and coddling than any other class in Australia.
Nigger, Jap, and Cingalese labor ; nice little branch lines
here and there ; and last, but not least, mills erected at
their doors by the dear paternal Govt. Talk about a soft
thing 1 „
During the Zeehan boom of ’9O, a prospector,
out for a Hobart syndicate, struck a lode somewhere, and,
selecting several specimens, sewed them up neatly in a
bag, and took them round to the capital. A special meet-
ing was called—for everyone was redhot in those days
and the p. attended with his pack of stuff. “ Now, gen-
tlemen,” he said, “ you’ve seen a few speciments, but I
venture to say that these will surprise you. Then he up-
ended the bag on the table, and out rolled about 151bs.
weight of Circular Head spuds. The originals had been
stolen at Strahan, brought round to Launceston, and
materially helped to float a big co., whose property was
never pegged, surveyed, or known : in fact, never existed.
Which recalls the box of silver sent by a Hobart
bank to its Zeehan branch. When it reached its destina-
tion, it was found to contain bricks. The mystery re-
mains.
* » • *
Some Mt. Lyell figures : Ore smelted per month,
11,000 tons, mined by 280 men. Firewood consumed,
4600 tons per month. Sandstone and limestone for flux-
ing, 12,000 cubic yards per month ; coke, 750 tons. Tim-
ber output by the sawmills, 160,000 ft. Men employed on
or about the smelters, 1100. Eight locomotives are in
use. Expenditure in wages is now at the rate of a quarter
of a million a year, and will probably reach half a million
inside two years.
* • * *
The Tasmania mine, Beaconsfield, Tas., was
discovered in 1877 by Wm. Dally. It has produced over
11 million pounds worth of gold ; divs., £667,161.
* * * *
New Golden Gate, Tas., latest crushing : 1550
tons for 17180 z., worth £6878. Probably means a 2s. div.
The Tasmania’s next clean-up (due about even date) is
expected to pan out slightly in advance of recent crush-
ings.
• • • •
New Pinafore (Tas.) deep-sinkers haven’t struck
it rich yet, but the manager “confidently anticipates
success at any moment.”
* * * *
Concerning the deadliness of Mt. Lyell fumes,
writer knows of several ex-furnace men, formerly fine,
strapping fellows, who, after six months at the smelters,
are reduced to walking skeletons of their former selves.
They sorrowfully admit that they are “ cooked.” Strong
men working in brickyards some distance away from the
smelting works have lately been knocked out by the
fumes. A vegetable garden, planted to windward and
over a mile from the works, throve amazingly until one
day ohe wind blew in a direction it had never been known
to blow before, and every cabbage plant was killed in less
than six hours ! Wages for slaving in such an atmosphere,
7s. 6d. a day. Despite precautionary regulations, which,
by the way, are not too strictly enforced, Tasmania’s
legacy of woe is certain to be materially increased from
this source.
* * * •
Crawcour, a Melb. “uncle,” while deputa-
tionising Trades Hall Council on behalf of the “ poor
pawnbroker ” and his threatened extinction by the
iniquitous Bill against usury, expressed himself, _ in
answer to a question, as being in favor of the State doing
all pawnbroking business—with compensation to all the
Crawcours, of course.
• * * •
Dear Bulletin.—How’s this for mean ? Since
return-h.alves of Vic. railway tickets have been made valid
for 7 days, a public servant (over £5OO a year) works this
neat game. On Monday morning he buys a Ist return-
ticket—his suburb-to-Melb., and uses one half. In after-
noon he buys ditto—Melb.-to-suburb, and uses one half.
Then for rest of week buys each day a second-class return,
and travels first. If train is raided he produces the
proper Ist class half. —O.K.
• * * *
“Melb.”: The broken-down land-agent is a
familiar study. How we used to envy this class in the
boom ! They mopped up the seats on the municipal
councils, enjoyed almost a monopoly of mavorhood, be-
sought guests to lip the champagne bucket, drove the
nattiest curricles, with spouses arrayed like Hadassah for
king Ahasuerus, lived in such places as Sir Davies’s
Bracknell, had their names gilt on the bluestone rock of
church memorial stones. Now, if you see a greeny-coated
Montague Tigg on his uppers, leaning against a tree-guard
in the street, or depriving the perambulating nursegirl of
the full length of a bench in the park with a midday
siesta, bet vour boots it’s a house-and-land agent.
* * » •
Sixteen Eehuea (Vic.) hotelkeepers (out of 20),
whose pubs, were closed under local option, “ fell in ”
beautifully by deposing (with an eye to compensation-
figure) to larger profits than had appeared in their income-
tax returns. The little discrepancy cost them a fiver and
costs a-piece for “ evading the income-tax.”
* • • *
Green vale Station (N.Q.) was sold the other day
for £l5OO. The station consisted of 640 sq. miles of
country and carried 10.000 head of cattle and 140 head of
horses. The sale price works out to about 3s. a head and
is looked upon as the record sacrifice of the North.
Messrs. Jillett Brothers, old pioneers, were the buyers.
* • * •
S.A. Gas co. holds what is practically a mono-
poly of Adelaide lighting until 1902, but Adelaide City
Corporation recently made a provisional agreement with
a local electric-light co. The matter went before the citi-
zens, and there was much acrimony' between the rival
cos., but electric-light carried the day by'two to one, and
experimental lines will now be laid.
• » * * •
Several of the English mining syndicates have
withdrawn from Maoriland, and others are preparing to
follow their example. Rumored that even the Anglo-
Continental Syndicate, of which Premier Seddon is a
shining light, thinks of “ clearing.” It is an open secret
that certain of its leading officials are at loggerheads.
One English manager declares that Govt, charges have
swallowed up 20 per cent, of the capital he brought into
the country. On the other hand, to show the little effect
that booms have on the production of gold, last month’s
yield was the record for Auckland province. And the
Auckland gold-boom is as dead as the pterodactyl’s
mother-in-law.
* * * *
In Maoriland, in sending commercial papers
to Australia, if they weigh under £oz. it is cheaper
to send them as letters. If you send them in open en-
velopes they are 2£d. Seal the envelope and they go for
2d. Again, Joz. commercial papers or Joz. printed papers
would cost Jd., but }oz. each together costs Id. Govern-
ment stroke isn’t paid for thinking.
* • • •
In Maoriland recently, a provincial smarty,
owing a bill in town, placed a half-sovereign in an
envelope. Then he put the envelope into a press and
succeeded in obtaining a good impression of the coin on
the wrapper. Abstracting the haif-sov. he forwarded the
impressed envelope to his town friend with a note, saying
that he was forwarding enclosed 10s. in settlement of his
debt. There being no coin enclosed, but an excellent
imprint of a “ half-sovereign ” on the envelope, the town
man immediately blamed the postal officials, and after a
big inquiry the matter ended by “towny” letting the
debt slide.
* • • *
“ Malle ”: It’s fashionable to adulate the
“ poor honest miner,” and to condemn the villainy of the
mining shark and promoter; but the horny-handed pick-
agitator usually knows enough to elbow the other fellow
into the wet if he gets a show. A party came on rich
specimens in a gully, and spent weeks unsuccessfully
trying to trace them. A couple of new-chum prospectors
seeing the party at work, thought—“ good enough for
them, good enough for me,” and began trenching a spur
near by. At knock-off time the new-comers strolled into
the old crowd’s camp and asked “What luck?” Being
told “ not much ” they produced some A 1 specimens and
said, “ We hadn’t done an hour’s graft before we tumbled
over this—and she’s 18in. wide.” One of the originals
was in his tent, heard this, slipped out at the back, and
half-an-hour later walked into camp with a “ Good even-
in’, mates,” to the new-chums. The specimens were again
produced, and, after listening to the description, he said:
“ Why, that’s on my lease. I found that a week ago. I
could go to it blindfold." They went together to inspect,
and sure enough the new reef was in the centre of a 10*
acre block applied for by Hardface and party. The
finders were magnanimously allowed to peg out next
block on line, and some months after, when a big sale of
the amalgamated blocks had come off, they were told how
they’d been bluffed.


cl
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
]>'OK
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK,.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPRE S.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES Sz COMPANY
Opposite
i tr.JP.O.
)
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
Harrington $ Co. [td.
PHOTOGRAPHIC •
MERCHANTS • •
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Melb. Agents: Messrs. Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.;
Brisbane Branch: 64 Queen-st.;
Have the Latest Kinds of . .
Lenses Mounts
Plates Papers
Chemicals
Shutters
Cameras
Sundries.
&3T New Complete Illustrated Catalogue (No. 7)
now ready ; post free on application. It contains
full particulars of them all.
See our advt. on page 3 for Latest Novelties. [2
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
S. A. Governor Buxton leaves with his
family for England this Thursday, and Adelaide
society joyously anticipates a lively time under the
regime of Way and his charming wife. Gov.
Buxton leaves behind him a mixed record of
frigidity and piety, leavened, however, by much
private generosity to deserving charities. He
aspires to sit in the Commons (which is bad news
tor the Commons), and may not return to S.A. at
the end of his six months’ leave.
* * * ♦
Gov. Buxton had a fatal habit of blundering
into discussions about controversial politics, and
a)most his last speech prior to leaving for Eng-
tand was distinguished by a veiled attack on
alleged Godless ” State education. S.A. parsons
and other Bible-reading advocates had their refer-
endum on the question awhile ago and were badly
beaten, but the Governor, with sad want of
discretion, openly advocated fresh agitation. The
interference of the stupid old blunderer was much
resented, and it was only the prospect of his early
departure that prevented a shindy
*** J »
When it was announced at a recent Ade-
laide Wesleyan Home Mission demonstration that
oaii OC V, y ’ n P° or circumstances had donated
201 b. of almonds, Chief Justice Way offered £1
tor lib. ; and, as others followed suit, the
whole donation was disposed of then and there
“ >r a of £2l- Hardly to be believed, hew-
ever that thereafter, amongst the goody-goody
crowd, there wasn t a single “ Christian ” to sug-
gest that a pound or two of the money should in
common decency be applied to the relief of the
old lady’s “poor circumstances.’’ And a Home
Mission, too-not even the excuse of the “pore
heathen.” Truly, mechanical Christianity is a
wondrous thing!
Ihe Maitland (N.S.W.) Chinese mission
(Maitland has got the Chinese mission very bad
indeed) is still struggling in the vineyard. Quite
a lot of Chows rolled up at the last series of
special services. As the Chinese minister didn't
happen to be there,” a European rev. had to
spread the light to those present by means of the
almighty middle man—Mr. Kem Yee, the inter-
preter. This he did in simple but earnest lan-
guage, suited to the comprehension of his hearers.
He showed the analogy existing* between
natural and spiritual seed—one of the listeners
thought it all depended on where you bought the
seed. All such technical points having been care-
fully explained, the light was beginning to shine
very brightly until Kem, the interpreter, related
an incident which blew it out very suddenly. A
little while ago a Chow had become gradually im-
pressed with the truth of Christianity and had
become a candidate for baptism. Before his wish
could be realised, however, an illness fell upon
him and he died. At this all the Chows present
turned pale and cast eager glances towards the
°°° r ; A »e impression was that the anger of Joss
had fallen on the convert, and there was a general
desire to escape before Joss boiled over again.
Kem Yee tried to retrieve his error by stating
that the death of the unlucky Chinaman was a
believing and a happy one. It was too late, how-
ever. Ihe collection which followed was not at
all satisfactory, and the Chinese took up their
baskets and went forth to hawk the vegetable in a
depressed spirit. No converts are expected from
the present generation of Maitland Chows, on
account of Kern’s unfortunate illustration.
* * » *
That London journalist’s stirring picture
of girl-missionary life in China has provoked some
quaint replies from the girls in question. Here
are some of a Miss Voak’s counterblasts, copied
into a Dunedin paper : “ That the Chinese are in-
variably courteous to women ; that her person is
always sacred ; that even a slave-girl is treated
with respect; that nothing was too much to be
done for them, i.e. , the girl-missionaries ; and that
the further they were from British influence the
safer they were, as the people are more simple-
minded.” And now, being convinced that the
Chinese are a nation of Galahads, one wants to
know what the deuce they are being converted
for ?
Tlie Creed of St. Athanasius is rifting die
Anglican lute in Sydney. The precentor of St.
Andrew s Cathedral has several times of late
omitted that elaborate swear-sermon from the
Sunday services. Primate Smith ordered him
honor t 0 glV ® tb ® Creed its usual P lace of
THE GOOD GODFATHER.
MRS. JONES: “ We’re going to call her Aileen.”
AH LING: “You callee your babbee Ah Ling. Wellee good. I give
’im plesen’ I”
It is presumed that the “high official,”
deceased, mentioned in connection with the
odorous Kirchner (N.S.W.) divorce case, to whom
Mrs. Kirchner applied for a billet as sheriff’s
officer for her husband and got it, was a
late sub-sheriff, who shot himself in Sydney
Domain. It was then whispered that there was
a woman in the matter.
* * * *
Some amorous out-back squatters could
give interesting accounts of their adventures with
blackmailing (supposedly) married couples from
town. One station-hand has had three different
affairs with squatter-employers over his wife. Case
settled out of Court each time.
» * * *
“H ”: The Argus is off again upon the
starvation of Church of England clergymen. Let
me recall the proposal by Pastor Torrance, in the
Church Assembly, for incomes to be pooled and
divided, accompanied by a statement that the
members of this denomination in Victoria sub-
scribe an average of =£s a week for each clergyman.
* * * •
“S.S.”: People snigger at Hobart Par-
liamentary Debating Society’s message of con-
dolence to Albert Edward in his crippled condi-
tion, but the Australian Agents-General went,
half-a-dozen better, and “on behalf of their
Governments and the Australian people” ex-
pressed unbounded admiration for “ the fortitude
with which H.R.H. bore his severe injury.” It
remains now for the Royal Humane Societies and
similar bodies throughout the Empiah to present
Albert Edward with medals and belts and things
in hearty appreciation of the German bull-dog
heroism he has displayed in not howling from the
house-tops and execrating heaven for permitting a
Royal Highness to hurt his leg. These grovel-
some Imperialists themselves might get along very
well without legs. They are always on theii
bellies.
* • * *
Queenscliffe (Vic.) last week decided to
pursue Sirdar Kitchener up the Nile with a con-
gratulatory “resolution.” Queenscliffe is the little
tin-pot township on one of Port Phillip Heads
with three or four big hotels where tired Mel-
bournians grow tireder in summer. In the off
season, Q. consists of a few artillerymen, town
councillors and goats, and is about as cheerful a
spot as Henry Lawson’s Hungerford.
* * *' *
In a moment of slobber North Sydney
municipal council decided last June to erect a
“ jubilee fountain ” in honor of Her Gracious.
The foundation stone was duly laid and <£9o voted
for its completion ; yet within 50 yards of the site
selected is a marble fountain erected to the memory
of a late Mayor who held office for 18 years—which
memorial fountain, by the way, has never had any
water in it.
* -* * *
“Melb.”: Deakin’s oratory flowered like
the Victoria Regia at the exhibition, the other
Sunday afternoon, for the Wesleyan Mission,
which, I hear, is .£2OOO in debt. Between the
lines, this is what he said : “You Methodists are
a lot of cranks, with your twopenny-halfpenny
ideas about the blue-flames of hell and Heaven like
the transformation scene of a Xmas pantomine.”
I bev applauded furiously, even as they did when
Rabbi Abrahams told them the same thing. I
suppose John Wesley has gone to smash.
* * * *
According to a well-informed authority,
Sydney barmaids are paid by the spirit-merchants
as well as by the publicans—this to induce them
to push the whisky brands. One firm, it is said,
besides paying a commission on cases sold and
corks drawn, gave every Hebe in whose bar their
brand was successful a cheque for 15 guineas on a
big local rag-shop at Xmas-time. So that a bar-
maid may be perfectly straight and yet wear fine
clothes. A moral in this for the W.C.T.U.
* « * *
The Salvarmy has bought and closed up
Sydney Natatorium, with the object of converting
it into a cheap doss and hashhouse ; by means of
pauper-labor it hopes to starve out the other cheap
doss and hashhouses. Philanthropy and 20 per
cent, have ever been the guiding Drinoiple of the
Bocth religion.
* ‘ * * •
At Carlton (Vic.) the other day the beaks
fined a man 40s. for breaking another man’s leg,
under circumstances of great brutality. Next
day Melbourne Bench fined a woman 20s. for
breaking a woman’s jaw. For the public con-
venience it will soon be necessary to publish a
Gazette notice, specifying the exact penal equiva-
lents of all degrees of assault and battery.
Now that the obnoxi-
ous word “pauper”is ban-
ished from most hospital
admission-cards and Govt,
relief ordinances, it is time
to wipe it off the legal
forms of the Insolvency
and Divorce Courts. “In
forma pauperis ” in the
law courts is neither more
or less than “Pauper’s
ticket ” in the invidious
old vernacular.
* « »
Although the school-
master has been abroad
in Maoriland for 50 years,
and education is free and
compulsory, there is still
a supply of illiterates.
Among recent discoveries
arc a Jaypee who can
neither read nor write, and
a master - mariner in the
same blissful condition—
the latter having allegedly
passed his “exam.” by
getting a friend to hold
his hand while he filled in
the necessary papers. The
Premier has promised an
inquiry into the case of
the jolly skipper, because
it’s a matter affecting hu-
man life; the Jaypee, it
would seem, may go on
affixing his mark toofficial
documents without danger
to the State.
* * *
“ Agricola ” : People
used to wonder what be-
came of the mutton-birds’ eggs, collected in
thousands at Western Port (Vic.). They were
sold to Melbourne pastrycooks, who used to dis-
guise the intolerable smell with vanilla and such
things.
» * * *
Smellbourne has its Lourdes. On Mount
Eagle, Ivan hoe, six miles from the city, dwells a
noted herbalist, and to him of late have been flock
ing crowds of fanatics to be healed of ailments,
real or imagined. Such is the rush that the man
of herbs has found it necessary to issue advance
tickets, and happy is she who can get hold of one
dated only a fortnight ahead. The results, accord-
ing to report, are phenomenal. Cases that are the
despair of Collins-street find, it is said easy cure
on Mount Eagle. The sage diagnoses the trouble
from examination of the finger-nails, then hands
over a bunch of herbs, takes a shilling, and—the
thing is done ! Up till recently the old gentle-
man ran the business on philanthropic lines, but,
in self-defence, has been obliged to institute the
modest charge aforesaid. Probably if he made
his fee <£s he would, by this time, find plenty
willing to pay it. Even as it is, the ancient is
laying up for himself treasure upon earth at a rate
that would make many a hungry “ regular” dance
f >r joy.
IN THE PARK.
“ Shure, and are yer going to take the very roof off
me residence?”
Yic. Leg. Council debate on the Cremation
Bill brought to light some ghastly “planting”
particulars. Stated that in 73f acres of Melb.
cemetery there were 191,819 bodies some
2GOO per acre, and that in one grave 22 coffins
had been counted. In St. Kilda cemetery the
bodies averaged 2364 per acre, and in Kew 2210.
The process of decay, it was stated, occupied from
a few months to 30 years—averaging 10 years,
THE CUTTERSNIPE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AX D d,
Voup Jeer brutaed *9O, bare <’
W |Qn ar &c 9° ol do y OU attend ,
tnJave you a Jjorrje - a D d ?
VT w.od a r pl&yft bi<H& aDrf seeK
;0 d dm )p lea o 0 your cjpeeK
B ow& w,ld y°ur r a9 g| ed „ "
y? cl ° ° oh liMJ gb o'' about’"',
A\oc) rtje.r tea.r f
(SorQe ,te 11 r r>e s>|| s,bo uT
troubles you, rr,y cl**r.
lov is§ lie-,
/A 1 ° D * '9 cW K *fe O!>MS&
u porj rbe bie.r* ? "
c/° r ' rl ? ow 8b & be. . &D r ciee.ci ;
o 0 r b e BEER r 0
\°u bet- yer btoon )IQ !“
H/ bo y ‘ 1 r$; 9H ,rs ** ob
- 9°' r K .r oow “! 'is^r 9 - w - bB , r ;
Yguve g° r * ; ♦>* &&1d
G. W. McKinnon


I3fc
K
C
ux
S 3
sS
_
AvE You
FoRGOfTEH
~
7 !i Fill!
RAFFAM’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station anti Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free bp post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE k SONS, Brisbane a'land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Miihane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-stivet, Sydney
6S Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
and it is estimated that in Melb. general cemetery
there are 500 bodies to the acre still not decom-
posed. Ugh !
• • * *
“J.A.K.”: What’s the matter with call-
ing the Federal capital Australina? This name
has a significance unknown to most Australians.
About 50 years ago, when Westralia was a howling
wilderness, somebody in London acquired a por-
tion of it, and prepared maps and plans showing,
among other things, a beautiful city with splendid
public buildings, which was to be called Ans-
tralina, and was one day to be not only the metrop.
of. W.A., but the Federal capital of Australasia.
Among the many people induced thus to emigrate
to W.A. was the present Premier’s father.
* * * *
Three cases of diphtheria have been re-
ported at Maryborough, Vic., all due to kissing:—
Johnny stole a sweet kiss ’ne.ith the bough,
Anri returned it again, to her grief ;
For he had the diphtheria. Now
The receiver’s as bad as the thief !
* * * •
At Wodonga, Vic., the other Sunday, an
“egg offering” was held at the local Church of
England. Each worshipper took an egg with a
verse of scripture written upon it, and deposited
it in a basket provided. The egg offering totted
up to 18 dozen. By the way, what did Premier
Reid’s last “ egg offering ” realise ?
9*99
Somebody has satirised Joe Chamberlain’s
apostaey by compiling a Chamberlain Birthday-
book. Under each date appears a quotation from
Joe’s ancient Radical utterances, contrasted with
the “ Tory wisdom ”of his latter days. In 1894
he voted against a clause in the Employers’
Liability Bill which prohibited “contracting out,”
and the birthday-book records this vote as evi-
dence that Joe had changed for the worse since
Aug. 6, 1885, when he said: “I propose in my
Merchant Shipping Bill to make it impossible for
any man to contract himself out of the liability to
the owners of property, and to the persons whose
lives were at stake from the negligence of himself
or the persons whom he employed.” This novelty
deserves to be adopted in Australia. It is an easy
means of bringing political humbug under the
notice of careless people. The Bulletin would
like to introduce a Yes-No Reid Birthday-book
into every home where such things are handed
round to visitors by the dear girls.
There are-many objections to the suggested
transfer of N.S.W. Lending Library to Sydney
City Council. The library is intended for ail
N.S.W., and thousands of books are annually
sent to country members, so that its control is
quite beyond the scope of any municipal body.
RULE I.
BOWLING: “Oh! I say, young 'un, you do look seedy: come round
to the club and have a game of bowls."
GREEN: “ I can’t, me boy; my doctor says I must not drink!"
Also a library should be in the hands of people who
know something about books, and the idea of
handing over a national collection to such un-.
literary persons as the rank-and-file of the city,
aldermen is quite too funny for anything.
* * * *
Australian Methodism, divided into five
sects, has been struggling hard after federation
for seven years; but, just when it looked like
reaching the end, it discovered its own particular
George Reid. The trouble is that the Primitives,
about the meanest of the sects, have kept their
ministers attached to an English old-age fund ;
and the bosses of the latter stand in the way. So
South Australian Methodists, a tremendously
strong force locally, «ho had resolved on union
next year, have now decided that they must hold
off for at least 12 months more. Meantime, of.
■course, the hat goes round as the inevitable way
■out of this as out of all clerical difficulties.
THE FLY ON HIS NOSE.
THE BARNACLE OF N.S.W. CIVIL SERVIEIE (log.) : “ I confess, dear boy, to feelin quite unwell
during every change of Government. You see, I dunno who'll be Minister of my
Department; and, whoever he is, I'll have to send my wife to call on his wife, doncher-
know. Rough, isn't it?"
Current debts of some of the N.S.W.
churches: Wesleyan, <£200,000 ; Presbyterian,
.£5.0,000; C.E., .£60,000.
* * * *
Instructive news item from Brisbane Tele-
graph, 17/9/’97
At South Brisbane Police-court, Mr. Augustus F.
Oatnerer, a schoolmaster, appeared on remand from Sep.
2 to answer a charge of assaulting Charlotte VVoodhead,
aged 11, pupil at defendant’s school. Mr. P. J. O’Shea
appeared for the defence. The girl told a very circum-
stantial story, hut under cross-examination she admitted
that her story was false, and that she had told her elder
sister a lie, because she wished to leave the school. After
hearing- further evid -nee, Mr. Yaldwyn, P.M., unhesitat-
ingly discharged accused.
And yet she was under eleven ! At what age do
women start lying in such matters?
Victoria and N.S.W.
being the only Australian
provinces in which divorce
may be obtained on proof of
desertion only, Melbourne
and Sydney are regarded as
hospices for matrimonially
distraught brides. But the
Courts keep a sharp eye on
them and oblige them to
prove actual domicile and
not a mere temporary resi-
dence, so that knot-slicers
need to plan their visits with
judgment.
* * *
Kelly’s wife was good-
looking—Kelly was jealous.
Kelly's wife was walking up
the main thorough fare of
Crow Plains township, ac-
companied by a beautiful
setter. Biggs, the new sport-
ing landlord of the “Hare
and Hounds,’’ standing at
his door, got quite excited
as she passed. He rushed
indoors for his hat, and fol-
lowed her closely up the
street. Mrs. Kelly stopped
at several shop windows;
Biggs did the same, taking
observations the whi 1 e.
Kelly, chatting at one of the
shop doors, keenly watched
the performance. Then, as
the lady resumed her stroll
with Biggs in pursuit, Kelly
rushed out. “ How dare you
follow my wife ! ” “ Non-
sense ! ” stammered Biggs,
“ I was admiring- ’’
“Well, how dare you admire
my wife ? ” hotly interrupted
Kelly. “Your wife! That
be d d ! I was struck on the dog,” said Biggs.
♦ * * *
“ According to investigations made by the
authorities,” says a recent issue of the Japan
Gazette, “there are said to be over (5000 Japanese
women abroad pursuing immoral callings ; 500
are in the interior of Siberia, 350 in Vladivostok,
800 in Australia, 500 in the Straits Settlements,
300 in North and South America, 150 in India,
and 250 in Hongkong and Chinese ports. As
they are still on the increase the authorities are
keeping strict watch to prevent the departure of
such women to foreign countries,”
* * m *
“Fluffy”: Chalmers Church was in-
tensely anti-green while it lasted (some 40 years).
About two years ago a man wanted to graze a cow
on the church-lands. The price was approved,
and permission almost granted- when it turned
out that the man was a “ Cahtholic.” This caused
a reaction. A young man (Australian) suggested
that it surely didn’t matter as long as the cow
wasn’t Catholic ; whereupon a leading elder was
put up to admonish the youth for the levity of his
remark. Which he did in a 15-minute speech.
This is a fact, but you can print it as an Aborigi-
nality, if you like.
* * * *
Lord Kilmorey, who is trying to pilot an
Outer Harbor scheme through S. A. Parliament, is
a good advertiser. Last week, on a very stormy
day, he took a party of prominent men out to the
mail steamer, moored two miles off Largs Bay,
St. Vincent’s Gulf, and every one came back a
convert to Kilmorey’s harbor scheme. Several of
them were sea-sick, all were pitched about like
ninepins on the deck of the little steam-tug, and
Kilmorey himself nearly broke his neck in trans-
ferring from the mail steamer. But it was a
good “ad.”
* * ♦ *
There had been an amateur performance
of “ Hamlet ” and a Pepper’s ghost-show, both in
one week, in a Vic. up-country town. A local
magnate’s missis had been to the former, and was
afterwards asked by the doctor’s wife whether she
had been to see Pepper’s ghost. “ No,” she said,
“ but I went to see Hamilton’s ghost.”
* •
Association of ideas. From Manly
(N.S.W.) Gazette, 24/9/’9B :
resignation of alderman tucker.
The Mayor said that Alderman Tucker, who was suffer-
ing from scarlet fever, had tendered his resignation.
The resignation was accepted with general reg’et-, and
the Mayor has taken the necessary measles for an election
to the vacant seat.
*# *
At the Melb. suburban municipal elections
the candidate who drives up the ladies in the most
stylish turn-out annexes their votes. At a late
election a phaeton and pair, with driver and foot-
man in livery, made top-score at the poll.
• # ■* *
Happy-go-lucky Van Dobson Land death-
certificate, given the other day by a well-known
Tas. medico: —
I hereby certify that I attended John Jones aged 80
years and that he died on May 16th 1898 at Hollow Tree
and that the cause of death was
1 Stoppage of Bowels
2 Quack Pills
(Signed) BLANK BOLUS, M.D.
Above is an exact copy, barring date and names.
Another medico recently certified to the death of
a lady aged 45 from “premature birth ! ”
* « » *
“ Bargo ” : Noticeable that the religious
trend to the suburbs. Have just removed after
two years’ residence from the Illawarra line. The
weight and thickness of the Sabbath atmosphere
was overpowering. I attribute the suburban
holiness to connection h tween Thrift and
Religion—saints scraping a home together on
time-payment. Three accessories of conspicuous
piety—Thrift, Spectacles and large Families.
* * * *
The Hagey Institute at Auck-
land (M.L.) has closed up, and the
props are, or were, for sale by auction.
As for the cured drunks who paid
<£2s each to be Hageyed—well, most
of their names are, presumably, to be
found as usual on the list of persons
prohibited from obtaining drink. No
doubt a few people were cured by
Hagey because they believed in it
just as people are really cured by the
Holy Coat or the miraculous shrine
at Lourdes for the same reason. Al-
most every nervous disease can be
cured by almost anything, if the
patient only believes hard enough ;
and the big Murray cod or the lone
tree on the Old Man Plain could
work miracles under the right con-
ditions. But for the drunk who
doesn’t believe there is no pati nb
sudden remedy. And the Australian
is a casual cuss with few active
beliefs.
« * • *
Vic. Education Dept, has at-
tached to some of its portable schools
two living cabins for the teacher, one
13 x Sg, the other 85 xB h unven-
tilated, unlined and without fittings,
for which it deducts rent. For a
married man it is Hades, if he doesn’t
rent other accommodation ; and even
then the Dept, insists on its rent.
“ Constance Clyde ” : Just another touch
to your par. re the Wellington (M.L.) lady reporter,
who, by virtue of sex, was permitted to take notes
when the men reporters had to file out. Premier
Seddon didn’t like it at all, and wanted to have
her searched for notes before she went out. But
the lady, foreseeing the danger, didn’t take notes
at all, otherwise shfe would have been prepared to
spend her last hatpin in their defence. Considered
as mere memory-work, her achievement was a
recoi • „ * *
-.«■ i, . iii-i
Melb. Argus concluded its meagre, occa-
sional references to the Atacama libel-case with a
statement that “The jury, after a four-hours’
retirement, answered the first question only—that
the article complained of did not apply to the
plaintiff, Mr. Gowlishaw.” Whereas the Agb
report said : “The jury returned with a verdict
in favor of the defendant, and the foreman fur-
ther intimated that they considered the article
complained of did not apply to Mr. Cowlishaw.”
Melbourne gets its Sydney news with variations-
To meet the distressful times Perth’s chief
magistrate has made a bench announcement re
the imprisonment of debtors. “ A man may be
well able to pay instalments ordered when the
order was made, but not now. I instruct the
clerk of courts not to issue any order of commit-
ment, therefore, unless a man has first shown
cause. We cannot send a man to prison if he has
no means. A man can only be committed to
prison if he has means and refuses to pay.” Which
almost reconciles one to everything else Wes-
tralian. But, then, wait till you get the milk in
THERE WERE TWO OF THEM.
MISS FASTLEY: “ Don't you know me, dear? You’ve often
heard your mother speak of Miss Fastley.”
THE LITTLE DEAR: “Oh, often!-Are-you-the-made-up
one or the objectionable one?”
the cocoa-nut—“lf it were not so, some of the
best people in the country might be sent topriso n
Lor 21 days.’ The Best People: the Nicest
People. Horrors ! No wonder the clerk was in-
structed.
* • * *
Line upon line. A common remark on entering
a well-stocked ironmongery store is—“ What a number
0 f u ne s you keep.” This is true, but the art in keeping
a s j; oc jj ; s j US t f lo keep the very line your customer wants
a t the price he wants. In McLEAN BROS. & RIGG
LTD. Melbourne and Sydney warehouses you will find
the very article you are looking for. Implements for the
farm, ironmongery for the house, guns for the sportsman,
fishing tackle for the fisherman at, eye-opener prices. If
you can Aspect write for quotations.*
THE CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOURERS.
A DAY OF PLAY AND PRAYER.
ON THE BEACH AT SAMDRINGHAM AND BLACK ROCK
A DAMP ENDING.
“From Sandringham to Black Kook along the sea
shore, and in the scrub, the ‘Endeavour’ Christians
gathered on Saturday for their great festival of play and
prayer. It was above everything a day of feasting and
recreation, but all the same prayer formed no insignifi-
cant part of the programme'. There was sunrise prayer
at district cent res long before the holiday makers sel out,
forenoon prayer, noonday prayer and afternoon prayer J
then there was sundown prayer and thanksgiving prayer,
prayer before tea and after tea, prayer of thanksgiving
for safe arrival and prayer for safe return, evening prayer
and a parting prayer. The day had passed gleefully . .
when a dust tornado swept over the scene. Hats and
umbrellas flew about, pots and pans were tossed into the
air and vanished iri the sea, and every piece of shelter
was promptly rushed. The ti-tree afforded no shelter
after the first few seconds of the downpour.”— Argus,
19 9/ ’98.
The “ Endeavour” Christians gathered at the Black Bock
on the Bay
For a day of close communion interspersed with prayer
and play ; ■
And they camped beneath the ti-tree scrub that whispers
in the breeze :
“ Come you, love you one another in the shade beneath
the trees! ”
You can do just as you please,
Love or pray, for no one sees
Underneath the ti-tree blossoms that are bobbing in the
breeze.
O “ Deliver us from evil ” was the prayer that woke the
sun
On that joyful picnio morning, and they prayed it every-
one ;
Yes, they prayed for strength of spirit, for the flesh has
shaky knees
When John embraces Mary in the shade beneath the
trees:
O stop it, will you, please,
Let us play at twos-and-threes
On the sandy beach and open where there ain’t no shade
nor trees.
Arm-in-arm they waded bootless, or built houses in the
sand,
And they talked “ Endeavour” sweetly as each squeezed
the other’s hand ;
But the elders kept their eyes upon the baskets at the
camp,
For they feared that worst of petty thieves, the Christian
picnic-tramp—
They’re acquainted with his stamp,
Outside saint, and inside scamp :
So they never dare to shut their eyes when praying in
the camp.
Right merry went the picnic till a mighty storm arose —
Umbrellas, hats were blown to sea and half the ladies’
clothes ;
The rain came down in torrents as they rushed the scrub
and trees
All out of breath and hatless, with their skirts above
their knees;
Hapless Janes and sweet Maries,
Feeling very ill at ease,
Underneath the ti-tree blossoms bobbing shower-baths in
the breeze.
Vic.
BANOOD.


Tired Feet!
Try us this Summer.
We are sure to please you.
Many people suffex' fi'om tired feet during
The
Heat
Wave.
And the wonder is that such sufferers do
not come to us for a pair of comfortable
•^ oots * Appearance and wear
go with comfort in Callaghan Boots.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
fgfflßgl
m
%
£
copj
m
£s*
ss-
-2? IN Tttt
All Drapers Everywhere.
GCOBE TEIS have PI O Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 27, 1898.
My Deab Myee—
The opening’ of N.S. W. Rowing Association’s
annual regatta gave society one chance more to air
its race clothes, and let it into the mild excitement
of some close racing. The University rolled up
strong headed by Vice-Chancellor Backhouse and
wife, but not all the blue-and-gold rosettes that
puttered m the breeze could put sufficient heart
into the academic juniors to win them a
single event. Measles got a clutch on two
and University—a new stroke
having to be found for the Sydneys on the
very morning of the raea This club, reckons
it could have won the Junior Tours if the
finishing-post had been at Abbotsford, as an-
nounced by programme, instead of down the river
at One-man Wharf. The Sobraon boys, with
young bodies and the faces of grown-up men,
rowed a laborious stroke, evidently not being used
to putting on the pace. Several people won’t for-
get that outing in a hurry. Unlucky wights in
new pale-grey or pale-green clothes, who stood on
the lower part of the steamer Lady Hampden
were covered from head to foot with wet red paint’
and many ravishing summer toilettes were ruined
in that way.
The Art Society’s annual conversazione filled
the rooms till ices melted like thin air one hot
night last week. Gatherings like these give fancy
free play, and queer specimens of drapery are
always on exhibition. What these draperies do all
the rest of the year is a puzzle, for one never sees
such frocks at any other frivols. Pansy-beds
climbed over two aesthetic heads, and every woman
related to an artist wore her hair on her neck and
pmned whole flower bushes alongside her knob.
v. ■ so^ le y musician ” gowned herself gracefully in
white foulard, a few black frocks wore their usual
air of superiority, and the rest of the assemblage
was a matter of gamboge and Prussian blue, and —
carmine, lots of carmine.
By gaslight the water-colours looked nice and
gentle, but gas is less kind to oils. Therefore
Gouli doesn t say all she could say about two par-
ticular oil paintings that haunt worse than lobsters.
One of these was a dream within a dream. A fair
moustachioed artist, with a rabbity mouth, dreams
of ome and mother in his studio, and up at the
top of the picture is a little side-show that depicts
exactly what he dreamed. I can’t remember it
all but feel sure there was an angel amongst the
other commodities. The name of a well-known
brush-wielder is attached to this conception, but
that may be a mistake. The other picture is also
a sort of very bad dream. A woman is working a
sewing machine in front of a bed of lilies, and the
head of Christ appears in the background, and a
starving baby fills up the rest of the scheme called
Consider the Lilies.” Which is all very well
y° u ca n’t help considering the sewing machine’
time*** and head o* Christ at the same
That Lancelot, ” though only a novice, should
have grown up m complete ignorance of woman-
kind and their ways, savors a little of stageland
unreality to spectators of “La Poupee.” Yet
this stageland monk has his counterpart right
here m Sydney in the person of a girl at Marrick-
ville, who has reached the age of 20 years without
once seeing a man of any age, rank, or class.
Ihe girl, who is probably only one of several, be-
longs to the one and only real order of cloistered
nuns having been placed there in babyhood. One
wonders what her impression of the male animal
would be if she were to be suddenly dumped
down in front of a football “scrimmage,” or in
think l) add ° Ck at 'Randwick. What do you
rp , l<s P ort ß‘g Life,” the new melodrama at the
lheatre Royal, is just a little too late. Race-
week would have been a better setting than seven
da 7® ] a . t ® r > when sporting life at Randwick has
lobbed the public of so many illusions and so much
coin. Horses carry the weight of this play along
l’ ar l fc hjig-, real racers, that show a
noble dishke to showing off, and little sham quad-
rupeds that move round the race-course by clock-
an ork, 1 hen there are the two feather-weights
who give women a hotly-coveted glimpse into some
ot the mysterious doings of the “ring.” Speak-
ing from a certainty that hasn’t anything at all tc
back it up, I should say that the boxing contest,
" ■ IIS 1 l S , background of naive young men
with shock hair, and its two agile towel-flappers, was
a very life-like matter, with the exception of the
tat mans flop According to the stage, everybody
faints, dies, falls down from loss of wind in ex-
actly the same attitude, stretched out like’ a pair
of tongs with the feet standing stiffly up, and the
head just enough on the side for the audience to
see the face. I have never seen anyone drop dead of
a broken heart, but have witnessed faints (and feints)
and semi-faints, and demi-semi faints, and the
subjects have always collapsed in attitudes that
defy all stage conventions; that is to say, they
have drooped and huddled up on the floor or sofa.
Miss Watson in the role of a wicked enchan-
tress, trimmed her first frock with speaking scar-
let and crowned her dark head with an effectively
brilliant scar.et toque. If only that head wouldn’t
writhe so. A little incident that may have been
unconscious realism happened over her frilly red
parasoh She dropped it, and her husband, played
by Mr Arthur Styan, merely poked it towards
her with his stick, but didn’t pick it up—a truly
realistic touch. Miss Watson’s gliding, snake-like
movements are properties more suitable to wicked
parts like Olive de Carteret than to the persecuted
heroine with the dull-brown heroine-wardrobe on
ner back.
Everybody’s favorite, Mrs. Bland Holt, seems
to get a little mixed in her dressing. Her en-
trance, in a dashing ulster and trim hard-hitter
hat, suggests a smart sportswoman rather than a
slavey in love with a, policeman. In the first scene
the audience was quite horrified to see such a smart
lady make free with the consthabulary, and
couldn’t realise her humble grade until the play
had moved on a long way. Of course slaveys do
“ dress,” but their tastes don’t run to trim ulsters
and neat hats—not in Australia, anyway. Miss
Ross suffers a little from being the daughter of a
trainer and having to dress like a country maid.
I liked her best in her white-and-yellow race-frock,
with its polonaise over yellow skirts, but I per-
severe in my disapproval of all that beautiful
stateliness in ankle-length muslins. Miss Fitz-
maunce Gill has a tear-sodden part that dies out
ot the piece suddenly, and doesn’t get any frocks
worth mentioning. Bland himself scores heavily
as an Ikey who forbears to foreclose. Everyone is
so used to Bland Holt in the character that rights
everyone else’s wrongs that it was a shock to see
him cast as a hook-nosed shent-per-shent. But,
luckily for his praiseworthy reputation as an
neroic deed-doer, this “monish” man has a soft
heart, and saves everybody wholesale. For the
rest, a murderer and a big Irish policeman don’t
explain their positions in the play very skilfully.
A quick -ch an ge artist could scarcely help being
a ladies man, but Biondi works hard for his repu-
tation. The other night, Lady Rupert Clarke and
a toney complement filled the bottom box at the
~- lv ‘ Biondi wasn’t on the stage a minute before
he spotted them, and from then till the end he
acted into that box so hard that the other side of
the theatre scarcely saw his face again all the
evening.
Local music makers are rather silent this month.
wi 1 ! 1 poison’s eoi nes a copy of the Melba
Waltz, by G. de Cairos Rego, a dreamy and
melodious series of themes that cover eight pages
and keep their virtue to the last chord. Sydney
Hoben sends a new edition of his Ave Maria,
already too well known to need comment. Annie
bummerbelle deserts waltz music for a march, the
Valkyrie (Paling and Co.), overgrown with corn-
flowers from Sid Long’s pencil. A march isn’t as
useful a musical .commodity as a waltz or a song,
but this would suit little pianists who want to add
some easy dash to their after-dinner pieces.
Poussard, who is asserted by some to have been
75 when he died, has left all his money
(L 2000) (w will to his youngest son, little Louis,
r ls ? be adopted by M. Lachaume, one
?i oussard § oldest friends. Another story is
that Poussard left the will, but omitted to sign it
and that his wife, from whom he had been
estranged, will inherit the greater share of the
little fortune. The former version is probably the
correct one.
Race week brought the bushies down to town in
scores. I overheard one burly bushie telling his
wife to “Look out! or you’ll run into that blanky
fence! This was in King-street, where she was
standing still to gaze after a wonderful passing
The lingo of the bush clings hard, but there is
something even more characteristic that gives
away a bushie at first glance. The eyes of this
strange race are quite different from city and
suburban orbs. They are always dreamy and
wide open, staring with long slow stares at one
thing at a time. Town eyes take everything in at
a glance, which is just as much a matter of prac-
tice as roller-skating and man-trapping, and other
city gambols. But the bush fixes its gaze on one
object, and has to keep it there until the object
soaks into its consciousness, then slowly and care-
fully carries its gaze away to the study of some-
thing else. Whenever I see these big clear eyes
from the bush, I smell gum-trees and hear the
crows and kookaburras, and I don’t need to look
lower down at the mouths ajar to know where
they come from.
The feeble sex’s strategy. On Circular Quay
one day a man noticed the lurchygait of a comely-
lookmg woman—she was carrying a heavy-looking
basket, and he put her stagger down to its possible
weight. As she drew near, a dude anticipated
him, but fell m, for the fair one declined his aid
with much beery pathos and tottered away with a
determined hold on that harmless but judicious
basket.
Queer thing, human nature. On the German
mail-boats nine meals a day are regular institu-
tions, passengers are allowed to sleep on deck
going through the Red Sea horrors, and everyone’s
clothes are washed on board. But all these privi-
leges are discounted by the fact that an article is
judged by its price, and that the English mail-
boats charge higher rates of passage. So it’s
never yet been quite swagger to go ’Ome per
German mail, though the line’s business is growing
by leaps and bounds.
It is said that nowhere are order and neatness
more insisted upon than in Convent schools, and
for that reason many parents send their girls to
convents for six months of their school lives The
other day a stylish miss of sixteen was taking a
singing lesson from a young and even more stylish
master when a severe-faced nun called the girl out
of the room Presently the culprit returned all
blushes with an unsightly stocking on each
shoulder. Ihe stockings had been thrown on the
floor, and the nun had hit upon an artful way of
preventing that happening again. In a certain
boys school m Sydney also is discipline curiously
enforced. Iwo boys caught lighting the other
day, were stood on the platform for an hour
durmg which time they were made to kiss each
other every five minutes. They owned to feeling
pretty sick afterwards, especially when some of
the boys who had seen “ Ma Mie Rosette ” asked,
“How do you like kissing, Jones ? Is it as nice as
roley-poley pudding ? ”
Sarah Grand backs the New Woman against the
old one with furious certainty in a late magazine,
and quotes a woman who hiked in bloomers, and
hurried home to put her baby to bed and get her
husband s tea. She seems to think that this won-
derful creature entirely clinches the argument in
favor of the New Woman. But the Old Woman is
good for more than that. A bush trooper, up Quean-
beyan way, called at a farm-house, the other day,
and found the house-mother seated on a chair
with one foot in a bucket. “ Good morning,
sargmt, excuse me rising. Ye see I’m just
mendm ’is coat—and nursin’ the baby—and
readin the paper—and makin’ a bit of butter, ”
ar fd she peacefully scraped the cream off her foot
with her hand between each explanation.
For once, one of the latter order of beings has
been found not far away when “ dewty ” called. A
Robert ” was sent to a local hospital with an
attack of measles. On arrival was ordered to bed.
He objected to an “ able-bodied man like himself
being put to bed with a choild’s complaint,” but
had to go. Separated from the measles tents by a
net wire fence were the scarlet fever tents. Here a
child was just recovering from the fever. Its father
rolled up one evening, and demanded his child.
Was refused. Waited about, coaxed the child
to him, lifted it over the fence and made off.
Nurse ran and informed ‘ ‘ Robert, ” who sprang
U P> got into his clothes and soon brought back the
man and child. He was then ordered ignomini-
ously back to bed. “ What! go back to bed when
Oim capable av performing me dewty. No, Oi
won’t! ” And he didn’t.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“lo that lecture in the Town Hall on Glad-
stone came Ma Madden, in her yellow-satin cape,
with prim little daughter Leslie, in a blend of
blue and black. Janet Lady Clarke wore sad-
color, as usual, and a jet tiara, but a glimpse of
arm-and-neck flesh-tints blushing through black
lace gave promise of brighter things to come. The
Acting-Governor, in the chair, talked lashins of
flowery Irish twaddle in that rich, fruity brogue
of his. M.L.C. Nick Fitzgerald in his turn
sounded equally Paddyish m voice and vein. Rev.
Marshall, -Scotch as marmalade, was succeeded by
Rabbi Abraham, elaborating his big words and
letting his little ones take care of themselves, pro-
nouncing to^ 1 ter, ’ and otherwise cockneyish. The
only pure English accent on the premises was the
property of C. L. Andrews, the Australian-born
lecturer, who officiated in aid of Prevention of
Cruelty to Children. Bridegroom Vallange, a
shade plumper than heretofore, was back in aide-
de-camp trappings again, unlike attache Neville,
who still revels in his fast-fleeting freedom from
gold-braid and buttons.
“ The Acting Gov.’s letters are just as buttery
and diffuse as his talk. One wouldn’t mind bet-
ting he helped his Better-Half to write her pub-
lished appeal for the Children’s Hospital. There
were sentences in it as Irish as potatoes, not alto-
gether because of ‘bulls, ’ but of blarney. Remem-
ber that rhetorical outburst something to this
effect : “ What mother but has felt paralysed with
dread by the danger of her little infant? ”
One Ivan A. Rosenblum, of Melbourne, is
seeking subscribers to his novel, ‘ Be true to Thy-
self, ’ dedicated to ‘ the Administrator of the
Govt.’ His Ex.’s acceptance of the honor is a
splendid testimony to the book’s moral character.
When first ‘approached’ on the subject he wrote
to the author in a doubtful spirit—‘ One who con-
sents to have a book dedicated to him becomes in
some degree sponsor for its matter, and as I do not
know what may be the purport, tone, or object of
yours I would like to be informed as to these
tilings before giving the consent which you so
kindly ask. It is, as you will well understand,
very necessary for a Judge and Governor (salute !)
to be extremely cautious as to what he may consent
to associate himself with.’
John Madden, in his great dual capacity, felt
bound to Be True to Himseii, hence his request for
full particulars. The information proved to be
satisfactory. A week later he wrote, ‘the precis
of your book involves, if I may say so, a robust
and wholesome text which will ensure that the
literary vehicle of it will not be worked out in a
fashion unbecoming our loyalty to our fellow colo-
nists, or offending the prudent view of social
propriety, which a large portion of our community
still rigorously insists on, notwithstanding the
varied assortment of shocks to it which the modern
novel so persistently gives. It will afford me
much pleasure to have the fa vor of youi dedica-
tion. Very truly yours, John Madden.’ God
have the Queen and Mrs. Grundy !
“Awhile ago, Hon. Mrs. Freeman Thomas
set the V ic. police in motion, and worried all
hands on board the Manapouri, concerning a dia-
mond necklet, which the d. eventually turned up,
in ambush, among the soapsuds in the lady’s
cabin.
“ Anon, Mrs. Premier Turner, after a Guvment
Ouse ball, carefully hid her family baubles, and
couldn t think where they had got to (with the
usual result of taking the detectives off duty to
hunt for them), until the lost property gave itself
away by sj larkling in an unconsidered, dark corner.
, “Quite recently there was a similar case on
board a coasting steamer, where a lady raised the
old hysterical cry of diamond robbery. More
Vic. detectives were called in, and another un-
pleasant period of searching enquiry and suspicion
was terminated by the captain taking the job in
hand, whereupon the valuables were found at the
bottom of a box belonging to the lady. If the
police continue to be called in by emotional
feminines every time these latter lose their dear
little heads we shall presently have them sent
for to unravel the mystery of somebody’s silk
stockings, which unaccountably got behind the
chest of drawers when they ought to have been
under the bed.
It takes a woman to carefully describe the
dreadful caddishness of another woman under the
impression that she is dilating on a splendid
virtue. An account of the character of the mur-
dered Empress of Austria is published by one
who has enjoyed T.he inestimable privilege of
forming part of her immediate circle.” The
writer describes how on one occasion the Empress,
m the heyday of her beauty, made a young noble-
man fall madly in love with her and then punished
him. She danced with him at a ball; she let him
take her out in the moonlight on to a scented ter-
race, where she stood before him with huge
emeralds “glittering in her hair an 1 bosom,”
' VI tli her INarcissus-like fairness ” and her large
brilliant eyes “looking so abnormally large in her
delicate face.” Having thus tempted the young
nobleman till the inevitable happened, and he put
‘‘out his arms to clasp her to his heart,” she had
him exiled by order of the Kaiser, “to whom she
related the incident.” And this is actually told
as an example of the late Empress’ splendid
character !
“Re that big law-suit, the masterful trustee, it
seems, had all along dealt out their own money
liberally enough to his wards when he approved of
their proceedings. But he granted or withheld
supplies just as he thought fit, which naturally
palled on the rightful owners as years went on.
Not a bad sort of old dad, perhaps, with vast con-
fidence in himself as a father bound to judge best
for his children. But when a pretty young step-
mother came into the concern ‘ the boys ’ kicked
harder than ever.
“Recent disclosures have set fortune-hunters
smacking their lips at the thought of that dear
little heiress, an engaging creature still in her
teens, the one ewe-lamb of the litigant flock. The
poor innocent is at peace with pa and all the
world, her young stepmother included. The
latter, by the bye, is a smooth-haired charmer
addicted before marriage to Sunday-school classes
and seamen’s concerts.
Matthew Davies’ daughter is to be married on
the 4tli of next month at E. Melbourne kirk.
‘ ‘ Sister professionals wasted no love on that
skittish little variety star. How they jeered at
the poor little thing’s sudden indispositions and
consequent absences from duty! ‘ Said she was
frightened of the lightning,’ sneered one of the
group of critics in Collins-street, the other day,
and the hearers all laughed aggressively as if they
wanted to stick hat-pins into somebody.
“Ada Reeve, changing her frocks fast and fre-
quently at her farewell matinee, looked as well in
none of them as in the discarded brown velvet
bloomers of times agone. Fact is, our old favor-
ites among her costumes have lost their freshness,
and the new ones fall below the standard of her
pristine sartorial triumphs.
“Of late, instead of smart, snappy Parisian
street-suits and hats, better than fashion-books to
beholders, her fancy has strayed to hackneyed
pinafore-frocks after the style of those stage inno-
cents, ‘ Baby What’s-her-names,’with touzled curls
at one end and lots of adult tan-clad foot and leg
at t’other. Just as well she’s going ’Ome, maybe,
if only to give her wardrobe a London pick-me-up.
Ada’s parting spoil was plentiful—a cab-load, m
fact, when removal-time came. A garlanded rush-
chair, a big portrait of herself on an easel fes-
tooned with daffodils, and lots of smaller tributes,
including the blossom from the palpitating button-
hole of ex-Little Minister Cecil Ward. Later on,
when Ada tossed farewell bouquets to her favor-
ites while singing ‘Only a Penny,’ a return
rosebud found its way to his quondam rever-
ence. The recipient politely relinquished his
prize to a lady and never got another, though
not for want of trying. Lesly Thomson,
convalescent presumably, took part with the
beneficiaire in a little thing of his own called
‘Parted.’ Ada, as a nicely-behaved ball-room
belle in yellow evening frock, scarcely any ankle
showing, and no opportunity for naughty innuendo,
seemed rather like spice going a-begging, or caviare
sandwich wasted on Sunday-school guzzlers. The
two young things fell out, you know, and they
climbed on chairs to inspect one another over a
screen, and rubbed noses surprisedly across the
top, and so on. They were given to witty, cynical
remarks too, about matrimony and sich, even in
their most tender moments. In fact their words
were much older than their looks.
“ When ‘ The Little Minister W cIS 9/t th©
Princess before, many good Presbyterians took
their daughters to the theatre for the first time.
Naturally these novices were susceptible, and are
still faithful to Cecil Ward. On Saturday, 1
happen to know, two of them went to the Opera
House (unbeknownst to pa) to judge for them-
selves whether Lesly Thomson would have made
Gavin Dishart ‘ sweeter ’ than he appeared in the
hands of Cecil Ward. As it chanced, both actors
were on view, and there sat mademoiselles, glower-
ing and arguing as to which of the twain they’d
rather be married by—to someone else, of course.
(Infallible test applied by girls to decide merits of
rival clergy.) Personally, I’d rather be seen
through the ordeal by some fatherly old thing
with thin grey hairs. Now, if it were baptism
adult baptism requires a muscular young
parson. Frail old shepherds generally got
deacons to help them. The victims either
kick or else lie helpless and water-logged. Do you
remember a, curly-headed Barnardo boy who got
mixed up in a divorce-suit through sitting on
his adopted mother’s knee ? Well, that young
spark liked nothing better, I’m told, than to give
a hand with the young ladies on ‘lmmersion
night, ’ and, as he seemed a promising Christian,
he often got the chance. Frank M‘Vicars, now,
would be an ideal assistant-dipper.
“Peggie Pryde lent a hand at her alleged
rival’s matinee as wholeheartedly as if she herself
were the beneficiaire. Men applauded her on-
slaiight on their sex until neighbors trembled for
their own ear-drums. Harry Rickards, too, was in
great singing form, and Ada Reeve wound up
with a nice good-bye talkee-talkee. Said that
Australia meant Melbourne to her, and that
wherever she wandered she couldn’t help confess-
ing how glad she’d be to bask on Yarra banks
again. Excused her desertion of us on the score
of ‘ two little toddlers ’ at home.
A ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
m
VS&XSM*
CIGARETTES.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting solely as a first-class nourishing food
—it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, “ So-and-so has a strong constitu-
tion ” ; follow that up, and you’ll find that So-
and-so follows the golden rule of being temperate
in all things, and pays attention to diet and exer-
cise. Does he or she keep up this strong consti-
tution by taking medicine or swallowing pills?
No indeed ! They have discovered that prevention
is better than cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places
a- means in the-hands of everyone-to build up and
maintain a sound constitution, which enables its
possessor to tra/vel his life’s journey without the
aches and pains which are in many cases prevent-
iblo. Thus'we come rdunefagam So sound common-
sense based on -experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
Chemists, Grocers and Stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 209 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty Sample free on mentioning this paper.*
The Famous Frencli
Chocolate.
CHOCOUTPIEfIIE*
Obtainable from all bracers and Confectioners
Wholesale
Agents :
IV. M. Cameron Ji Co.,
240 Ceort/e-st., Si/'hiey.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Banjo ” Paterson has gone to the
Northern Territory to hunt buffaloes.
Of course, sturdy old Francis Longmore,
so long of Yic. Parliament, died a poor man. His
estate was worth under £l4OO.
That is a good epigram about Bailes, M.P.
(Vie.), and his punish in entsby-mutilation Bill.
But, like nearly all really excellent jokes, it won’t
do for print.
During one week recently there died in
Kiama (N.S.W.) district four women, whose ages
totalled 367 years. One was 97, another 95, a
third 92, and the fourth 83.
In 42 years of Responsible Government in
N.S. Wales only two barristers, Martin and Reid,
have attained the Premiership, while in Victoria
seven lawyers have reached that dignity.
GREY.
A true reformer he, but not
With prayer he won his way.
He took the world between his hands
As it were potter’s clay.
Speaker Abbott is said to be the best
amateur orchid-cultivator in N.S.W. Had he gone
to live in London, as was likely some time ago, this
hobby would have endeared him to Joe Chamber-
lain.
Adelaide Art Gallery has now a sketch-
portrait in oils of the mueh-talked-of Paris Nesbit,
Q.C., presented by the latter and accepted as a
specimen of Longstaff’s quick work. Which suffi-
ciently indicates its character.
FILIAL DUTY.
J IM: “ You look tired , Bill. You ain't workin', are yer !”
BILL: “No fear; but I’ve been trudgin' all the mornin ’ lookin' for
job for the old man!”
The S.A. politician who dates back
furthest in his connection with the Parliament is
Leg. Councillor Martin, first elected for Barossa
in ’65. President Richard Baker dates from ’7O.
He was the first native to get into Parliament, the
first native to become a Minister, and the first
native to be elected President. The late Johnny
bray held the record as the first native-born
Knight, Premier and Speaker.
Upon a certain wealthy Australian’s recent
death in Australia, his wife instructed an execu-
tors’ co. to obtain letters of administration, but
she died herself before their completion, and on
going through the papers the co. discovered that
the real wife, who had been deserted for 40 years,
was in an English workhouse. But the man’s
money appeared to be fatal, for the discovered one
also died before receiving the estate.
Dear Bulletin. Your correspondent
(17/9/’9B) is astray in asserting that Phillipson,
Peter Waite’s .lieutenant, “even more than Thos.
Elder, saw the possibilities of the camel in dry
country.” In the great drought of ’64 Samuel
Stuckey, of Elder and Stuckey, was the one.to
“see the possibilities,” &c. He went to Knrra-
ehee, whence he imported to Pt. Augusta the
first lot of 100 camels, also 10 asses, and 10 Af-
ghans. —Oomberatana.
Died in Adelaide, James Scott, ex-merchant
and philanthropist, one of the founders of that
most desirable South Australian institution, the
Prisoners’ Aid Society—a body which did the
substantial part of Booth’s Prison-Gate work long
before the latter was inaugurated. Also, Mr.
Scott was for 60 years a local preacher ; but, apart
from the period, that is no distinction in S.A.,
where amateur parsons and amateur magistrates
comprise the bulk of the population.
“ S.” : The Bulletin has an affection for
the ancients. Another has just passed away in
the person of Mrs. Davidson, perhaps the oldest
woman in Australia, a few days back. She was
.102? at the time of her death, at Portland, last
week. The astonishing thing about Mrs, David-
son is the fact that she did not, just previous to
her death, walk seven miles to church. Such
extraordinary intelligence in one so old should, it
seems to me, be duly recorded in The Bulletin.
Dear Bulletin. —H. R. Reid, whose
daughter J. A. Wallace, M.L.0., lately married,
is not (as per Bulletin 10/9/’9B) an M.L.C. He’s
a brother of No-Yes George, and is otherwise dis-
tinguished by the annual row he kicks up at
Mutual Store meetings,—W. J.
Three Australasian Premiers Seddon,
Forrest and Kingston—are 6ft. high and broad in
proportion. It was said by a Scotchman that
Scotland would be as big as England if the hills
were rolled out flat and Reid would be the tallest
Prime Minister of the crowd if he were similarly
treated.
Rumored that Premier Reid is now study-
ing French harder than ever ; as The Bulletin
has already remarked, every Agent-General should
speak French. Also, G. lI.R. quite believes that
his oratory is of a brand to captivate the House
of Commons.
Dr. W. Crooke, the brave veteran of 87
years, who is practising like a youngster of 50 in
Darlinghurst, Sydney, started life at Hobart in
the forties. He was one of the committee which
gave a send-off to Gov. Denison when he left
V.D.L. for Botany Bay. After that, the doctor
went to Melbourne and lived in Fitzroy 30 years.
Mrs. Stephen Jarvis, who died in Adelaide
lately, was the first white woman to live in the
heart of Australia. She went to Mt. Margaret
with her husband in ’62, and was at Stuart’s Creek
when Stuart was camped there on his way back
from his famous trip to the Northern Territory.
More than that, she took four children with her
in a spring-cart—the youngest of them seven
months old.
The late Judge Barry
(Vie.) was fastidious. He
strongly objected, for in-
stance, to the “early morn-
ing ” breath of the solicitor’s
clerk, when that gentleman
approached him in cham-
bers. To one who habitually
offended, but who was other-
wise a gentlemanly young
fellow, he once said, “ Mr.
■, here is a little box
of er perfumed pellets.
The—ah—introduction of—
er —one or two—into—er—
your mouth, after you—have
consumed your—ah—gin and
bittahs—wifi remove from
your breath, sir—an odour
which I am—er —compelled
to assure you—o pera t e s
against your otherwise—ah
—acceptable presence.”
Years ago, a good-na-
tured, jolly theatrical mana-
ger, a real rough customer,
“ lent ” some of his artists
for a night to “entertain”
at a swell social club which
was giving a party. In re-
cognition, the club invited
him to dinner. On being
shown through the club, he
off handedly remarked to his
guide —a rich, fat, bluff
“ sport ’’—that they’d better
put him up for election as a
member. “ Ah,” said the
sport, “ you wouldn’t have a
dog’s show.” Brutal but
that’s the way thesport talks.
Well, presently the club was
giving a late smoke-night,
and thought to get some of
the manager’s artists to look
in and help things along
after the theatre show was
over ; so they wrote him on
the subject; of course they
were willing to pay. Manager delayed his
answer till midnight. Then he sent ’em this reply :
“ You haven’t a dog’s show.” Selah !
John Lambert, a member of the original
Cobb and co. firm, whose coaches did so much to
civilise the Australian backblocks, died lately in
his (U.S.) native town. The sole remaining mem-
ber of that first firm—J. M. Peck—is a resident of
Melbourne. The proprietary passed from the first
firm to Watson and Hewitt, and thence to Robert-
son, Wagner, Walter Hall, Rutherford, and
others. The first co. was wholly American.
Jenkinson—the smart young Q. journalist
who lately snatched the Wide Bay seat from the
Govt,—paid rather a tall price for his political
apotheosis. To liquidate election expenses he
parted with a parcel of mining scrip which has
since become worth <£lo,ooo. The irony will
come in should Jenk., who was returned at the
bye-eleetion two months ago by a bare majority,
be beaten at the approaching general election.
When the tugboat Thistle visited s.s.
Tomki to land Premier Reid at Port Macquarie,
on his recent visit, he was surprised to find no one
had come to welcome him, and he remarked : “ I
suppose they’re too busy electioneering to come
out.” He was badly “knocked” when someone
pointed out that the sole occupant of the boat,
other than the crew, was a small flathead which
some sly humorist had placed prominently on
deck.
Opposition leader Downer (S.A.), who is
not a teetotaller, recently accused Premier King-
ston of whining. “There are two kinds of
‘ wining,’ ” retorted Kingston, “ and I am
addicted to neither.” “You are advertising your
only virtue,” said Opposition chief lieutenant
Solomon. Whereupon Kingston : “ And you are
jealous because you have none to advertise. If I
could think of one of your virtues I would men-
tion it.”
The Melb. compositor who, on seeing the
cadaver of a brother comp, drawn out of the
Yarra, posted off to deceased’s office to secure the
billet, found it had been secured by the man who
had seen the defunct jump in 1
Rev. Mr. Boyce has troubled himself to
calculate how much English bishop Sydney has
had in 46 years. Since 1852 the Bishops of
Sydney—Broughton, Barker, Barry and Smith
have had in all 14 years’ leave of absence.
The death of Hori Grey leaves Sir Henry
Barkly the senior living ex-Governor of an Aus-
tralian province. Grey reigned inS.A. from 1841
to 1845, and Barkly in Victoria 1856 to 1863.
Grey died at 86 years of age and Barkly is 82.
HORI GREY.
Beside his grave we are not sad,
No tears we have to give,
And in our hearts are only glad
That once this man did live.
E.D.
The Wallace case affords many illustra-
tions of the fatuity of the Tory theory in favor
of “ business men ” as administrators in public or
private life. The average “ business man ’’ is as
big a fool as the poet—out of his own particular
line.
Strange fact that Brown, White, Gray,
Green, and Scarlett are mostly English names,
whilst the Blacks, as a rule, are Scotch Presby-
terians with a gloomy belief in Hell. There’s
something in the color of a name. Gold, Goold,
or Gould is distinctly Jewish.
The Age assumed that because Judge
Hartley Williams is selling his furniture he means
to retire and go to England. But the announce-
ment seems to be unfounded. And, if he did
retire, Attorney-General Isaacs would not take
the Judgeship. He will not take a Judgeship
for years to come, at all events. He likes the
political game too well.
Premier Turner, whose close-fistedness
with public money is a byword, is inclined to be
generous to his own department. Govt. Printing
Office people—who worked a lot of overtime during
the Fed. Convention Melb. sittings, and were paid
time-and-a-quarter for such overtime—last week
received a bonus of =£1 each, foremen getting a
month’s wages extra, and the Govt. Printer no
less than £ 125.
Lyttelton Times (M.L.) suffers the loss of
that clever Bulletin verse-man, Liddell Kelly,
who succeeds Harry Taperell as editor of the
Wellington Times. Taperell’s speedy resignation
didn’t altogether surprise his Sydney friends.
Wellington, after all, is not a very large metro-
polis, and “Tap.” was apparently denied the free
hand in the reformation of the Times so necessary
to save its soul.
Richard Jordan, the “ champion draughts-
player of the world,” has come to Australia with
the intention of stopping here for as long as he can
turn an honest penny by the exhibition of his
small and dreary science. Many years ago James
Wyllie the “Herd Laddie,’’ worked this country
on the championship ticket, and his terms were 12
honest pennies per game. Old Wyllie, like his
young successor, Jordan, was a gloomily-silent
person who took a “ shnllin’” in ad vance from
any stranger who cared to compete with him, and
didn’t return the money if the game ended in a
draw or a defeat for himsAf. Pretty frequently
the game did end in a draw. There’s a terrible
lot of draw about draughts.. When Jordan
wrested the championship from Wyllie he won
two games out of 20 ; the old ’un took one game,
and the remaining 17 were draws. Later on Jor-
dan beat another “ champion ” named Ferric by
four games to three out of 40. Draughts, among
practical players, is simply a test of endurance,
and the man who gets least tired is the winner,
sooner or later.
THE HORRORS OF WAR.
HOSTESS: “And now, General, what do you really consider to be the
most terrible consequence of war?”
TRAVELLING AMERICAN BRIGADIER: “ Waal, naow you aask me, I con-
sider that the great maas of military novels written mostly by
wimmen is the consequence most to be dreaded !”
The president of S.A. Wesleyan confer-
ence the other day told the assembled brethren a
story of the supernatural. On the previous
Saturday, he said, he had sat down to write to a
minister of his denomination, of whose indisposi-
tion he had just heard. He had got half-through
the note, when “something arrested his hand,
and he was unable to write. An impression
flashed through his mind that his friend was dead.
. . . When the telegram arrived shortly after-
wards announcing the sudden death, he com-
pared the time, and found that his friend”—the
Rev. J. Y. Simpson—“died at the very time he
received this strange impression.” Mr. Simpson
died at the Burra ; this occurred at Adelaide.
The places are 101 miles apart.
Dr. Fernando Gagliardi, the Melbourne
Public Librarian who recently died, was, though
a mild, genial little man, no end of a fighter in
his early days. He fought about 30 duels in his
time, and bore on his body evidences thereof.
He was the friend of Garibaldi and Mazzini, and.
once fell into the hands of the police at Pisa .as a
“suspect.” He had at the time, in his trousers
pocket, a list of subscriptions for the promotion.of
“ theuause,”• and felt, that all .was up. On his
way to the police-station, he begged the police-
men’s pardon for a moment, ran into a shop to
say “ good-bye ” to a friend behind the counter,
and thrust into the latter’s hand the tell-tale sub-
scription-list. This saved him, and he escaped
rom what threatened to be a severe trouble.
AUSTRALIAN PATRIOTISM.
THE CAPTAIN: “ Mister, we're the Smith-street
Junior Uniteds, and we want to pawn our
bat so as to subscribe to the ‘’Arry Trott
Fund’: we ’opes you'll be careful of it ”
(bursts into tears).
By the death of John Terence McMahon,
of G.P.O., Sydney, there passes away one
other witness of the shooting of the Duke of
Edinburgh at Clontarf in 1868. McMahon's story
of the attempt at assassination differed little from
the recorded version. Panic seems to have ruled
the Prince’s party, judgment in most cases being
conspicuous by its absence.
There seems good reason to believe that
Rougemont, the alleged cannibal chief of 30 years'
standing in North-western Australia, and the
most ridiculous Munchausen of the decade, was
a perfectly peaceful Frenchman who lived for
many years and until quite recently in Sydney
and other unromantic spots, and earned a blood-
less living by photography. It is also alleged that
he is, and has long been, badly wanted, not for
cannibalism, but for the commonplace offence of
deserting his wife. Even in his placid photo-
graphic days Rougemont (or the man who is
supposed to have been Rougemont) was full of
wondrous tales, but he romanced mostly about the
South Sea Islands in those times.
Some more or less Australian birthdays
for October : Ex-Chief Justice Villeneuve Smith
(Tas.), 79 on the 3rd; millionaire Angas (S.A.),
75 on the 5th ; Speaker Brown (Tas.), 60 on the
9t.li ; George Republican Dibbs, 64 on the 12th ;
editor Bonython (S.A.), 50 and Judge Hartley
Williams, 55 on the 15th ; Vic. Leg. Council-
Reformer Wrixon, 59, and wicket-keeper Affy
Jarvis, 38 on the 18th ; Premier Kingston 48,
and Sara Bernhardt 54 on the 22nd ; ex-Attorney-
General Burt (W. A.), 51 on the 25th ; ex-A ttorney-
General Lewis (Tas.) and H. \V Venn (W. A.), 54
on the 27th ; Judge Boucaut (S.A.), 67 on the
29th ; and Sergeant-at Arms Larry Harnett
(N.S.W.), on the 31st. Bulletin doesn’t mention
Larry’s age, but he is nn'hrstood to be not yet 70.
Valentine Fleming
a short man given to
long sentences —who was-
Tas. C.J. from ’54 till
some time in the sixties,
was known as “Vanity”'
Fleming. Once, when
he had awarded a long
imprisonment, a voice
came from the back of
the court —“Why the
don’t you han? him
at once ! ’’ The Judge
ordered the arrest of the
objector—but, greatly to
the judicial chagrin, he
could not be located, and
the rest of the sitting
was a Black Assize.
Once, when visiting Port
Arthur, Vanity saw the
men mustering, and
kept skipping from one
to another with such
queries as, “ What is
your name, prisoner—
and your sentence ? ”
On being answered, he
would say, “Ah, yes, you
came before me, did you
not? ” To another : “I
think we have met pre-
viously—did I not sen-
tence you ? ” The man,
saluting, “ Yes, sir—2o
years.” This prisoner
afterwards told the doc-
tor that it gave him all
he knew to control him-
self, but that he “didn’t
think it worth while to he hanged for such a miser-
able object as Fleming ! ”
N.S.W. politics broke out in a new place
last week when Meagher, M.L.A. (with a whip)
and Norton, ex-M.L.A. (who usually carries a
pistol) got mixed up in a frantic dog-fight in Pitt-
street, Sydney, the end being that Norton took
out his gun and pursued Meagher a great distance.
The pace was tremendous while it lasted;
Meagher’s coat-tail was absolutely horizontal as
he went by, and the brief Norton showed a
surprisingly agile sprint. This makes about the
115th person who has tackled the short and stormy
editor in one way or another, and John’s luck
still stands by him. On the following day Norton,
who is an alderman, complained in the city
council of the awful amount of dust which flies
about in Pitt-street; but he said nothing about
taking steps to lay the bullets in the air.


AMERICA’S FAMILY REMEDY
. . . FOR . ..
NEARLY A CENTURY.
1
IT STOPS BLEEDING.
An Immediate Cure for
Sore Throat, Sore Eyes, Sprains,
Insect Bites, Toothache, Strains,
AND
ALL INFLAMMATION.
What the Superintendent of the Civil Ambulance
Brigade of N.S.W. says :
Pond’s Extract is absolutely the most reliable
preparation I have ever used for reducing all
inflammation, and in quieting pain its effect
is wonderful.”
6oz. Bottle. IS. 6d. 6oz. Bottle.
Book of directions for all complaints with each
Bottle.
M. Moss & Co., Sydney and Melbourne.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
Apropos the prodding of the prostrate
Arabs after the battle of Omdurman, on account
of “Fuzzy-wuzzy’s” aptitude for “shamming
dead.” The Australian blacks, especially those
of the nor’-west, are pretty good at the same trick,
Which, in their case, is more deceptive because of
their known ability to die when they feel that
way. It has its value, too ; thus doubtful hus-
bands occasionally test the depth of their spouses’
devotion by shamming death. It is cheaper than
hiring private detectives—and probably just as
ineffective as a rule.
• * * •
“L.F.H.”: Re bush morality. Knew a
selector—a single man -who at age of 55 induced
a married woman to forsake her husband and live
with him. She brought along her 12-year
daughter, and all went well for about five years,
when the old man suddenly transferred his affec-
tions to the daughter, visited the local parson,
and got hitched up. Mother is now relegated to
the kitchen, and has the honor of waiting on her
daughter and son-in-law. I myself have heard
the daughter “rounding on” her mother for not
having dinner ready at the time ordered.
* * * *
Dear B.— Re shoes and harness for work-
ing bullocks, your recent correspondent is all
right (though any blacksmith can’t make them).
Lots of teams over on the Richmond have shoes
jn stony, hilly country. As to expense, however,
in shoeing, harnessing, and even feeding, the bul-
lock isn’t in it with the horse.— Mackell.
» * * •
“ Tom Collins ” : Re bullock-yoke. Whilst
honoring the humanity which prompted recent
pars, of “Raspberry” and “ Camiro,” I must
take exception to their remarks on the Australian
pattern of yoke. A life-long familiarity with
bullock-driving—including eight years’ exclusive
pursuit of that exalted occupation—has convinced
me that bullock-tackle speaks its last word in a
well-shaped yoke of Murrumbidgee or Macquarie
oak, with judiciously-set bows of 7-8 iron. The
padded collar (a large horse-collar turned upside-
down and accurately fitted to the bullock’s shoul-
ders) has been tried times without number, and
always appears a success till replaced by a yoke ;
then you will see your pair of bullocks travel like
new creatures. A pulling horse steps from the
lower shoulder, a pulling bullock from the upper
shoulder, hence the pace of the latter is fettered
by a collar but in no way impeded by a bow,
which lightly embraces the neck, merely serving
to keep the yoke down. Pulling at the extreme
strength-limit respectively, with collar and yoke,
is certainly more distressing to horses than to
bullocks. Bullocks, by the way, can start a load
that they cannot travel with, whilst horses can
travel with a load that they cannot start. Also,
the shoeing of bullocks is an extremely difficult
operation. The divided hoof alone would make it
so; but, in addition to this, the hoof is much
thinner and much harder than that of the horse.
Some bullocks suffer much at the hands of brutal
or dirty-flash drivers, and even more from un-
avoidable privation. On one occasion I dropped
20 first-class bullocks out of 28 during a single trip
of 180 miles and back. It is such homely little
tragedies as this that make life worth living
A NATURAL ASSUMPTION.
JOHNNY-COME-LATELY : “ You want me to pay you before I leave the yard. Do you think me to be
such an ass as to take it into my head to come back without the horse? ”
CANDID DEALER: “No, it ain’t that, sir; but, you see, the 'orse may take it into his 'ead to come
back without the ass!”
out-back But let humanitarians be assured
that the design of the Australian yoke is respon-
sible for no part whatever of that misery which is
the lot of most working bullocks.
* * * •
A pub. on Menangle (N.S.W.) road used
to have a sign—“ Prince of Whales Hotel."
He came upon
us at night-fall.
A tall, red man,
very silent, too.
Nature and cir-
cumstance had
something to do
with it. Tucker
was on the table,
and Bill handed
over his knife and
plate to the visi-
tor. The latter
nodded and
pegged a claim.
He ate largely and
drank much hot
tea. Suddenly he
cocked his head
on one side and
seemed to listen.
“ Cow bellowin’ ,”
he said. Then he
wiped his knife in
his mouth. Pre-
sently he pushed
out his fingers at
the fire and yawn-
ed under his mou-
stache. He didn’t
smoke. Bill did.
So did I. About
an hour later we
crawled into bunk.
As Bill pulled his
sack to his nose
he looked at the
visitor and said
very deliberately,
“’Taint no cow;
it’s a bull.” Next
morning we woke
and there was no
stranger. A bit of
torn newspaper lay
on the table, and
written on the mar-
gin was, “ Can’t
stop no longer in
this shop, too much
blanky argument .”
• * •
In Mareeba
(N.Q.) “boiled
mutton” is “ kid” —literally and actually.
* • • *
A pioneer squatter, who owned a station
on the N.S.W. side of the Upper Murray, rode
one day over to Vic., and when he returned at
night the river (which comes down quick there)
was a banker. It was July, and, though frost and
snow were over the flats, the old man stripped,
strapped his duds to his saddle, turned his norse
in, caught his tail, and was towed across. But
no sooner did the moke feel his feet than he broke
away, and made for home. The old boy trudged
after him, and when he reached the homestead
naked was tree’d by the dogs. The first to answer
his yells was the housemaid, who, of course, fled
forthwith, and the old man had to wait until one
of the boys came along with a stockwhip and
drove off the besiegers. Didn’t even have a cold
next day, but was up early and shot two of the
dogs.
* * • *
“E.G.T.” : The enthusiastic sportsman
who rides several miles to slay a goanna has been
immortalised, but I have seen no mention of the
equally prevalent youth who, with a very blunt
axe, patiently hacks at a very tough tree for half
a day for the sole glory of despatching a solitary
native bear. Then ? after jubilantly watching his
yelping curs demolish the unfortunate victim, he
will cheerfully set to work to chop and haul the
tree off the road. It always falls across the road—
or into somebody’3 cultivation. “ That tired
feeling” never attacks young bushie except
when requested to fetch wood or water for the
house.
* • » *
“Wallaroo”: Re the woman - worker.
Know a large family, mostly girls, who travel
round taking clearing and similar jobs. The old
man superintends—looks after the fires and pots—
while his womenlcind do the hard graft. Has lost
several boys, and rather regrets that some of the
girls were not “ taken ” instead. “ Can’t get
Half the work out of a woman :” he says. Never-
theless, his girls make the local yokels dream of a
time when they will be able to stay at home and
pot-jostle while the missus works the selection.
But, so far, the old man has refused to part with
any of his slavesses.
• * • *
“C.W.C.”: Re slowness of W.A. trains.
Saw fireman of one between Geraldton and
Yalgoo perched, rifle in hand, on top of tank
behind engine ; train going dead slow till he fired,
then stopped while he jumped off and ran into the
“BREAK UP OF THE DROUGHT."
Boundary-rider reporting tanks full at the homestead.
scrub for a turkey he had shot. He was a crack
shot; got four “ beauties ” that trip.
• * • *
‘ ‘ Darkie ” : “ Deuce of bobs ” given in
Bulletin, 27/8/’9B, as Western slang term for
florin. Western Queensland slang term is “ swi-
deener.” A few more W.Q. slang words. A
penny is a “Cobar,” 3d. a “traybit,” 6d. a
“zack,”ls. a “hog” or a “deener,” and 2s. a
“ swideener ; ” ill is a “funt,” .£5 is a “spinna-
ker,” and i>2s “ unlimited capital;” tobacco is
“snout,” opium “twang,” a Chinaman a “can-
ary,” and a blackfellow is a “ swatser.” In a
shearing-shed: The boss is the “finger,” the
shearers the “brutes,” the rouseabouts “leather-
necks,” “spoonbills,” “ loppies ” or “Jacks,” and
the wool-pressers “ tickjambers.” To “ ring ” the
shed or shear most sheep is to “ swing the gate ; ”
to “ carry the drum ” is to be last man in the
shed; to have a whisky is to “ oil up ” or
“jorum;” to get drunk is to get “inked;” to
shake for drinks is a “ pongello; ” to throw in Is.
all round and shake (winner to “ shout ”) is a
tambaroora ; ” to force the publican to shout is
to “strike oil;” to leave the pub. broke is to
“ take water.” When anyone has died he has
“ passed the buck; ” when he’s buried he has
“pitched his camp.”
* * • *
“ T. M‘L.” : Here’s my stockman’s say-so
about the “ ’roo ’’-tail question. “No ; he
doesn’t spring from it in jumping, because the
only way you can catch him when you haven’t got
a dog is this. When you run him down, as you
gallop past you’ll see his tail sticking straight out
and up, feet off the ground, and you lean over and
grab it and throw him, and the shock stuns him
enough for you to get off and hit him on the head
with the stockwhip.” I went out with the man
shortly after, saio the thing done, and am stronger
than ever in the belief that Nature provides no
useless appendages.
« * * *
“N.F.H.”: Out Longreach way I was
biking recently up a hill, and overtook a mob of
spare horses belonging to carriers ahead, and
driven by a boy who, doubtless, had never seen a
bike before. As soon as the horses saw me they
stampeded, and the boy pulled up and stared in
blank astonishment till after I had passed, when
he shouted, “Make him gallop, mister ! ”
* * * *
“ P.M‘D.” : The bower-bird is a fraud—
can’t “ imitate ” worth a cent. His supposed
mimicries are his natural cries. Have heard him
cry like a cat out in the Never-Never, wherejjhere
are no cats, but never heard him imitate the dingo
or the crow, which he is constantly hearing. Even
the crow shines by comparison with the b.b.,
which, when he wants to bully a butcher-bird,
ruffles up the feathers on his neck and makes a
noise like a hail-storm. But it’s all bluff ; a wag-
tail can “ do him bad ” if it comes to fight.
* * * *
A farmer at the recent Agricultural Bureau
Congress in Adelaide adversely criticised the
average judging at shows, and, in proof of the
correctness of his strictures, stated that, a prize
being offered for five hens of a certain breed, of
which he only had four, he plucked a rooster and
otherwise “ adjusted him ” to pass for a lady, and,
to his gratified astonishment, took first prize. His
brethren crassly seemed to think that the yarn
told as much against the narrator as the judges.
* * * •
“Jeff” : Re bulldog ants. One day when
as usual the overseer of an adjoining station came
to mash the school-teacher in the dinner-hour
some of us boys set to work cutting bull-ants in
two and throwing away the tail (stinging) ends.
After we had got about 50 front (or pinching)
halves in a matchbox, one of us quietly crawled
with it under the school-floor until he came to a
knot-hole just under where the teacher sat
“spooning.” Taking the lid off the box ha
jammed the mouth of it up the hole, and in half
a minute two-score half-ants were climbing up the
unsuspecting teacher’s legs. Then the circus
started. Unearthly yells and squeals and capsiz-
ing of desks, slates, &o. Then out rushed the
overseer looking like one who had ’scaped with
his life, and, by the time ho had galloped out of
sight, all was silent in the school again. Some
whispered, “ She’s dead ”; but presently she
opened the door and sent one of us down to the
creek for some water. For months afterwards
nothing was heard of the overseer, and all the old
women cats in the neighborhood maintained that
the poor girl was only trying to shield him by
saying it was some creatures stinging her. If any-
one wanted conclusive evidence, he was referred to
“ what the children said.”
* * * *
“Werrimee”: There was for long on
Currawilla Station, Q., an old gin who crawled
about on her hands and knees. Her lord and
master had cut off her feet because of her pro-
pensity to “walk about.” Knew a case on the
Richmond in which the lady had been hamstrung
by her old man for running away, and had to
shuffle about in a sitting position, shoving her
useless legs in front of her.
* * * *
“ Cecil S.” : In the coast districts between
Sydney and Port Stephens, a “bushman” is a
timber-getter. Tried to impress upon a collier
at Catherine Hill Bay that this was only a local
appellation—and failed. Quoth I, “Don’t you
think the stockman on a N.Q. cattle-station is a
bushman ? ” Said he, “ No, if he don’t get
timber.”
• • • •
“ P.H.” to The Bulletin :
The Cowra treasure-seekers’ proposed expedition re-
calls an episode of 1881. Dugald M’Vigor, squatter, of
Cooper’s Creek, Q., took a mob of fats to Sydney. On
the way down his blackboy, Jacky, a Diamantina native,
told Dugald such a circumstantial story of lumps of
yellow-, heavy stone lying about among white stones and
sometimes stuck to the white stones that Mac. became
intensely interested. The locality of the metal (evidently
gold) indicated by Jacky was on the dry range separating
lower Diamantina from lower Cooper waters, where the
minaritehy grows. The first quartz met with after
Jacky’s tale was told was at once identified by that wor-
thy as “ brother belongin’ ” to the white stones aforesaid.
Daily questioning failed to shake Jacky’s testimony, and
long ere the markets were reached Dugald indulged in
dreams of coming affluence. The cattle sold, Dugald
repaired to Orange, N.S.W., where he had friends, and
unselfishly imparted the glad tidings. Jacky was intro-
duced, and, after withstanding successfully all sorts of
questioning, had a royal time. Gold-fever spread, and
soon a party of 12 Orange district residents, accompanied
by M'Vigor and Jacky, was on its way to the promised
Eldorado. Six spring -carts carried the outfit. 800
miles of weary trudging brought the party to Keeroon -
gooloo station, on the Cooper, where a halt was
made, and where the writer encountered them. Station-
manager Coleman was taken into confidence, and it was
decided to reconnoitre. Accordingly, Coleman, M‘Vigor
and another went forward, under Jacky’s guidance, to-
wards the land of promise, now about 60 miles distant.
But, on the second night out, Jacky “cleared” from
camp, and the expedition ended. A few days were spent
in fruitless endeavors to trace Jacky, and the advance-
party returned to the main camp with the icy news.
Further search for Jacky failing, the gold quest was
abandoned, and the party sadly dispersed, some returning
home direct; others made for Mt. Browne. Jacky—a
young myall, who had never been away from his tribe
before—was unanimously voted a perjurer, and generally
a prototype of the later-day Westralian newsman. His
levanting was taken as proof (it was the only proof) of his
mendacity. Probably a just conclusion, but much remains
unexplained.
* • * *
“ Verax”: A farmer up this way (Q.)has for
barometer a barrel with open top, in which is placed
a common green frog and about 6in. of water. In
the centre of the cask stands a stick notched at
regular intervals, and about a foot out of the
water. In dry weather froggy remains in the
water, but when a change is coming he begins to
climb the mast. If but little rain is to fall he
only just leaves the water, and the heavier the
prospective fall the higher he goes, every notch
counting so many points. The proprietor of that
frog can foretell changes in the weather with
Wragge-like accuracy.
* * * *
“Tin-Lip”: Common in Fiji to see a
native woman with pet pig running behind, always
small and stunted in growth. Piggy’s mistress is
generally a childless married woman or a ditto
old maid ; latter a very rare thing in Fiji.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOTJNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufaetuieis
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY. DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & 00.,
Agents. SYDNEY
Hori Grey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Horn Grey— the “Great Pro-Consul,” Maori-
land’s “Grand Old Man,” as those who loved him
well, and they were many, delighted to call him—
is dead. The ancient Knight, whose eyes, having
seen the beginning, were very weary as they
looked upon the ending of the century, has gone
to his well-earned rest. Very aged, weak and
worn ; lagging superfluous perhaps on the world’s
stage; yet what a won lerful personality and mar-
vellous career were his ! Here is no attempt to
record that career, or to essay, even in miniature,
a biography of the old man—merely to sketch, in
more or less digressive manner, the old Knight as
he appeared to one who had many opportunities of
studying him in public.
* * • *
It is not as explorer, Governor, Premier, or
politician that the dead man will chiefly be remem-
bered by Australasians in times to come. He will
be spoken of rather as truest gentleman, kindly,
courteous, humble, too, in his way—a proud
humility. His name will be recalled as that of
one who strove, often with incoherence and incon-
sistency in his methods, for what he believed to
be the good of his fellows, and for what he held,
mistakenly or the reverse, to be the right, the
noble and the true. His most remarkable attri-
bute was the fascination he exercised upon all who
came within the radius of his influence. Hostile
politicians were so cognisant of this power that
they did not resist—they fled him. Behind his
back, during more recent years, the cynics of
Maoriland mocked him. Pace to face with his
marvellous enchantment they saluted him another
CLesar, and applauded with the best. As an
active political force in the land of the Maori and
the Moa, the aged statesman —always, by the way,
a despot, even though a benevolent one —has for
long years been a spent volcano. He was at once
too broad and too narrow to make a successful
colonial politician. His metier was—King. As
the idol of the people, however, he never suffered
dethronement.
» * * *
The present scribe saw and heard Hori Grey
for the first time at a great public meeting in
Auckland 1M.L.) 12 or 13 years ago. Some dis-
HORI GREY.
Photo., J. Hubert Newman.
appointing experiences of Maoriland’s political
celebrities —reputedly golden gods, actually idols
of clay —had induced the writer to largely dis-
count m advance Grey’s fame. There were some
2000 people present, men and women. What hap-
pened was this : An old man, slight and bent,
wearing an overcoat and a great comforter, came
feebly upon the platform, and a few seconds later
most of the women were sobbing and many of the
men snivelling: nor does the writer pretend he
was free from the contagion of that extraordinary
emotion. A minute or two subsequently the old
man arose from his seat and began languidly and
tremblingly to endeavor to remove his wraps. A
dozen willing helpers rushed forward to assist.
Divested of his outer garments some of the in-
firmity seemed to fall away from him. One noted
that the veteran wore plain but well-cut clothes, a
white waistcoat, a posy in his button-hole. He
smoothed his silvery hair, took a step to the front,
and, as the plaudits again rang out, he straightened
up and looked a quarter of a century younger
than the enervated and aged man he at first
appeared. Then he began to speak ; eloquent no
doubt he was—in patches; but of consecutive and
sustained argument there was no trace. Never-
theless, the indescribable enthusiasm of the audi-
ence continued throughout, and, when that won-
derful old tongue was silent and the Knight of
Kawau had relapsed into his comforter and
apparent semi-senility, the writer found himself
cheering as vociferously as his neighbors. Of
course, almost any man of gracious and command-
ing personality, sonorous voice and flexible, and
with a great message to deliver, may thus affect
an audience. But Grey’s capital for many years
was merely the shadow of a mighty name, a thin
sweet voice and a faded presence.
* * * *
Hori Grey in-actically withdrew from active
Maoriland politics in November, 1890 ; his subse-
quent reappearances on the stage political being
hardly worth mentioning. In August of the same
year the Opposition of the ’House of Representa-
tives, of which the late John Ballance was then
leader, and Seodox, now Premier, one of the rank-
and-file, conceived the idea of employing Grey
and his popularity as instruments wherewith to
oust Harry’ Atkinson, w’hose hobnailed highloivs
seemed firmly planted in the place of power. The
astute old master, who had used so many men,
detected the device, but suffered it to go forward,
repaying the presumption of the devisers with
one of those sly but droll efforts of mischief
which evidenced that the real pathos of his
Eosition had failed to obliterate his sense of
umor—indeed a dry, fine humor was ever
one of Grey’s most delightful characteristics. On
the particular occasion under notice, a political
meeting, the first of a series, was held at Welling-
ton. Grey was, of course, the big oratorical gun ;
but Seddon, George Fisher —not long thrown
out of the Atkinson Ministry and panting for the
goreof his recentchief— Fish (Dunedin), Moss(now
or lately King Moss I. of Raratonga), and others,
were also to orate. It was arranged that Grey
was to lead off with a denunciation of Atkinson
and all his works and ways. Dear old Hori did
nothing of the kind. After a short preliminary
verbal canter, in which he touched on most things
in Heaven, earth and elsewhere, but never on
Atkinson or his Government, he suddenly de-
bouched to the subject of rabbits—and long stayed
there. “In the old days,” he said, “in the old
days long gone by, I have spoken to the people,
spoken to them in times of trouble. I have also
spoken in the days of prosperity; now in my old
age I come to speak once more. In the eye of our
Heavenly Father all are born in a measure equal. ”
That was how he began; thence he, without halt,
proceeded to the game laws of England, and
then attacked the rabbits. “There were droves of
them; some liked them —for their skins. The
rabbit had put 20 new crimes on the Statute-
book in one year. ” He then drew a blood-curdling
word-picture of a poor boy who, having shot a
rabbit, “is dragged off to a dungeon”—“or,
maybe, a girl! ” Leaving the girl immured, he
plunged into the subject of railways. “Let me
try,” he said, “even—even in my dotage” (this
with a delicious chuckle), “to make these matters
plain.” He immediately covered “ these matters, ”
whatever they may have been, with confusion
worse confounded, and when the venerable
speaker next came up (if the expression be ad-
missible) to blow, he was in the midst of the Lon-
don dockers’ strike and speaking, tears in his
voice, with real pathos and power. One sentence
was memorable. Treating of the assistance sent
to the dock-laborers from Australia, he remarked,
“And then came to those dock-laborers help—help
from their kinsmen in Australia! For years I
have cherished one idea : that the New World was
designed by Providence to save the Old World —
to save them, in spite of themselves. Federation !
Talk of Federation ! Was ever Federation such
as this seen—the New World relieving the Old?”
* * * *
The foregoing is recorded to show some of Grey’s
later political and oratorical devices, also the ex-,
tent of his popularity. Though the meeting was \
a red-hot partisan one, and though the Knight was ?
clearly expected to talk on partisan lines, and
signally failed to do so, the great audience cheered
him until hoarse, and no subsequent speaker
attracted in comparison serious attention. It was
not then —perhaps it never was—the power of
what he said, but the power of the man’s indi-
viduality that attracted and delighted.
• * » *
And the secret of that power ? Who can tell ?
Something of it doubtless fbode in name and
gentle blood ; something in venerable appearance,
in great age, in voice sweet and sympathetic, in
manner at once gracious and dignified. In latter
days, even his political foes recognised that he was
a surviving connecting link between the living
present and the dead past, that he was peculiarly
gifted with
The tender grace of a day that is dead,
and that he stood, this once vigorous man of great
achievement, aged and weak, looking wistfully
across a little intervening space to the VaJley of the
Dark Shadows; that he had gained no great
titles, honors, nor wealth, and was in posses-
sion of little that men covet and strive for—unless
it might be the love of the people.
* * * *
But though in his declining years an atmosphere
of pathos seemed to encompass him, it must not
be supposed he was always in plaintive mood.
There was frequently more than a suspicion
of drollery lurking in the corners of the ancient
gentleman’s bright blue eyes, and he had a knack
of repelling undue familiarity and of setting back
a foe quite inimitable. There is a story, perhaps
told before in print, which illustrates his humor
and his stately mode. An old pious politician and
antagonist, about to leave Maoriland, approached
the Knight to tender his farewell. “ I will not
say good-bye, but au revoir, Sir George. We are
both old men : we cannot expect to see each other
again on earth —we shall meet in Heaven.” “I
think not, Mr. Z. ; I—l hope not, good-bye ! ” Sir
George was strongly opposed to the late Harry
Atkinson, and occasionally; during the course of a
debate in the House, would, without the faintest
relevance to the subject under discussion, arise
and pour out a tremendous, but elegant, philippic
upon the “Major’s” devoted head, pointing
his declamatory periods with threatening fore-
finger, ever and anon demanding, in accents-
vibrating with loftiest indignation, “ Let the
honorable gentleman come off those benches—
come off those benches, sir ! ” But when Grey
had finished he would beam with large satisfaction
upon the grinning House, as one who triumphantly
asked—“ What d’ye think of that, eh?” At-
kinson, the hotheaded, bore these chastisements
meekly, recognising the burden of an inevitable
cross, for, whatever the Government, Sir George
was “ agen it.”
The only politician the writer ever heard insult
the veteran was Robert Stout. The incident
occurred 11 years ago. The Knight of Kawau had
spoken with his usual dignity, gentleness, and irre-
levance. Up sprang Stout, and attacked the
aged statesman with virulence, taunting the latter
with his old age, the loneliness of that old age, his
loss of memory, his ‘‘lost career” —even, whether
consciously or not, mimicking the other’s method
of speaking. The House, as the ungenerous tirade
proceeded, became stiller and stiller, polder and
more cold. Stout sat down amid a silence that
could be hacked with a tomahawk. Up bounded the
Hon. T: Fergus —a large Scotchman, with a voice
like an organ in a cathedral aisle. “ I have not,”
he said, in effect: “ I have never professed to have
great admiration for the politics of the venerable
member who has just been attacked with so much
coarseness and malignity; but I have, as which of
us has not, profoundest reverence for such age,
ability, and life-long service. The attack we have
j ust listened to was disgraceful—disgraceful! A
‘ lost career,’ indeed ! Let us compare the lives of
these two.” Which Fergus, the House smiling
acquiescence and admiration, did, terribly to
Stout’s disadvantage. It was a tremendous speech,
a scathing indictment of the sham and younger
Radical. Grey sat through it all, his face impene-
trable as that of the Sphinx.
* * • *
During the last dozen years or so, Grey and one
follower, seldom more, constituted a separate
party in the House. Moss, King Moss I. of the
Cook Group, was at one time the follower; then
Reece, of Christchurch; later Verrall, of the
same city; Grey’s latest henchman was W. L.
Rees, an old politician, a lawyer, and his leader’s
biographer. Young members of generous im-
pulses gravitated to the old Knight, facilely as
ducks to water. Mr. Reece, when returned, gave
his electors solemn pledges he would eschew
the dreaded tempter, the Knight of Kawau.
Maybe the latter heard of this. Anyway, when
the House met, he smiled his sweetest upon the
callow member, who immediately and finally suc-
cumbed to that baleful magic. Christchurch
voters sent their representative a new rat-trap
with an old dead rat in it; but the disciple re-
mained faithful. The whips of both parties hunted
young members from seats anywhere adjacent to
the venerable fascinator. Long ere the present
writer first saw Grey, an old Maoriland politician,
a man of wide education and experience, said to
him (the writer), “I loathe Grey’s politics; but I
was never fool enough to even speak to him in the
House if I could help it, for had he asked me to
vote against my conscience, my conscience would
gone to the devil.” /
j Yet the House of Representatives loved its
Grand Old Man—loved to hear him, whether
pathetic, sarcastic, denunciatory, or, as he occa-
sionally was, humorous. He will be seen in the
House to which he was once so constant no more.
But he will live in the memory of many as he was
wont to appear. See! a big debate is on. The
heavy artillery on either side is silent—the action
seems over. Is the battle finished? No! “Sir
George Grey ! ” The voice is the voice of
Mr. Speaker. An anxious hum circles the floor.
Strangers in the gallery, heretofore bored, dozing,
or asleep, waken, stiffen and crane over the rail.
Ladies nudge each other, smile, whisper, drop
three stitches of their crochet, and then their
crochet, and coo, “Dear old man!” The lights
seem brighter, a trifle more starch appears to
stiffen Mr. Speaker’s Geneva bands. A satisfied
throb circulates floor and galleries. The audience
settles to the play. The star actor who plays the
lead is on!
* * * *
Grey rises, as always, in his frail old man man-
ner. He fixes Mr. Speaker with a glittering eye
and straightens himself; sweeps the House with a
glance and stands erect. “ How well the darling
looks ! ” murmur the ladies. “Mr. Speaker, sir !’’
And that voice, though at first meagre and quaver-
ing, how it warms and deepens, what wondrous if
tremulous timbre it gains with every sentence;
how soon it penetrates every corner of the cham-
ber ! It marshalls the “unborn millions,” and, in
mournful march, shivering—always shivering, how-
ever hot the weather —they slink by, with naked
feet and racking coughs. The speaker’s voice
grows deeper and yet deeper; his manner more
and more tragic. ... A Minister sniggers !
There is a dreadful pause. Round comes the
virile champion of the “ unborn millions ”
all infirmity fallen from him like a gar-
ment. He quivers with righteous indignation;
forth flashes his right arm; his terrible forefinger
picks up and pillories that sniggering Minister,
holds him, lashes him with whips of scorpions,
rives him with lightnings. Stops ! Gazes at it
(not him) with scorn of scorn: thunders with the
prophet of old, “ Thou art the man ! ” and casts
the mangled remains of what was once a Minister
into a far corner—for the dogs on the city wall to
eat. Then? Well, one hardly likes to write it —
he possibly winks in the demurest manner at his
solitary henchman! He goes on. There is no
slavish following of a text, flowers of rhetoric gem
the speech without reference to text or context.
Now he pauses to answer some ejaculator or to
turn the ejaculation to profit; now interrupted by
Mr. Speaker, more often Mr. Speaker interrupt-
ing ; stopping for a moment’s converse with one
who offers a suggestion; discharging a joke or
THE TYPEWRITER IN WESTRALIA.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co’s representative on the mining fields.
rebuke, subtle and keen; back to his “unborn
millions” and, at last, to his seat. And and,
what has he said ? Said 1 we did not come for
that. ’Twas the manner of saying it we came to
see and hear, for there wa§ and is but one Sir
George Grey.
• • • *
When last the old Knight was seen in the streets
of Wellington—-nearly always in company with a
little child that loved him—almost every man he
met saluted him, and that in a country where each
man considers himself as good as any other man
and a little better. From those streets he has
vanished for evermore. Soldier, explorer, scholar,
linguist, autocratic Governor—at the end, poli-
tician ! One may wonder now, without disparage-
ment of the dead, whether this was altogether the
right rounding of a career so excellently begun, so
stirring and eventful midway, so powerful towards,
if not at, the close. There are those who say.it
was a lost career; but how could it be lost when,
at the end, the old man had such unique hold upon
the love and reverence of his fellow-men ? Truly,
not lost; at worst, only a little marred. And
now he sleeps! May he sleep well—without dole-
ful dreams I
J. EVISON.
The “Break up of the Drought ” picture
in this issue derives a melancholy interest from
the fate of the artist, poor Jack Commins, who
the other day shot himself in a Sydney hotel. Com-
mins, an English-educated Victorian, and a fine
fellow all-round, had recently been travelling for
a big wool-firm, and want of success appears to
have fatally preyed upon a temperament more
sensitive and high-strung than was to have been
expected in a man of Commins’s hearty disposition
and athletic physique.
“ One who knows him ” gives The Bul-
letin this estimate of Glassey, M.P., Q. Labor-
leader, and now Opposition-leader :
Few men are better known—by reputation—to political
students in Australia than Labor-leader Thomas Glassey,
the man who has just undertaken the task of leading the
“ Constitutional Opposition ” in Mongrelia’s Legislature.
Bulletin readers are familiar with the Bulletin’s esti-
mate of Glassey as a politician. His paralysing verbosity,
lack of subtlety and humor, pushfulness, amazing egotism,
inordinate self-confidence, and imperial audacity, have
done much to alienate the sympathy of the more thought-
ful and sensitive workers in the Q. Democratic movement.
But the critic who takes Glassey for a garrulous nonentity
and pig-headed ass doesn’t know his subject. Born into
the most body-destroying of occupations and brain-wither-
ing penury, he was very near manhood before he
denew his alphabet, and all that he knows—no mean
stock of knowledge—he has taught himself between the
Q. LABOR OPPOSITION-LEADER GLASSEY.
brief intervals of long, exacting, and fatiguing work.
Similar early experience leads most men to drink, gaol,
squalid domestio life, irresponsibility—moral, mental,
and physical wrecks before their prime. Glassey has
come through his fierce struggle with broken health, a
fair education, a respectable conscience, and the personal
esteem of all who know him. The new leader of Q. Oppo-
sition is clearly out of his place, and perhaps the worst
that can justly be said against him is that he doesn’t
know it. A wise man shuns situations that lead to odious
comparisons—against himself. Anyhow, Glassey is only a
stop-gap leader, and may come to see the absurdity and
difficulty of his position. He is a very effective platform
propagandist, but a signal failure as a leading parliamen-
tarian. The writer hopes he will not undo his splendid
organisation and agilation work by continuing to occupy
a parliamentary position for which he is by training and
temperament unfitted.
Like the “good old days” of Q., this.
Brisbane Courier's Southport correspondent :
The excursionists appear to have had a good time,
though the only available constable and the railway
officials may be excused if they did not view matters in
the same light, not being accustomed to be made skittles
or footballs of.
Thefirst hotday broughta bigboomin Lager
Bier business to Messrs. Morgan & Smith, of Syd-
ney. On Sept. 21 the firm sold -lOOcases, representing
22,000 bottles of the famous Franz Josef Pilsener
Lager. A lager boom is just what is needed to
make the average Australian rational. Lager is a
light drink with excellent digestive ingredients
and a minimum of alcohol.*
The attention of the woolgrowers of
N.S.W. and Q. is directed to page 21 of this issue,
whereon appears a joint manifesto from the Aus-
tralasian Mortgage and Agency Co. Ltd., Dalgety
and Co. Ltd., Goldsbrough Mort anu Co. Ltd.,
and the New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co. Ltd. This manifesto institutes a new develop-
ment in the Sydney woolbrokers’ charges, and
creates a big division in the Woolbrokers’ Associa-
tion. The agitation which has existed for the
past two years in the Sydney wool-market was
begun by the revolutionary scale of charges intro-
duced by the Co-operative Co. ; and the struggle
thus commenced reached its most public expression
in the recent boycott of the Co-operative Co. by
a section of the wool-buyers. Shortly after the
boycott, a compromise on the question of charges
was effected between a section of the Woolbrokers’
Association and the Co-operathe Co. ; and a
manifesto was published setting forth the terms
of this compromise. To these terms the four big
firms whose names were enumerated above take
exception. They form a body of their own, issue
a new scale of charges, and call confidently on
the woolgrowers to support them.


' ^sS o l H fe
A TWO-HEADED CALF.
head* wefre exactly alilie a ; 0~
@ssns&<s«twi*S?
Si™. Suj?‘ fifSSJfca
' MR. CHIRNSIDE. A.&UTHE '
Considering that Mr. C&fniH* M.L.A..
when addressing hia constituents at Steig-
litz in October o£ last year, expressed him.
teelf as "opposed to the stock tax, ns it was
sipsply injuring trade, and was no beneflt
;to either farmers or aguatters,’’ it will come
'as a great surprise to many to read in “The
Argus • of to-day- that he has changed his
.opinion. In the debate "upon the motion*
M Gregor that the stock tax be
jaboushed he is reported as being favour-
Jnble to the tax, “as it did an immense
la mount of benefit to the farmers."
1 -5
yfis-fc<feir,blel7. MI.C- Wes ’>7fe*r~ 0 fJ e '?S
' ‘sr& %?r&gnti i 3£.
fa* r^Sg^^' gs/:
■I y^^W^ <Z/
■ wh
7 orVttV iSsey r
X fooliitcM O^or
'T.et' , ..i 1 ’ „
C > V
'
*^rf> e ’ 0?>
Kj^'
<\
y ifV-
> v
- V vj^ l ,vjP m
%^5-^
v'-' c S'-
,» •
(jept&Sfoffi?rd
V A Mou.rer' zy f
/ *
gfor ouregeypeyt-ofye W/>/yeJ^dus/ry*
The Chief Justice.—l am prepared to find
that Mr. Wallace thought lie was acting
an honest part and thoroughly believed hi«
position was warranted in law. That had
led him into a position of great liability, and
one in whioh it is impossible for the Court,
however much it appreciated Mr. Wal-
lace’s honest intentions, to allow him to re-
main in the of trustee.
There can he no question that
flagrant and lamentable errors have been
made by him.
asfflfr >
oi} T;e^d'.
*WaJWc bH^T-fro-ry^
Jc £ef S* WlK^e*^
MELBOURNIANA.


The bill fwT the protection of children intro-
duced ia the Legislative Connell, fixes the age
of a child under the Act at *lB years, and no
person i* allowed to give ady child under 13
cigars, cigarettes, anuff, or tobacco.
/f STyeg
IFor nearly thirty years M. de Rougemont was a
cannibal chief, ruling his people with the
wisdom of the serpent, and maintaining his
authority over them in ways that ar,e an astound-
|fng- revelation of human ingenuity. It is not
( too* much, that the narrative of “ Tfre
(Adventures of Louis de Rougemont” will create
(a profound sensation throughout the civilized
world. _ y~yj? /\}yy)
5rJ/
l5 smefllitjn shriliiijgfifi
Character/ siU about tfje Matter
v cUufC lYatodij ujes Sljuff
\ Jjow'-a-dcujs leijij
\ fate Cotujcilhrj'OyeL
■ boll) age
I faf fjti-b passed
W/liiK
yff 'N ~pe Kvf
gfm | lunjplti yivXi-r
W jiiii tt Mliffr >o\
' [wimUat (
teepjw; ®jpD y&jr
==SLiS '’ /W Wp' fij£ fU&H-few wuuia-
fed duef (mrteut](j of a fmpt r^fl-j fof |
low off a dmn&r-j&flto of ftfid SoW
life- iroor ifjcif f|. ielftugemimrjfcis
aceefefcd flje editorship of fife tjts-No Orc/cu] ij
Without foundation^.
j?t)d tyitykft
\ /■
/(forcible f a JJj J}
/Hope pullf / e£r~>
“A jp
f
/l ou tD e J
? - r***;Z'£sL
: —"<%
‘ v Coura^if
i Ik
• *■
«r •**,, . .
Mr.
[Barton and I will meet on level term?. He will come
under the overpowering glare of public criticism,
under which I have been fighting for the past four
years. The haze that in Mr. Barton's former posi-
tion obscured any intellectual defects he may have,
or auy weakness of purpose, or illiberally of opinion,
of any mistake of juagmeDt, all these points in his
character will come under searching review, and
when that happens I am convinced that I shall have
no reason to regrat Mr. Baxtoo’s election to tho
Legislative Assembly.*’
'fie enjneerrfot dowly down
.And Scraped Mm off the wheel
Je,Med of ajmjfjuy - in fiulletie) fjoj']’ 9
POLITICS, SNUFF AND A BOSS LIAR.


A rich New York lady lately left a dona-
tion to build a church on condition that her body
and bones were crunched up into mortar for the
corner-stone.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
At the religious-instruction hour in a
Sydney suburban State school, a zealous parson
asked his class the other day, “ Who was the man
after God’s own heart?” Promptly came the
reply from the kniekered son of a lately-elected
Freetrade M.L.A. : “George Houston Reid.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of _ 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years,'which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22a 6d.
With covers, 30s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
16c. Gold „ „ 465.
jßgjT
ST'
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
7s 6d, 10s, 16s, 20s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain,
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £3ss.
5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Red, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 26b.
150. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2 10s,
gin. wide.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 16c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamond, £6 5s ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
16c., 20», 265; 18c.
265, 30s, 355, £2.
A. launders
Gold Amethyst Bar,
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,15/-, 20/-
A. Saunders.
!f. hes > Pure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
57s 6d (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE mapf.ps
Highly Recommended*
WATOH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 140. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watohes.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s,
£*. £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6,
£®> £lO- Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Price Illustrated Book.
£3, £3 10s,
£6 10s, £7,
Send for
1®
4&A
C3\\.
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
otrtf
Quite New.
9a Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 16c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 2os.
AMV
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
16c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15a Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
Child’s Cups, 10s 6a
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s (id and 20s
are in Silk Cases.
SHMNHVS 'T
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George -street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
About Hori Grey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Gov. Gawler had run the infant province of
S. Australia into financial quicksands, a very
young man walked into Govt. House, Adelaide
and announced himself as the new Lieutenant-
Governor. I hat was the first intimation given
to Gawler of his deposition ; in those days cere-
mony was not characteristic of the Colonial Office.
The very young man was Capt. George Grey, and
his worldly wisdom had been derived from a
decade in the army and a couple of years of
hazardous exploration in Westralia. In reminis-
cence of his exploring days, Grey carried the scars
of three spear-wounds to the grave.
* * « *
Grey was always the man for a tight place. He
pulled S.A. from the quicksands ; he quelled the
Maoris in the Forties and again in the Sixties;
he broke the power of the Kaffirs. A man of this
masterful stamp had to fall out with the clerk-
lings of the red-tape offices, and Grey at last with-
drew from an atmosphere made mephitio by con-
tinuous bickering.
» * • •
When Governor at the Cape, Grey threw out
the first suggestion for a South African Federa-
tion, now the dearest of Britain’s desires in Africa.
He was rewarded with the worst of official snubs
—a recall to England. On the steamer gangway
he heard the news of his reappointment—the Cape
had become a “tight place” again. Grey, the
man of immediate decision, was off by next boat
to his seat of government. And, in the days of
Hori Grey, government did not stop at bazaar-in-
auguration.
* • * *
Grey had a touch of the eighteenth century in
his courtliness, even to the objects of his bitterest
animosity. For instance, he would never allow
himself to precede a friend through doorway or
passage. Premier John Hall, Hori’s worst politi-
cal enemy, visited England. His return was
judged by a good-natured M.H.R. to be an oppor-
tune moment for reconciliation between the
leaders. “ Sir George,” he remarked, “ here is
the Premier, just back from England.” Hall ad-
vanced with outstretched hand, but Grey only
bowed gracefully, turned on his heel, and walked
away.
* • • •
With all his desire on this occasion for recon-
ciliation, Hall was a man of far less courtly de-
meanor. He persisted one night in reading a
paper whilst Hori was addressing Parliament.
Grey claimed the Premier’s attention, but Hall’s
eyes were riveted on the printed sheet. Grey
stood in utter silence for 10 minutes ; half the
members present raised points of order. The
Speaker ruled the Tribune perfectly within his
rights in awaiting the attention of the rival leader,
and Grey continued to stand before the House,
silent, immovable, and dignified. Three-quarters
of an hour elapsed ere Hall threw aside his paper
and yawned. Grey proceeded, “As I was on the
point of remarking when I claimed the attention
of the honorable Premier It was one of the
great scenes in M.L. Parliamentary history.
♦ * » *
Studied as were his speeches in public, the old
man’s private conversation had absolutely no re-
gard for the niceties of punctuation. He would
meet a friend in the street, doff his hat, and with
an infinite savor of politeness, would say : “ Ah,
how do you do Sir Robert I listened with great
attention to your remarks in the House last night
and there is no necessity for me to say that I dis-
agree entirely with every one of them good after-
noon Sir Robert.”
* * * *
It was the ambition of Parliamentary habitues
to imitate Grey’s singular speech. The thin
tones, thrown against the roof of the mouth, were
only within the art of the best mimics, but
Amelius Smith, one of the Ministerial secretaries,
caught the manner to the life. One day, he was
repeating a characteristic phrase, amid the
laughter of three or four other officials, when
Hori entered the room. Tell-tale silence pre-
vailed whilst a document was sought out at his
request. Hori had opened the door to depart
when he turned and mischievously remarked,
“As you were saying when I interrupted, Mr.
Smith ? ”
* » * *
Like most men of his type, Grey was somewhat
shaky in his theology. In Wellington he consented
to debate a matter of Christian dogma with a
Jewish Rabbi. The Rabbi opened with a regular
fusilade of theological posers. Grey’s return fire
was somewhat evasive. “ You are a student and
a doctor of theology,” he started, gravely ; “ J am
a mere layman, and you must necessarily know
more of these things than I do. Put these ques-
tions to yourself that you have propounded. If
in your own heart you recognise that the answer
is ‘ yes,’ then, of course, it must be ‘yes.’ If, on
the other hand, the answer that occurs to you is
‘ no, ’ then lam willing to admit that ‘no ’ is the
correct answer.”
* ♦ * «
. At a time when he was an objeofc of heated pub-
lic disfavor, Governor Grey was reported to have
been drowned in fording a Maoriland river. He
heard the news from an exultant settler, who did
not know him, and added that the accident was
the best thing that could have happened. “Is
that so?” commented Hori. “ Well, it might not
be such a great thing for me, you see. I’m the
Governor.”
* * * *
Grey made many literary and art contributions
to public institutions. He bought up two copies
of every book of verse published in Maoriland—
good, bad, or worse. One copy he kept; the
other he always sent to the Auckland library. It
will be interesting to know how many valueless
volumes will be taken from their shrine and
destroyed now that Hori is no more. At any
rate, while the old man lived in the province
every M.L. versifier was certain of the sale of
three copies of his book—the two that Grey
bought, and the other that he bought himself.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in,'and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
A.W.E. : All very fine for you to send us an
alluring yarn beginning “ When So-and-So was convicted
of embezzlement at Blankville but how do we know’ he
was ever convicted ? And, even if he was, a newspaper
isn’t privileged to say so—nor is it desirable that it should,
save under very special circumstances, have such a privi-
lege .. . Theor : Minister Carruthers would probably make
an energetic and intelligent Agent-General, fifty times
better than either of the others named .... Eoro(Melb.):
In the history of the world there are few cases of a trades-
man increasing the size and weight of any article (at a
given price) out of compliment to the people who bought
it when it was smaller. Newspapers get bloated on cheap
advts K.K. : Granted that, in accordance w-ith the
Czar’s suggestion, the armies of Europe were disbanded
and the warships broken up, she would be no nearer dis-
armament than before. In case of a disagreement about
a frontier, millions of once-drilled men w’ould fly at each
other with ploughshares and pruning-hooks. Destroy
all weapons, get back to the condition of Cain and
Abel, and the bumptious nation will get the peace-
loving nation by the windpipe and strangle it
W.J.H. (Adelaide) : Coals to Newcastle. You wire us an
old Bulletin item . N.C. (M.): Damper episode too
awful; other excellent ... Warrina : Yarn loaded
Yarran : Will illustrate “ Hint.” .... A.E.D. : Yes, it’s
dull enough to be absolutely original E.M. :On Ver.
an idyllic thing Frank K. : Needn’t insist so much on
your juvenility ; it’s apparent in every line you write.
Please specify MS. you ask about .... W. E. Jones : Don’t
know what you’re driving at. Bulletin, at all events, is
an enemy not to any “ faith,” but to the self-righteousness
and hypocrisy which are the skin-diseases of the creeds....
F.T.C. : Ingenious, but subject faraway .. . L.H.N. :
Cannot promise to read MSS. “at once,” nor can w'e un-
dertake to write letters concerning copy submitted
Eunambah : In Victoria policemen do wear their helmets
in court James W.C. (Ad.): A string of baseless
lies. Present writer has seen and talked to the man
who won Miller’s buildings, Hobart, in the Adams-con-
ducted lottery. Also, The Bulletin is authorised to say
that anyone whom you nominate can attend the drawing
of any or all Tattersall’s sweeps. So there ! Bulletin
has had occasion to criticise certain details of Tatt.’s
business operations, but it has never had the faintest
suspicion as to his honesty Constant Reader : 1900 is
not a leap-year ; next leap-year is 1904. Every complete
century where the first two figures divide evenly by 4 is
a leap-year, such as 1600 and 2000, but not 1700, 1890 and
1900. The exact year consists of 365 days, some odd
hours, minutes and half-seconds, and if you call it 365
days Xmas has a tendency to shift into autumn and then
round to winter. Leap-year is a rough attempt to keep
it straight. And the omission of three leap-years in 400
years is because we don’t really want a leap-year every
four years—only about 991 leap-years every four cen-
turies. We will now have a drink N. M‘P. : Only
moderately amusing Australis : (1) Regard it as quite
safe. (2) Would recommend you, under the circum-
stances, to insure in the A.M. P. under Table A. The
bonuses are larger and your policy will increase more
rapidly in value. (3) The Mutual Life Association,
jn our opinion, is absolutely sound and reliable
Moses Bellamy : You appear to be a fine raw-meat lunatic
with a great capacity for ink-splash Subscriber (New-
town) : Last contested election at Hastings and Macleay
(1895): Clarke, 791; Vivian, 736 Beney : First verse
kills ic dead :
Now, Matey, I’ll tell you a tale
tis good if it is a bit stale
Twas a Station called Bardine
Where I was grafting all the time
And the other 21 verses are worse than that A.P.K. :
1£ columns Of flattest mediocrity about old miner Bill,
and the old, faded letter from Bill’s best girl, now dead,
and the death of Bill, and his last words to Ned. The
grass that afterwards grew on Bill’s grave is mercifully
omitted Bob: A P.N. at two months from 30th June
falls due 2nd Sept. The two months carry it up to 30th
Aug. and the three days of grace do the rest .... Warrigal:
If you were “ Chummy,” we hereby congratulate the bull
that butted you into the creek Robin S. : “ Won't you
tell us why, robin?—won't you tell us why?”
Yang: “Jailer” still too long .... Stanley N. : A bit
bizarre, but not beneath consideration . Helen O. :
Very moderate merit A.M. : Not amiss; but mask-
mistake motif has been used 10,000 times J. Ritson :
Large, wild, aimless lie .... Jinda : Style good, but
nothing in yarn ... Bal. : Commendably pithy ; may use.
S.C. .- “Flora,” too florid Leo S. : Goes well. In
the scales Franklyn S.H. : Some science, but little
strength .. Alley B. : 12 and 13, metre too rocky. Others
as we come to ’em... Coohoolah: Your skill not
equal to your imagination. Promise in prose sketch.
Prospector: Not a “color.” H.B. : Like the
“squater” of your song, we won’t have you on our
run . Leon B.: Mislaid cutting. Yarn, will consider
A.D. : Better say nothing about, it W.J.T. : Long ago
printed in Bulletin .... C. W. : The map who calls his own
verses “ poems” has, as a rule, little sliow of seeing him-
self indecent print Alone : Water-horror may do ...
Eric M. : May use . Evan W. : Decently written, but
situation trite R.O.S.S. : Received P.R. : 1,
Hamilton Mackinnon. 2, M.C. Memorial Volume. 3,
Dunno ; but “ C.’s of T.” will probably be included ....
S.H. : Thanks. Your good wishes have been fulfilled
H.E.B. : Couldn’t succeed in disinfecting W.S. : A
mere nothing .... R.S.T. : Ridiculous name-suggestion.
Pig-lie not worth a grunt 7x7 : Sense in what you
say about jury-trial ; otherwise your desperate cocksure-
ness is pathetic. “ One glance at him, and I made up my
mind that he was guilty.” What does that prove ?
Long-Un : To hand W.J.T. (W.A.): Remarks un-
printable Patmos : Fair idea; handling not up
W. J.C. : Can’t see how it pays a Q. planter t.o feed tuber-
culous bullocks to his kanakas, seeing that the live
kanaka is such a valuable sugar-asset just now.. R.A.8.:
Verse declined ... A.A.A. : You have a poetical sense,
but small power of poetical expression ... G.R. : Not up.
D. : Butterflies too high for Bulletin readers
F.C.S. : Not quite good enough H.': Never before
heard of an actress objecting to the morality of any play
in which three men had wicked designs upon her
Sapo: You seem to be talking from hearsay. Stead’s
“ dance ” of yore was utterly dissimilar to the “ Scare-
crow'.” It wasn’t a dance at all—merely a monotonous
jumping performance Yancania : Too early, anyway—
The gee-gees you name
May die, or go lame ;
You had best keep your gold in your purse
For the present; and yet
We are open to bet
They will not go as lame as your verse.
J.A.P. (Brisb.): None quite up P.J.S. : Will try
and re-write S. V. Stead : Cincinnatus Hiner Miller
and “Joaquin Miller” are same fellow'; and “The Pore
of Ships ” and “Columbus” variants of the same poem.
Miller is a romantic person w'ho wears his hair long, and
apparently he found “Cincinnatus” prosaic J.F.W. :
Dull as teetotalism P.A. : Pretty poor, isn’t it?
Farmer: Money wouldn’t bribe us to publish it
P.C.F. : Similarity to Lawson’s verses would kill it if it
wasn’t dead. The other is deader Gay R. : Unsuit-
able D. B. : Drop it down a hole in the floor, and we’ll
say no more about it.


SPRING AILMENTS
HE
£ fljlS
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS
SPRING MEDICINE.
CURE
Blood Imparities
That Tired Feeling
Lack of Energy
AND
Tone up the Whole System
:
t
. cure ..
BILIOUSNESS, PILES,
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION,
LIVER COMPLAINT.
Mark Twain Again.
Mr Mark Twain has said some very clever
things that have been widely repeated, and his
description of sea-sickness might be classed among
them. “At first,” he says, “you are very much
afraid you are going to die, but after a little as
vou get it worse, you are very much afraid you
are not going to die, and heartily wish you were.’
Few people could have said so much in so few
words A tale that may be of as much interest
to the average reader, though not put in so terse a
form is told by Mr. Wm. Attwood, of Rose-
street Glebe, Newcastle, who recounts his experi-
ence ’as follows: “I suffered for many years
from dyspepsia and constipation of the severest
description, and I could get no relief until I
chanced to come across Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. I was troubled greatly with a feeling of
fulness after eating, no matter how little I
might eat. Then between my shoulders I had
a terrific pain. I had also an almost continual
pain across the bowels; so bad at times was
this that I could not bend to pull on my boots.
Want of breath was a serious trouble at all
times. Some people thought I had asthma, ihen
I was a martyr to constipation. At work or off work
I always had the same languid feeling, with the
pains either in my back or across the bottom of my
stomach. I saw several doctors ; one said I had
‘ water brush,’ and others put it all down to dys-
pepsia and indigestion, and spoke about asthma.
They gave me plenty of medicine, but I never felt
any real practical benefit from anything till I tried
the Bile Beans. I read of them in the paper ; and
a neighbor gave me two of the Beans to try. I
felt some improvement from these, and then T put
myself under a course. I used them for a number
of weeks, and now I feel as lively as ever I did,
and can get about my work with comfort. The
pains and aches I never feel now, and my brain is
clear, and my eyesight practically as good as ever
it was. No tongue can tell,” went on Mr. Attwood,
“ how grateful I feel to the makers of these Beans.”
Mark Twain might be able to tell a wittier story,
but he could not tell a truer one.
The Crow and the Pitcher.
A MORAL.
A certain crow, who had been haranguing a
ward caucus all the evening, had contracted a
large, importunate thirst.
As he was looking about to find some means of
relieving himself of this same thirst he discovered
a pitcher which contained water.
But the pitcher was very large, and the quan-
tity of water it contained was small, and reposed
at the very bottom of the pitcher.
For anatomical reasons the crow could not dip
his bill into the water, and drink from the pitcher
as it was.
Nor was there any use in trying to pour out the
water, for the crow could not lift the pitcher.
Besides, he had no cup.
But he was a wise crow, and also persistent, and
he immediately resolved himself into a committee
of the whole on ways and means and hatched out
a solution of the problem.
He picked up a pebble from many lying around
dropped it into the pitcher.
He kept on dropping pebble after pebble in the
pitcher until the.water approached near enough to
the top for him to drink, and he slaked his thirst
with ease.
What a splendid moral there is in the action of
that wise crow. Dear reader, see the moral in
our light. We are the proprietors of the famous
Bile Beans for Biliousness. So many people try
one doSe/one box, of Bile Beans and expect to be
cured of an ailment that has taken years to fasten
itself in the system. Bile Beans, if given a fair
show, will cure nearly every ailment that is the
result of a sluggish liver’s action and a weak
stomach. The cost is only 9Jd. per box, and
surely you can afford to make one, two, or three
tries if necessary to prove the moral of the crow
and the pitcher, namely, that perseverance in the
right direction tneans victory. Bile Beans perse-
vered in giving health —that great blessing that
should and could be possessed by us all if we per-
severed, and did not expect that the first few
beans would enable us to drink of the pitcher of
health. Health was not lost in a day, therefore it
cannot be regained in a casual manner.
Bushrangers Again.
The recent occurrence at Captain’s Flat served
to remind the public that the day is not yet passed
when highway-robbery can be practised with a
certain amount of impunity. A man may, even
in this enlightened period, be “ held up ” and re-
lieved of his purse, or, what is a much more
common occurrence, robbed of his health. Ail-
ments such as biliousness, indigestion, influenza,
headache, and constipation are continually taking
inoffensive citizens unawares, and Bile Beans are
the acknowledged specific for all such complaints.
This valuable medicine is too well-known in Aus-
tralia to necessitate a lengthy discourse on its
merits here. Suffice it, then, to remind the reader
that Bile Beans do cure biliousness and kindred
ailments, and, with a judicious use of this remedy,
bushranging of the description mentioned should
soon become a thing of the past.
A Fatal Accident.
One reads nearly every day of accidents result-
ing fatally through the negligence of some person
or other, yet few seem to realise that an attack of
indigestion left unchecked may prove, if not
exactly fatal, at least serious in its results. Bile
Beans for Biliousness cure indigestion, and their
use at the proper time will often prevent the possi-
bility of danger from this source. Attacks of in-
digestion in a more or less mild form are too com-
mon to dwell upon at any length. As its name
implies, this disorder is an insufficient action of
the various digestive organs, which prevents the
food being properly dissolved. In cases of this
kind the effect is twofold : first, the waste part of
the food is kept in the stomach and becomes sour
instead of being carried off ; and, secondly, the
bloodmaking or useful part of the food is kept
from performing its offices. The causes of indi-
gestion are many : insufficient liver action, over-
eating, eating too fast, and partaking of rich and
indigestible foods. Constant worry or mental
strain or lack of regularity may also cause an
attack. . The first thing necessary to cure an in-
disposition of this sort is a thorough opening of
the bowels and a complete clearing out of the
whole digestive organism : then the liver should
be stimulated to action, and regularity observed
in everything. Bile Beans for Biliousness will do
the first two of these ; the patient must attend to
the third. Chronic indigestion, of course, needs
longer treatment than a temporary attack.
The Society Debutante.
When a young girl first enters society her im-
mediate sensations are those of attainment,
triumph, and elation. In the first flush of her
social career her imagination opens for her a long
vista of pleasures, whose brightness is unsullied by
the slightest shadow of care. Soon, though, the
novelty commences to wear off, and she finds that,
far from being a life of unalloyed pleasure, society,
like everything else, has its drawbacks. The
health must be kept up, or one becomes a back
number. For work of this kind there is no
remedy on the market equal to Bile Beans. Keep-
ing the entire system in a thorough state of clean-
liness, free from all waste and impure matter,
toning up the nervous organism, purifying the
blood, and keeping the female organs in regular
and thorough working order, they achieve what
no other medicine can do, i.e., a complete mastery
over all derangements of the body arising from
over-indulgence of any sort. Late hours, rich
food, lack of exercise, &c., all bring on, more or
less, severe maladies, and then a course of Bile
Beans for Biliousness is what you need to put you
right again. Many women suffer untold miseries
through complaints peculiar to their sex, and in
the great majority of cases these disorders are due
to the presence of waste matter in the system.
Here again Bile Beans show their great worth, as
they cure all ailments of this sorb in a speedy and
thorough manner.
A Clerk ½in Trouble.
“ Leave the office this minute 1 How dare you
stay till this hour of the night! If I catch you
here after 10 o’clock again I’ll break every bone
in your body ! Don’t you know that late and
irregular hours bring on indigestion and all that
sort of thing? Get out!” The old gentleman
may have been a bit harsh, but he was quite
correct in his statements. Irregularity is the
cause of a great many disorders of the digestive
organs, such as constipation, indigestion, head-
aches, etc., and for any and all of these ailments
there is no cure so good as Bile Beans. This
remedy dates its existence from the discovery by
an American medical man of a certain vegetable
substance which has the effect in the digestive
organs of Nature’s own animal bile. Bile Beans
are revolutionising all the old methods of treat-
ment for digestive ailments.
They Were There.
In a small country town, not long ago, the
principal church found itself in urgent need
of a new supply of hymn - books, and, on
making enquiries through the post, the vestry
were informed by a certain firm of pub-
lishers that “hymn-books can be obtained at
a greatly reduced rate if we are allowed to in-
sert such advertisements as we think fit.” Eager
to make a sharp bargain, the vestry consented,
and ordered the hymn-books. The books arrived
on Christmas-eve, and were to be used for the first
time next day. On glancing rapidly through
them, the members of the vestry were overjoyed
to note that there were no advertisement pages
therein, and concluded that the publishers had
sent the wrong books. But publishers are not
built that way, as the vestry found, to its amaze-
ment, the next day, when a “ large and imposing
congregation ” rose, with a joyous Christmas feel-
ing in their hearts, and sang—
Hark ! the herald angels sing
Bile Beans are just the thing :
Peace on earth and mercy mild,
Two for man and one for child.
A Sensation at the Royal.
While the performance of “ Sporting Life ” was
in progress at the Royal Theatre, the other even-
ing a young lady sitting between two elderly
gentlemen in the dress-circle suddenly discovered
that Bile Beans for Biliousness was advertised in
the programme. She discovered that they were
an undoubted specific for indigestion, headache,
biliousness, pale and sallow complexions, debility,
and all ailments caused by defective digestion and
liver action. She also discovered that they were
very useful in hot weather for that tired feeling,
fevers, and general weakness. As an after dinner
pill Bile Beans score their greatest triumphs.
They are new to Australia, but old in America.
Their great popularity in the other parts of the
world come from the fact that true, genuine worth
is combined with cheapness, two essential points
for the success of any preparation nowadays. A
cure for ninepence half-penny certainly is not be-
yond anyone’s pocket.
Spring Cleaning.
The summer season in Australia has started
rather early and vigorously this year, and the pres-
ent hot weather, coming suddenly as it does; has an
exceedingly enervating effect on the most of us.
It is as well to remember that at this season of .all
others the human system needs to be toned-up
and put in thorough condition to withstand the
trying severity of a N.S.W. summer.. Bile Beans
for Biliousness are the very best medicine that can
be taken for this purpose, as they cleanse and
regulate the liver, an organ to which may be traced
nearly all the minor ailments, so many people suf-
fer from. If the liver is not in thorough working
order, the blood is impure, the circulation slug-
gish, the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed,
and the complexion sallow. The consequence is
that there is a lack of energy, and the sufferer be-
comes a victim of “ that tired feeling.” To be out
of sorts this hot weather is most trying, as many
people know. Be warned, then, in time ; take
Bile Beans for Biliousness NOW, and they will
put you in a condition that will withstand the
most severe heat of the coming season. A beauti-
ful piece of musio, entitled the “ Bile Bean
March,” will be sent post free on application.
Send your name and address to 39 Pitt-street,
Sydney, and mention this paper.
Solomon Grundy Reversed.
Solomon Grundy,
Born on Monday,
Christened on Tuesday,
Fell sick on Wednesday,
Much worse on Thursday,
Took Bile Beans on Friday,
All right on Saturday;
And glad is the heart
Of Solomon Grundy.
Four Barrels of Gold.
Once a man of the laboring class who had often
wished to be rich was offered all the money he
wished for if he would accept, without a murmur,
the troubles and anxieties that wealth usually
brings. Gladly the man accepted, and the gold
was delivered to him in four great barrels. He
lived the life of a prince for a few months, and
then the late hours and high living generally
began to tell, and his liver got out of order. To
make a long story short he got worse and worse,
until at last he had spent all his money in a fruit-
less search tor health. This, of course, was before
Bile Beans for Biliousness were discovered. Mr. M.
A. Roberts, of St. Vincent-street, Port Adelaide,
has a different story to tell. He says “ Some
seven or eight years ago I had my first attack of
biliousness. From that time for the next year or
two I had intermittent attacks of biliousness until
about four or five years ago, when my appetite
almost completely failed me. I removed from
Adelaide, where I had been working, to the
Port, but change was no benefit. I saw doctors,
and used many advertised ‘ remedies,’ giving
them fair trials, in the hope that they
would afford relief, but they were of no avail
whatever. During last November I was forced
to take a holiday, and for a time I felt a little
better for it, but not for long. The sickness re-
turned, and I felt utterly unfit for work. One
day a customer dropped in, and on being told
what was wrong, he immediately recommended
me to try Bile Beans for Biliousness. I was ready
to try anything, and at once obtained a box. I
can honestly say that not one week had elapsed
before I was able to enjoy my meals, a thing, as I
have said before, which had been impossible for
years. I have not had an attack of biliousness
since I started with the remedy, and I shall be
only too pleased to tell anyone who cares to know
how I suffered and how I was cured by Bile
Beans.”
This remedy will keep you in excellent health,
a state that is really worth more than four
hundred barrels of gold.
A Hetton Miner’s Gratitude.
CURED OF LIVER TROUBLES AND
INDIGESTION.
HIS APPRECIATION OF BILE BEANS
FOR BILIOUSNESS.
“ I have never felt better for years,” remarked
Mr. John Perry, a. well-known miner employed at
the Hetton Colliery, when waited upon at his
home in Albert-street, Wickham, recently by a
Newcastle Herald reporter, in reference to his
alleged recovery by the use of Bile Beans for
Biliousness. “Goodness knows,” said he, “I
have suffered enough in my time, and I am not so
ungrateful as to refuse to state publicly that which
might be of benefit to others who may be suffering
as I have suffered.”
Mr. Perry is a native of the Newcastle district,
having been bom at Lambton in 1867. For years
he resided at the Glebe, Merewether, where his
parents are still residing. Latterly he had heard
of many people who had been permanently re-
lieved by using the beans, and he was advised to
try them. He mentioned to the reporter the
names of friends of his who had been cured, but
for the present it will suffice to relate Mr. Perry’s
own case. “I have suffered,” he said, “more
than anyone imagines, though generally able to
continue at work. For years I had a bad liver,
and the doctors seemed unable to afford me any
permanent relief. Then I became a martyr to
indigestion, which at times caused me great pain,
first in the chest and then at the back under the
shoulder. While at work I often felt, intense
agony. It became almost impossible for me to
stoop to drive a drill.
“ In latter years I became a victim to piles, and
I suffered greatly from constipation. Nothing I
took seemed
to do me, any
real good. I
tried various
patent medi-
cines after
the doctors
had failed,
and still I
could not im-
prove in
health. Even-
tually I be-
came so dis-
tressed that I
could not eat
my meals
with any
relish, and I
passed many
a miserable
night for the
want of sleep.
When I got
up in the
mornings, even when I had managed to get a fair
night’s sleep, I felt tired and irritable, and I really
did not know what was going to become of me.
My stomach seemed to be quite out of order. I
had always a nasty taste in my mouth, and I suf-
fered frequently from a dizziness in the head,
which made my sight quite dim.”
“And you say,” queried the reporter, that,
after the doctors and patent medicines had failed,
the Bile Beans have done you good ? ”
“Yes ; as I told you, I feel as well now as ever
I did. I can eat and sleep splendidly, and my
system is quite regular. The internal trouble,
whioh made my life a misery, has also disap-
How did you come to take Bile Beans ? ”
’* My moth-
er read about
them, and, at
her advice, I (
bought a box
at Messrs.
Hart and Fir-
kins, in Hun-
ter-street.”
“ How soon,
then, did you (
experience re-
lief ? ”
“My sys-
tem began to
change after
the first four
doses, and
when I had
been taking
them but a
short time I
felt that I had
been cured.
I would not be
without them
now if I had
to spend my
last shilling. They have done more for me, at a
cost of a few shillings altogether, than all the
doctors, upon whom I have spent pounds. It is
a pleasure for me to work now, and I shall ever be
grateful for what the Bile Beans have done for
me."
Progress in Science.
Scientists tells us that in this nineteenth cen-
tury of ours about the greatest strides made in
the discovery world have been in medicine. We
have to record a discovery by an American medi-
cal man of a certain vegetable substance that has
the effect on the digestive organs of Nature's
own animal bile. This discovery is revolutionising
all the present methods of treatment for digestive
ailments. The old theory of pepsin, bismuth,
starving, purging, etc., etc., is to be done away
with. This great vegetable substance is com-
pounded with other ingredients to facilitate the
working, and to-day this remedy can be pur-
chased the world over and in Australia under the
name of Bile Beans for Biliousness. This great
remedy possesses the peculiar properties of acting
on the bowels without purging or otherwise
weakening the patient. This is because the sub-
stance that relaxes the bowels has about the same
action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are purely
vegetable, and a course of them will probably suc-
cessfully oust the most chronic cases of Piles, In-
digestion, Headache, Biliouness, Female Ail-
ments, Debility, Constipation, and a host of other
ailments that owe their origin to defective bile
flow,, assimilation, and poor digestion. These
Beans are placed on the market in a form that
anyone can take them without medical super-
vision ; and as the price is so very low, there are
few homes that cannot afford to always have a box
on the shelf for emergency. Australian Depot,
39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian Agents, Rocke
Tompsitt & Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A.
Agents, F. H. Faulding & Co., King William-
street, Adelaide ; W.A. Agents, F. H. Faulding
& Co., Perth ; Queensland Agents, S. Hoffnung
& Co., Brisbane.


TIME!!! TIME!!!
WHAT TIME? HIGH TIME—to BUY the BEST!
BREAKFAST TIME—
GRANUMA, King of Porridge
Foods.
LUNCH TIME
GOLDENIA, Best Ceylon Tea in
the World.
DINNER TIME—A Wee Drappie o’t
White Heather Whisky.
l'ure, Mellow, and Matured. "
ALL THE TIME— -
BILLY TEA is BEST!
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Sydney & Brisbane
Sole Agents and Proprietors. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine, Art A uctioneers,
Auction Room'. 324 George Street, Sydney*
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country,, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Jgp™ Sales Ilel<i at the A action Foams.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Wai.tkk I)u\i>lhy & Co., ;>24 George-st,
POLITICAL
POINTS
But for the reiterated persuasions of
Parkes, B. R. Wise, it is said, would have at an
early stage formally and publicly renounced poli-
tics for the rest of his life.
There are at present four parties in Q.
Leg. Assembly: the gang in possession, the
Labor-party, Drake’s faction of seven, and Sims’
crowd. Sims’ party consists of Sim and himself.
Premier Reid loudly boasted, on the s.s.
Tomki, that he had “got a wire from Young
saying, if I go up” (to interfere in the Macleay
election), “it’s a certainty.” Another dead bird
in the soup.
Whispered that when P. O. Fysh goes
to Eng. as Tasmanian Agent-General, Attorney-
General Urquhart (an ex-bank manager) will be
Treasurer, and M. J. Clarke or C. D. Hoggins
Attorney-General. Urquhart knows more about
ledgers than law-books.
At the close of ’97 Queensland’s alien
population totalled thusly Polynesians, 8344 ;
Japs, 2675; Chinese, 7795; Javanese, 476; other
Asiatics, 913. Total alien population, 20,203.
These are the official figures, but the data are very
imperfect. The Jap. is increasing by leaps and
bounds.
“Eko”: Would it not be a good idea to
give our Federal Capital a name that will keep
green some memories of the original possessors of
our land? I suggest three : Dimboola—the ab-
original name for Hades : Kumenavadrynke—an
invitation to partake of hospitality ; Bludee—a
term of endearment.
The recent Central Queensland “ wet-
sheep ” case furnishes a valuable object-lesson to
strikers. The men—who had refused to shear
sheep which they considered too wet —acted
throughout as one, and carefully avoided playing
into the enemy’s hands by the slightest disorder—
with the result that the charges were promptly
dismissed.
Interesting to note that it was Holder
(who joined Kingston as the Freetrade-Conserva-
tive ballast), to whom, as Treasurer, the work of
pushing the State Insurance Bill through S.A.
Assembly fell. Holder, who has broadened
gradually, submitted the scheme, not as an admir-
able piece of public policy, but just as an admir-
able piece of business
N.S.W. State Labor-Bureau’s annual re-
port shows fewer enrolments—and, therefore, “ a
reduction in the number of unemployed,” under
the glorious system of Freetrade, of course. But
more likely it shows an indisposition to waste
time in enrolling at a bureau whose highest
achievement in the way of work-finding is to send
men scrub-cutting, sand-shifting, and performing
less or more unnecessary work in districts where
needy Ministers are in want of votes.
The most as-
tounding news which
has come from
Queensland for a
long, long while is
to the effect that the
old Q.N. Bank direc-
tors will actually
start to make some
kind of a show of
being prosecuted to-
wards the end of
next month. The
date of the acquittal
isn’t fixed. Ex-Pre-
mier Nelson the
man who declared in
'93 that he and an-
other Minister had
made a thorough ex-
amination of the
cronkbank and found
it quite sound- will
probably be under-
stood to have an
intense desire to get
into the box and ex-
plain all about his
little part in the
drama, but he will
most likely be re-
strained on a techni-
cal point. AndM‘ll-
- who wa s
coming furiously out
here a year ago to
clear his character
and show the spot-
less purity of his
Q.N.B. overdraft, is
still in Europe, and
can’t possibly arrive
in time, much as he
wants to be here, because he absolutely refuses to
start at all. And Drury continues to be com-
fortably dead, and Belloeky Palmer is defunct, so
the case starts on one, eg, so to speak, and that
leg is gone at the knee.
The “roads-and-culverts” members in N.S.
Wales are a mere circumstance compared to
their northern neighbors. The railways demanded
by Q. M’s.L.A. total 21; cost of constructing
same, upwards of 25 millions. Even Joey Bell,
staunch member for dismal Dal by, threatens to
“ go over ” next session if his little branch line is
not forthwith constructed.
From the report of a recent speech by
Westralian Premier John Forrest
They wanted their people to be full of faith and hope
and energy, and there would be no need for fear with the
judicious expenditure of borrowed capital they would
make the country self-supporting. He said to them,
'* Don’t be afraid.”
In other words, by plenty of judicious drinking
the country is to get sober.
N.S.W. Labor-member Griffith is reported
to have received some damage on the nose and
elsewhere while trying to suppress Barton at
Macleay in the interests of ex-Pumpkin Minister
Sniith. Griffith’s anxiety to risk everything, even
his nose, on behalf of the Ministry of lawyers
which consistently refused his fellow - worker,
Suffield, the inquiry to which he was legally en-
titled, is pathetic.
From Q. Hansard :—“ It has been stated
that Hugh Nelson was a great financier. A
gentleman who could step from this side of the
House on to the Treasury Benches, remain there
eight years, go to the Jubilee celebrations, get all*
the letters in the alphabet tacked on to his name,
and then cotne back again and drop at once into a
billet of =£looo per annum, is certainly a financier,
if ever there was one.’’
Reid, Carruthers, and Want have been
specially exercised of late endeavoring to make
some insertion in the Federal Bill which will
commit the Commonwealth to Freetrade. In
1890, Carruthers solemnly pledged himself to re-
sist any general Australian policy which would
protect against England, and Reid and Want
have lately got on the same line, and are anxious
to make their position effective.
There is much sectarian bitterness at the
bottom of the political temperance movement in
Australia. The teetotal bosses are equally pro-
minent in the two L.O.L.’s (Orange Lodge and
Local Option). The Orangeman believes that the
Irish followers of the Pope write their names larger
on hotel signs, and that shutting the pubs, would
diminish the revenues of the Holy See. He is
thus agin the drink in pubs., but has a jar of his
own.
Premier Byrnes : “ The Government has
no intention of departing from the settled policy
of this country—that is, the construction of rail-
ways by the State. ... I do not say that there are
not some cases ivhere railways might be constructed
by private persons to the advantage possibly of the
whole community .” The last sentence will no
doubt be properly appreciated by the big syndi-
cate, now all but ready in Q. to put in its judicious
claim.
The N.S.W. Ministry, through Minister
Hogue, talks of introducing a Bill to make State
primary education free, but characteristically
defers the topic till next session. There is plenty
of time in this session to carry the Bill, if the
Government were seriously bent on the business.
The object in view is to take the wind out of the
sails of the Opposition, which body, if it obtains
power, will, it is well understood, go for such a
Bill without delay.
Understood that Q. Premier Byrnes, who,
at date of writing, The Bulletin regrets to hear
is very ill with bronchial pneumonia following
on measles, desires to hasten a dissolution. Should
he return with a faithful majority, he will pro-
bably drop one or two of his objectionable col-
leagues. Minister Dalrymple, who is mainly
ebullient polemics, will no doubt be the first to
fall. And his resurrection will never be recorded
in mundane annals.
“GONE FURTHER OUT.”—A sketch near Mitchell, Q.
Parry-Okeden, of Q. police, lifts up his
voice in protest against members of the “ Foorce ”
employing outside influence to block or obtain
gain promotions, &c. System is
“ demoralising,’ says Parry-O. No doubt it is—
but it must be remembered the evil filters down
from the superior ranks. What is the good of
telling Tom, Dick or Harry in the Civil Service
that he mustn’t make use of outside “ influence ”
to advance himself when he knows that his official
superiors are all busy at the game on every pos-
sible opportunity ? The juggling going on in the
Upper Ranks of Q. Civil Service at present is
a fine object-lesson to all the underlings and an
excellent antidote to Parry-Okeden’s homily.
The £21,000 courthouse at Mt. Victoria,
in Hartley electorate, is pointed to by N.S.W.
Mines Minister Cook’s admirers as a clinching
proof of his abilities as a statesman. “He got
us that!’’ they say. “No other man could have
got us more than a £lO,OOO courthouse for such a
small place! ”
WITHIN AN ACE OF THE DOUBLE.
FATHER MULDOON: “ Good day, Pat, and how's
the wife? Twins?”
O’RAFFERTY: “No; but, by hivins, we wint within
wan of it, yer riverince! ”
N.S. Wales lottery law or Art Unions Act
is close on 50 years old, and morally as rickety and
anomalous as a measure can well be. Leg. Coun-
cillor Trickett attempted to modernise it a few
nights ago, but was badly beaten in a small House.
You can continue, therefore, to run a lottery under
certain conditions, where the prizes are works of
art, but cannot sell tickets if the works be described
or describable as “ of use or ornament.”
Barrister Drake, who for five years has
acted as nurse and tutor to Q. Parliamentary
Labor-party, has now publicly quitted his erst-
while allies. A few days ago he announced
his election as leaderof the “ Independent-party.”
At present his Parliamentary army consists of
two field-marshals, three full privates, and one
recruit. He hopes to enlist a fair number of
deserters from the Govt, and Labor parties ere
Parliament is dissolved.
Some liquor-reformers favor “time,”others
cash-compensation, for publicans abolished by law.
In the case of the slave-owners, there was both
cash and time. The owners received 46 per cent,
of the market-value of the slaves in hard cash, and
then the slaves were bound for a further period of
six years. Thus in Honduras, in 1834, a slave
was worth .£l2O. When he was emancipated the
owner got £53 cash down, and the service of the
slave was continued to him for six years longer.
At then current rate of wages, the latter service
was worth between £6O and £7O.
This is how they work matters in Banana-
land. An electoral claim was duly signed in a
certain Western electorate by a local Justice, but,
unfortunately, the magic letters J.P. after the
name were omitted. When the electoral list came
before the Bench for revision, the J.P. who had
committed the lapse was in evidence, and promptly
threw out the claim he himself had signed, wit-
nessed, and invalidated. (According to Electoral
Act, a mere informality does not invalidate a
claim.) Official utterance thereupon: “Govt,
carefully refrains from interfering with the local
Benches.”
Ex-Postmaster-General Cook’s boast of
some months ago that the N.S.W. Post and Tele-
graph Department had become a paying concern
is proved by the official State Statistics to be mere
bluff, as usual. At the time Cook spoke, the last
complete year was that up to June 1897, and for
that year the loss was £70,368. But a profit of
over £25,000 is shown by omitting payments made
by other departments on behalf of the P.O. and
leaving out all the interest on money borroived for
construction purposes. What a profit the railways
would show if all the interest on borrowed money
was similarly omitted in their case !
Proposed in Tas. Parliament recently to
introduce the M.L. clause providing that a voter’s
name stays on the electoral roll until he neglects
to vote. Whereupon Dan. Burke, M.P. for
Cressy, upended himself to yell, “ We want none
av yer New Zailand fads—Tasmania wants to
legislate for herself in her own way ; we don’t
want any new things in this colony!” Just so,
remarks a local scribe :
The triumphs of this Maoriland
Won’t lead Tas. by the aose ;
We want no prosperous flowery-land—
Tas. only wants old clothes !
Again the Q electoral laws ! Brisbane
resident, who had lived in the one house many
years, was recently served with a notice telling
him he had changed his residence. (Fact was, a
new house had gone up on the next allotment,
and, consequently, altered street numbers).
Next week, after he had explained mat-
ters, a further official note informed him he was
dead. Having essayed to disprove this to the
best of his ability, he returned home, and two
days after got another notice informing him he
was not living in his own house, and asking him
to say where he was living.
The Westralian Assembly was counted out
the other day. The members were unanimously
absent, watching- two legislators bash and pummel
each otln-r at the back of Parliament House, and
Gabriel's trumpet wouldn’t have raised a quorum
just then.
Mainly owing to the humanitarian persis-
tency of Attorney-General Urqutiart, the Wages
Attachment Bill, abolishing garnishee for
waves or salary, is likely to become law
in Tas. The measure has passed the
Assembly on three occasions, but the
size of the latest majority is likely
to influence the House of Refuse
in its favor. How the garnishee
system—-which was never in-
tended to apply to wages-—is
worked in Tasmania is dis-
closed by a statement in
Parliament that in one
township (Zeehan) 95
garnishee orders on
wages were issued in
one month !
Barton’s election
at Maeleay by above
300 majority over
Pumpkin Smith is a
heavy blow to the
Reid Mi nistr y.
Lvne will now al-
most certainly be
superseded as Oppo-
sition leader, and
Ly n e’s mcapaci ty
was Reid’s oppor-
tunity. Moreover,
the Reid crowd, by
putting up Vege-
table Smith and
sending the Pre -
mier and Minister
of Works to fight
for him, made the
election a personal
matter, and has been
personally 1 icked
with grievous loss
of prestige. A
Ministry which only
holds its precarious billet
. . b y a majority of four can’t stand
such shocks.
The Bulletin is tired—tired—deadly
tired of the sympathy which the N.S.W. papers
expend on Dreyfus, convicted on hardly a shadow
of evidence, 15,000 miles away ; and their wrath
at the injustice done to him. Suffield, right at
their doors, was convicted as illegally as Dreyfus,
and on even less evidence. The N.S.W. Ministry’s
refusal to give Suffield a re hearing is quite as
shameless as the French Ministry’s savage jump-
ing on Dreyfus to make him fit into his living
grave. And the row which the N.S.W. Press so
unanimously expends on Dreyfus,' who is beyond
its help, would have got Suffield out of his grave
twice over.
Party loyalty is the sum total of the politi-
cal virtues of two-thirds of the present N.S.W.
legislators. At the recent censure-vote it was the
first and last letter of the alphabet of duty.
“ Party loyalty,” says Herbert Spencer, writing of
English politics, “ has come to be a fancied virtue
to which the real virtue of veracity is sacrificed.”
More than veracity is sacrificed in N.S.W. Assem-
bly ; in many eases party loyalty has killed the
power of coherent or intelligent thinking. Mem-
bers hear the blast of their leader, and obey with-
out understanding. The independent member is
often a rampant fraud, but the loyal party-man is
as often a brain-dead automaton.
Premier Reid’s loud allegation before the
Macleay election that Barton, because he held a
paid billet as arbitrator in a case wherein the
N.S.W. Govt, was one of the parties, couldn’t sit
in the Assembly even if elected (this although
Barton had renounced all further payment), was
a strange and fish-like election wile. Supposing
Reid believed bis own statement, the obvious
course for so politic a gentleman was to lie low
and wait. If Smith was elected, well and good.
If Smith wasn’t elected, then the process of un-
seating Barton could begin. But if Reid didn’t
believe that Barton was ineligible for an Assem-
bly seat, then the obvious course was to whoop
about his alleged disability on the chance of per-
suading some electors that it wasn’t worth while
voting for a than who couldn’t take his seat, any-
how. And Reid whooped something tremendous.
Campbell, M.L.C. of the Victorian House
of 48 Rich Landlords, has brought a good-sized
storm about his copious red ear. Campbell de-
clared : (1) that the fallen women of Melbourne
all wanted the, suffrage, whic h argued a consider-
able knowledge of the fallen Tottie on Campbell’s
part; (2) that he sent round a detective to find
out why ; (3) that the detective reported that the
Totties wanted the vote because “ they often had
M’sP. under their thumbs,” and the possession of
a vote would give them double power over these
M’sP.—Heaven only knows how. Campbell urged
the 48 Rich Landlords to reject woman suffrage
because of these alleged facts—and they did. Now
many peop’e write asking the name of the alleged
detective who supplied this remarkable informa-
tion so that h<> may be invited to give further
details. And if there ever was any detective,
which nobody believes, Campbell might certainly
produce him. But he doesn’t. Will some Vic.
M.L.C. move for a Commission to interrogate
Campbell, and his alleged detective, and his
alleged Tottie, and the other parties concerned ?
Henry Weenan, lately sentenced for fraud
upon Vic. Customs, has been taken to the lunatio
asylum. Weenan is a capmaker, and is now as.
mad as the proverbial hatter. A genuine case.
When he was being placed in the police-van, he
tried to Lite the driver, under the impression that
he was Christie, the Customs ’tec. There is, there-
fore, some method in the poor devil’s madness.


TO THE
WOOLGrEOWEES ..
OF
New South Wales & Queensland.
♦ :
Your attention has recently been directed to an agitation in Sydney regarding the
charges for selling wool in this market, and as we have deemed it necessary to adopt a
certain policy, we think it well to acquaint you with the reasons which have compelled us,
in the interests of wool-selling in this market, to differ from the decision of a majority of
the Wool-selling Brokers’ Association.
1. The Co-Operative Company, when it commenced business, gave as a reason for its existence that the only fair and
reasonable charge for selling' wool was a consolidated rate of 3 per cent., without any delivery charge to the
buyer.
2. We now assume that the Co-Operative Company, having discovered that it could not reasonably expect to continue
in business if it charged that rate of commission alone, has, in combination with a certain section of the Syd-
ney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association, agreed to increase its charge by Is. 6d. per bale to you as growers, and
in addition thereto to make a delivery charge of Is. 6d. per bale to the buyer, and by so doing has departed
from the line on which it sought the support of wool-growers.
3. The Co-operative Company, by now agreeing to this new scale of charges, will have great difficulty in proving that
it is acting solely in the interests of Wool growers of New South Wales and Queensland, seeing that it now
directly increases the charges by Is. 6d. per bale to those who have supported it.
4. Our chief reason for dissenting from the amended charges which the new combination has decided to institute is
that they place an unnecessary burden of Is. 6d. per bale on the Grower, whose interests it is our duty to con-
serve. We, therefore, claim the support of all Wool-growers in our opposition to this uncalled-for additional
charge.
5. In order that there may be no misunderstanding as to our scale of charges, we have to state that we have decided
to sell, for small and large growers alike, at a consolidated rate of 3 per cent, only ; charging to the buyer
one-eighth of a penny per 11). on wools realising 3fd. per lb. and over, as heretofore, and reducing the charge
to Is. 6d. per bale below that value.
We app»al with confidence to the Growers of New South Wales and Queensland to support us in
our action, feeling satisfied that the course we are following is that which will most truly conserve
their interests, and increase the importance of Sydney as a market for the sale of wool.
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Company,
Limited.
Dalgety and Company, Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Limited.
m
SSS&'iy-iKISw fasf I
! ffißfl
*;
swr-
dW
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : “ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming l ,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns ?”
Second Bear : “ No ! Kodaks ! ”
Australian Depots
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER SROUS€
, PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Keep Yotir Ekisipess >0 Yotir Ov/q Hapds.
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE OF
Tbc Storekeepers’ COUPON..
REGISTER.
IT CONCENTRATES your CASH BUSI-
NESS by giving’ special inducements to your
Customers to REOULARLY Purchase at vour
Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and NUMBERED
PRINTED COUPON with every transaction,
which is a S I'ATEMENT of the transaction, a
RECEIPT for the MONEY PAID, and which
at the same time bears your Advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
The national Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD/oFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 G-EORGE BYDIXTEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. F.O. BOX, 1035.
s\
m
99
\£2
n
A
t
*
ft
*
ft**
*
i
*
ft
«
\v\
ft
m
%
\\v
§!
£
I
ft
\w
\\\!
V is
INB OA R
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during th*
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trencbard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA
.. IN 28! DAYS ..
The above illustration depicts A. MACDONALD’S fine ride across the conti-
nent, which he has just completed, having ridden from ocean to ocean in
28tj days, or 341 days better than the previous record. This marvellous feat
was accomplished on
an ordinary pair
of Roadster
Dun igp. Tyres
I
and Dunlop-Welch Rims
■affording another instance of THE RELIABILITY AND DURABILITY
■of this speedy combination. This ride has now been accomplished Three Times
firstly by Murif in 73 days, then by Coleman in 63 days, and lastly by Mac-
donald in 28| days ; all being ridden on the tyres that were first in 1888, and
foremost ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. £td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
•and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
R.S.W. PM de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Laugh White Marble Building),
' 7 £
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PBJrt MOISTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
;.c
? u !l J 9 6000 sQNfij
m
35/iiOaviM • ■'
_ - v - : • a
■ .'. •WJs 3 I*2
as
• •■
4i\
V w < SV W .'<•:•«#.
•i- IWi.'VMr' •• -
UI9OC * HBEDSy C9191P11
Of QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
Capital: £60.000 in £1 Stares.
Payable 2/6 per Share on Application and 2/6 on
Allotment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. W. ALLAN, M.L.C.
JDE BURGH PERSSE, Esq. (Director Royal
Bank of Queensland Ltd.)
A. J. CARTER, Esq. (President Brisbane Cham-
ber of Camtnerce)
A. C. SANDEMAN, Esq. (Aplin Brown and
Crawshay Ltd.)
R. NEWTON, Esq. (R. Newton and Co.)
OBJECTS:
Sale of Wool and Produce, &c.,in
Queensland.
Prospectus on Application to
S. liAHAEB, Secretary,
Courier Buildings, BRISBANE.
David
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING "SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OP —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
iraham »$ Co.,
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT ; TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cel ular' Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 &' 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
V* TrCistccs, CxeqCaiorS,
AND
&gsOCy Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ...£6,073,603
Insolvency Department,»Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Kegistered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. £2,074,801 lOs.
Directors:
Hon. Janies Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornlev.
M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Si.shop sr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosfonl with agency at Wvong), New-
castle; with Brandies throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mi.iual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.0.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,450.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. JAd. of London.
\ Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
i Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, elc.
w M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peariey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
i- ARQUHAR. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUT ERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ;‘M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shan assy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
FRINGES,
tfdtural Curly, from 3/C each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS,
worked up, peroz.
we are the eheapestin
tralla for all Hair Work.
Semi Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzglf,
110 W i lli a m Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List-
Proippt attention given to Country Oiam*
1 Gold Hatch for ladies free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE •
T*E N*W W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Lar ies Solid Gold IVafcches (Open Face or
Hunter). Jewelled Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. List Price, ±'s 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
worn the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Real Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SIDNEY.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE',
GEELONG |
PORTLAND I
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2 p.m.
-Leura, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Wednesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
POUT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, Oot. 8, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Wednesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Wednesday, Oct. 12, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE i r
MARYBOROUGH V]
ROCKHAMPTON i ]
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Oct. 4, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Porta received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FAKES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
* by the
Australian & American Koute
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
Nov. 16
| Dec. 14
‘January 11
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time curds, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam B'iip Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, Geoige Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND j a
Cr “ VIA ~
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
I DESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing*Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
The |ank o? gjorth Qyeensiand
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £7OO 000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695..
Code— Mokeing & Neat,, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
OlELrts:© & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SH AR E BROKE RS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliot/fc’ss
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN
ELLIOTT &
CO
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
MAI R
Q_o
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2,6, Jewel:
2,6 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guarantee
12 months. \
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated worl
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessar
for the execution of high-class workmanship, request
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to hiij', b
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address :654 CeAr»-«
street, Sydney. 7 °
Shipping.
the Adelaide STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, (from Sydney) 1
Friday, Sept. 30.
S.S. Allinga (from Sydney)
Friday, October 7.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Friday, Sept. 30.
S.S. Allinga (from Sydney)
Friday, October 7.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday,
October 1.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
October 8.
Best <& Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I.td., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will'
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching- at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 166 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker \ go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POR'I'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates,
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
IMliuraith, fl|‘[-acharn * |Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS*
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO'.. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Coffins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYIk
Passengers are carried: by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to. the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894. to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, .via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Leave
Steamer. Tons
Leave
Com-
Sydney,
mander.
Noon.
Leave
Mel- j Ade-
bourne. ! laide.
5048 F. Weyer
6288|H. Walter
. 10531jM. Eichel
10525 Reimkasten
10566|Schu'kmann
10769|A. Richter
Oct. 5 Oct.
Nov. 2 ; Nov.
Nov. 30 Dec.
Dec.
Jan. 25 Jan.
Feb. 22 Feb.
_ _ I
11 Oct.
8 Nov.
6 Dec.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. 8. N. C
OY.
■ TD.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKIIAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Coolctown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl— Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled. f
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents 1


A Silver Watch
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN„ WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following' PUZZLE :
| T*E T*M * F* R e*E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“ The Manager English Watch Co. —Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
iV. Solid. Silver Watch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY 1
Can you read this :
I W*A * S f| T* E~
M
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : —That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LAHSSTDN, M.R.C.S., Enq.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d. ; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
YVM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCJH. 1
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MOX&SE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
Ladies.— Call and
see our OH HAP
MACH INKS* from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
3. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the G-overnor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOM AH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office:
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HOTTER ST., SYDNEY.
CASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S GUBEBS CIGARETTES. Astbma.
S AVAR’S COG A WSNE. Restorative.
SAVARESSt’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from th.e,- o ' 3 -'
jections to all Gelatine Capsules:
CAPSULES
Savaresse's Capsules are'not made of Gelatine.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is.: per Post Is. 3d.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
KONJSOII
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of al
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Pi'ices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS:
iDO'xoiraioiLaSQixr & 00.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1 1- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cits' ard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERI>uOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Dr. TARRANT,
F.8.0.5.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.RC.P.E.,
m *
Is a leg-ally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
Hew South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
Hew Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
Is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few' diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
3XT q M;a,u or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations ami Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced 3 heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dasa.gerou.s Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak. Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation” or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the month during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough. Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
A. 13 so 1 nt ely ISTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism,! Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s'Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Cough-,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that 'your' malady may he cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT S Private’Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurse-, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—.
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar HVT one.
OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMIbI HERE. But, as many new arrivals
nave lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
tbe production of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
How’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
| the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any otfier medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and laver.
See what a Medical G-entleman says •
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them mo it
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, 11 KNRV
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’^
.==— Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chrome
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buehii on the human frame, is more effectual on ail
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Ski i
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in oveidoses. Itlias a remarkable influence on th ■
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting i
when delang d. a d restores healthy evacuations in cas 'i
of habi trial costiv i■ n ers.
D. ECKSTIIOM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters .
most’ valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening ; a stimula d, to the liver, assisting* digi s
lion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
CfTUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
O STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from tbe same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more eas ■
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water .makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons sutiering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’f WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suliering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all tbe purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.


Th® 100-in ilea road-race for the championship
of Victoria was won by A. J. Middleton on a “ Swift.’’
It is noteworthy that four of the first six rode “ Swifts ”*
* * * *
The Cuca Cup was won by Jack Green on a
Swift and Dunlop tyres.*
* * * *
Macdonald, the overland cyclist, has averaged
over 65 miles a day forborne 30 days on Dunlop tyres?*
At Mt. Gambler, S. A., on the 14th inst., George
Hillyer, in his first attempt at racing, landed first in the
25-mile road race from a field of 16 starters. He rode a
Massey Harris wheel.*
..-A*. P ar kes (IS.S.W.) cycling carnival on the
15th inst., Mutton ran first in the 5-mile scratch, and
second in the 2-mile wheel race, with Brooke, another
Massey Harris candidate, third.*
At Mitiamo, Yic., George M‘Rae did the hat-
trick, winning the 1-mile open, the Hayanami handicap
2-miles, and the 3-mile Dunlop plate. Not a bad winter
week a record for the easy-running jigger.*
On Aug. 26, Sydney Labor Bureau posted
a notice that about 40 elderly men were required
Jolly "and a PPbed during the morning.
A woman suicided in Adelaide last week
because, poor soul, her weekly payments of 2s. 6d.
for a sewing-machine had got a month in arrear
and she saw no chance of catching up.
Arthur Griffith (M.L.A.), International
Patents Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Patents secured, private works and copyrights
registered in all parts of the world.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
-oharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
Sydney 1 * 07 fr ° m th ® depot ’ 257 Ge orge-street,
Prernier Reid’s reputation as “ the lucki-
est politician ” played him false when NSW
Assembly was counted-out last Thursday. Noth'-
mg could have been more unfortunate for the
Ministry, and it was simply the outcome of a
chain of singular coincidences. One enthusiastic
follower of Barton describes it as “ the finger of
Providence ; for such a political accident could not
-nave been planned by human hands.”
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Eight - Hour Demonstration
Holiday.
MONDAY, 3rd OCTOBER, 1898.
Holiday excursion tickets win
be issued from Sydney to all stations and
from all stations to Sydney commencing l with the
day trains leaving terminal stations on FRIDAY,
30th September, and thereafter by all trains
until MONDAY, 3rd October, available for re-
turn until MONDAY, 10th October, 1898.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS.—In addi-
tion to the Cheap Excursion Tickets ordinarily
issued on FRIDAYS, SATURDAYS, and SUN-
DAYS, similar tickets at 2d. per mile first-class
return (minimum Is.) and Id. per mile second-class
return (minimum 9d.) will be issued at Sydney and
Metropolitan Suburban stations to stations out-
side the Metropolitan Suburban area by the under-
mentioned trains, available for return by any train
except the MELBOURNE EXPRESS and
NORTHERN and WESTERN MAIL trains up
to and including MONDAY, 10th October, 1898,
viz. :
FRIDAY, 30th September : 4,50 p.m. to Mt.
Victoria.
SATURDAY, Ist October: 1.55 p.m. to
Nowra ; 1.15 p.m. to Newcastle.
MONDAY, 3rd October : 7.30 a.m. to Stan-
well Park, Wollongong and stations beyond as far
as Nowra ; 7.38 a.m. to Wollongong ; 8.0 a.m. to
Goulburn ; 8.10a.m. to Mt. Victoria; 8.20a.m.
to Mt. Victoria and Eskbank ; 8.5 a.m. (7.50 a.m.
from Milson’s Point) to Gosford.
The Cheap Excursion Tickets ordinarily issued
at Sydney and Suburban stations on FRIDAY,
SATURDAY, and SUNDAY, 23rd, 24th, and
25th September, as well as those issued to Sydney
at Awaba, West Maitland, Morpeth, and inter-
mediate stations on FRIDAY and SATURDAY,
23rd and 24th September, will also be available
for return until TUESDAY, 4th October.
HAWKESBURY RIVER EXCURSIONS.—
Cheap Excursion Tickets to the Hawkesbury at
ss. 6d. first-class and 3s. fid. second-class, including
trip on the steamer General Gordon, will be issued
by trains leaving Sydney at 9.10 a.m. and Mil-
son’s Point at 8.55 a.m. on MONDAY, 3rd Octo-
ber, available for return on day of issue only by
special train leaving Hawkesbury at 4.20. p.m.
Tickets at specially low rates will be issued from
Sydney and Illawarra Suburban stations to
National Park, Sutherland and Como on MON-
DAY, 3rd October at Is. fid. first-class and Is.
second-class available on day of issue only.
c
LOSING OF THE GOOD SHEDS AND
CENTRAL BOOKING OFFICE.
On MONDAY, 3rd October, the Redfern and
Alexandria Goods Sheds will be closed, but the
Goods Sheds at Darling Harbor will be open until
10.0 a.m. for the delivery of perishable traffic.
All other Goods Sheds within the limits of the
County of Cumberland—viz., to Penrith, Picton,
Hawkesbury, and Waterfall inclusive, also the
Police District of Berrima, i.e., Mittagong, Bow-
ral, and Moss Vale—will be closed except for the
receipt and delivery of perishable traffic. Goods
Sheds at other places outside these limits will be
kept open as usual.
The Central Booking Office will be open until
10.0 a.m. for the sale of tickets and delivery of
perishable parcels only.
Caledonian Sports at Wollongong.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS TO
WOLLONGONG will be issued at all stations on
the South Coast Line on 3rd October, available
for return until 10th October.
. Handbills and further particulars from all sta-
tion-masters.
By order of the Commissioners,
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
V*- yz-
Tljs AOStraliai) Roads
are strewn with the BLEACHING WRECKS at
ABANDONED CYCLES, but NO
“RED BIRD SPECIALS,” “RED BIRD No. 1,” or
- - - “BLACK BIRDS” - - -
STEEL INDESTRUCTIBLE FRAMES,
Jit will®pay 2 you AN ° H ’ y ° U better Bicycles for less money than Dealer*
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO., Ltd.
. Australasian
Branches :
}
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE,
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON,
{Agents
Everywhere
Agents in Town and Country.
USE THE
in Your Homes.
New Sunlight ” Incandescent Burner*
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
§ Times the power of Ordinary Burner*
Complete, 6s, 6d,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The partisans of Ikey Mo may like to read
the; following figures between Tote arid Tommy betting
They will allow that, irrespective of form, and, say. 10
horses start, it is 9 to 1 against any particular one
winninjr. Those are the mathematical odds, but of
course, weight of money makes books’ prices ; and fl-om
a mathematical the real pointof view—supposititious and
entirely arbitrary chances. In aforesaid field of 10 (again
irrespective of form), each animal has a l-10th chance of
winning; 10 times l-10th is 10-lOths, or 1. If Ikey Mo
chooses to Ax it, as he usually does, that each animal has
only, say, a l-9th chance ; 10 times l-9th is 10-9ths, or
1 11, which means 11 per cent, in Ikey’s favor. If he
chooses to reckon each animal has a 1-ll'th chance, which
he usually doesn’t, 10 times 1-llth is 10-llths, or -909.
which means Ikey has about 10 per cent, against him.
Having gripped the foregoing hard, Ikey’s friends will
please to keep hold of it.
Now, see how the last Metropolitan prices (S.M.
Herald s) pan out. 34 started, and the addition of the
odds conies to 1-46 or 40 per cent, to help poor Ikey to
more diamonds ! Also, it was mathematically 33 to 1
the field ; nobody expected, of course, such odds ; but Ikey
only laid on an average 22J to 1 ! Whereby he had but
a miserable 10) points to assist him towards the jewellery.
This is no isolated, fancy case; almost any race shows
similar results. Out of dozens taken haphazard only one
Selling Plate (January 8, 1898) showed fair betting, and
to even-up that bloomer, in the Park Stakes, same day
Ikey only had mathematically and appropriately Bhixtv
per shunt his way. Of course, the prices taken as a basis
are starting prices, and longer odds could be obtained
earlier in the betting, with the extra chance of a dead ’un
thrown in. Also, in ante-post betting prices rule still
longer, and then scratched-horse chances are added to
those of the dead.
~ N ™’J o °k at the tote’s percentage and compare
it with Ikey s ; also look at the tote’s average and do
likewise. The tote percentage never exceeds 10 per
cent and the then average odds are necessarily
mathematically fair every time. And yet there are
partisans of Ikey still at large! The tote is essentially
the people s machine; if big owners don’t like it thev
have an obvious alternative. The public’s accumulated
dollars and i-sovs. enable the big book to lay big wafers to
the big owner ; and at present there does not seem any
sound reason why the public should continue supplying
the money for the business. 3 “
* * * .
Sydney Hunt Club Steeplechase was run over
the steeple-course, at Randwick, on Saturday It was a
stirring race. As the flag fell the falls began,’ and, before
long, nothing was left, standing but Cardigan II the
favorite. Presently, however, he took it into his heAd to
baulk, and, continuing to baulk with great consistency
ahovved Rubens ridden by Robert Allan, to be remountJd
Mn h T h r C ; by 200 -V ds - Some time later, Harry
Morant (The Breakei) arrived on Bay Lady, and got third
place, and the others were returning at intervals when
the crowd left for home. * a,s wtlen
‘ * * •
The Brighton (Syd.) handic-apper succeeded in
making a handicap to beat the public in the trot last
we-k. Nancy, 20sec. behind, was heavily backed down
to even money, Siren, 2.9 sec. behind, trottino- like a
piece of machinery soon had everything in difficulties
but Cavalier, lOsec. behind, who looked as if he would
hold his advantage to the finish ; but he tired in the last
round, and Siren passed him and added still another to
her long list of wins. Siren, who may safely be looked
upon as the next best of the Van Cleves to Fritz this
Prince Hamid *° Mr ’ Morris ’ s champion!
*'* • •
• At i. Wa ! l '?u n , d ’, on Saturday, the Galloway divi-
sion showed that they must command respect from the
hand, mappers, b -'' winning half the races on the card
Howlong, Orden and Arquebus were the successful trio.
Bobadil’s many backers for the Derby must feel
pleased at his running in the Narre Warren Stakes at
S’lem.ngton on Saturday. Bobadil finished easily in front
of Qeorge Frederick, to whom he was conceding half-a-
stone, the l}-nnle being cut out in 2min. 9£sec. 6
* ♦ •
Massinissa’s win at Flemington (Vic ) last
Saturday points plainly to. the real efood chance it must
have in Caulfield Cup. This lightly-weighLd one
heavily backed in Sydney during A.J.C. Spring meeting
and so no cry of forestalling is likely to be heard
* * * .
Sydney trainers are moving to Melb. for the
Spring events: All Sop, Payton, Fielder (with a strong
team of two-year-olds), Gough, Forrester, and Mark
have already shifted across, and others are to
follow. Their teams include some good 'uns, such as The
Chief, The Grafter, Amberite, Cravat, Picture Alemene
S' er,a > Sailor Boy, April, Clarion, Phillip, and certain
S then.selve V s o " ng l ' S Wh ° Sh ° U ' d give a *°° d account of
* * • •
The death of jockey Denny Boase in Adelaide
5 Snan h memorable Goodwood Handicap of
81, when DO D, the winning horse, ridden by Boase
tote receipts. 11 * ° f £836, represenfcin B' the whole of the
* • * *
The Tasmanian Racing Club—which with the
Tas Turf Club (Northern), £’92 the controf ol
racing in Tasmania and constituted itself the governing
body—has just issued a new set of rules calculated to
T a ß e c I'i? 4 tbe B . ,n * n clubs of the island. The
T.R.C. claims rights and privileges over the smaller clubs
which even the V R C. could not decently claim over its
subjects. And V.R.C. methods of control are impossible
in Tasmania, simply because the T.R.C. is a coinpetitw
on almost equal terms with those clubs over which it ex.
ereuses control, while the V.R.C. is too big to be con-
sidei ed a competitor. Recognised racing fixturesof some
of the smaller clubs have been denied whenever the
governing body considered it had the slightest pretext
for its denial and the new rules seek to further handicap
oM nsufferahlef reStnctlons ar,d interferences little short
* * * *
m^w^o\ br ? aldn^, up :f aleof fche Kirkham stud
U I V . to k P lace while its owner, James White, lav in
bed, a dying man. The stud-groom was admitted to tell
ih ■ squire how the sale was progressing. “So-and-so
fetched £l5O and Such-and-such UOO, ’’ rattled off the
gloom, White punctualing the dialogue with peevish
groans of Not, near enough,” “ What a little ! ” mid so
u i , Bl \ t . when u t he trroom told that “ Silver-King ” Brod-
nhh had bought Titan for ±4OOO odd, the sick nfan with
feverish energy, raised himself on his elbow, and in tones
of utter amazement exclaimed: “£4OOO did vou s»v?
£4OOO for a gelding! Well, I’m d d/” And, with a
delUhVu b !, cb , dwl ”. dled ,nt ° a chuckle of ineffable
afterwards SUbSlded 0n hls P lllow -” He died a few weeks
’* * * .
Admirers of the good old Chester strain make
all sorts of excuses for the failure of Abercorn at the stud
—that he d,dn t get a show, etc., but the fact is “ other
.lines other horses.” The Musket racers asserted their
supremacy at once in Australia over the sons of Chester
and t >e Musket stallions have beaten them at the stud’
It was precisely the same in Maoriland. Tradncer was
the fashionable stallion there, and his stock won everv-
wit h'them. ° W MUSket Came along and then ifc was a case
* * * •
. must make Australian trotting-owners regret
e !u 4o ? lsb " hen they see such programmes as that
of the Lancaster Park (M.L.) Amateur Trotting Club’s
Spring meeting, with stakes amounting to £llOO.
A certain big Australian metallician once early
in his career heavily overlaid in his book a horse for one
of the big Spring handicaps. He had thought that it was
a cionkster and that it would go back in the betting, but
instead it shortened to first favorite. One or two friends
knew that if the favorite should win the bookmaker wa s
a ruined and dishonored man. He disappeared a good
ten minutes before the horses went out, leaving his clerk
to attend to business, and did not show up again until
the race was over and the favorite had been beaten by a
head. Years after, he admitted that he had adjourned
to a secluded part of the course with the intention of
shooting himself if the favorite got home.
» * * •
From a pamphlet recently published in Maori-
land : —“ Since racing clubs have used the totalisator no
single case of money being embezzled to put on the
machine has come before the courts, but before the intro-
duction of the totalisator it was a common thing to hear
of both men and youths embezzling to pay their losses to
bookmakers. A man will not readily commit a robbery
to provide himself with means to wager with, but, having
bet on credit and lost , the temptation to dishonesty is
very great. It should be remembered that the law pro-
hibits minors from putting money oh the machine, and,
as everything is done in broad daylight, the law in this
respect has to be, and is, respected. . . . The totalisator
is the most socialistic innovation of the dav. The auto-
matic machine serves all alike. Under the system of
booking bets, the wealthy sportsman could always get
much longer odds than his poorer fellows ; that is to say
ne could get his amusement at a cheaper rate. In other
words, the man who obtained amusement in having a
little interest in a race, but could only afford to risk, say,
sov ®|’ ei ff n > was always compelled to take a shorter price
than the wealthy sportsman could obtain. But the auto-
matic machine treats peer and peasant alike, which is the
essence of democracy. In the one case, the odds are
arranged by the betting-ring, but in the other they are
declared by the figures on the machine, which express
absolutely the votes of the people. . . . The tote is only
open on the course; ‘settling day’is before, not after,
the event; and a man as a rule can only lose just as much
money as he took out with him. The public are thus not
likely to invest beyond their means. No one, be it re-
membered, is invited or tempted to invest. It is an abso-
lutely voluntary system of obtaining a pecuniary interest
on a race; and, taken as a whole, it is a very healthy
form of excitement. It may be true that here and there
an individual invests beyond his means ; but that is not a
fair test; as well denounce the whole of the clerical call-
ing because one parson turns out to be a black sheep. It
would be interesting to learn how many of those who
profess to be opposed to this so-called iniquitous practice
of the turf have lost money through gambling in gold-
mines. For every one man who has got into trouble over
the totalisator, fully one hundred have come to grief in
gold-mine and share speculations.”
* * * »
The erratic Fitzroy footballers carried off Yic.
premiership on Saturday by beating Essendon fairly and
fbnarely by 5 goals to 3, or 38 points to 23 altogether.
While Essendon has gone through the season steadily,
Fitzroy has succumbed twice to inferior clubs, and even
•? Ur weeks back nobody would have given sixpence for
its chance of premiership. At the critical time, how-
ever, the Fitzroys played up and beat successively Col-
lingwood, Geelong, and Essendon, which, bv the way, is
the “naicest” Melb. kicking-club and is understood to
have been at some period in the misty past composed of
only youths possessing 16 or more quarterings on their
escutcheons. Of late, however, Essendon has deigned
nwnber among its cracks sundry “Tossers” and
Mickos ” and “ Bunchies ” who dally with the pick and
hod on week days.
* * * *
Vic. football during the late season has been
free from the ugly rumors of metallic influence which
have been so current during past years, yet on one or
two occasions the playing of a few men—not more than
three in one big* team was such as to arouse suspicion in
a close and experienced observer. Apparently so hard,
it is the easiest, thing in the world to “ run stiff” in Aus-
tralian football; a man may play his very best, and yet
be working into the hands of the other side bv the simple
process of doing a little foul play at a critical moment,
the bouth-East Melb., say, are pressing on the North-West’s
goal, and “Gouger” O’Brady, the'eminentN.W. follower,
wtm has been playing the game of the day, just gives the
b.E. s crack goal-kicker a shove behind in a scramble.
There are cries of “ Hard luck, Gouger”; the umpire
awards the unerring shot a free kick just in front of goal,
and the game is altered on the spot.
* * • •
A football-match was played at Charters Towers
PP Sunday, Sept. 11, on the hottest of three hot days—
the other two officially recorded at 90 and 91deg. Yet
the Japanned planter avers that white men cannot do
field work in N.Q.
* • * *
South Australia should make a bold bid for the
Sheffield shield this coming season. Giffen has been
training hard all the winter, Darling is batting splendidly,
and Clem. Hill is fit and well. Jones played football in
sensational style in August, and is as hard as iron
Nothing heard of Lyons. With a backbone of Giffen,.
Hill, Darling:, Lyons, and Jones, S.A. must be prominent.
• » • •
Stoddart’s team having licked another All Eng-
land Eleven in an autumn test-match, there can be no
more complaining that the “Old Country” wasn’t
properly represented in Australia last year. The men
who came out here will have to provide most of the
flower of English cricket’’for next year’s test matches,,
and, if the Australians at ’Ome don’t come out on top in.
99 it will be about time to drop the Anglo-Australian,
cricket question. If the batting and bowling which
triumphed over Stoddart and co. at this end of the
world is to fail in competition with the same men’s bowi-
hatting at the other end, each side can ascribe
its defeats to the climate or the wicket, or the difference
between three-day matches and matches that start with,
an unlimited time before them. Barring Rhodes of
Yorkshire, no important new light came into All England
cricket this season. Rhodes looks dangerous. He has a
boss bowling average and he can generally make a few
"si"is 00l “ ilk ' Bobby f “' , »
* * * *
Lockwood, the unreliable Surrey bowler, has put
n£lrT f ?00 Q d 0 pe £?™ ances this seas ’ on ‘ Against Essex
8 1 8- r H t IS avera 8 e at one point in the innings-
Tn.! took 6 for 19 * ? ‘" terVal he went on again.
*.* * .
London Pick-me-up hints that W. G. Grace is
often !et off bv M.C C umpires. “They are geUing a
bit blind, at times. W.G. s play dazzles them ”
* * • •
In face of the refusal of the Sydney Cricket
Ground people to allow intending cyclist competitors to-
.a|o on their ground, the authorities would surelv be
justified m stepping in to prevent racing on the deathlv
circle by men unused to its narrowness and high banking
Poor Tooher s death, and the many other mainlines
would surely prove justification. Why a pugilist’s gory
nose or black eye should receive more care at the hands
State than the life, or life-long maiming, of the
cyclist is one of those things a fellow cannot understand.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— He the sad demise of “Jim”'
Tooher as the result of an accident whilst racing on the
Sydney Cricket Ground and your remarks thereon!
<24/9/ 98.) You are a bit rough on the Cricket
track, w hich is a lot safer to race on than the Agricul-
tural ditto on. account of the high banking, as witness
the spills which have occurred on the two. The Ag. with
its flat corners has been responsible for most of the
smashes that have happened in Sydney, and is likely to-
be the scene of the largest cycle holocaust on record
some day. I would rather race any time on the Associa-
non track, and so would any racing cyclist who has
ridden in competition on the two. By the wav Mel-
bourne, with alt its cycle racing, cannot find a track to
compare favorably with either of Sydney’s.—Leaguite
* * * »
The lily-white amateur cyclist was again mostly
his own audience at Sydney Cricket Ground last Satur-
day. The fever is past—evidently the public is tired of
bike races, for even the snowy limbs of the “ amatuah ”
cease to draw. Queenslander Goodson, now far and awav
the best Australian amateur, had a day out, winning the-
KShS'XS- lwo -" ne *» d
Macdonald, who has beaten Coleman’s trans-
continental cycling trip by 35 days, is a wiry young
fellow weighing just over Bst., and arrived in Adelaide
almost as fresh as when he started. He had marvellous
luck as regards weather, but with the best of luck a trip
over rough country of over 2000 miles in 28 days is a
great performance. The safe accomplishment of the trip
Agency cyclist £luo given b y the Austral Cycle
* * * *
Still again has Joe Donnelly carried out his con-
tract to beat his previous best. Plover, the 22-footer,
built to the order of Mr. Sam Hordern, made her maiden
effort in the Johnstone's Bay Sailing Club’s handicap on
Saturday last, when, starting off scratch with the Effle,
the pair finished first and second, Plover beating Effie
.u ll ii, In - 32sec \ Mr - Hordern had best make the most of
the Plover this season, for in the ordinary course of
events, Donnelly is sure to create another next season to
beat her.
El ’ *
When the cable tells us that the Irex was sailed
by Mr Mark Foy and a scratch crew, her defeat by the
boat, Maid of Kent, is scarcely to be wondered
at. It would be an interesting experiment, when Mr.
I<oy returns to Australia, to arrange a match between,
say, the Effie and Mr. Hordern's imported English
• iu’ Bronzewing, Mr. Foy and a scratch crew to
sail the Effie, and one of our crack crews to handle the
Bronzewing. Some sort of a line might then be taken as
to the speed of the Maid of Kent.
The Atacama Case.
The Atacama case, in which The Bulletin was
sued by Mr. M. C. Cowlishaw, a Sydney ship-
owner, ended on 21st Sept., after 17 days’ trial,
before Chief Justice Darley and a special jury of
twelve, in N.B.W. Supreme Court. Mr. Cowli-
shaw was registered owner of the Atacama, a
at V ? ssel * of 1572 tons > which left Newcastle,
To'no W, ’ J m , a very doubtful condition, on Jan. 29,
and foundered, a few days out from port
with a loss of thirteen lives. The Bulletin com-
mented on the facts, and urged the Marine Board
to make thorough enquiry, and Mr. Cowlishaw
claimed .£2OOO damages for alleged libel. The
jury gave a verdict for The Bulletin, and added
that the article complained of did not apply to Mr.
Cowlishaw. The evidence in the action, the
longest and most costly of its kind ever tried in
JN.B. Wales, has been so fully reported in the
daily press that The Bulletin does not
propose to bore its readers with a rehash.
Enough, for the present, to say that the
Atacama case has rung the knell of the effete
and wrongly-constituted N.S.W. Marine Board
and that mainly by reason of the publicity
afforded by this monumental lawsuit to many
grave shipping abuses, the day is now near at
no w en no . sa, lor will go to sea from any
N .o. W. port without having his life safeguarded
at least as carefully as are those of passengers. For
the rest, The Bulletin may here remark that had
Mr. Cowlishaw in the first instance, instead of
issuing a writ for libel, asked it to disclaim having
sought to attribute to him any direct personal
knowledge of the condition in which the Atacama
went to sea, it would have gladly done so, even
while denying his right to legally challenge the
justice of the article complained of.
Sydney D.T. reports Colonel Picquart, of
Dreyfus-case notoriety, as “ allowed to see neither
his friends nor his lawyers.” That “ very proper
distinction ” again.
Cabled that, speaking at Stettin, the Ger-
man Emperor remarked that the future of Ger-
many lies on the water. “Water” must be a
misprint for lager-beer.
A meeting of N.S.W. chess-players to
combine the existing societies into a N.S.W.
chess association will be held at the Equitable
Hall, George-street, Sydney, on Wednesday, Oct.
5, at 8 p.m.
Premier Reid, to the electors of Port
Macquarie : “ I, as Premier, have no right to be
in office if Mr. Barton wins this battle.” And
surely Treachery George won’t retain an office
where he has no right to it 1
The Bulletin sincerely thanks the many
hundreds of sympathisers who have congratulated
it on the verdict in the Atacama case, and asks
every individual— you, in fact—to accept this
paragraph in lieu of more formal acknowledgment.
The Bankers’ Institute of Australasia ad-
vertises in this issue a benefit and insurance
scheme, for the assistance of members and their
families, which is well worth the consideration of
all persons connected with the banking profession.


A Samaritan nun who died the other day
in Sydney was, some dozen years ago, prominently
before the public in connection with the girl
Hicks, whose story led to the Mount Rennie holo-
caust. The nuns, be it said to the credit of their
perception, didn’t believe in Miss Hicks.
Old Charles Ryan, the octogenarian
father of “ Plevna ” Ryan and Mrs. Ellis Rowan,
who died the other day at Melbourne, was present
at the capture of “Captain’’ Gepp and his gang
in the Plenty Ranges in ’55. Ryan was following
the late Peter Snodgrass, who was in charge of
the pursuing party, when he fell in with Gepp
and party, who promptly made him prisoner.
Begging for a drink, Gepp produced a bottle of
spirits, and on Ryan supplying a handsomely-
chased hunting knife to open it, the bushranger
shoved the weapon into his own pocket with a
grin. This act afterwards led to his being
hanged, for during the fight which took place—
Ryan being first released by the gang—Gepp was
struck on the breast by a bullet which hit the
knife and glanced aside. “Only for that,’’ said
the ’ranger to Ryan while in gaol awaiting execu-
tion, “ I would have been shot like a man instead
of being hanged like a dog.'’
WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £IS : O.'O
Or £18:0:0? Of course you
would not! But there are lots of
people who are doing so; they are
riding the £15:0 :0 and £lB :0:0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:O :0 or £lO :0: 0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris.
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Headquarters : William Street, Melbourne
Branches : I’unedin- Sydney— Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—lS ortliam.
Depots and Agencies almost, everywhere.
N.S.W. Branch
335 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
Scurfy Dandruff Cured
Remedies, with full instructions, 5-, postage Bd.
Special Treatment for the Cure of Hair Falling
Out. Remedies, with full instructions, 10/-.
The above REMEDIES will absolutely cure you, having
been prescribed for the last 12 years and only prepared by
A. W. PAGE, Ear Specialist,
91 Market Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Boston Shower.
When one is hot and dry as summer dust, a
shower-bath is the most welcome form of refresh-
ment possible—if obtainable. But even in our
city homes this is not always available, while it
is not too much to say that away back in the
country many thousands of would-be cleanly
people know of no shower save that which is
Heaven-sent, when
The hooded clouds, like friars,
Tell their beads in drops of rain.
The lack of a good water-supply, want of space,
and, not least, the expense of fitting up a room,
are some of the causes preventing the general
possession of what is both a luxury and a necessity
—a good shower-bath.
There are few difficulties, however, which
modern ingenuity cannot overcome, and we give
an illustration of a cheap, compact and satisfac-
tory arrangement, by means of which anyone—be
he an isolated selector or a city man in cramped
quarters—Gan enjoy to the full all the healthy
comfort of a good bath. The old-established mer-
chants of Wynyard Lane, Sydney, and Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, Messrs. M. MOSS & CO., are
the proprietors of the “ Boston Shower.” It can
be fixed by anyone anywhere in a few minutes,
and the pump connected with it, worked with the
greatest ease, gives a continuous downpour, having
a force sufficient to throw water 150 ft. A single
bucket of water is am pie for one or two most satis-
factory showers. The simplicity and small cost
(375. fid.) of the Boston will appeal to all excepting
those who do not need a bath, and of such we
may say, “Every one is as God made him —and
sometimes a good deal worse.”
ONE HONEST MAN.
TXEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
T « € jankers’ Institute
OF
Austral asi &l,
Melbourne .
INCLUSION OF BENEFIT AND ASSUR-
ANCE FUNDS.
rj*HE Committee of management propose
that the following funds be Incorpor-
ated and established in connection with the
Institute :
(1) A Mortuary Benefit Fund.— -To
assure a sum payable at a member’s death to
whomsoever he may appoint as his beneficiary.
(2) A Widows’ and Orphans’ Fund.—
For the assistance of the necessitous widows and
orphans of members.
(3) A Loss of Employment Indemnity
Fund. —To make certain fixed weekly allowances
of money to support members out of employment.
(4) A Permanent Relief Fund, styled the
Comrades’ Help Fund, for the relief chiefly by
loan of necessitous banking men who are aged, or
incapacitated from earning a subsistence, or
unable to find employment.
(5) A Fund for Scholarships to be com-
peted for by children of members.
PROPOSED SCALE OF FEES.
For Country and Intercolonial Members under
25 years of age at joining, £1 10s. 6d. per ann.
25 ~ „ and over, 2 6 6 „ „
Melbourne and Suburbs.
25 years and over £2 17s. Od. per ann.
Under 25 years, 110 6d. ~ „
(Inclusive of ordinary Institute Subscription.)
A o Entrance Fee Payable First
Year (1898).
Gentlemen in the service of Banks desir-
ous of joining, or of further information, are
requested to communicate with the Commit-
tee in Melbourne.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
87 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
I 7lo® the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE <UKB< ENT,” si mated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
** HU'S’ Kin "-street Coffee ralaiec,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-cTay!
Yesterday!
AND To -morrow !
YX7E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
SW Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE. .
UJolf American High jjrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE I
Ladies’ model of most graceful design, dent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. tST Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American 3 cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cLif. s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
{}
MACK LIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUA DR AN!
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET , SYDNEY.
f
'»S=»- 7 >
kj/lc Sunte- yZic-m,
jtfcCeJZcutclC'
*U
&cvtuw/v
JZB %, cCctAf^i
s Wife *iAct&esiJ
i*v
— <r?is flt/
POUT flßßßlin
TO
MEEIBE
2050 MILES
FROM
SEA to SEA
Traversed by A. Macdonald in
28 Days Hours.
Previous Time, 63 Days.
♦
A MACDONALD’S MOUNT
was a No. 1
ROAD RACER
fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sole
iVgents
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGE AC Y LTD.
391 George Street, Sydney.


From CSiikfliooil
To MoiherhooO
Took it as a Child: Now gives
it to her own Children.
Mrs. Mabel Boulton of Brisbane, Queens-
land, lias had the following unusual and most
ielightfnl experience :
“ From infancy I was weak and delicate
and grew to be anything but a robust child.
1 suffered from debility, no appetite, and
the usual consequence of such complaints.
But my parents hearing of the health restor-
ing properties of
AYR'S
Sarsaparilla
procured some for me and I am happy to say
that after having taken two bottles I regained
health, vigor and good appetite and have not
been troubled ever since. I am now married,
have a family of my own, am still strong and
well, and can recommend Dr. Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla as a good family medicine.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working.
A rrontu far flto AT. **
Agents for the “ROYAL LOUNGE”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made. Up.
ASSIST ANT < Engaged for the Country.
'l'
o
OLD
RNS
3&
LSJ
UNBU
:^FIMg
HA
BE
&c.C
y
0/ V£
Y
-
tttit
4i
4
2
r/7
p^o
PR
etors . ;>M
DE
“Common Sense Ear
Drnm?” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
1 comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
' gerons) wire or uietal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for hook. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Ayent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lord Berkeley often bragged that no single
highwayman could stick him up. One did, and
reminded him of the boast. Berkeley : “ Why,
you blackguard, there’s your companion skulking
behind ! ” The fellow turned and Berkeley shot
him through the head.
If lady-doctors have their uses, they have
also their disadvantages. A Melb. citizen who
has for some time had a popular lady-medico as
family attendant, recently rang up said lady’s
principal male rival at dead of night—“ Addition
to family ! ” “ Contrary to professional etiquette
for me to attend. Why don’t you go to your regu-
lar doctoress ? ” “I did,” was the reply, “and—
she’s doing the same thing 1 ”
A beautiful' complexion.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Tasmanian railway general-manager Back
lives next door to a recently-established China-
man’s garden. The other day the railway man
cheerily exchanged greetings over the fence with
his new neighbour. “ Good-day ; name you ? ’
asked Hong Lip. “ Oh, I’m Mr. Back,” was the
reply. “Where you work?” asked Hong.
“ Railway—manage um railway,” said Back.
“ Oh,” said the heathen with the, hoe, “supposee
you gottem welly good billet, eh ? How much?
Two tlee pong one week ? ” Back nodded.
“ T.P.” : Australasian working-men with
land enough to supply vegetables for a large
family will go without rather than grow them
themselves. Cobbett wrote that out of a 60-rod
garden he could get enough vegetables for his
family and support a cow besides. Cobbett
looked upon the use of candles as fast living, and
on tea as a dangerous luxury, but some of his
books would take the cake as helpers of men to
live.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
; ' r; • :
SSH
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre oJE eity.
ROOMS <.. ... 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS ... ... SOs. to £3 3s.
MICE SIMMONS.
NEW DEPARTURE. CASH TRADE ONLY.
All Sporting Materials at Lowest Cut Prices.
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES,
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and most VARIED STOCK of
Cricketing Goods in Australia.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’ Ail-Cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4 6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-Cane Handle 11s 6d
„ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) 16s 6d
„ Bryant’s Men's All-Cane Handle (President) 13s Od
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-Cane Handle 10s 6d
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repereusive) 14s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Steel shod ... ... ... 7s, 7s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod .. ... ... 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEO GUARDS.—Youths’ ss,
~ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d,
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke's Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match ....
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS. - Double wicket, in two pirees,
full siz ■, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best valve in Sydney)
CRICKET NETS.-Complete 10s 6d, 17s 6d,
~ With pegs, runners, &c. &c. 40s, 50s,
6s 6d
9s 6.1
10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
20s Od
60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-Cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
~ Feltbam’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Felthain's ditto (Special) 10s 6d
~ Litlv-white’s All-Cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nii boll s ditto (Automatic) ... 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto .. 66,9 6, 10/6, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark & Sons’Patent Cork Cased Handle ... 15s Od
~ Dark & Sons’All-Cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, per pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto dit to (Gold Cape), per pair _ ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs) per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs'), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Corapo. —Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
~ Match, ls ; Bovs’ ... 3d, 4d, 5d
CRICKET SETS. Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men s, 8, 3,10/6, 12/6
Youths’ Cane-Handle Bat, Compo Ball,
and Stumps ... 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-Handle Bat, Leather Ball,
Brass-bound Steel-shod Stumps ... 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW ANT) COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWE jT PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Seat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st., 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
ASK for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
AND BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers.
Sbs€p BrapdiQg Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
-1
-2
m
T3OOK OF NATUJKJB
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORE FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ' everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not Ihe slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR TJP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post tree Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3J-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is Cd post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
iSmeitms CSo. of Australia
; ™ (LIMITED),
DA.PTO (Lalio Illawarra), near SYIDN'E'ISr.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
1
& --ft
MWi
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc-., apply to E. A. Weinbebg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
The Ships that Won’t Go Down.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We hear a great commotion
Ji<‘ the ship that comes to grief,
That founders in mid-ocean,
Or is driven on a reef ;
Because it’s cheap and brittle
A score of sinners drown.
But. we hear mighty little
Of the ships that won’t go down.
Here’s honor to the builders—•
Tiie builders of the past;
Here’s honor to the builders
That budded ships to last ;
Here’s honor to the captain,
And honor to the crew ;
Here’s double-column head lines
To the ships that battle through.
They make a great sensation
Bout famous men that fail,
That sink a world of chances
In the city morgue or gaol,
Who drink, or blow their brains out,
Because of “ Fortune’s frown.”
But we hear far too little
Of the men who won’t go down.
Tiie world is full of trouble,
And the world is full of wrong,
But the heart of a man is noble,
And tiie heart of a man is strong !
Tl. ev say tiie sea sings dirges,
But I would say to you
That the wild wave song’s a psean
For the men that battle through.
HENRY LAWSON.


N? rr ßaSSn)(iSS€i)’& Alfalii)€ Herbal ReipedieS.
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
-A- Few of Tliem.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness
160 Eliza beth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great, Icm fit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir, —I think.it my duty to inform you that, a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have ail been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that lie can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Cooigardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually leoommendirig them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Xalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that, the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of hint, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
IS years’ standing. Dear, Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried £ll advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing-your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long he spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After orilv tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerelv for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
m v case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN. -
Skin and Blood Cured
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under i.ie treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of mv friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A G-reat Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W. A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom the.v never failed to
cure.
HE 11K HA SSMUSSEJS’S-
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassniussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove."
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly com]>limentary testimonials, certi-
fying- to important cures < if< eted by'his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington, “ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies."
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr ltass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassnmssen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies."
Ever ing Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday T.mes, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
adv ice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as'several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
Isosiiis in the Herbal (jjorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Pas-s-
-in ussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
■sereral unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Ilerr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussens authorised
agents which state-
ments are absolutely
false , as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Rem r dies,
neither has he autho-
rised, any person to
sell, his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Hrssmussev, Up-to-Haie Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
A l faline Herbal
A If aline Remedies.
&50 REWARD
wil be giren for in-
formation . con nr ting
anyone of imitating the
Alt'aline Remedies.
HERR RRSSUUSSEH,
The CELEBRATE© DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, liecommended by
the Faculty, and received, more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
her of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSeiI,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSeiI.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, 0.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
APVKC FREE
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERY’OUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Desp uidenc.v, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- s anding 1 .
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.,. posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEA: El, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, arid eradicate all Blotches and Sores from IheSkin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
I ion, Flai ulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
"f the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
edstence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the slomest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most peif cr,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica mid Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in O lildren and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Host Effectually
By taking’ Herr Ras-mussen’s PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and tin equalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness ail round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rasszmassen’s Mead Offices - 547 G-eorg'e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Earabton Quay
PERTH, W.A. ifay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOIiG-ARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


.. 8-Hour..
Demonstration.
AgricOltOral 6roCii)d,
SYDNEY.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency the Governor.
Monday, 3rd October.
FREE Distribution of Gifts
on the Grounds.
TOGETHER WITH
SPORTS PRIZES, value £250.
FIRST FREE GIFT
IN THE DISTRIBUTION
WILL BE
£25 WORTH OF GOODS
Presented by ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Haymarket (Only);
together with a number of other VALUABLE
GIFTS. Every Person attending will be pre-
sented with a Ticket. The DRAWING will
take place on the Grounds at 4.30 p.m.
Grand Military Tournament,
By Permission of Major-General French.
Dancing All Day in the Large
Pavilion.
FLOOR SPECIALLY PREPARED.
. . PROCESSION . .
Embracing all the Trade Societies, will leave the
Trades’ Hall at 9 o’clock a.m., and proceed along
George-street to Park-street, then to Oxford-street,
along Oxford-street to Bourke-street, and then on
to Agricultural Grounds.
Caterers and others can now obtain spaces for
Booths, Side Shows, &c., on application to the
undersigned.
Persons desirous of having Lorries in Proces-
sion, or Advertising on the Grounds, on Eight-
Hour Day are requested to communicate with the
undersigned without delay.
THOS. W. FURSE,
Secretary.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Amusements,
JTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
"“*■ Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
7th WEEK! and Continued Success of the Royal
Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING, at 8. Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
| “LB POUP € €. ”
Comic Opera in 2 Acts and i Tableaux.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IW PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
No Debate, No Hesitancy, Absolute Unanimity on the
part of Press and the Public regarding
BLANP HOLT’S
Latest Brilliant Venture
INTO THE WORLD OF DRAMATIC ROMANCE,
SportiQg Life.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
T 1 VOL 1 T HEAT It E, sYi) NE Y.
**• Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
3VC±sS Ada. Reeve.
Signor TTgo Biondi.
JUtEENE'S ELECTRIC ORGAN.
FOREMAN and FANNAN, BELLMAN and MOORE,
SISTERS TERRY, D. H. CASTON, DELROY and
LYNNE, HAMILTON HILL, LOU BERESFORD, ALICE
SIMMONS, and FANING and DEVOE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
<s€o. BEAUCHAMP.
Miss Peggy Pryde Mr- 6- H- Wood
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
DELOHERY, CRAYDON and HOLLAND.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
“DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
FAREWELL SEASON OF
Aflliss Ra.ttie BroWn®.
Her (3ood Nan}€.
JANE Miss PAT TIE BROWNE.
12 More Nights Only.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager.
P Princess theatre, Melbourne.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
And Wednesday Matinees, at 2 p.m.
UNDER THE RED ROBE.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
Miss ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
Box Plan at ALLAN'S and MENZIES’.
T" OWN MALI., MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director .. Philip Newbury.
Saturday Me act, at 8 o’clock.
Last of the Melbourne 1/- “Pops.”
MDLLE. CELENSKI
THE WONDERFUL PI ANISTE.
Town Hall, Sydney,
GRAND OPENING NIGHT, 15th OCTOBER.
ARCHIBALD NEWBURY, Manager, I
Amiiseiiieu is.
Theatre royal, meemourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
GREAT SUCCESS! OF GREAT SUCCESS!
sons or tnc sen.
The most Thrilling, Sensational and Picturesque Play
ever produced. Full strength of Brilliant Company.
Mr. CHAS. MAURICE as PAGANEL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
r
G' H- Smith & Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
THE LAST OP SIX. -
PRICE Is. ;
per Post Is. 3d.
TEAMS
A. H. MOORE & CO.,
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“ PERFECT ” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect” Racquet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. HOWITT,
Champion of Australia, says: “No
matter how {rood a player one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
the inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
BOOK-K€€PIN<S.
by Double Entry.
PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION.
F. Binder, Accountant, 21 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
SHORTHAND
Thoroughly Taught by
Post. Mr. F. W. JONSON,
20 years’ Certificated Teacher (of Riverview Collejre;
Petersham and Ashfield Govt. Technical Schools).
SYDNEY TYPEWRITING SCHOOL, 21 Elizabeth-street,
Tel. 3015. Pitman’s Books. MSS. and Documents typed.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
i Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
The Summer is upon us, watch your children’s EYES !
No house should be without a bottle of the greatest of all Australian remedies.
Ro&e’& Celebrated Eye Lotiop.
The only practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from Sandy Blight, Sun Glare, Inflammation, Granulation of the Eye
lids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
ST BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLE PROPRIETOR :
H. A. BOSE, Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
List of Testimonials Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAY 3.
PATTISONS’ WHISKY COMPETITION—IO PRIZES.
“ The Opening Of the Case.” Drawn by BERT A. LEVY.
150
: : <£
II
- .x.
1
mm
a
■
“THE OPENING OP THE CASE.”-Key to Competition.
1. Lord Hampden. 2. Justice Simpsor 3. Justice Darley. 4. Justice Cohen. 5. D. Levy, Esq. 6. P. Marks. 7. Pilcher, Q.C. 8. Miss Graves. 9. Mrs. Kendall. 10. Mrs. Rous. 11. Dummy.
12. Court Habitue. 13. Hayden. 14. Dummy. 15. Theo. H. Richey, Esq. 16. Edwards, Court-crier. 17. M. Price. 18. J. J. Power. 19. Montresson. 20. Miss Eva Bryant. 21. C. Westbrook.
22. Dummy. 23. A. C. Bayer. 24. Dummy. 25. Mrs. Maesmore Morris. 26. Miss Pattie Browne. 27. Lyne. 28. Dr. Knaggs. 29. S. Burdekin. 30. P. Crick. 31. Sir J. Salomons. 32. G. H. Reid
33. Miss Brand. 34. E. Barton. 35. J. Want. 36. C. F. Evelyn, Esq. 37. Wilson Barrett. 38. Miss M. Jeffries. 39. Bland Holt. 40. S. Hordern. 41. Hon. Dangar. 42. T. Slattery. 43. F. Riley
44. S. Farthing. 45. Roberts. 46. H. Edwin Moore. 47. A. J. Usher. 48. F. Gunther. 49. J. C. Neild.
PATTISONS’ LIMITED have great pleasure in announcing that the undermentioned competitors in their recent competition (key of which appears above) have been successful in securing a case ol
their celebrated “Morning Dew”: —Ist. JOHN KAIN, Esq., Dphtist, Maequarie-street, City (41); 2nd. FRANK FOWLER, “Maudville,” Edgeware-road, Enmore (38); 3rd. Miss BESSIE FYSH,
375 Glebe Point Road, Glebe Point (36); 4th. ERNEST MAY,,';Esq., c/o George Brown, Newsagent, Forest Road, Ameliffe (34); 6th. LANCE LENTON. Esq., 23 iJacquane-street South (34)l; 6th.
ROBERT ARNOTT, Esq., 3 St. Mary’s Terrace, Lower Domain (84); 7th. O. ADAMSON, Esq., c/o Miss Greig, 213 William-street, Darlinghurst (34); Bth. Mrs. AMALIE WILSON, Angel Hotel,
~ ‘ ‘ G. SEFTON, Esq., 11l Darlington Road, Darlington (34); 10th. WILLIAM STONE, Esq., Federal Chambers, King-street (34).
It* Vi
Sydney (34); 9th.


Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk Is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
- MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peck Ham, London, England.
BISHOPS
CITRATE ©F
MAGNESIA
9> a O
A
C7A
REMEMBER IN TAE
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NECESSITY, A 5 AU- crtlLDtfft
AILMENTS GIVE WAV To A
DOSE or TWO
Publications, etc.
- Ballet fiirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
naupfis
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY*
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
IAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other Fast
S ;uiug Books. Mention this paper when writing.
■ROOICS Books Books
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Farm Management and Veterinary Practice.. 15/- 7/6
The New Enquire Within, 5000 receipts .. 7/6 5/-
Every Man His Own Medical Adviser, 800 do. 35/- 15/-
The Farmer’s Own Book suitable for Breeding 7/6 5/-
Farm Engineering, Irrigation, Water Supply 16/- 10/-
Dictionary of Universal Information . ... 25/- 10/6
Hopper’s Prac. Timber Measure, with tables 5/- 2/6
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.
The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young- Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, Ihe Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan —all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl: Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence-
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
Married Ladies. S” d Jo°tf e S
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
T)r- J. A. M‘Gill’s ‘Orange
Blossom’
Specific. A positive cure
without the use of the knife
for TUMORS and all forms of malignant growths.
“ORANGE BLOSSOM” is applied direct; instantly re-
moves pain and congestion. All women can use this rr.ost
wonderful remedy at home. Pamphlet “Plain Talk to
Ladies,” sent upon receipt of stamped envelope. Con-
sultation free—lo to 5. Head office in Australia for Dr.
M'Giil’s “ Orange Blossom Specific,” City Chambers, 114
Elizabeth-street, MELBOURNE.
“ K.”: The best rat-trap I ever saw was a
kerosene tin, with lid cut off, quarter full of
treacle. Bought it for spraying fruit trees ; left
it m shed two nights, and caught seven large rats
m it, in a place where rats were scarce.
“ H.Gr.” : In view of the frequent
slaughter of plate-layers by trains, wouldn’t it be
a good plan to use a portable electric alarm oper-
ated upon by the wheel-flanges of the train, as
are the signals on the electric railways at the
Liverpool docks ? The flange pressure closes the
circuit and sounds the alarm, so that with a couple
of these a plate-laying gang could work in safety.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
Told of Gen. Sir Redvers Buller that,
when Captain Carey (who was with the Prince
Imperial when he was killed by the Zulus) brought
the story to Buller, the latter heard him quietly
to the end and then calmly observed: “And,
then, Captain Carey, why are you alive ? ” Carey
might just as well have asked the question of
Buller!
After a long rest, the advertisement-sup
piement re-appears as an integral portion of
N.S.W. country press. A half-dozen years ago a
Melbourne daily-paper proprietary scooped in be
tween .£4OOO and .£5OOO profit in a few seasons of
this class of supplement. The country papers
found, however, that the advt.-supplement, though
offered to them for a shilling a hundred, or less,
killed the value of their own advt. space, and, one
by one, they dropped it. The effects of the lesson
seem to have worn off.
When grants of land used to be made to
immigrants in Tas. some amusing attempts at
“grab ” occurred. One man who, on arrival, had
received allotments for “ self, wife, and family,”
made application two months later for a grant for
his infant son, who, for obvious reasons, could
hardly be called a product of the soil. The official
who had to deal with the application—a serious
red-tapist, who had never been known to perpe-
trate a joke—endorsed upon it: “In my opinion
stow-aways do not come within the operation of
the Act. _ I recommend that the application be
not considered.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
limn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
COLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Euoalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
Ia positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving; from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you- gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating'. Send
your address to
S. COX &, CO.,
PATENTEES and SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 JiourJee Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Sc Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely ae*
Btroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know •
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinkinor.
Pamph!_» on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRABY CO.,
82 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
“ I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Trice, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st„ Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
eTRATHMIti
Choice Old Highland**
SCOTCH WHiSKY
TRADE
MARK
&
UMITE
« Fine Old
SCOTCH VMiSKY
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re'-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may he had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
ro Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THJC FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
:
!{!|;iiiiiiin
ijnjijjiiiiii
!!!'iiiiiiim
•Hljjiiiiiii
{"iiiiiiin,
.
'
miiiii'!!!!!!;;;
niiiiiiiii'ii'i-*;
■
'm
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend.d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-, Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
S and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/C. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia, of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Ss'dney.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
Minerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British' Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street,, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co-,
Manufacturing Chemists Ss Pood Specialist*.
LONDON : 16 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.O.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M.irgaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’:
Frie
so/f
SK/rt D/SEASEf
AND WOU/V£>S
or ELVER Y
DESCR/PT/orS'
d?roberts
Merkhve
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SOPDERS OF THE
STOMA CN & L/VER .
OE ALL CHEMISTS /fjs X 2/<jfEACH
BE/\CH&BARN'ICOTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE.
Skill?
POST FREE
WatcKes-Clocks-J eWellery-BiRTriuAY*
WeddiisIg z Presents
H'NEWMAfj- 1755177-ELIZABETri Si*
opposite: G:RO-
MELBOURNE.
uuO
DEAF
m 3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
ExDlanatorv Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Go
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d }
16-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137.
0-ct Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
No. 201. —Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 139.
Bet. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d •
15-ct., £llos ;
Silver, 4s.
No. E864.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6(L
No. 111.— New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 582. —15-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, £1 10s.
No. E 550. —9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6cL
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9a 6dL
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct, ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
S fine Diamonds,
18-ct. Gold, £4 17s 6(L
No. 141.
ct Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2,
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond.
£ll2a 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock—9ct., 255, 365, 60s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d
16-ct,
get Pearls,
16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-et. Gold,
£3fia.
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 5:.
No. 398. Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork
7in. lontf, 9s 6d.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, nin lon*.
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
No. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, JEI 7s 6d.
No. 361.—Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6cL
No. 316.
Solid Silver 3Jin. long,
No. 265.—MedaL
9-ct. Gold, £llos ; 16-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, 6s.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
No. 386. —Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 8s 6d.
No. 402. —Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of *
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
, No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to £1 Is.
No. 414.—Elegant Clock,
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, B£in. high, £1 Is.
No. 369.
Elegant “ Queen Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon Tea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
RHP
BBS
EBBS
POBI
Eebsi!!
mm
ißCCiiil
Sp«l
mm
ton
ra
IB
No. 864. —Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2
NOTE. —The various
forwarded (carriage paid) c
illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
n receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Ehee.
412
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH


TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
VMLTH/1M
SsWATCH^
I
m
■
American UJaltham (||atch Comp, matches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
Sale of WALTHAM WATCHES, and also give the Australian people
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same money they have been
paying for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES !
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 6 years £2 7 6
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar.lo years 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee .. .. .. .. 0 8 9
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 16years 3 15 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’or Gents’, with the “America” movement 10 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 015 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee 0 8 9
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Imperial Arcade, Sydney. J. Landes, Manager.
lE&O-A-X)
Locomotives
FOB
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for ffce "THISTLE” OIL ENGINE,
m&
Do you want a pleasant
evening at home, or to
give an exhibition? The
Graphophone
a most marvellous instru-
ment; reproduces |the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
WiU not get out of
order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BE VERA run,
jM I ijH(iulAJl
Trade Mark)
I?.
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SGUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
' rH E MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORI.H.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OP SAUCES.
ATivnNKV alos
saiaxoa ao snohm i w
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In BotUes, 6d„ i and 2- each.
Proprietors I GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEOS, ENG
Sole Ag-ents for New South Wales:
- XM.OnK & CO., KENT and UVEHI'OOI, STREETS, STONEV.
The Little Solicitor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little township slumbered, and was very still.
The gums and wattle-shrubs and wild bush things
on the hill-slopes round about, murmured a little
sometimes when a westerly wind blew’ dust through
them, and now and again the sheep in the Warra-
gee paddocks bleated, or a laughing-jackass made
uncouth noises in his awkward bights; but, for the
most part, the mantle of The Seven Sleepers
wrapped Warragee in its somnolent folds.
Little John Garnett, who had a brass-plate on a
door in High-street with,
JOHN CROSS GARNETT,
SOLICITOR,
worked in black letters on its shiny surface, made
himself a now epigram about madness. It was
not a very brilliant one, but he had been four
months in Warragee, and, in the bitterness of his
soul, he perceived that the white stone of his door-
way kept its cleanliness, week in, week out ; the
bales of paper in the corner of his office were as
high as ever, and his ink-bill could have been
amply covered by a threepenny bit. All things
were the same as when he had come in the
ricketty coach with his hopes, and his brown port-
manteau, and the new purse his father had given
him as a parting present. The elastic-band was a
little looser than on that first day, but the loose-
ness was probably the most noticeable alteration
in anything pertaining to him.
“ Someone will drop in to-day.” He had never,
in all his one-and-twenty years, worn a remark so
threadbare as that one. But it was four months
now, and nothing even reminiscent of a client had
poked its nose inside his ever-open office door.
“What is wrong with the people?” he asked
himself, savagely.
The answer to which, as his friend Micky
O’Daly, of the Warragee Arms, pointed out to
him, was “Nothin’ is wrong wid the lot av
them. That’s what’s wrong.” Micky O’Daly
was his only comfort. Micky would tell tales to
him, as they smoked their pipes together at nights
on the inn -verandah, of strange and pleasing
things that had happened round Warragee in the
good old days. How Mrs. Kilpatrick, who had
owned more country than a man could not cover in
a week’s riding, had left a will, of which no man
living could make either end or beginning ; it was
only clear from it that she had left much money
to Ellen ; and Ellen had been the only witness of
the will, and Ellen’s husband had protested
because the law had protested ; and the law-suit
that followed, though its ending had been sure
and sharp enough, had promised to have as little
ending as the wonderful will itself. Told, too,
how Mrs. Schmidt, at the German farm, had
charged Alfie Snowden, Mary Ann Baily, and
Teresa Jones with a base, malicious and libellous
statement that she had sold to the district
black-pudding that would not bear investiga-
tion. That had been a hot case, Micky O’Daly
said. There was money in it, too, for there had
been perjury “ and all kinds ‘av things that helps
along the lawyer’s little bhill.” But best of all
was the time when Alfie Snowden, who had a
finger in every mouldy pie, little Bill Greaves, and
the two Hammawayboys were found to have been
altering the brands of many cattle, and thereby
swelling the herds of their respective fathers with
unlawful kine. All the country had gone mad
over that case, said Micky. “ Day nor night
could a man have shlape for thalking av thim
bhoys, and av fwhat was to be the ind av thim.
An’ the mothers cryin’ fit to bust, and the
fhathers shootin’ out their gold like dirt, and the
lawyer fillin’ in his pockets by shovelfuls. That
was the times for yez ! ”
And the Little Solicitor sighed, and wished the
dead past would not so utterly bury its dead.
It seemed to him that Warragee had put on a
suit of virtue that would wear as long as the
bright brass plate on his office-door.
The place had seemed to promise so well, too.
His father, who had made all arrangements about
his coming here, had painted it in glowing terms
to him, and at home the mother and the 11
brothers and sisters were waiting anxiously for
him to make their fortune. He was the eldest of
the unsophisticated lot, and he bore the burden of
many hopes upon his sturdy shoulders, and the
burden weighed on him. His cheeks began to
thin away a little under his eyes. Depression
deepened with him. He walked up and down the
High-street pavement, with gloomy, downcast
eyes, and began to loathe the sight of that white-
stoned doorstep and that shining plate.
One night tender-hearted Micky found his
lodger sitting at the end of the “Arms ” verandah
with his head in his hands, crying.
He was only 21, and there was a letter in his
pocket from his mother, asking him to send down
£5 as soon as possible to help to pay a doctor’s
bill.
“ She doesn’t know,” said the solicitor, “thatl
haven’t made five pence since I’ve been here. I
don’t known what I’m going to do.”
“ Lhook ut here,” said Mickey, greatly troubled
within himself, and not knowing at all what he
was going to say ; “ Lhook ut here, what yez must
do is this—we must make some cases for yez.” He
pondered. “ We must set some folk a-quarrelin’.
Nothin’ better (puff, puff). . . . Why, there’s the
doctors now. What d’ yez say to makin’ up a
row between them ? Nothin’ aisier. (Puff, puff.)
. . . There’s th’ poor old docthor hangin’ on
to his practus like grim death, and here’s the new
wan schemin’ all he knows to get the practus
thransferred to hisself intirely. Now, what yez
ought to do is easy enough.”
He proceeded to expound his scheme in the
fervor of his enthusiasm. The old doctor had been
27 years in Warragee, and no one had ever said
him nay till a few months back, when a sleek and
well-groomed individual had made his appearance
suddenly, and proposed to make a living out of
Warragee’s sick. His top-hat was of the shiniest—
whereas the old doctor’s was browned with age and
dust—and the letters after his name weremanyand
imposing. As well, he was young, and “ had a way
with him,” and the Sprattsof Jimmiboroo had had
him for their measles, and the priest had called him
in for his broken leg, and old James Mafferty, the
richest man in the district, would look at nobody
else since his last bout of rheumatism, and the
sore corner in the touchy old doctor’s heart was
rapidly extending itself. Micky deemed that it
wanted but a few skilful touches to turn this to a
burning fester. Those few skilful touches he pro-
posed to help little Harnett to furnish.
The Little Solicitor smiled sadly, and said it
was all no good. In fact, what was the good of
anything! “ Life is a grievous burden to bear,”
he said —he had Philip Marston’s poems in his
portmanteau.
But Micky banged his pipe thoughtfully against
the wooden railing.
“ When they’ve come to be two fightin’ cocks,
there’ll be a law-case ready-made for yez.” His
eye glowed.
A few days after, he came up the white-stoned
steps, and flung himself into the other chair in
the office.
“ I been to him,” he said, “ an’ sez I, ‘ I hurted
me thumb-jint bad, doctor; ut hurts intirely.’
(By the luck av Brovidince I screwed it in the
dray-wheel.) ‘ It aches me bad,’ sez I. ‘Let
me have the look av it,’ sez he. ‘ I’ll disbandige
ut,’ sez I ; ‘ ’tis bandiged very quare,’ sez I. An’,
sez he, ‘ did yez bandige ut visself,’ he sez. ‘ No,’
sez I; ‘ but the wan who done ut is out av town
this afternoon. They say,’l sez, ‘that the other
doctor boy has a dale av work to do, an’ he’s
runnin’ here, an’ runnin’ there all over the coun-
thry,’ sez I. ‘ Oh,’ he sez, ‘ then this is his doin’,
it it?’ sniffin’scornful round and rootin’ off the
rags and grease as if they had been most un-
elanely. ‘ Well,’ he sez, ‘ I always knew the man
was an idjit, but this beats all,’ he sez. An’ he
hild hold av my hand and looked at it tight-ways.
‘Shure,’ he sez, ‘he’s not fit to physic a cat
with the toothache. Queer thing about that
diplomy av his. Ut ought to be stuffed
down his ignorant throat,’ he sez. Thin he mum-
bled somethin’ about quackeries. ‘ What's
that, Doctor?” sez I, quick-like, not catching it.
But he sez something different to me about i-int-
ments. ‘ Quackeries-i-intmints shall I be get-
ting ? ’ sez I. But he nivver noticed. Still, the
rist of ut was there.”
He paused to draw a deep, rich breath. “ An’
there’s your case! ” he said.
“ Where ? ” said the Little Solicitor.
“ Where? ” (scornfully). “ Askin’ yez to pick it
up 1 All you’ve got to do, me boy, is to keep
alongside av the young doctor awhiles, and talk
frindly to him ; and between whiles, aisily, afther
a dacent time av conversation has illapsed, mintion
fwhat the ould doctor said av him. ‘ I always
knew he was an idjit,’ he sez; an’, ‘ Quare thing
about that diplomy of his. Ut ought to be shtujfed
down his ignorant throat.’ There’s yer libel-action
made for yez.”
A small smile began to stretch itself around the
Little Solicitor’s gloomy mouth.
“But, I say, Micky, it’s hardly the game for me
to be up to, you know. ”
“ An’ fwhy not ? ” said Micky.
“ It’s a bit dirty / ”
“ Dirrty ? Dirrty ? ” with fine scorn. “What’s
dirrtier than money? But yez’ll put ut in the
pocket av your best coat all the same / ”
It was then, for the first time, that it occurred
to the solicitor that Micky was really in earnest.
Micky’s hair was quite grey, and he had seven
children to call him dad ; but all his years and all
his responsibilities had not sered the ever-green-
ness of his youthful heart. A “lhark” was a
“lhark ” for ever, and to help a fellow-creature in
distress was irresistible to him. His wife, indeed,
had been obliged long ago to restrict his pocket
allowance.
“Now, take yer time,” he urged. “Think ut
over. Th’ ould docthor must have a sight of
munny in a shtoekin’ somewhere. Think ut
over, boy.”
And he tossed and grunted in his sleep all that
night, and worked himself into such a fever over
his plotting that he had to get up and walk on the
verandah to cool himself.
But that same night something happened to up-
set all his Machiavellian plans. It was a very
common thing, too ; but Micky had never taken
it into account before.
» ■ * *
** I must go and tell the bhoy,” he said next
morning.
He was standing in the bar-parlor, with a very
long face, considering how he would break the
news, when someone came rushing in.
It was John Cross Garnett himself.
“Micky—Micky!” he cried, “we’ll let them
be. I’ve got work to do—a lot; with money in it.
It’s come from Andrew Harrows, at Bulla Julabee.
His bank-account is simply enormous. We’ll let
your poor old doctor be, Micky. Oh, God! how
glad lam.”
His voice actually gave a little crack. Micky
looked at him a minute. His eyes were glassy,
“ Betther so,” he said. “Poorould gintleman !
Now, I’m thinkin’ ut isn’t much we would have
gotten out av him, saints presarve his soul. He
was took dead in the night with the heart, they
sez, and I’m just going to be measurin’ him for
the fit av his coffin ! Betther so!”
The Little Solicitor was far too joyous over the
turn of the wheel of his good fortune to notice the
note of disappointment that crept in under
Micky’s brogue. But it was there ; even when he
was shaking little Garnett’s hand, and saying,
“Betther so.”
“ We don’t know fwhat he might not be saved
from,” was the only cdhsolation he offered him-
self.
M. LOUISE MACK.
“H.”: He National Biography. It is a
useful work to turn up for those facts which it is
undesirable that the poorer lower orders should
know, but which may be safely sealed in books
that cost ,£3O. For instance, in the life of George
IY. it is mentioned he had eleven known mis-
tresses, including Ladies Conyngham, Hertford,
and Jersey.
“ Medicus ” to The Bulletin re the matter
of leaving wounded persons in suspicious cases un-
dealt-with till arrival of police :
Last July I was called seven miles to a gun-shot case,
and found an attempted suicide in a state of collapse—
deathly cold, with pulse anyhow'. He had been left lying
on the earthen floor of a draughty stable for over three
hours, because a would-be knowing neighbor had warned
those present not to touch the poor devil till the authori-
ties arrived. It took several hours to restore normal cir-
culation.
A man with two forefingers on one hand
recently died of drink in a far western town.
That hand was the active cause of his decease.
He was a regular source of income to the local
pubs. When the cheques were not being dissi-
pated fast enough it was his business to slouch in,
and the pub-keeper would remark: “My oath;
’ere’s a bloke with five fingers on one hand.”
Most people felt called upon to ask a man with
five fingers on one hand what he would have, and
he had it so often that he died.
Dear Bulletin.— He flogging. lam sur-
prised to find your objections to the lash are purely
sentimental. Sensibility to pain in the criminal is
very blunt—at times wanting : hence the futility
of the lash as a punishment; further, it is brutal-
ising, because it sanctions brutality in the oppres-
sor and oppressed, and does not ameliorate the
anti-social conditions which the criminal evolves.
—Banool.
[Does “ Banool” really mean to assert that sensibility
to pain in the typical sexual-maniac—the sort of offender
most frequently lashed by law—is usually blunt ? The
Bulletin did not profess in those few sentences to state
all its objections to judicial torture ; it only stated the
one incontrovertible objection which, above all others,
the Democracy should keep in mind— i.e., that flogging
is, always has been, and will be while ever it endures, a
purely class punishment. The lash for the workman—
for the man in moleskin—for the man with a soft hat and
a soft head. Never for the man in frock-coat and bell-
topper. Always for the man who says “ Blankv 1 ” never
for him who says “Haw I”—Ed. B.]


little heating and impurity of peraons°haTe pimply a e r r ttl Pr ° duCeS m - ® ve .y°. ne > whether conscious of it or not, some
and bod^ after eating. Purgatives are not the ri|ht ’cure: tLTbXf Si 7ptg t t
WMH 811 ■ ■ ' Pn " g MecUemes fo r Man, Woman, or Child, is
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
ihey c -re, not by weakening the system, as purgatives do, but by giving it strength TW + . ~ , A A,
wor.d —and they cannot harm the most delicate. They s s g • J-hey are a tonic—the best tonic m the
In a Decline.
A GIRL MADE STRONG.
SHE FULLY DESCRIBES HER CASE.
T|i YI 'i'TS M. Green, of 34 Bay-street, Glebe, Sydney, for-
wards the following interesting and unsolicited letter to the Dr.
Williams Medicine Company, Sydney :
... Hear Sirs,-—Some twelve months ago I suffered very much
with pains in my head and chest. I was attended constantly by a
very cleyer doctor. I took his medicine until I was tired of it
and tried severa. other supposed remedies, but I gradually got
worse. I could not eat. I became
so weak and pale that if I tried to
sweep the floor I would have to sit
down several times before I could
finish. It was a trouble for me to
do anything. If I walked upstairs,
I would have to sit down when I
got to the top. I had not the least
color in my face or body ; people
used to say l was going into a de-
cline. Mother advised me to try
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People. She said I was very pale,
and they might do me good ; so I
bought some, and two or three
doses improved me wonderfully.
In all I took four boxes, and I am
now a different girl altogether. I
have such a nice, rosy complexion,
and ain strong and healthy, and
can do any work easily. The
people who know me ask what I
look to make such a wonderful
change in me, and I tell them ‘ Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.’ I will al-
&
Tt Sl r , Praise ‘ / am a real] y Sood advertisement for
jour puls, both in town and country, for I went nn thp crmntrv
a change fpr nine weoPs, but I came blcKoX Ifnl“Aprd
when I started to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I have nevefbeen
T ■'! ’ an u now 1 atr l the picture of health, thanks to your pills
I feel it my duty to write and thank you. I will always rememW
you for saving my life. J Jfcu
“Ever gratefully yours,
“ Phyllis M. Gbeen.”
Completely Run Down.
A PROMINENT THORNTON COMEDY ACTOR GIVES A
TESTIMONIAL.
HOW MR. GEORGE W. CAREY REGAINED HEALTH
AND VIGOR.
Hearing that the popular and versatile actor, Mr. George W
Carey, lately a leading member of the Thornton Comedy Company*
but who is now with Messrs. Williamson and hadTme-
thing to say with regard to the value of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pill™ a
Q DIZ ’«? d The Lantern waited upon him ’at
stavm<r 'n see5 ee i Pa a 0e ’ H,ndle y-street Adelaide, where he was
the mi-vJI ,n l ervl6w, ' r l . w f absolutely struck with wonder at
the marvellous change which had taken place in the nersonal
appearance of Mr. Carey since his last visit to Adelaide in 1897
wdk Sfi B 7i h °°medy Company. Then he was seldom able to
walk without the assistance of a stick, his face nearly always wore
he P had 1 Ml 0 tf Pe “ lOn ’ &S thou f gh he was in severe P ain . and, m fact,
wLri “ the appeara » ce of a man whose system, to use his own
the Xe W nt ° olnpletel y run down,” and, indeed, this was
the case. Now, however, the stick is discarded as a means
smibr| S ' St f 1106 mat -^ r what disfcance he walks-and his
smi 11 rn, face and genial manner show that he is in the
enjoyment of perfect health. How this result has been achieved is
perhaps better stated in his own words. He says “ Last Decem-
severe affa ? S J dne ?’ fe | h ? g m y s ? lf very much run down by the
. evore attacks of gout and rheumatism, from which I had suffered
wrr } !r a 7’,v^ o c the adv > ce of several friends, and tried Dr
Pdls -Jw Pale People. I have taken them regularly
lor six months, and they have now completely built up my system '
1 regard them as a wonderful medicine. It could not be expected
t at a few months course of any medicine would effect the complete
cue of an ailment of 16 years standing, but Dr. Williams’ Pink
their improved me wonderfully, and I am in great hopes of
the r eradlc ating the disease. I am a firm believer in
tneir curative powers, and I can conscientiously recommend them.”
♦
Strength and Vigor for Weakened
Men and Women.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered to the Public with a full
confidence because there is no disease arising from a Waterv or
Impoverished Condition of the Blood, or from Shattered Nervous
Aorces, which they have not cured when the directions have been
faithfully followed, and the treatment persisted in ; they are not a
patent medicine; they are a thoroughly scientific preparation the
result of years of careful study. It is a well-recognised fact that
upon the healthy activity of the blood and nerves and the vital
organs depending upon them, depends the mental and physical
of U er l F erson c , ome to adult y eara - It is that which
f, s .? rosy m! us i t* 0 . the okeek > and the soft light to the eye of
. , Th e elastic step, the ringing laugh, and the strong
!\°fu yo i lth °r Vn t J HS same main-spring. How soon does
anaemia rob the face of colour, the eye of brightness? The blood
nZTZ 1 rrl P° ve rished, the victim pale. The pallor of the skin is
p ?, on f ly °" fc 7 ard ma , rk , of the trouble within. ‘ Dr. Williams’
5- 111 / 8 for Tale People’ enrich the impoverished blood, then
vigor returns, and the bloom of youth again mantles the faded
wm -' , ,F°” ha .Y, e tned “any treatments unsuccessfully, try Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. You will not be disappointed.
PLEASE WRITE TO US.
If yn. ll ar £ suffering from any ailment whatsoever, please write
to us. V\ e shall tell you whether we have heard of similar cases
to yours being cured by our pills. If we have not, we will say so.
We will treat you with the utmost candour; your letter will be
sacredly confidential. Do not hesitate to write, we will answer you
freely, and without charge. Kindly address: Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have positively cured, in thousands of
cases, such diseases as measles, rheumatism, neuralgia, partial
paralysis, loeoinoter-ataxia, St. Vitus’ dance, nervous headache,
nervous prostration, and the after-effects of influenza, dengue,
typhoid and scarlet fevers, and severe colds, diseases depending
upon humors in the blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas, etc.
bifid by chemists and storekeepers generally, or the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Company, Sydney, N.S.W., will forward, on receipt of
stamps or post-order, one box for two and nine, or half-a-dozen for
m fce . en and threepence. See that the full name—» Dr. Williams’
.mk I ills for Pale People ” is printed in red ink on the white out-
side wrapper. This is the genuine package, specially manufactured
tor these colonies. Accept none other.
,®e Sl j re .y° n » sk for Ur. Williams' Pink Pills; it is only Dr-
Williams Pink Pills which have performed the thousands of mar*
vellous cures, as advertised.
D? WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
u
Facsimilc of Only Genuine Package.
DR. WILLIAMS PINK PILLS Brace up the Spine, Strengthen the Brain *hirich the Blood, and Build up the Whole System.
To a Bunch of Heather.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Was it early in the autumn, was it sunny summer
weather ?
Were the white mists on the Carter when they
plucked you on the moor ? J
Were the mountain dews upon you in the morn-
lng> kpng of Heather,
When they took you from your sisters for the long
lone Southern tour ? 8
Did you hide from those who sought you ? Did
you think the white hand cruel
That could choose you from a thousand as the
brightest and the best,
That could bind you as a token, richer far than
any jewel,
Fora love-word to the Southland from the old
home in the west ?
Did you hear the Nor’ winds singing in the white
, sails—you so tightly Q
n S/lr„mX r Mul , r B'<i 8 ' <i ”" d Withered ' mk
n " 3 a h „7„ig h My7 bl ‘ ing ™ Sine '’ and the *«•
Did you hear the crashing water and the bow-
blade breaking through ?
Did you feel the home-love tremble, when I took
you in my fingers?
Did C,StloS Why th6y plucked
Dkl s, l KK™r eht the m ”’ c ° [ *
Did you guess that for the mountains yearned
another heart than yours ?
Did you know that you were laden with a lost
year s joy and sorrow?
Did you know that you were royal with the rain-
bow and the rain ?
Lying oh ! so worn and withered in my brown
hand, did you borrow
Fora moment from the touching all I felt of pride
and pain ?
Did you guess that you were queenly with the
scent of budding brier?
Dl<l lonelini r ? the laVei ' OC * sin S in S? to my lifted
Did you guess you brought me tidings in your
fading purple fire -
°f the blue-bells down by Cheviot ? Sprig of
Heather, did you guess?
are fading little love-word, as the morning
stars are paling ; 8
Will it bring you back the purple of the hill-side
where you gre»
If I lay you in the window ? Can it be like me
you re ailing
For a sight of mountain moorland, little exile
from the blue ?
w. H. OGILLVIE.
“The Liquor That Made Him.”
(From the annals of a First Family.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Betsy was gazing from the door of her little
grog-shop down the old road from Brisbane to
Ipswich. Short and squat, square of build and
almos , square of visage, Mullingar heifer, if ever
there was one, she stood there a sturdy figure,
almost filling the little doorway. Betsy was
tSTs e a ke arri 7 al ° f \ ke * ° f rum ‘ Ifc ’ s a small
duly ™ m ’ but properly dd uted and
auiy retailed there s money in it. It had built
Betsy s shanty, had that little keg, and filled
Betsy s stocking and enabled Betsy to engage a
regular retainer, whose business it was to hump
aforesaid rum—for it was no uncommon thing at
of the wa?f SPlri ii t0 , be carried thus a good part
of the way from Brisbane to Ipswich. (It was
humood e th 1 A n p Certa i U ° ircleS that B etsy herself had
days*) d keS al ° ng the WGary r ° ad in former
h£l Jenki T aSthe first* and best of Betsy’s
customarviir' along one day with the
n™r?Z y t burden on his shoulder, he was
jlrrt»h a a f £ end ° n h °rs<fi>ack. ‘ ‘ Look out,
eot winu 7 lGd th e horseman, “the police have
nd , of you and your cargoes, and they’ll be
reflected s^ nse *' ’ Jenkins pulled up and
fewmfnl;. A k eg of rum can’t be disposed of in a
a mdess you re willin S t0 sacrifice the
f UCb aa accursed thought never for a
moment entered the cranium of Jerry. There
he a knewTt UCh tlmG f ° r ponderin g, however, and
• • • ,
„3! kinS ? n for about a Quarter of a mile, he
. a place where the country was soft and
sandy. He bent down hy the side of the road and
I nrr it nC f d to SC0 °P a hole. Down he went until
a depth of some two and a half feet was attained,
when he gently laid the keg to rest, covered it up
aa d laughed to himself in quiet satisfac-
o a'x. db^ n be strewed the spot over with leaves
and brushwood, built a fire there and put the
Duly on.
About sundown up rode the troopers. They
gazed suspiciously at Jenkins, who greeted them
with an amiable grin. Nearly everybody was
ospitable m those days, and Jerry was no excep-
tion.. the two sleuth-hounds peered around
inquisitively, sniffed the wind now and again with
a curious air, and then accepted Jerry’s invitation
to try a pannikin of tea.
And so Jerry’s cargo was safely landed in
Betsy s keeping. The yarn of how it had escaped
the clutches of the law passed round the litt’e
town, and everybody laughed at the troopers.
Moreover, Betsy, delighted with Jenkins’ achieve-
ment, fell desperately in love with that hero and
married him a month or so after. And their
family—how it grew and how it rose in the world
is matter of notoriety.
* • * .
/■d* , oth ® r day folks s aw the Hon. John Jenkins
(Jietsy s eldest) rolling along the same old road in
bis buggy. Glorious in broadcloth, purple of
visage, and rotund as a drum, he pulled up at a
little country pub and called for Rum' a
beverage almost unheard of in the neighbourhood,
lhe old resident who ran the pub, watched the
wheels of Jenkins equipage disappear adown the
d usty road, after the great man’s thirst had been
satisfied, and remarked proudly “ He’s a good
un is John. Takes after the old folks. He don’t
turn his back on the liquor that made him.”
Q.
P. LUFFIG.
To pi event the total extinction of certain
classes of Australian fauna, Vic. Govt, has re-
sei yed 91,000 acres at Wilson’s Promontory as a
.National Park, wherein all native animals—bar
snakes—may live and breed without molestation.
Gentlemen requiring Spring and Summer Un-
aerwear and Overwear should call in or drop a line to
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st., where their requirements will
be studied. We exert all our energies to please our
clients, in town or out of town, and give more for their
cash than most firms. As we pay solid gold down on the
spot for everything we buy, we buy cheapest, conse-
quently sell cheapest; and, being always on the spot,
we have first pick of the newest European goods. Now
what do you require ? An answer on a penny postcard
will do nicely. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.
Love for a Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wb have been many things in our time, Jack and
I, and when we come together, in our casual,
Bohemian way, we manage to get fun out of life,
impossible to you discreet pharisees and respect-
able publicans. We are never discreet, and rarely
respectable—as you understand Respectability.
We had 10s. between us that day in Sydney,
and 10 hours in which to spend it, so we hired a
boat from an old friend and rowed away across the
harbor. The sea played like a gay child at the
knees of the hills, the sky was clear save for one
or two dainty clouds the south winds chased; and
the smart squat steamers bustled across, leaving
lines of foam and waves that rocked us as they
swelled past.
We landed at the foot of a garden, and the
house belonging to it being vacant, we climbed the
moss-grown steps to the lawn overshadowed with
lemon-trees, golden with fruit. There were beds
of violets and heliotrope, jonquils, narcissus, and
occasional roses, with lazy bees whirring towards
their centres. Leaning back, we looked across the
gay wilderness to the blue water framed in the
quivering leaves of gums and pittosporums. Over
the way were red-roofed houses, lawns and shrub-
beries ; around, the twitter of birds, and the little
murmur in the leaves which made us happy.
We talked of everything and nothing, and told
our love-affairs. You were ecstatic over an
American girl, divinely tall, with blue eyes (mine
are brown); I showed you my diamond ring in re-
turn for the American girl, both relishing the
little pangs of jealousy which gave tang and keen-
ness to the recital. Then we discussed the possi-
bility of marrying each other, as we have done so
often, and will so often do again. Pretended we
were rich, and made plans for trips to the ends of
the world, where Romance lives, in a someday
that will never come for you and me, Jack—
perhaps that is the charm of being together, that
there never will be a someday for us; the charm
of something sweet to sigh for.
What does it mean, for two young, indolent
people, when the afternoon sun glints down
through the trees and a scarlet cannia leans up to
reach it, and violets twinkle below in ecstacies of
suppressed gentle merriment ? When the yellow
jasmine casts down reckless showers of blossom
on gleaming, white marble steps, and a gay honey-
sucker dances in and out ? When in the shade,
near great ferns, velvet pansies lie, with glittering
golden eyes, and in the gums overhead there are
sudden vagrant scarlet leaves ? It meant to us to
talk of poetry and love ; and sometimes be silent
with an occasional smile into each other’s eyes.
Ai ?, w ? returned, the water was quiet, ’the
sparkles had gone ; it was falling asleep, tired of
the day. Over the city lay the veil of smoke
like the gauzy trappings of a foreign dancer, the
lights like gay sequins twinkling as she moved,
ihe sea had grown old since the morning ; it lay
below the city, quiet and full of mystery,” bearing
stately ships and fretting steamers over dark
depths jealously hidden. Far out in quiet reaches,
lights peered down inquisitively to illimitable
depths.
Up a steep street from the wharf, through the
hurrying crowd, past the big post-office looming
darkly against the starry sky, and away up
George-street to a little restaurant we knew of
old. I was glad I was well-dressed—what a
difference it makes ! You know, women when
they build castles in the air, always plan the
dresses they will wear in them—such furs, silks,
jewels, such dainty shoes and gloves. At another
table sat Cyril Yarley and his fiancee. She
was shabbily dressed. I knew Cyril, -and I
knew her worn gloves irritated him ; the limp
lace at her neck affected his appetite, and
the abjectly bad cut of her jacket made the whole
world seem squalid and profitless. Jack ! you
men are so often such snobs, even the best of you.
Cyril would not notice me—well, because. And
yet he hated that I, a little actress girl, should see
how shabby Miss Thwaites was.
We had our coffee in a cafti in the Strand, down
steep steps. We had the place to ourselves, for it
was early, and we lingered over the best coffee in
Sydney, suggesting that, in that Oriental-looking
room, the proprietors should clothe his waiting-
maids in Turkish costumes. I had been a wait-
ing-girl there myself once, before I went on the
stage, and after I had been a governess.
Then off we went to the Tivoli—the dear old
Tivoli 1 always homely and familiar; its perpetual
tree-ferns overflowing with fat, ogling girls in
tights; its .stage crowded with coquettists, or
stolid beauties in evening dress, all intensely self-
conscious—even the damsel who gazed round with
affected indifference, and proud of the fact that
her d&colleU yellow gown was the only garment
worthy of the name, the others being garbed in
some indescribable mush of pink or blue crepon,
lace, ribbon, and silk gloves.
Then Peggy Pryde came on, and Peggy took us
by storm ; we laughed till we cried, and Peggy
told us that the lodgers were a mouldy lot, and
that she had trouble with a shy lover, whom she
urged, “If you want to come in—Come in! If
you don’t—stay out. ”
. Peggy never makes a mistake ; it’s fact all the
time; she’s an actress from top to toe, by nature,
intuition, and art. Those who don’t understand
this say “ Vulgar ! ” and as they are, as a rule, the
worshippers of Wilson Barrett, it does not matter
at all; for between Wilson and Peggy lies the
fact that one is an artist, the other a hard-working
man. You know what I mean, Jack, for every
fibre of us responded to Peggy’s grip.
We laughed at and applauded other things;
turned to gaze at glorious creatures with golden
hair and purple velvet dresses, attended by heavy
beings in chesterfields and soft hats, thinking far
more of the heavy supper they would presently
consume than of the stage before them. At
family parties who loudly applauded everything
from the oldest of chestnuts to Peggy’s newest
utterance. We spared a little sympathy for the
unfortunate tenor whose part it was to sing dreary
love-songs to a fast-emptying house. Then away
with empty pockets, Peggy’s praises on my lips,
you to your lodging-house, heaven knows where,
I to the company of an Qld aunt, with good-night
to you at the gate.
A. LEO WATHE.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
nOTI Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Bain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
' CuklincsV, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chi Is, Flush-
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Bills, and they will be acknowledged to be ‘ V/ JBiTH A
C* JIM ft A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. Ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham,' s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EH CLAUD.
Sold E very where, in Boxes, 9 id, Is lid, and —s Od each.
The WORLD looks on
and LAUGHS and
drinks its
C 0 c
WHY
I
t:,
Because it has been pronounced
—by the World’s best judges
GRATEFUL & COMFORTING
not for a day but for a lifetime.
It is the World’s standard of
EXCELLENCE and nothing
can alter it.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
jf.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT 8R0~.,. L + .d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these iri and medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of suiferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity tiieir beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxkohd-st., London. Pur-
el lasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
¥W~ Poverty Ir’oixitera 1
Your Cue it —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL*
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
Wor'li Queenal and.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleas 'd to see any
U of his West Australian and North Q,u •. nsland friends
if they will give him a call at. the (do i! HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained troiu J.W.
AND
NS
OBSERVE THAT THE
-
SIGNATURE
>/
U
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL, WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors! i
Worcester; j
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; l
and Export Oilmen generally. I
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. '
SAUC
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial skould ever be without the
invaluable Remedy , whieh saves many live-.
Fop outward application, instead of
poultices, use
■0 ,vBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottlrs, at I*. 2s. 9 d-, 4s. rid.,
■,»nd 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Sulfield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPIT 1 ET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with C oinrnentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outr age.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
c~:
top that Cougrli i
Don’t Delay.
TAKE
Bosnington s
S3ISIIOIS
The Great Remedy for Cou-jhs, Colds, Influenza, As' lima, 1 Iron •
chitis. Whooping Compli Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Cottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap C institutes.
BONNINGTONS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Bilion ness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Eia.ulenee, Dizziness, Endues a.ter Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Yegor,hie Ex.rac.s : " and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Reg date the Bowels hi Healthy Action- Do not Gripe.


.
'v.r „
m
on A mm» Makei!s
Established
1 547.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRSS DO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories . Toronto, Canada.
Australasian ITenriq’H’rs, IG3 IC9M’illiam-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address S
35 Broadway, Gcorjo St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies Irnost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue lice, ou a up. icatlou.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECT RICA L ENGINEERS,
M A N TJ FACT U RE RS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookmaa’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and OflTO
Market-Sts. I CL Lb
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges*
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
SBfcfEaJXLXn.at't^S
SPOOKS & PORKS
ann fprn?
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
r
8
<s>H E
T
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)iogtoQ PGnjpipg Epgipc Conjpaiw.
(A ust) ala.svr/t, branch,.) BimpSOll HrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MAR&#
Sydney, X.S.\Y.
-A.g’exxciesi z
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTtI MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE -
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. O. UtBRIDG-E & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is_Health?
Jffieumatinm, Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, dto,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PAJtKE.It, 145 Victoria Paradis,
MTZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.B.H. the Prince of Wales
Jars(concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
Depots ;
"OLEIC
Self Applied.
STDHJtI—M. H. Hoewit*, 84 Pitt St
Adelaide-Harms & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J. E. Phiuleps, 817 Collins St,
HS3HJ MSN
Pioneers
x» the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best *
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLA(
OF SYDNEY ’ '
Game, Poultry,
Ice, Butter, Fish,
Visit the CITY
ARCADE-
these Depots
DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92
-for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note;— i
for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private
:
v*«
SHOP at 135 KING
is ONE OF
’ -
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Manager.
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SO Clarence Street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
t' ’ l?* - * r \ 'r \ yil ' * li' > \» pb ? r
Patentees of —Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “Janies” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Rote. We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
GrO.d Mines of W.A. Ltd., four set" of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Ba " , ° * B*ktog
Powder.
THIS IS WASHING DAY !
HOYLE’S PRIMTS *re FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us th«g price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY TEE CO3T OF MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming - Yon will want a Washing Dress.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence St.,
Sydney.
m
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Th.e Geo. F. Blake Mranfg. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W". F. & John Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia—J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand —J. BURNS & CO., Auokland.
