

McBWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
= FRY’S HALTED COCOA
GXJARAKTTEED PURE COCOA iLMD EXTRACT OF MALT.
B. G 7 WATXSLIIffS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
iur* . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE &C?
m
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES!SYDNE
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS. **
Up-to-Date Floiir Milling Machinery, Xingixiea & Boilers,: Steel Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
ever 2200 Hydro-Extract nrs Sold andat work
CIGARS
w Yifty
'tunfttH&RMrr
SMOK£
N ‘
©lf 8
h
:M.RUTTrWSYDNLY
85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
B
NT
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.rxd see that you get it.
PROOF
m
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Ordera
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
OOUO /
f/j
■ "“*4%
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W I'M POLLS GEORGE HOTE L> opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HO BART.
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
m
a//
oo
V
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING!
The Jbeading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address,
J. C. LUDOWICT & SOM, LTD.,
IX7 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
XXigHest ALwa,rdls wherever BxUilbited.
THE WORLD
OWNED
E dig wan - Lamp.
■ r
EDISV/ANI
m ■
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IBS EDMS STO
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamp: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC! CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
V Ol. 19.— iso. 976. j
[Saturday, October 29, 1898.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin will publish this month
fair Girls and Gray Roms
ami) Other limes.
By WILL EL OGILVIB.
<.
Reprinted from the Australasias ; 'the Sydney Mail ;
the Border Watch, S.A. ; the Wkrtlkrn Champion,
Parkes, N.S.W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin. With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces. *• .
Handsomely bound in cloth, post free js. 6d. Orders
sent at once, with remittance, will be forwarded
immediately on publication.
APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R..M.S. OCEANA.
Burleigh’s The Sirdar, 6s, post6s 9d ; Hyndinan’s Radia-
tion, Cs, post 6s 6d ; Kidder’s Building Construction, Vol.
11., 20s, post 21s ; Davies’s The King’s Jackal, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Ford’s Untold Love, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Smith’s Caleb West, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Maclhvaine’s Dinkenbar, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Pugh and Cleig’s Rogue’s Paradise, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Dunderdale’s Book of the Bush,
2s 6d and 3s Cd, post 3s and 4s ; Caniei*on’s Ways of a
Widow, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Hoeking’s (S.K.)
God’s Outcast, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Long’s Cherry Blossom,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. By Rolf Boldrewood.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S SPECIAL
EDITION, Bvo. Wrapper 6d, post Bd.
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By W.\r. 11. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Or. Bvo. 7s 6d, post Bs.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s Od.
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN :
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
-ri3CE3 A.R&OBffATJTT'
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
“ The Argonaut is the most readable American news-
paper.”—The Bulletin.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from ihe older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, 'out an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors:
“ Whatever you are, never he commonplace.” The re-
sult is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly re\ tew of the literary movement. Brief notes on
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at The Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail ; price, 6d. ; posted, 7d. ; mailed to any
Australasian add cess for £1 per annum and postage.
TO Will TEES.
mHE S.A. Critic desires Prose and Verse
Contributions for its New Year number
Only short, bright articles desired. Matter suit-
able for illustration preferred. Contributions
should be forwarded before 11th NOVEMBER.
Address—
EDITOR, The Critic,
1 Brookman’s Buildings,
Gren fell-street, Adelaide.
Pe Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; doth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Favenc, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers)—
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs oe the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d. A
few. copies remain.
Heady Ist November.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, by Will H.
Ogilvie (“ Glenrowan ”).; with three vignette
illustrations by G. W. Lambert; doth, gilt
top, 4s. 6d. post-free.
In the Press.
A Bush Tanqueray and Other Stories, by
Albert Dorrington (“:Alba Dorion ”).
The Ways of Many Waters; Ballads of
Sea and Shore, by E. J. Brady.
In Preparation. ■
On Our Selection, by A. H. Davis (“Steele
Rudd”).
Maoriland, and Other Verses, by Arthur
H. Adams. •
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
: George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : T-he Editor, The Bulletin.
UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED AS THE BEST . . .
THAT MONEY CAN BUY, are ...
They are the finest production, in their line, of
Nineteenth Century Science!
THE RED PAGE.
I.
As one who, in a desert wandering
Alone and faint beneath a pitiless sky,
And doubting in his heart if he shall bring
His bones back to his kindred or there die,
Finds at his feet' a .treasure suddenly
Such as would make him for all time a king,
And so forgets his fears and with keen eye
Falls to a-counting each new precious thing,
—So was I when you told me yesterday
The tale of your dear love. Awhile I stood
Astonished and enraptured, and my heart
Began to count its treasures. Now dismay
Steals back my joy, and terror chills my blood,
And I remember only “ we must part.”
.. . ■ . ii.
Why practise, love, this small economy
Of your heart’s favours ?* Can you keep a kiss
To be enjoyed in age ? and would the free
Expense of pleasure leave you penniless ?
Nay, nay. Be wise. Believe me, pleasure is
A gambler’s token, only gold to-day.
The day of love is short, and every bliss
Untasted now is a bliss thrown away.
’Twere pitiful, in truth, such treasures should
Lie by like miser’s crusts till mouldy grown.
Think you the hand of age will be less rude
In touching your sweet bosom than my own ?
Alas, what matter, when our heads are grey,
Whether you loved or did not love to-day ?
hi.
I ask for love who famished am in plenty,
Not scorning the dear manna of your tears,
But being vexed with that too froward twenty
Which heads the sum of my reb dlious years.
My soul is fallen “ in lust of cucumbers,
Of fish, of melons,” through its long abstaining.
Unworthy Egypt yet enslaves my fears.
Ah, love, I thirst-, but not for heaven’s raining.
Why speak to me, alas, of heavenly joys
Who ask for joys of earth these cannot cheat ?
What are these clouds, these pillars of fire to me ?
The wilderness is long. Youth cannot be
For ever fed-on these unnatural toys,
And needs must murmur if it have not meat.
IV.
What is this prate of friendship? Kings dis-
crowned
Go forth, not citizens but outlawed men.
If love has ceased to give a loyal sound,
Let there at least be silence. Once again
I go, proscribed, exiled, dominionless
Out of your coasts, yet scorning to complain.
I grudge not your allegiance nor my bliss,
I yield the pleasure as I keep the pain.
Rebellion’s rights are limited though strong.
The right to take gives not the right to give.
Mine were the sole right and prerogative
To give a title or forgive a wrong.
This gift of friendship was not yours to bring.
As I have lived in love I still will live
Or die, if needs fhust, and without reprieve,
Your lover yet and kingdomless a king.
v.
I love not thy perfections. When I hear
Thy beauty blazoned, and the common tongue
Cheapening with vulgar praise a lip, an ear,
A cheek that I have prayed to ; when among
The loud world’s gods my god is noised and sung,
Her wit applauded, even her taste, her dress,
Her each dear hidden marvel lightly flung
At the world’s feet and stripped to nakedness—
Then I despise thy beauty utterly,
Crying, “Be these your gods, O Israel! ”
And I remember that on such a day
I found thee with eyes bleared and cheeks all pale,
And lips that trembled to a voiceless cry,
And that thy bosom in my bosom lay.
VI.
We might, if you had willed, have conquered
heaven.
Once only in our lives before the gate
Of Paradise we stood, one fortunate even,
And gazed in sudden rapture through the grate.
And, while you stood astonished, I, our fate
Venturing, pushed the latch and found it free.
There stood the tree of knowledge fair and great
Beside the tree of life. One instant we
Stood in that happy garden, guardianless.
My hands already turned towards the tree,
And in another moment we had known
The taste of joy and immortality
And been ourselves as gods. But in distress
You thrust me back with supplicating arms
And eyes of terror, till the impatient sun
Had time to set and till the heavenly host
Rushed forth on.us with clarions and alarms
And cast us out for ever, blind and lost.
VII.
How loud the storm blew all that bitter night 1
The loosened ivy tapping on the pane
Woke me and woke, again and yet again,
Till I was full awake and sat upright.
I listened to the noises of the night,
And presently I heard, disguised yet plain,
A footstep on the stair which mounted light
Towards me, and my heart outbeat the rain.
I knew that it was you. I knew it even
Before the door, which by design ajar
Waited your coming, had disclosed my fate.
I felt a wind upon my face from heaven,
i felt the presence of a life. My hair
Was touched as by a spirit. Insensate
I drew you to liiy bosom. Ah, too late !
I clutched the darkness. There was nothing there.
VIII.
We may not meet, I could not for pride’s sake
Dissemble further, and I suffer pain,
A palpable distinct and physical ache,
When our eyes meet by accident, and when
I hear you talk in your pathetic strain
Which always moved me. Only yesterday,
As I was standing with a crowd of men
In the long corridor, you came my way
And chanced to stop, and thus by chance I heard
A score of phrases uttered in that sad
Half-suppliant voice which once my spirit stirred
To its foundations. Yet your theme was glad—
Strangers your hearers. What was in these spells
To move me still ? A trick and nothing else ?
IX.
You are not false, perhaps, as lovers say !
Meaning the act—Alas, that guilt was mine !
Nor, maybe, have you bowed at other shrine
Than the true god’s where first you learned tp
pray.
I know the idols round you. They are clay—
Mere Dagons to the courage half divine
Which bears you scat hless still thro’ sap and mine
And breach and storm upon your virgin way ?
Alas, I know your virtue ! But your heart,
How have you treated it ? I sometimes see,
When nights ai'e long, a vision chaste and true
Of pale pathetic eyes, which gaze on me
In loye and grief eternal. Then I start,
Crying aloud, and reach my arms to you.
x.
Farewell, then. It is finished. I forego
With this all right in you, even that of tears.
If I have spoken hardly, it will show
How much I loved you. With you disappears
A glory, a romance of many years.
What you may be henceforth I will not know.
The phantom of your presence on my fears
Is impotent at length for weal or woe.
Your past,.your present, all alike must fade
In a new land of dreams, where love is not.
Then kiss me and farewell. The choice is made
And we shall live to see the past forgot,
If not forgiven. See, I came to curse,
Yet stay to bless. I know not which is worse.
I %
These are some of the sonnets of Wilfrid Scawen
Blunt, who has reached the dignity, of a selected
edition with W. E. Henley and George Wyndham
for sponsors. ’the collection is welcome.; for
minor poets in five booklets are trying alike to
patience and to pocket.
* * * *
Blunt (lie looks it, shorn of the wilful, scornful
lames which seem subtly to index and to have in-
iuenced his character) has had definite status
since his “Love Sonnets of Proteus ” were issued
in ’81; and his subsequent work has only con-
firmed, not heightened, that status. His poetry
is unusually personal and peculiarly interesting ;
you gain from it in iiroportion as you bring.
Blunt is characteristically timid and melancholy ;
he has forced himself to'be courageous and cheer-
ful, conquering a body which ill seconded his
brain and desires. For all men of his tempera-
ment or near it, his verse has the force of a private
history, a self-revelation. It recites Blunt’s ex-
perience and criticism of life; it embalms his
emotions recollected in tranquillity. And there-
fore (partly) it is not Poetry, or not the highest
kind of Poetry.
• * • *
In excusing Blunt in the preface, Henley ac-
cuses him. He sees clearly that Blunt is no
artist; that he has small sense of words and no
imagination ; that his pictures are photographs,
accurate and strong and attractive, but never
lifted (to use meaningless words from which a
meaning may be gathered) through the mere
human to the pure divine. To justify a defence
which, to his own mind, seems not thoroughly
justified, Henley makes a division between the
Poetry of Life and the Poetry of Art; and, rang-
ing (quite properly) Blunt’s verses in the first
class, he seeks to establish their claim to be
as high or as valuable as some verses in the second
class.
* * * »
It is always difficult to speak truth of a living
author at the beginning- of his own book, and
Henley has felt the hamper. So his best opinion
must be read beneath his liues; and it is substan-
tially just. Blunt has Energy—the energy of a
hale, strong man ; and the virile force of him heats
his verse to dull-red, but it never glows to white.
Hi s work is Nature in himself, or plus himself,
not multiplied by himself. He lives poetically on
the plane of his actual life, neither higher nor
lower; and since any actual life is a poor thing
beside the life conceivable, Blunt’s verses are poor
things beside the high. conceits of Poetry. It.is
better to resign their high-poetical claim, and to con-
sider them as a human document; for the man is
better than his work, and has lived better.
That is Blunt’s own point of view. He writes—
I would not, if I could, be called a poet.
I have no natural love of the “ chaste muse.”
If aught be worth the doing I would do it;
And others, if they will, may tell the news.
I care not for their laurels but would choose
On the world’s field to fight or fall or run.
My soul’s ambition will not take excuse
To play the dial rather than the sun.
Tlie faith I held I hold, as when a boy
I left my books for cricket-bat and gtjn.
The tales of poets are but scholars’ themes.
In my hot youth I held it that a man .
With heart to dare and stomach to enjoy
Had better work to his hand in any plan
Of any folly, so the thing were done,
Than m the noblest dreaming of mere dreams.
He may have chosen the better part; but he can-
not have both parts. Art is a mistress who bears
no rivalry : she exacts that Life must be her hand-
maid, and will not yield her best if forced to serve
as Life’s.
* * * *
In the youth which Blunt might have spent in
verses he fought bulls and wandered with
Bedouins ; and the Muse was coy when he called
her in his thirties. He persevered, and half-turned
the averted face, yet never saw it wholly. Had
his early bent been otherwise, Blunt might haye
done very fine poetic work. There is nearly the
force of Shakespeare in him, had he only Shake-
speare’s fancy. The pith of the following, one of
the best of Blunt’s “sonnets” (they are Catholic
as he, and include their 15, or 10, or even more
lines, without a noticeable murmur), is very Shake-
spearean. He has been talking of the origin and
youth of man, and proceeds—
And then fate strikes us. (First our joys decay.
Youth, with its pleasures, is a tale soon told.
We grow a little poorer day by day.
Old friendships falter. Loves grow strangely cold.
In vain we shift our hearts to a new hold
And: barter joy for joy, the less for less.
We doubt our strength, our wisdom, and our gold.
We stand alone, as in the wilderness
Of doubts and terrors. Then, if we be wise,
We make our terms with fate and; while we may,
Sell our life’s last sad remnant for a hope.
And it is wisdom thus to close our eyes.
But for the foolish, those who cannot pray,
What else remains of their dark horoscope
But a tall tree, and courage, and a rope ?
* * * *
The effect of this is very like the effect, of Shake-
speare’s 129th—“ The expense of spirit in a waste
of shame —-but even in this hard, strong, com-
paratively stiff and cold sonnet of Shakespeare’s
there is an imaginative flavour,, a melody in the
words, which are Blunt’s essential lacks. And
when you take one of Shakespeare’s softer,
warmer, more poetical sonnets, the difference is at
once apparent—
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
And there reigns love and all love’s loving parts,
And all those friends which I thought buried.
How many a holy and obsequious fear.
Hath dear religious love stol’n from mine eye
As interest of the dead, which, now appear
But things removed that-hidden in thee lie !
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
That due of many now is thine alone :
Their images 1 loved I view in thee,
And thou, all they, hast all the all of me.
Here the atmosphere is different altogether from
Blunt’s : it is not a clear, dry air, but one moist
and mellowed with feeling.: it is the air of Poetry
suffusing the country of Romance. Blunt never
gets nearer to Romance than passionate reality.
Or take an example from sensuous Rossetti, of in-
tellectual mettle inferior to Blunt’s.
Eat thou and drink ; to-morrow thou shalt die.
Surely the earth, that’s wise being very old,
Needs not our help. Then loose me, love, and hold
Thy sultry hair up from my face ; that I
May pour for thee this golden wine, brim-high,
Till round the glass thy fingers glow like gold.
We’ll drown all hours : thy song, while hours are
toll’d,
Shall leap, as fountains veil the changing sky.
Now kiss, and think that there are really those,
My own liigh-bosomed beauty, who increase
Yain gold, vain lore, and yet might choose our way !
Through many years they toil; then on a day
They die not, —for their life was death, —but cease;
And round their narrow lips the mould falls close.
* * * *
This has no particular thought-value; but it is
Poetry : Rossetti was born to inherit beauty, and
he makes the wilderness of words a holy ground
with phrase and cadence. Blunt lost the power
over words (if lie ever possessed its potency), when
he failed to cultivate it sedulously in youth. So
in later years, when he talked of a dead passion,
he could say that “our love is dead.” He might
even have risen to “ our troth is dead, ” heighten-
ing the poetry by the change of a word ; but the
change, and cadence, and heightening in “the
noblest troth dies here to dust ” were beyond
him ; and lines like—
The sunrise blooms and withers on the hill
Like any billflower ; and the noblest troth
Dies here to dust.
were far above him in the ether.
* * * *
This is meant as explanation, not as deprecia-
tion : in some moods Blunt’s verses are better to
read than Rossetti’s. His best and longest piece,
“Griselda,” is a very fine and suggestive woman-
study (and incidentally man-study), and Blunt,
like Burns, is better than his verses. His sym-
pathy for Arabi and Ireland sprang from a heart
bigger than his big brain. Even at 58 men call
him one of the finest and finest-looking fellows in
England, or in Egypt.


<
0
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feeling’s to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
which
but it
has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
is , i .
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last’ by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
N ervousJDebility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your-eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
iiii-TTrfif
I
ill Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
a
',(r,
g? 7>P e. -'o rK
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Reseed at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner —in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, XOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FKEEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
fleasemention this Paper when ivriting.] Coxuiespondence, P.O. Box 1350.
*
p
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
. He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the firsb letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
11l
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has di emnentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l— which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TKADE
N OIdVHBHI
Mark.
This successtul and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Uieord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remai ka'dy short time, olten a tew days only,
removes ad dischargi s iroin the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impuritv of the blood, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains ami swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystem through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter iroin the body.
THERAPION N 0.3
for nei v.ms exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &e. It possesses surprising power ill
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
s sold by all
lie principal
the World,
lering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ab .ve Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Theravion ” as itappearson the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
THERAPION
Chemists and Men hauls throughout
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In or
Agents for Thbrapion' —FELTON, GRIM'WADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMRSITT & Co.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light ancL Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD &' CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
r ATROPHY in
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and. DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
. J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
pk Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool Sts., Melbourne,
VARICO
CELE.
Every Mam
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing- one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss—-Elastic—without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &e. ;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO..
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS
EXHAUSTION
in its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pill?.
Truly. a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ; no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourkb Street, E - Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Waning. Is. 3d.


TATTERS ALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
November 1
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot rne.
. Shares in the above.
Name
Address
No. 2.
*OOO AT 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on Day of Race.
Clients will kindly Note This when applying for Tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name,
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


I)Q (£la&s
of FaSbioi}
• HORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —r
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving Strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
™E GRAPHOPHONE.
50/j„
THE
01
LBE
GRC
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC,
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £2 10s.
2 to 5,000 CHOICE RECORD
always on hand. Send for
List and Illustrated Cata-
logues of Violins, etc., etc.
ALBERT & SON, l!8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
AGENT'S FOR THE PORTABLE VAPOR BATH CABINETS.
Minin. any other house. Largest Importers ot
MUSIC, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and NOVELTIES? Goods
forwarded to any part of Australia Duty Free:
COLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
rTHf>
DEAF
ISP” “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
jgerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
•l. A. Chalmers, Agent.
220 Collins-street, Melbourne.
J\<iStraliai) HGtOal
JUBILEE YEAR.
Established 1819.
ProVidcpt Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking- out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £115,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £11,179,578. Annual Income, £2,091,706.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq... Deput-
y ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq.; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A.,F.5.5.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
OSS’ Send for Price List. /!£&
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
Eirst-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
EU WARDS
&
WORLD-RENOWNED
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tina World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
tendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
'Hu.
of any Metallic or other injuriqus Ingredients.
1/-, 3/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and" Perfumers all over the
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE ” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON,
World
W.C
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
. , . , x , . . . , junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is <bf
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £3 Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship.
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
CAMERAS:
The PREMO Y. HAND CAMERA,
The DUPLEX
The POCKET VICTOR „
The POCKET KODAK „
i-plate, 255.
J- plate, 255. I
for plates, 21s. j
for films, 21s. J
Send- for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to ,£5O.
Semcl for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready
•Post ±ree on Application. •
r-'
...... j
§tm£t
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotelßrighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading-
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Mall ivill accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing-and Boatino-•
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE. -
THE
Plum’
TUB »
Plum
GENTLEMEJN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having, had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, fid. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ca3e 21a.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY -
LOOK A.T OUR PRIORS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides' getting
better-finished'work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£Q. 18. 0.
Not Our Only Address: N.S.W, Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-«t , NEWTOWN, Sydney
SondL for Our Xlluatrateca, Catalogue.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cockatoo Digger.
He ain’t a reg’lar digger, the same as me and you;
He uses square-nose shovels, and he digs his holes
askew,
Big at top, and small at bottom ’nough to give a
man the cramp;
And he brings a coil of fencin’ wire for fixin’ up
the camp.
He’s a hunkin’, hulkin’ wapstraw
He’s a talkin’ cockatoo,
Full o’ rotten theories,
And he fellers me and you.
He makes a crazy cradle, tries to copy me and you,
But his slides is all uneven, so o’ course the gold
goes through ;
He talks o’ washin’ mullock, and the mullock he
calls loam ;
Brings his farmin’ on the diggin’s, ’stead o’ leavin’
it at home.
He’s a loutin’, spoutin’ yokel,
Talks o’ reefs that break and spue—
Thinks he’s talkin’ minin’
The same as me and you.
He never finds no diggin’s—that’s left to me and
you;
While he’s harrowin’ and scratchin’, we got all
that to do ;
When we’ve done the prospectin’, and found
what is to find,
He comes and puts ’is pegs in—and he does his
peggin’ blind.
For he doesn’t know the bizness ;
He’s a cocky through and through,
Never learned the diggin’
The same as me and yom
He works his claim peculiar, and not like me and
you * "
That sinks and drives straightfor’ard till we clean
her up and through.
He mullocks-up his surface, and he drives at
chance and guess,
For he don’t know wash from headin’s and his
cleanin’-up’s a mess.
For he ain’t a reg’lar digger,
He’s a scratching cockatoo
With cheek enough to come
Advisin’ me and yon.
He don’t keep decent workin’ hours, the same as
me and you ;
He brings his farmin’ day hours, which leaves
night with very few ;
He loses in his tailin’s, doesn’t save what gold he
could—
So we’re glad to see him goin’ home to say the
field’s no good.
He’s a gruntin’, grumblin’ cocky,
And we’re sorry, but it’s true—
He calls himself a digger,
The same as me and you. ,
W.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.
Shoots.
When the green is on the furrow,
And the fresh wheat comes away,
’Twixt the “ put-in ” and the harvest
Comes the cookie’s holiday ;
And it kind o’ knocks his back in
To find when ploughing’s through,
That his shoots want cutting badly,
And there’s miles of them to do.
Oh, the shoots! cutting shoots ! everlasting
shoots !
From crow-cough in the morning when the frost
is lying white;
There’s one long month behind me,
In another two you’ll find me
Still a-cut-cut-cutting till the cows come home at
night.
A foot high at the most they were
When we were ploughing here,
So I reckoned it was good enough
To let them stand this year;
But the old chap surely grows them
(With a “ culture ” most “ intense ”),
For they’ve flourished like his own—and now
They’re level with the fence.
It’s as bad as oakum-picking,
Just as deadly-dull, and slow ;
But they must be down by stripping,
So you hit out all you know ;
You slog in like a madman
Till you’re blistered, stiff, and sore,
Then you look at what’s behind you,
And you curse at what’s before.
Cutting shoots, mallee shoots, everlasting shoots,
From crow-cough in the morning when the
frbst is lying white ;
There’s one long month behind me,
In another two you’ll find me
Still a-cut-cut-cutting till the cows come home at
night.
E. R. P.
Nex’ Seed’n’.
The time Eliza V me set up
On this’ere section
(The year Tregeagle won the Oup,
By Flash—lnspection)
We uster say, w’en things went wrong,
“ Well, never mind ; it ain’t fer long:
We’ll put it right nex’ seed’n’.”
Nex’ seed’n’ ! Nex’ seed’n’!
We’ll do that bit o’ weed’n’,
An’ stop them cracks,
An’ patch them sacks,
An’ lots o' things nex’ seed’n’.
W’en Summer went an’ Autumn come,
An’ w’eat were rise’n’,
We’d talk o’ savin’ up a “ plum,”
As sure as p’is’n.
Or p’r’aps we’d look at Thompson’s lot,
An’ say we’d buy it w’en we got
Things redded up, nex’ seed’n’.
Nex’ seed’n’! Nex’ seed’n’!
We felt like runnin’ Eden
Without the snake,
An’ no mistake,
An’ things like that, nex’ seed’n’.
But seed’n’s come an’ seed’n’s go
More quicker ’n’ quicker,
An’ money trickles in so slow
An’ debts get thicker !
An’ Bill come first, then Siss, then Sue,
Then Jack—an’ there’s another doo—
Or maybe twins —nex’ seed’n’!
Nex’ seed’n’! Nex’ seed’n’!
There’s frocks an’ pants a-need’n’.
Our Jack’s bin ill,
The doctor’s bill
Must wait until nex’ seed’n’.
S.A.
NIL.


9
EVERY NOVELTY
■ #Hai l
Brushes
Upoa ouiMvg
331N vuvno * &#***!'■
- 3Mn *>mn »yw :
•fSitff-*-
R£«S TES
PERFUMERY
mm jmmm
12/6 perdap& upwards
l/'tCLUITVE. OF ALL /AEALJ AMD ATTEMDAMCE
\cn° yty
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths
railway.
hat of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
'Mr
p Mi
E. RICH & CO. Ltd.,
General Agents for Australasia,
2li>-26 0 Connell-st., Sydney , N,S, W .
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & 00., Agents, Elizabeth-st., Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington N 7
Fr A nk Log A n, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q g , Z '
& Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland
Kirk & M Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
HELIDON
SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLTON ALE.
MARBLE BAR,
.. PITT STREET, SYDNEY ..
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Paintings.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says : «Do not miss The Marble Bar
W. J. ADAMS, Mavagrr.]
Painless Dentistry,
THE ....
jondon yenta!
Institute.
H. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mh, S. D. ASH ER, Dentists,
rg'” Modern Dentistry in all its .Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
" w difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
nd without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
rouble. Painless Extractions.
Keform Fees. Consultation Free.
'fLT— 98 KING ST., SYDNEY —ONLY
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C, CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
ch m
STlLfcfi
pIMTSin
EDINBURG
Tra «
Mark
ICO
•yi «. MOPRICTQRS • c
® e Distillers Company 11? ,
edin burgh. ' «m
? ■** *
> b'„j
'/(V; ifii/lt*
m
jjrM
Moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake
avpid excessive drinking,
•ind you can then afford
> drink the very best
>ii can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
{lass at meals, diluted
,-ither with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.
Coolgfardie
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS, 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Xl.® ixX’fc*PO«3Ll3LCse I I
BOOK
POSTED FREE
WITH PLEASURE
THE BEST
Electric Belts
f) IN THE WORLD.
ULVERMAGHER’S.
••••••••••«••:««eeseas
Many are advertised, but none
can equal these. They have been in use
nearly 50 years, and are prescribed and
recommended by the leading medical men
throughout the world, including the phy-
sicians of 11. M. The Queen, H.R. 11. The
Prince of Wales, the Emperor of Austria,
etc,, etc.
As a TONIC for the whole system
nothing can compare with them, and for
RHEUMATISM, PARALYSIS, ....
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVOUS
DISEASES, and many other ailments,
they form the Best Cure in the World.
An interesting Pamphlet—“ Galvanism : what it has done and can do ’’—can
had for the asking, and gives full information about the treatment. Sydney Agents,
OSBORN & JERDAN (late Frost <fc Shipharti),
sinufactupingr Electricians & Opticians 438 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
_ WHISKY.
R
m
tmxsti


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 976.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1898.
Prick, 6d
The PressjCen and tub Newsbots.— Preaching
at the Pil.t-street Congregational Church last
night, the Rev. E. -T. Duustan said he felt he
should be neglecting his duty if he did not make
a protest against the'action of certain represen-
tatives of the press last Sunday. Had he listened
to the dictates of expediency, or obeyed the voice of
inclination, he would have remained silent, but for
the second time certain "pressmen had outraged
the sentiment of the community by organising a
picnio for newsboys cn the Lord’s Day. The law
stood upon the Statute Books, and should, there-
fore, be obasrved. The pre&s exercised a power-
ful, moral, social, and political influence, and the
community had a right to look to it for carefu 1
guidance.
ky
% V ,
fa '
//•
v/ '
■
ro
fa <yn tf/z////**Zit/tpZu/zfr
/?/- raffis /f?ys7Z<?/j/sJ
Z/s/ZZe /Z/fs4/f
Yesterday bad been proclaimed by the Govern-
ment as a day of humiliation and prayer for rain,
but happily it was converted into a day of fhanks-
piving instead.
I Archbishop Smith had pi omulgated a form of prayer
' which was in consonance with the proclamation.
By the prayer it was contemplated that worsbip-
l pers should hntnble themselves before God
in this tboir “ time of special distress and
anxiety.” This really related to the condition of
things prior to the general fall of rain, and as it
I was considered that it did not correctly describe the
j condition of affairs now prevailing, some clergy-
men manifested a reluctance to use the form, and
relied upon the special prayer and thanksgiving
embraced in the ‘‘Book of Common Prayer.”
Some ministers used the special form of prayer ,
for rain issued by the Archbishop, others used
the ordinary form, and others again used
the thanksgiving. There were yet other I
ministers who, in acknowledgment of the
general rain, read the thanksgiving, and who,
having regard to the wants of those districts still in
need of rain, recited the ordinary prayer for rain.
(fco- fyjcf /J
y/u cfy //>
hr"7-rH f EL E Cj°n<r °?
I % '
J 5%
<2_p - «*- .
> Jo c\|Ce f&K^AITI)
On Saturday afternoon Mr. Jacob Garrardf
M.uister for Kdueation and Labor, was pre-
sented with a s testimonial by file electors of
Sherbrooke, at Caette-Hill. In addition to a
large number of prominefit local residents,
there were presen* Messrs. Reid (Premier),
Hawthorne, How.irih, M5.1,.A., qnd Mr. Syd-
ney Smith, ex-Minister for Mints and Agricul-
ture
dtps/a/? /ms/$
/•<?/>
ft '& <z)yZ)/v^l
fo/ne ft? ftftf <?/
ft*/9/V7F/?fit//Zy S&ufyftn,Safa
?%£ frocA ScrryLi ?KcicG^/foayau? fa/ti'CixA&L /ftutft/y -tfc ftzt/s
/tt, &ocs <£ccS gAovcfaftA
CARTOONISTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians."
Printed and Published by William Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu lei'lN
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... 0 °
Quarterly... ... ... ••• (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
•which you may pay by Post o fee Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulle'hn posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, oi
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted •
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, bat. unfitted for direct, reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<b Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 346 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— It. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :— F. H.
Solomon and Co., 23 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IK. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victor ia, S . Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage lpj. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by 'the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
f xZZeZz?z.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1898.
The Yellow Whisky Advt.
Some day, when The Bulletin has grown
unspeakably rich by denouncing the bloated
capitalist and whooping up the cause of the
poor, it has a vague idea that it will build an
Ideal City with a part of its pile. As a
matter of preference it will buy up Sydney, and
level that dreadful metropolis to the ground,
barring, perhaps, two streets, and build its
Ideal City on the site, for the place where
Sydney stands is one where an Ideal City
would show to advantage. Then a grateful
country will remember this paper and raise
a 100-ton marble monument above its bones
when it is dead, and that ponderous tomb
will be a good thing for the unemployed to
get on the lee side of on rainy nights. If
Sydney is unprocurable it might content it-
self to purchase Melbourne and build
its city there ; though a small part of
the centre of Victoria’s capital is a (com-
parative) dream of loveliness there are
few places in this world which need re-
generation worse than Port Melbourne
and Williamstown and Richmond and Col-
lingwood and Footscray. But it would
prefer Sydney. And when it makes that
incredible pile by denouncing the capitalist
and strongly advocating the eight-hour
movement, its Ideal City will be like no
other city that ever was on the face of this
unkempt and hair-tangled earth. There will
tie no bye-street or lane in it less than 70ft.
wide and no main street less than 132 ft.
George-street will take a bee-line from
Circular Quay to Parramatta—or perish in
the attempt. Every street will go as straight
as an arrow, and take all obstacles as they
come. Every building will be detached with
at least a few feet of green, or of an apology
therefor, between it and the next building.
If it isn’t green enough the owner will be
fined. A rigid Building Act will be enforced
throughout the city and its furthest suburbs.
The whole of that area will be stone or brick,
and not even a wooden stable or outhouse or
fence or dog-kennel will be allowed to totter
in its gaunt, dry-rotted, unpainted, sun-
blistered, combustible unsightliness in the
whole metropolitan area. The Bulletin’s
own mattoid will draw up the plans for that
Ideal City ; it will be run by a benevolent
despotism in the interests of Art and Beauty ;
and whatever is ugly or smellful or glaring
or offensive therein will get three months
without the option.
* * * *
In The Bulletin’s new city no one will
be allowed to paint his building blue or
green or red with yellow stripes, for, after
all, no one has any more right to strike his
fellow man in the eye with a shock of fearful
colors than to do the same outrage with a
brick. No one will be allowed, either, to
leave his building dirty and unpainted. A
certain degree of uniformity will be insisted
on, and the man who wants to pile up a
gaunt ten-storey tenement, which looks, in
its height and its thinness, as if it didn’t get
enough to eat, will be treated as a public
enemy. The man whose steps or front rail-
ings are broken or unsightly will be fined ;
and the man whose property is decayed will
be fined also ; and the man who hoists a
glaring calico-sign anywhere will get one
month’s hard labor; and the person who
disfigures the pavements with orange and
banana peel will get six months ; and the
boy who yells horribly at the back of an
omnibus, or makes a deafening row in any-
body’s ear with an evening paper, will be
sent to a reformatory. But the pity of it
all—when one thinks of the Ideal City which
might exist on the lovely site where Sydney
now moulders in its waste of crooked alleys—
is that that city might just as well be there
now. It could have been built for very
little more than the present one cost if there
had been some few shreds of intellect among
the early fathers of New South Wales. But,
unluckily, there weren’t. These early fathers
had the grandest opportunity which ever
came to any set of fathers in these last two
centuries, and about the way they misused it
the less said the better.
* * * *
There is time, even now, to undo their
work if only the authorities will set about it.
The Bulletin suggests, as a beginning,
which will cost nothing and which will
remove probably the most widespread offence
in the modern city, that the bill-poster
should be prohibited and utterly abolished.
Sydney, like other Australian and British
cities, is disfigured from end to end with
staring advertisements, painted or plastered
on fences, dead walls, rocks, and every other
vantage-ground. Of course, to compel their
removal would be an interference with the
“ liberty of the subject.” But theirexistence
is a still worse interference. In theory,
every man has a right to stick any ad-
vertising disfigurement on his own fence
that he pleases. But it is an equally
sound theory that every man should be at
liberty to wander through his own city with-
out being shocked at every turn by the red-
pill advertisement, or stunned by the green
hair-restorer, or deafened by the loud hues
of the cheap-boot notice. The law, which
has its lucid moments, prohibits objection-
able smells, when they become very objec-
tionable and strike the community with a
violent thud in the nose ; and the eye wants
equal protection. If a citizen has the very
best guano or blood-manure or bone-dust
for sale, he isn’t allowed to advertise it by
depositing the substance where its effluvium
will drift along the streets of Sydney or Mel-
bourne ; and the law which permits him to
advertise it or anything else in red letters
eight feet high in these same localities is a
law which has a nose but no eye. The
people who advertise are comparatively few
at the best; the people who have to look at
the disfiguring advertisement, whether they
will or not, are many. The Bulletin pleads
for the liberty of the subject—the liberty of
the great majority, which should be allowed
to traverse the streets in peace undisturbed
by the unpicturesque placard of the minority,
* • * *
The abolition of the street-advertisement
would do no harm to the trading-community
on the whole. It might injure the indi-
vidual trader here and there the loudest
advertisers of the crowd—but, to the mass,
it would be a clear saving of money. Nor
would it be necessary for them to spend
more money on newspaper advertising to
make up the loss of publicity, and thus inci-
dentally swell The Bulletin’s profits. An
enormous proportion of advertising is pure
waste of money. There are probably a
hundred different brands of whisky placarded
all over Sydney—yet the community doesn’t
get any the drunker in the aggregate. Of
course whiskies 1 to 50 can’t leave off
disgracing the city with their pictorial night-
mares, because, if they did, whiskies 50 to
100 would carry off'all the trade. But if the
law, with a kindly regard for the appearance
of a neglected capital, swept them all away
in one act, then they would all stand on the
same footing. It might be a trifle rough on
whisky No. 47, if it had gut the best adver-
tising spaces, and was thus somewhat ahead
of its rivals, but the community would drink
just as much as before, and get just as
drunk as before, and the advertising
money would be saved, and the whisky
business, in the aggregate, would boom
just the same.' The same rule applies to
other cases, or at least to most of them.
But the abolition must be effected by
law. No mutual agreement can do it;
the only result would be that whisky firm
No. 8 or No. 96 would break the agreement
as soon as it had bought up all the advertising
spaces, and thus “dish” its rivals hopelessly.
«. * * *
Yet the permanent advertisement isn’t the
worst offender. It is, at least, kept in toler-
able repair. But the transient advertisement
—the special Sunday service or lecture or
bun-struggle notice, the election placard, the
public meeting and charity bazaar announce-
ment —are many degrees worse. There is no
law to compel the person who puts these on
the fence to come round and wash them off
again when they are done with. They are
simply left to decay, and fall to rags, and
flap themselves to death in the wind. The
last New South Wales election is very
ancient history, but the bills calling on the
public to vote for Bile Wilks and Spruson
and Neild and Samuel Somebody , the
rest of the name had fallen off and blown
away up the street when the writer took his
observations—still hang out wretchedly on
fences and'posts and condemned buildings.
Even the placards about the Federal refer-
endum are not quite gone yet. All this is
just as reasonable as it would be to allow the
horse which dies unexpectedly in George-
street, Sydney, to remain there until it
decayed and blew away in the form of dust.
* • * *
The street advertiser was bad enough
when he stuck to the streets, but he isn’t
content with that now. He invades the
beauty-spots around the city, and hangs his
pill advt. on the waterfall, and the notice
about his sixpenny hat on the cliffs overlook-
ing the harbor. Boats with patent-medi-
cine information on their colored sails roam
around Neutral Bay and Lane Cove. The
towering rocks beside the road to the Spit
have somebody’s infallible-something at 6|d.
profusely stencilled upon them. Manly, and
the Bulli Pass, and the Hawkesbury, and
the peaceful reaches of Middle Harbour are
all being invaded. Only the Goth and vandal
would paint their outrages on places like
these, but, then, the world is full of adver-
tising. Goths. The harbor and the mountain
views and the waterfalls are—or ought to be
—public property. They should be places,
of rest where the citizen can go and be at
peace, and leave the world behind him.
When he is called upon even there to
pause along with his wife and his three
daughters, to consider the “ inn’ards ” of
the whole party, and to ask himself and
them if their systems don’t require to be
thoroughly cleansed with somebody’s patent
horse-ball at eighteenpence, then it is time to
revolt. It is by way of revolting thoroughly
and effectively that The Bulletin advocates
the abolition of the whole system, and a
general wash-down of every Australian town
and city and their surroundings.
* * * *
And just here this paper wakes up sud-
denly from its dream of an Ideal City, and
finds pasted on its own office wall down in
Chinatown, Sydney, a handbill stating that
there will be a bun-struggle somewhere to-
morrow evening at eight.
The Rivers.
The decision of N.S.W. Assembly that “the
use of inland rivers for purposes' of water con-
servation and irrigation should be more clearly
safeguarded,” practically finished the debate
on the Federal resolutions so far as that House
was concerned. The decision was arrived at
by 58 votes to 13—which was not wonderful
considering its complete and unobtrusive harm
lessness. For all rivers are “inland”—at
least, the river that is out in the ocean is in
no way connected with the case. And every-
body is willing to “safeguard the use” of
rivers ; South Australia, in particular, has been
most anxious all along to safeguard the use of
the Murray where it flows through the Crow-
eaters’ territory, and Victoria wants to safe-
guard the same river on its border because
N.S.W. claims sole ownership of it ; so Premier
Reid’s hazy and mixed expression suits every-
body well. It is the interpretation of it later
on which will make trouble, because the words
themselves have no definite meaning whatever,
and give no definite authority of any kind.
N.S.W. will doubtless insist on reading them
that N.S.W. should safeguard the whole Murray
system as its own property; and Victoria
and S.A. and Queensland will read them that
all three provinces should safeguard the rivers
jointly as joint property ; and as the clause is
equally intelligible either way things are no
further advanced.
* * * »
Of course everyone knows what use the
Reid Government proposes to make of the
resolution. All along it has insisted on view-
ing the river question—like the railway question
and the boundaries question—in a provincial
rather than an Australian aspect. Its first
assumption—that navigation should be con-
sidered a matter of secondary importance as
compared with irrigation—is undoubtedly cor-
rect. Australia hasn’t enough water for both
purposes —in fact, it isn’t quite certain that it
has absolutely sufficient for either purpose, and
even now, when there is practically no irrigaiion,
the supply of water for navigation purposes
often gives out. Irrigation is vastly the more
important of the two, and when it is scientifi-
cally carried out the Murray River system, in
ordinary seasons, will be utterly dried up before
it reaches the sea, and the Murray mouth will
be a mere dusty excavation. Australia must
needs depend on railways for its in-
ternal communication. Possibly the real
reason why the Reid Government desires
to sacrifice navigation to irrigation is that the
Darling and Murray are water highways which
carry the produce of western N.S.W. cheaply to
S.A. ports, instead of it being dragged at three
times the cost to Sydney ; but, whatever its
motive, there is no doubt about the correctness
of its conclusions. Some day western N.S.W.
will have to do without its river outlet to S.A.,
for the water will all be wanted to moisten the
soil and grow huge crops thereon. And then,
if the provincial railway policy is still adhered
to, and the west can’t get cheap railway com-
munication with its nearest port, there will he
no payable outlet for these crops, and a very
interesting situation will ensue.
* * » •
But it is on the question of the ownership of
the waters for irrigation purposes that the
great struggle is to be fought out. With skil-
ful conservation there may be enough water in
the Murray system to irrigate all the lands to
which that water can be profitably carried,
right down to the Murray mouth. The only
question is, whether the precious fluid should
be divided among the four provinces (Queens-
land, N.S. Wales, Victoria, and S.A.) through
which the Murray system flows, or whether
N.S. W. shall be allowed to enforce its ridicul-
ous claim to own all these waters, and shall
have the right to intercept them all as they
pass through its territory. In other words, it
is a question whether they shall be regarded
as the property of Australia, provided for the
enrichment of Australia in general, or whether
each province shall be allowed to use its little
bit of river for its own separate interests and
without any regard for Australia as a whole.
This is the brutally selfish and unpatriotic
attitude which the Reid Government has taken
up. In the words of Premier Reid, ‘'any
attempt on the part of the Convention or any
other power under Heaven to get N.S. W. to
give up her absolute ownership of the Darling
and Murrumbidgee Rivers must fail. We will
not hand over the control of the Darling and
Murrumbidgee Rivers, because they both abso-
lutely belong to us.” The statement that the
Darling, whose waters have their beginnings in
Central Queensland, absolutely belongs to
N.S. W. is, of course, either plain ignorance or
else plain Rougemont. But, even apart from
that, it is interesting to see where the parochial
idea of river ownership leads.
* * * *
As already mentioned, the waters of the
Darling begin in Queensland. That province
supplies more than one-third of the river, and
if the theory is to hold good that each pro-
vince is to be the absolute owner of as much of
the river system as lies within its borders, un-
doubtedly Queensland can divert all these
upper waters for irrigation purposes. As irri-
gation has hardly started yet in Queensland
this trouble may be a long way off, but it will
be a very real trouble when it comes. If
N.S.W. carries its point on the river problem,
and goes in for large irrigation works all along
the Darling to fertilise its western country,"
Queensland may wake up any day and entirely
cut off the supply' as regards the ten north-
western counties, and leave them desert.
Similarly, Victoria supplies practically all the
waters of the Murray for the first 1300 miles
or so of its course, and if the Reid Govern-
ment’s theory prevails, that every province is
to be at full liberty to grab all the waters
w'ithin its reach without regard to anybody
else, then Victoria’s right to divert its own
tributaries, if it can do so, for irrigation pur-
poses, is beyond question. In that case there
would be practically no Murray at all —only the
Darling and the Murrumbidgee.
* * * *
South Australia supplies practically no water
to the Murray system ; it merely furnishes an
outlet. But even that is at times a matter of
some importance. Australia, desperately dry
as it is a great part of the time, has its flood
years now and then. If N.S.W. is going to
enforce its claim to the sole ownership of as
much of the Murray and Darling river system
as it can reach, and if it makes full use ofits
claim by using up the waters for local irrigation,
regardless of the interests of S.A., then it un-
doubtedly can, in dry years, mop up the w'hole
of the wretched rivers before they reach S.A.
at all. Then S.A. would receive no waters
except in wet years when the local rain supply
made them practically superfluous, and when it
didn’t want them. In that case, S.A. would
probably give N.S.W. notice to remove its
river altogether. If the Darling and Murray
and Murrumbidgee are wholly N.S.W. pro-
perty, then they have no right to go into
S.A. territory. So long as N.S.W. is wholly
dependent on S.A. for an outlet in wet years to
prevent its Darling and Murray and Murrum-
bidgee drowning the country, these three
rivers can’t be exclusively N.S.W. rivers.
If each province is to be absolute owner
of its own river, instead of there being
a joint ownership, then Queensland will
be liable to N.S. W. for damages when it lets
the flood waters of its exclusive rivers, the
Culgoa and Upper Macintyre and Warregoand
other branches of the Darling, come down and
do damage and drown cattle in N.S.W. And
N.S.W. will be liable to S.A. when its rivers
make similar trouble in that country. And,
seeing that N.S.W. claims all of the Murray, it
will also be liable when its river swells up and
overflows the arable flats of Victoria. It can
get level, no doubt, by shutting up the Mildura
settlement, which is irrigated by its waters,
but there will be no profit and little satisfac-
tion on either side.
* * * •
Even this, however, is only a fraction of the
difficulty. All the part of western N.S.W.
which most wants irrigation—a good one-third
of the province, comprising the counties north
of the Lachlan and west of the Bogan—contri-
butes not one permanent running stream to
the river system. It is wholly dependent on
the water which comes down from Queensland,
eastern N.S.W., and Victoria. It is in these
arid regions that the greatest irrigation system
of the future will be constructed. Some day,
however, the unwieldy province of N.S.W.
will be cut up like Queensland and Westralia;
when it will be done and how it will be done
no one can say, but no political arrangement in
this world and no artificial boundaries in this
world hold good for ever. Then a great part
of the irrigated region may be cut off front its
water-supply, and if the Reid Government’s
unpatriotic and purely parochial idea is adopted
the northern province, as sole owner of the rivers
within its territory, can shut off the supply,
and use it for its own purposes, and turn the
garden into a wilderness again, and make all tlur


millions spent on irrigation a mere bad debt.
That part of N.S.W. which contributes the bulk
of the purely N.S.W. water-supply lies closer to
Brisbane than to Sydney, and when border
duties are removed and other provincial bar-
riers are shifted, there is always a possibility
that it may break off from the distant metro-
polis and gravitate to the one which is nearer.
In such a case it would take both branches of
the Darling River along with it. In similar
fashion the Murray is liable to change hands
some day because the Riverina has its natural
political and commercial centre in Melbourne.
To a politician who looks far ahead all these
chances make the purely selfish provincial
theory inadvisable even on purely selfish
grounds.
• • • •
The Bulletin’s conviction is that every
river which flows through more than one pro-
vince should be placed, with all its affluents,
under Federal control. These scanty streams
were sent here by Providence— if there is a
Providence —before there were any provincial
boundaries. They were sent to water Aus-
tralia; not to water only N.S.W. There is,
probably (with economy), water enough to go
round ; but, if there isn’t, every acre
of irrigable land from the head of the
Culgoa in Central Queensland, down to the
Murray mouth, has an equal claim to a share
of what is going; and when irrigation starts on
a large scale and there is danger—as there cer-
tainly will be some day—of the supply being
inadequate the central authority should share
it out, so far as possible, according to the
irrigable area in each province. Or rather,
Australia should, for irrigation purposes, be
considered a single province, without the least
reference to boundaries, and the water supplied
for all-Australian benefit should be spent like
the money borrowed on all-Australian credit —
where it is most deserved and most needed. This
paper speaks on behalf of Australia in general in
this matter, and its interest is in the welfare of
Australia—not merely in the welfare of that
part of it which lies this side of a streak on a
map. The tendency to be an enthusiastic
patriot up to a certain streak on a map, and a
conscienceless brigand beyond it, is the great
obstacle in the way of union. Every Govern-
ment in Australia has, unfortunately, got the
streak disease in a bad form, and the GoD-fear-
ing Ministry of N.S.W. has it worst of all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Potato Young Commission.
Justice Owen, the Commissioner appointed by
the Reid-Young Government to enquire into
the charges made against Young (and inciden-
tally against Reid) re the Hastings-Macleay
election, met all by himself last week and
asked for “evidence.” Nobody turned up to
offer any evidence against Young —in fact,
there was no prosecutor at all. Therefore the
Telegraph, the servile organ and mendacious
door-mat of the Reid Ministry, rose to ask
why the low characters who made all these
“ charges ” against Potato Young didn’t come
forward like men with evidence to prove them,
and plainly intimated that if they didn’t come
forward, they should for very shame conceal
themselves in a hollow log for the rest of their
days. In the Assembly Premier Reid took up
a similar lofty attitude :
Mr. Reid said that, in view of the large number of posi-
tive statements made before the Commission was ap-
pointed as to the corrupt actions of Mr. Young, he could
not conceive of there being any difficulty in collecting
evidence. (“ Hear, hear.”) The slanderers would surely
bring forward the evidence on which they had based
their slanders, if they had any. (Cheers.) There could
be no excuse on the ground of ignorance, for Mr. Justice
Owen had directed advertisements to be inserted in the
press asking those who had evidence to give to notify the
Court of the fact. Surely, as hundreds of persons were
alleged to have seen these corrupt overtures, some of
them would come forward. (“ Hear, hear.”)
Mr. Perry : Isn’t it the duty of those who demanded
the inquiry to produce the evidence ?
Mr. Reid : No. (Cheers.) The Commission would
never have been appointed but for the charges referred
to, which had not come from the Government, but from
other people. Now they wanted these other people to
have the patriotism and the pluck to come forward.
The Royal Commission was called for by the
Reid party only, and appointed by the Reid
Government to whitewash the Reid Govern-
ment, and no one but the Reid Government
has anything on earth to do with it. There is
no question of “ evidence ” in the case. All
the evidence consisted of the printed reports of
Potato Young’s speeches, in which he cried to
the people to elect Pumpkin Smith because he
(Smith) would get them public works (from
Young’s department), and Barton wouldn’t.
Which was so very nearly the same as saying
that Young’s department would give the
Macleay people public works if they applied
through their member, Smith, and wouldn’t do
so if they applied through Barton, that few
people can see the difference. These appeals
to the people to elect Smith, and thereby get
lots of public works, are not denied. It
is hardly possible to say that all these news-
papers made the same mistake, and all heard
Potato Young say the thing he didn’t say—
although Brunker did exactly that thing
in regard to his famous yarn about the
27 per cent, duties. The Barton party
laid Young’s statements before the House,
and asked if the House regarded, or did not
regard, Potato Young as a disgraceful object,
and the House, by a very small party majority
indeed, said it didn’t. That ended the matter.
There is no “ evidence ” to bring forward ex-
cept the reports of Young’s speeches, and they
have been already brought forward. There is
nothing to prove except that Potato Young
was reported to have said a large number of
very disgraceful-looking things to help Pump-
kin Smith into Parliament, and the reports
prove themselves and are uncontradicted.
As regards witnesses, nobody professed to
have any witnesses except those numer-
ous reports of Young’s own words. The
Reid party chose to appoint a Commis-
sioner to hear further evidence (which nobody
had offered) and to examine personal witnesses
(which no one had offered either). If Potato
Young will rise up and declare that all the
ugly statements ascribed to him by the news-
papers which followed him through his
campaign are either conspiracy or unani-
mous hallucination then there will be some-
thing to inquire into. The Commission can at
least start inquiring which party is accurate
and which is Ananias. But at present the
Opposition says that Young said certain things,
and that these things were utterly disgraceful.
Young doesn’t deny saying these things ; he
simply says they weren’t at all disgraceful and
his party majority backs him up. When Young
won’t circumstantially deny that he said the
things he is accused of saying, what is the use
of proving he said them, especially when his
party majority has decided that it doesn’t
matter whether he said them or not ?
♦
One Rich Landlord.
The sequestration of the estate of Charles
Sargeant, a member of Victoria’s House of 48
Rich Landlords, is a very remarkable proceed-
ing. The chief qualification insisted upon for
Vic. M’sL.C. is that they must be men with
property. Each fossil must own, and have
owned for at least a year before his election,
“ lands and tenements in Victoria to an annual
value of £lOO above all charges and encum-
brances affecting the same.” Sargeant goes
broke on account of a moderate-sized pro-
missory-note, which he gave to the Commercial
Bank of Australia in 1891, and which he has
never since contrived to meet. He was last re-
elected in 1895 as an unencumbered Rich Land-
lord, possessing “ lands and tenements ” in
Victoria worth some £2500 or £3OOO of capital
value over and above all “charges and en-
cumbrances affecting the same,” according
to the touching definition of the Act. Now,
was Sargeant, in ’95, legally possessed of
such unencumbered property, considering that
he has just gone broke over a debt of £3BOO,
which was in existence at the time of that
election ? Also, did any public official attempt
to find out if Sargeant was qualified ? Is it
anybody’s duty to find out if any M.L.C. is
qualified, or does the country simply take the
Fat Man’s word for it ? Is he even called upon
to swear that he has the necessary unencum-
bered property, and, if he is, who audits his
swear ? And how many of the other 47 alleged
Rich Landlords are minus the legal qualifica-
tion and only governing Victoria in the interests
of Fat upon a stupendous bluff ! The Bulle-
tin can’t remember a single case when the
qualification of any Vic. M.L.C. has been
inspected, so it presumes that the country
just takes the busted Tory’s word for it. Cer-
tainly there is something incongruous in the
idea of a politician whose main qualifica-
tion is supposed to be the ownership of
much unencumbered property having his
estate sequestrated. The p.n. which Sargeant
gave in ’9l was for £4985, and as he now goes
under on a judgment for £3844 it seems that,
in the last seven years during which he has been
bossing the country as a rich property-holder
with £2500 or £3OOO worth of unencumbered
“lands and tenements,” he has been unable to
pay more than £ll4l and the interest. That
certainly looks as if he had been for some time
an unqualified legislator helping to squash all
democratic progress by an absolutely illegal
vote. He may not have been, but the matter
is suspicious enough to call for enquiry. (What
is the penalty, by the way, for being an un-
qualified M.L.C. in Victoria?) The Bulletin
suggests, in view of the haze surrounding Sar-
geant’s case, that there should be a vigorous
enquiry into the qualification of all present and
future Victorian Ms.L.C. It is bad enough for
the democracy to be blocked at every turn by
its 48 Rich Landlords. If, by way of insult
added to injury, the people are being scorned
and flouted by illegal sham Landlords, it is too
much.
A Curious Committee.
The N.S.W. Elections and Qualifications Com-
mittee will probably burst up very shortly, and
the work of deciding disputed elections will be
referred to the Supreme Court. The charge
most commonly laid against the present com-
mittee is that most of its members simply de-
cide that the fellow who belongs to their own
party is in the right. The appeal of Bavister
(Govt, nominee) against Wise’s election at
Ashfield is the latest trouble. Bavister lodged
his appeal and the needful £5O deposit within
the prescribed eight weeks after the re-
turn of the writ—-but the petition was
unsigned. Lodged another duly signed,
but with no £5O deposit, reckoning that the
first deposit would apply automatically.
Pleaded, on behalf of Wise, that the first de-
posit should have been withdrawn and re-lodged
with the second petition, and that the latter,
having no deposit attached to it, is informal
like the first one. Also, Wise alleges that
the second appeal came too late, arriving more
than eight weeks after August 2, the day
when the writ was returned. Bavister alleges
that it was in time, as it arrived less than
eight weeks after August 13 —the last day
when the writ might legally have been re-
turned. The Committee, which is mostly made
up of Government supporters, struggled over
this matter with closed doors, and the
Government members of the Committee
were of opinion that Bavister’s first (un-
signed) appeal was informal and wanted to
go on with the second one. Then they found
that the second was quite possibly informal
also, and that their first opinion might mean
that their opponent, Wise, would retain
his seat. So the Government majority
on the Committee decided that the un-
signed petition of their supporter, Bavis-
ter, wasn’t informal, after all—whereupon
an indignant Crick rushed for the door
and left. The Elections and Qualifications
Committee smells so badly of partisanship
now that its abolition has become absolutely
necessary.
The Coming Vic. Nigger.
In Victoria it is reckoned that Indian tea
merchants employ about 1200 of their own
coffee-coloured race hawking tea, and when the
Immigration Restriction Bill came before Vic.
Leg. Council last week that body was much
bruised in spirit lest the “rights” of these
persons should be infringed. So it got over the
difficulty by enacting that any employer may
introduce five niggers per annum under a bond
of £2OO that they will leave the province again
at the end of five years. The “ bond ” is a
beautiful idea, anyhow. At the end of five
years it will be very hard to identify the five
niggers; and it will be nobody’s business to
enquire about them ; and if they are by any
chance enquired about and their owner can’t
find five niggers who are leaving in any case,
and induce them to personate his men—well,
he will probably say they are dead. If there is
trouble it is 50 to one that nobody will attempt
to enforce the bond, and it is also 500 to one
that there will be no money to be got because
Ram Chunder who gave the bond has gone out
of the business, and Ram Lal, who is running
it in his stead, knows nothing about it and isn’t
responsible. And, as likely as not, it will prove
that Ram Chunder, the nominal importer and
bondsman, was really only a dummy who never
owned a cent of his own. Also, Ram
Chunder generally disappears within five
years in any case. And if Ram Lal wants
to import more than five niggers a year his
way is easy and plain : he can ready up 20
niggers to pose as employers, and import five
other niggers each, and then he will have 100
of them all in one consignment. Under this
beautiful law it seems that 100,000 or more
Asiatics can swarm into Victoria yearly. All
that is wanted is an alleged “employer” to
pose, for a small commission, as the importer
of each five, and to give his valueless “ bond ”
for £2OO. The same “employer” can be used
several times a year if he changes his name and
address and dyes his hair. And, later on, when
he can’t be found, and his £2OO can’t be found,
and the niggers he imported can’t be sorted out
from the great mass of brown and yellowish
humanity, it will be nobody’s business in
particular. In addition to all this, any
nigger who has served in the British army or
navy and been discharged with a good charac-
ter is to be admitted free ; there are some
hundreds of thousands of them, and their
good characters will be bought by intending
emigrants to Victoria, and a new supply of
good characters will be manufactured to meet
the demand, so this opens up a magnificent
prospect. The Victorian House of Rich Land-
lords struck out 18 clauses—practically the
whole—of the original Immigration Restriction
Bill as passed by the Assembly, and put in the
above great idea instead. Then “ a number of
members expressed extreme regret that the
populace of the colony should be so wanting in
liberality and Christian spirit as to wish to ex-
clude their yellow and brown brothers,” which
is a beautiful piece of hypocrisy on the part of a
House which is itself so lacking in liberality
and Christian spirit that it won’t let its own
white brother sit along with it unless he owns
“ lands and tenements to the annual value of
£100.” Also, F. Sargood moved, unsuccess-
fully, that the present Chinese exclusion regu-
lations should be altogether abolished. If the
Victorian Assembly stands this latest outrage
by its House of Landlords, that province had
better shut up both Houses and go in bald-
headed for Anarchy.
The antiquated and fallacious insanity-test
upon which N.S.W. Judge Owen considered
himself bound to rely in the Lisson case, was
intended, Dr. Springthorpe, of Melbourne,
points out, to “ apply to persons who labor
under partial delusions only, and are not in
other respects insane,” or, in other words, to
partly-insane persons. But modern science
denies the existence of “ partial insanity,” and
affirms that the fact of a man being able intel-
lectually to appreciate the nature of an act is
no proof whatever that he is not maniacally
compelled to it. The “M‘Naghten test,”
in a word, assumes the possibility of
ascertaining exactly how far the crack
in a man’s intellect extends, and at what
point his mental structure becomes sound
enough to render him legally responsible. This
notion, besides being vicious in theory and
scientificably untenable, is so unreliable in
practical application that the law of most
civilised nations has discarded it. Also, the
leading English Judges have at least con-
sistently ignored it, so Judge Owen would not
have been without precedent for bringing what
he considered strict law more into line with
modern scientific opinion, to say nothing of
common sense or humanity.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council being invited
to assist the Anti-Sweating League in a deputa-
tion to the Chief Secretary, got huffy, and
several of its delegatesobjectedtobeingled atthe
tail of the League in this fashion. Which is en-
tirely their own fault. The Anti-Sweating
people are now trying to get the provisions of
the Factories Act extended to include many
other trades, and to control more directly the
hours of work and the minimum rates of pay.
Where gross cases of sweating occur in Mel-
bourne now the unfortunate victims know well
that it is practically useless to trouble the
Trades Hall in the matter, but the Anti-
Sweating League will take any case up, and, in
many instances, working quietly and without
blataut advertisement, has obtained relief. It
is late in the day for the Unions’ delegates to
complain of being dragged at the heels of those
who are doing the work that should have been
taken up by themselves long ago. The Trades
Hall for years past has done nothing—has
even made no attempt to do anything—either
socially or politically; but for a few empty
blatherskites the whole organization might be
non-existent. They started well, on a sound
foundation, like their eight-hours’ monument,
and, like it, they remain unfinished, incomplete,
a mere suggestion of what they might have
been.
*,
The consolidation of the Statute Law of
N.S.W. goes on apace, and there is every pros-
pect of the work being completed before the
end of the year. The work has been well done ;
but, as might have been expected, some errors
have probably crept in. It is rumored that the
Commissioner lately had an interview with the
Judges of the Supreme Court, who wanted him
to explain why he had, in the Consolidated
Evidence Act, taken away the right of an
accused to give evidence. The section dealing
with this question is sec. 5, which reads : “ No
person offered as a witness shall lie incompetent
to give evidence by reason of incapacity from
crime or interest,” and it appears that their
Honors do not think this covers the case of an
accused person. The point really turns on the
meaning of “ incapacity from crime or interest,”
and this involves a consideration of the history
of the changes in the law on this subject. It is
actually proposed to bring in an Act to rectify
the alleged mistake.
♦
At North Melbourne Police-court, the other
day, when the police opposed the granting of a
collector’s license, on the ground that the
applicant had been convicted of larceny, the
man pleaded that for the four- years since
elapsed his conduct had been unexceptionable.
He also said that, as he was now in great pecuni-
ary straits, he hoped the bench would not pre-
vent him earning an honest living. The appli-
cation, however, was promptly refused ; which
makes it evident that the Law has taken to
heart Elton’s “ Babes in the Wood ” advice—
“ Don’t hit a man when he’s down—kick him !”
Any attempt to interfere with the vested
right of the mortgagee to fix his claws into
any piece of land gets short shrift in Vic-
toria. Noticeably so in connection with
Homestead Protection Reform, which can
claim almost as many abortive Bills to its
credit as Plural-Voting-Abolition itself. In
’B3 Coppin passed a Bill through the Assembly
which “never returned” from the Council. In
’B4 it was negatived on the second reading in
the Assembly. In ’95-6 M‘Coll tried unsuc-
cessfully to get it through the Assembly. In
’96 his second attempt lapsed in committee,
and so in the first session of ’97. In the second
session of ’97 he got leave to introduce it again,
but it was not printed or circulated. In ’9B it
appeared in all the pomp and panoply of a
Government measure in the Land Bill, but,
yielding to pressure, the Minister has promised
to drop it. Yet the principle is in full opera-
tion in many American States and with the
most beneficial results.
Editor Bulletin. —Great noise is made over
the occasional placing on the Sydney market
of a slightly cancerous or tuberculous beast, but
it is doubtful if people in the country eat any-
thing in the shape of meat that is not more or
less afflicted by either or both of these diseases.
Those who send in cattle to Sydney know the
strict supervision maintained there, and if a
beast goes down in which the official eye de-
tects disease it is only because the sender
could not observe it. Had the diseased condi-
tion been obvious, the animal would have
promptly gone into country consumption.
There is practically no inspection in the country.
Butchers are supposed to notify the police
when they are going to slaughter, and some-
times a constable happens round to theslaughter-
yard, to what purpose it’s hard to say, as he
probably wouldn’t know disease if he saw it.
When he does turn up they run in fairly-sound
cattle, otherwise they kill the diseased. The
evil is a crying one, and if by accident an intel-
ligent man should get into the position of
Minister for Agriculture, here is an imperative
duty ready to his hand.— Sarcoma.
N.S. Wales came very near reforming its Leg.
Council 36 years ago—nearer than it has ever
got since. Hargrave, then Attorney-General,
carried a Bill through the Council providing
for the election of members of that body. In
the Assembly it was taken up by Cowper, was
read a second time by a majority of 24 to 20,
and set down for consideration in committee for
the following Wednesday. W r hen Wednesday
came, however, Forster raised a cabal, and
the Bill was discharged from the paper by 34
to 15. That Bill, among other things, provided
a small property qualification for electors, 30
years as minimum age for candidates, and the
Hare system of voting ; but, considering the
state of N. S. W. society 36 years ago, it was by
no means an illiberal measure. It made the
Council franchise just about as democratic as
that of the Assembly, which was all that could
be expected. And considering that the Council
passed it without any difficulty—well, it is just
possible that it would also pass Premier Reid’s
long-waited-for Reform Bill if Premier Reid
would only send it along, which, so far, he
hasn’t done.
+
“ Tanna Tommy ” re N.S.W. black-labor
trouble :
Colored labor still continues to arrive promiscuously in
batches on the N.S.W. Northern rivers. Premier Reid’s
proposal to make the exclusion of black labor a sine qua
non for the retention of the £3 duty on sugar will not
lessen the evil, only intensify it, as it will prevent the
aliens from obtaining employment in avocation for which
they are peculiarly adapted, and drive them into competi-
tion with the white in other branches of employment,
with a consequent result of bringing down wages. We
would also have a further development of the abominable
Syrian-hawker curse, while the Kanaka would graduate
in dairying and other branches of farm work. Already
it is stated by a Tweed paper that one dairyman in that
district employs Kanakas as milkmen, and this is but the
beginning. What is wanted is Premier Reid (or, better
still, a federated Australia) to sit at the gates of Aus-
tralia and promptly fire out the black man and the
yellow man, and the little brown man from Japan, who
tries to enter, whether they be British subjects or not.
Those “silken bonds” don’t need any mixture of black
cotton in them. The colored trash already here could be
left to die out or walk out.
“ Mirracrinya,” to The Bulletin :
Why doesn’t. Mr. Meston visit S.W. Queensland?
Plenty of aboriginal abuses there for him to correct.
Only t’other day some blacks left a station near Thargo-
mindah to go kangarooing about 50 miles away, but were
promptly followed and brought back by the stockman in
charge of the station. If this is not slavery, what is ?
And right under the nose of the local police, too. Mr.
Meston, in report on working of Aboriginals’ Protection
Act, says : “ it requires very judicious administration, so
as not to cause any exasperating situation to employers."
Does this mean that squatters are not to be interfered
within their treatment of the blacks? Surely M. must
know that any station-owner who has a lot of blacks
working for nothing will feel irritated if he has in future
to pay them. Doubtless the American planters were
“ irritated ” when Lincoln abolished slavery. Mr.
Meston also says (idem): “No longer in any part of
Queensland is wrong to the aboriginais allowed to go un-
punished.” This, in face of fact that, on majority of large
S.W. cattle-stations, if a blackfellow leaves he is promplly
followed, brought back, and, in some cases, severely
punished. Also, re case (already mentioned in Bulletin)
wherein a man was fined £lO for taking a half-caste boy
from tribe, to educate—why, if one man is thus harassed,
are not those prosecuted who are openly employing
aboriginals ad lib. without authority ? There is no escape
from the conclusion that while the law is enforced against
the poor man it is relaxed in favor of the station-owner
Silk hat again I


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL IIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in the year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pre
ferential policy-holders. In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-five Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit nerhans of it's
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS. ’ 1 1 ’
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the vear 1898 it is
certiftel that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on December
“ Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,137.60.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,1125,225 7s. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t confuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude.
Z. C. BENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company's Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia,
B. MOU.NTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 4c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Dovecote.”
Her Majesty’s “ Under the Red Robe.”
Lyceum “Lured to Ruin.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
Town Hall Shilling- Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ La Poupee.”
Jb-'ou “ The Liars.”
Theatre Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “ A Miner’s Secret.”
Town Hall Saturday Pop Concerts.
Pattie Browne’s season of two weeks at
Sydney Royal is getting along so far in a state of
moderate prosperity. “The Dovecote ”is only a
reasonably good comedy, and even that statement
puts a certain strain on the truth, though the
truth can stand it well enough. It was evidently
selected, like the unfortunate “Nancy,” not
because it is a brilliant burst of mirthfulness, but
because the cantankerous heroine gives Miss
Pattie a show to occupy the biggest part of the
stage. The heroine in question is a cat-like little
personage, who drives her young husband wild
with causeless jealousy, and at last bursts up the
home owing to a golden hair on his coat. The
hair arrived there under circumstances which can
bear the closest inspection, but this slap-dash
young person has no rational inspection about her.
Her loving and spotless parents, to whom the
matter is referred, agree to quarrel furiously be-
tween themselves, so as to show their Pattie the
ugliness of domestic strife, and they call each other
names in a labored, perfunctory fashion, and break
a dish unconvincingly now and then. They are
two nice old people, pleasantly delineated by
Frank Mac vicars and Mrs. Gr. B. W. Lewis, and
they deserve better luck than to be driven to
wreck their own cups in their old age.
* * * ♦
Their painful bangings-about impose on Pattie;
that masterful and interfering girl promptly decides
in her own mind that a Spanish lady living in the
next paddock is the siren who led the old man
astray, and she all but spanks the senora in a brief
interview. In fact, she takes up the matter
with such ability that she drives her miserable
parents into a real disagreement. She also teaches
the only other married lady in the play to search
her husband’s pockets for incriminating evidence
—in fact, her existence is a ceaseless search in
somebody’s pocket for evidence on the unpleasant
subject of adultery. The hair on the husband’s
coat is fully explained at last, and everybody be-
comes reconciled, and it appears that the Spanish
lady didn’t know enough English to fully under-
stand the abuse that had been heaped upon her
and wasn’t seriously offended after all, yet, by the
time the show is oyer, Miss Pattie has made her-
self so thoroughly disagreeable that the audience’s
sympathy is off. In fact, it would gladly see the
curtain fall on the sound shaking of the heroine.
♦ * * *
Miss Browne herself is in no way respon-
sible for this state of things. She does her
best with a very unsatisfactory part, arid
her best in this case is very good indeed.
But a character whose cantankerousness never
rests grows very heavy. And that rageful little
woman completely dominates the play. The com-
£any is an excellent one most of the way round.
iesly Thomson, who was unfortunately crippled
in the early stages of the season, is a quaint,
boyish little man who doesn’t take well at first,
probably because he is so unlike most other men ;
but he improves greatly on acquaintance. Eloise
Juno, in a small part as a Scotch servant, holds up
the reputation she gained in the “ Little Minister ”
as the best Scotch comedy-lady the writer can re-
member ; in fact, her casual Maggie is probably
the best thing in the production. And even the
very small parts of the cast are filled in by artists
of such dramatic tonnage as Misses Edith Barrow,
Inez Bensusan, and Noni Rickards, also Oily
Deering, Sweeney, Hawthorne, and Charles Field.
But the “ Dovecote, ” with all these advantages,
isn’t far removed from failure. If there was a
little more incident it might get on better, but,
apart from the real rows of the young people and
the perfunctory sham rows of the old ones, there
js hardly any incident at all.
** * *
Alfred Dampier opened his season at
Sydney Criterion with something which staggered
under the heavy compound name of “Every-Day
London.” In a good many respects it was like its
title. London is one of the ruts of the British
melodrama, and the dramatist pegs along in the
said rut like a small dog hurrying along a gutter.
Nineteen out of 20 modern British melodramas
are located in London, and include a view of the
Thames by night, and a glimpse of a street in the
East End where Bill sells baked ’taturs on a bar-
row, and Sam deals in pigs’ feet and winkles.
London is one of the traditions which has fallen
on the drama like a club on a belltopper, and flat-
tened it. Dampier gives less of it than usual,
however, though that necessary evil, the Thames
by night, is there in Act IV. Three or four
splendid patches of scenery adorn the Criterion
production, and it includes two ideas that are not
quite worn to death. The first is a woman who
receives an offer of =£3oo for a child (the mys-
terious gentleman in the cab wants it because his
own has died and he can’t acknowledge the death
owing to complications about a will), and in her
haste she sells him a muffled infant which is really
her own. Then she wants to gird up her skirts,
and run madly after that cab to the ends of the
earth, and tear the vehicle to pieces, and slaughter
the horse if need be, to recover her infant, but the
tramp concealed behind the fence murders her just
then and takes the £300; and her husband, re-
turning at that moment from a long voyage, is
found beside the body and gaoled for a very long
period.
Fifteen years later the same tramp, no older,
but now a well-dressed society person, hires
the father, not knowing he is the father, to pre-
tend, from base motives, to be the parent of his
own daughter—he himself not knowing she is his
daughter. Which is rather a good idea and would
be well carried out if it were not for the old stage
foolishness about the birth-certificate. A shabby
stranger calls and lays a birth-certificate on the
table, said document certifying that somebody,
who was the daughter of somebody else, was born
somewhere on some date or other, in the presence
of nobody in particular. A distracted old
gentleman looks at it and says with a shriek that
it proves the shabby man to be beyond question
the father of his girl. And if 18 persons arrived
in a row with the certificate it would prove,
according to the same idiotic stage law, that they
were all the girl’s father, even though eight of
them were women, and the rest were dogs and
Chinamen, and the oldest was only 19, and the
girl was 43. The stage birth-certificate is fast
making this paper feel angry.
* * * «
There are bits of good dialogue strewn
here and there in ‘ ‘ Every-Day London, ” though
it lags wearily in places, and wants more action,
and also a rather better company. Dampier, the
immortal, grows no older, and his splendid voice
loses none of its vigor, and his rendering of the
gentleman who gets 15 years and is afterwards
hired to personate himself is a piece of work which
could not easily be improved upon. George
Buller does a small, mean, casual ruffian in a par-
ticularly excellent fashion; in fact, there are few
men who can play a small person of loathsome
character better than George Buller; and Johnson
Weir is developing into a good, useful, all-round
actor. Master Dampier starts his stage career in
this drama as a tattered small boy, and seems a
bright youth of considerable promise. But Miss
Katherine Russell’s red-headed Susan is woe-
fully commonplace, and The Bulletin sorrowfully
concludes that the pretty Miss Rose Dampier
hasn’t inherited a spark of her father’s histrionic
talent up to date, and ought to decide right here
that her metier isn’t the stage. It says this regret-
fully, for old-man Dampier is such a general success
that his ability ought to spread all over the
family; but it doesn’t. And there is no other
lady in the company who has any spare capacity
to make up for these alarming shortages.
** * *
The Lyceum has revived Frank Harvey’s
“ Ring of Iron ” for a brief season. It is a great
many years—l 2, if The Bulletin remembers
aright—since that large piece of ironmongery was
last produced in Sydney, with Essie Jenyns,
Billolloway, Brother Charles, Albert Norman and
Alice Deorwyn in the cast. That was at the
Opera House—which dingy house up above the
pub in lower King-street was actually called the
New Opera House in those days. The “ Ring ”is
one of the best of Frank Harvey’s many dramas,
and is a good way above his usual washy standard.
Its loudest feature is the harrowing baronet who
shunts his wife into a lunatic asylum in order that
he may marry another lady. John Cosgrove puts
his extensive brawn and muscle and his big
masterful head into this part, and his size makes
the baronet a broad, convincing aggressive person
who could break all the ten commandments at
once if he fell on them. Diver, after a long course
of wickedness, takes a turn as the good man who
repairs the commandments again after Cosgrove
has broken them, and three pretty girls, of whom
Miss Helene Burdett takes The Bulletin’s fancy
most, are there mainly for the purpose of being
trodden on by Cosgrove in his career of wicked-
ness. It is growing more and more difficult to
keep pace with the Lyceum, which usually puts
up a big new shock every Saturday, and this paper
only gets out with its notice of the last shock by
the time the next shock is about due. “Lured to
Ruin ” comes next.
*
Her Majesty’s, which closed its massive
front gate for the first five days of the week, re-
opens on Saturday with “Under the Red Robe.”
Whether the opening will do justice to that fine
work of fiction remains to be seen, but this
paper has it on the best authority—that of the
advertisement—that it will do all the justice that
a big stage and a large cash expenditure admit of.
The good points about the “Red Robe” are the
story itself and the gorgeous millinery of the
period. The bad one, from a dramatic point of
view, is that it is an active tale where some of the
best incidents extend over 50 miles of bad road.
As it must necessarily be bottled into a much
smaller space than the author intended, it merely
remains for Sydney to form an opinion about the
judiciousness or otherwise of the bottling.
#* * *
Dante’s exhibition of the unholy art of
magic booms, perhaps, even more this week than it
did last. The managerial statement that hun-
dreds were turned away from the doors may be
taken literally or not, just as the public pleases—
perhaps they turned away at 11 o'clock because the
performance was over. But even with all deduc-
tions the young man with the big wide smile is a
highly payable speculation.
** * *
The Sydney Tivoli bill is only in a
moderate state of glory this week, the exit of
various people having left considerable gaps in the
magnificence of things. And the projected depar-
ture of Bellman and Lottie Moore —principally
the latter—throws a certain gloom over the house,
for the agile Lottie is a general favorite, and can
invert herself in a way pleasing to the gods. Miss
Cora Caselli, a shapely high-kickist of tremendous
elevation in the high-kick line, is the most notable
. person of the present co. who will remain when
• Miss Lottie departs, but Florrie West, described
as “The Dazzler,” is due on Saturday.
** 0 *
Bristol’s circus is still in the condition
vaguely alluded to last week, and its address is,
as heretofore, on the neglected bit of waste ground
adjacent to Redfern station, Sydney. The
Alhambra also keeps up a reasonably deserving
variety entertainment, and these long-abandoned
premises begin to feel almost alive again.
** * *
“ The Lady of Lyons” revival at Melb.
Princess’s proved to be a rather rough and un-
ready show, with sundry noticeable features in it.
The most humorous was a military person who,
having a dozen lines or so to speak, made nearly
the same number of abortive attempts to remem-
ber them. Miss Meta Pelham’s mincing version
of Widow Melnotte raised an occasional laugh,
also Mrs. Bryer’s appalling appearance in several
green and red costumes gave pleasure to all. Fur-
thermore, W. F. Hawtrey, in the fine “ fat ”
character of Colonel Dumas, achieved an artistic
failure with considerable success. Some people
seemed to like Hawtrey’s rasping voice and hard,
inflexible style of walking through his part, but
to anyone who has got the aforesaid voice
“ upon his nerves,” Mr. Hawtrey begins to be very
trying. It may almost be said that there is only
one note in the voice. It would make a proposal of
marriage, or offer up a prayer for rain as though it
were reiterating curses on Black Michael, or again
advising Marcus Superbus to “ send for the
woman. ” When will Albert Whelan add Haw-
trey’s voice to his list of imitations ? George
Majeroni, in the small part of a rampageous re-
publican, made himself felt as well as heard, and
the two principals put some of their neatest work
into the contract. Claude Melnotte and Pauline
are showy characters, but they need a lot of earnest
acting. Miss Ada Ferrar did very well, whilst
Julius Knight went one better. Julius was a
bright young hero, with not too many heroics
about him, and although his delivery of the old
familiar turgid speeches became mechanical at
times, he was mostly real and always likeable.
Three nights of Bulwer Lytton’s play brought the
season, presumably, to a close on Tuesday.
** * *
“La Poupee,” with Miss Yane and Chas.
Kenningham as new arrivals in Melbourne, was
announced to open a comic-opera campaign at
Melb. Princess’s on Wednesday. Melbourne will
be glad to get some more opera.
** * *
The almighty half-dollar, supported by the
festive florin and the shilling that is nimble, come
clinking into the Rickards treasury, and Peggy
Pryde sings “He’s out upon the fuddle” (which
her mother sang of yore) to a crowded house.
Ajax, the Flexible Marvel, is the latest “ turn ” at
the Opera House. He turns himself in a large
assortment of inhuman directions, and sits upon
his own chest with an air of having been born that
way. In fact, Ajax is so very remarkable as a
contortionist that The Bulletin can hardly make
itself believe he is not identical with one of the
Kclairs (the alligator one) whom Fitz Gerald Bros,
brought to Australia three years ago.
* * * * gy
The Yic. Operatic Society performance of
“Bohemian Girl,” at Melb. Bijou, seemed to im-
prove every night during a week’s run. The best
singer of the whole tuneful co. was the baritone,
Horace Stevens, who figured as a boy soprano a
few years ago, and grew into a youthful baritone
without pausing. Count Arnheim is an absurd
character, even in old professional hands,
but young Stevens played it in a tall,
straight, deportmental style which didn’t lessen
the effect of his rich voice. J. Goudy, the
Devilshoof, came out quite strong as an
actor ; and certainly no amateur prima-donna has
knocked a Melbourne audience harder at her
first attempt than Miss (or Signorina) Cesca
Vollugi. This shapely daughter of Cecchi’s old
friend is built for the stage. A trifle taller, per-
haps, than Nellie Stewart, graceful, winning, with
gloriously-ruddy golden hair, and intelligence to
match. When she came out as a concert-singer
last year, the Vollugi’s voice seemed to have lost
some of its natural sweetness in training. As the
“Bohemian Girl” she warbled sweetly, but the
voice production was not so free and bold as be-
fore. Anyhow, Sig. Vollugi is a very welcome
angel in all respects.
Mr. and Mrs. Brough are back again—The
Bulletin is sure that it may offer them Aus-
tralia’s cordial welcome—after a successful tour in
India and around. As may be seen by accom-
panying photographs, they look none the worse
for their travel. Mrs. Brough remains as
gracious and charming as ever ; and the perennial
Robert even seems to have lost some of the
wrinkles with which misanthropic Time has
flecked his brow.
** * *
On Saturday next (29th) the reconstructed
Brough Comedy co. makes a first appearance at
Melbourne Bijou, and the best wishes of Aus-
tralia’s playgoing public will be with the manage-
ment. Of the nine newcomers in the ca two or
three have brought high reputations with them.
All of them have been selected by the critical
actor who runs the show, which is equivalent to
saying that everyone is up to the Brough
standard. Old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Brough,
Miss Temple, Mario Majeroni, and MTntyre, are
good wine, and need no bush. The season starts
with “ The Liars,” by Henry Arthur Jones.
** * *
Bland Holt returns to Melb. Royal 6n
Saturday. The previous tenants, Maurice and
Bateman, gave up the managerial ghost last week,
and rumors of strange lawsuits and things are in
the early summer air. Bland Holt will go
straight to the soul of the racing carnival with his
“Sporting Life, ” a drama that hummed in Sydney,
and is calculated to hum even louder in the city
where Bobadil amounts to a religion, and every
second man has got a dead bird concealed about
his person.
** * *
Also, the much-forgotten Alexandra is to
throw open its gates to the populace on Saturday.
Lrskine Scott, who last year produced some intel-
ligent dramas in a worthy manner at the Haleck,
has arranged to try his luck again on similar lines.
He will produce “A Miner’s Secret,” by Mark
Melford. The co. looks pretty promising, and the
name of John Wallace, as stage-manager, is a
guarantee that tli ■ scenery will hang together and
the supers, will simulate excitement when Johnnie
gives the signal for their angry passions to be let
loose.
** * *
The “Pop” Concerts at the Town Hall
include the “ Georgia Magnet; ” and the somewhat
interesting lady, who clings to a billiard cue in the
face of adverse circumstances, is assisting a strong
company of vocalists to fill the building on Satur-
day.
At Poverty Point.
“T.D. Such a pity to hear Newbury’s contralto—
Maud Dairympie —wastin'.'' her powerful voice in unskilful
singing. She is just as Crossley was when fair Ada first
came to Sydney, and a year or two of hard study would
probably enable her to pack up traps and go where the
good singers go.
“T.D. An entertaining stranger from Philistia sat
behind me last night at Newbury's pop. He joined
heartily in the disgraceful “guying” of a poor girl who
had inexperience enough to do 20min. of Grieg’s pianistic
gymnastics. When Newbury apologised for somebody’s
absence, and sang “In Native Worth” himself, the
Philistine listened for a few bars of recitative, and then
remarked that the fat little tenor must be a makeshift,
but ’e didn't sing so bad. He grew very enthusiastic,
however, when Phil let himself out on the eternal “Holy
City,” and even aired his musical knowledge by humming
the Jerusalem refrain until someone exhorted him to
shut up. But one of the adult prodigies (where does
Phillip get ’em all?) took his alien heart by storm,
and I heard the shilling-popper sum up that “ the feller
with the voice like a female was best of all—and ’e never
put on no crimson frills, neither.’’
Cabled that Florence Esdaile helped to allay the panic
at London Tivoli, the other night, when the biograph
lantern went off with a bang, setting Are to the adjacent
woodwork and filling the house with smoke. If the ex-
Melbourne soprano gave them many top-notes amidst
the smoke she deserved a substantial cheque for her
trouble.
Ada Colley is said to have been getting £lOO a week at
the Berlin Wintei Gardens. Bather a large salary to be
made in Germany by a light and airy ballad singer, isn’t
“Pat” Bathurst scored in “La Poupbe,” owing to the
absence, through illness, of baritone Pauli. “ Pat” was
called upon suddenly to assume the baritone role ; and,
it is alleged, had the “ scrip ” handed to him on the
Thursday before opening night, and, after a desperate
memory struggle of two days and two nights, conquered,
and scored on the Saturday.
Anson (writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent) is
on tour as the real Mackay in “ Too Much Johnson,” and
later gets a good chance at the London Garrick. He is
newspaperly-termed “ one of the finest actors on the
stage,” so it looks as if George’s turn were cominn-.
Nellie Stewart jibbed out of the Chevalier engagement.”
The great, tired portion of London (writes Tiie Bulle-
tin’s correspondent) is daily “ bussing” it to the Aqua-
rium to see the Australian fat family (the two females
and the male weigh 79 stone in the aggregate). All the
credit of the development of these elephantine infants is
put down to the fact that they were born of Devonshire
parents who had been weaned on their native cream be-
fore emigrating. The Vic. Agent-General is most remiss
in not advertising Victorian butter in this connection.
The husband of the “ Georgia Magnet” met Bouge-
mont-Grein in Wellington 12 months ago, and addressing
him by his old name, the cannibal chief produced a card
with the name “ Eougemont,” and explained—" Ssh,
I’ve got a game on.”
The properties used in the production of the
‘Bed Bobe” are a picturesque feature of that dressy
drama ; and the old oak setting of the second act is a
thing to be borne in mind by any democratic Australian
the next time he furnishes a boom mansion on ancestral
lines. Hassan, the builder of this effective spectacle, is
remembered as the eccentric donkey who pranced to the
energetic smile of panto. Lonnen. Opinions were divided
at the time as to the merits of the performers, but this
paper gave its vote for the donkey without a moment’s
hesitation. Hassan is a clever fellow.
Arthur Bateman, who found the money for Melb. T.E.,
shows, “ Bound the World in Eighty Days,” etc., had a
decent lump left him by his father, who long part-owned
and vigorously edited Bathurst Courier. During a snow-
fall in Ballarat 16 years ago editor Bateman received such
a vigorous snow-balling that next day came a dignified
leader upon the irreverence of the rising generation. He
always regretted parting with the Courier, which he con-
sidered his life’s mascotte.
Prof. Bristol s counting horse was answering simple
questions in arithmetic at a Sydney circus, the other
night, by stamping the correct number of times with one
forefoot. The gods kept him going, too. Quick the
questions came, “ 4 from 8?” “7 from 15?” and so on.
At last a small, squeaky voice was heard saying, “ 3 from
2. ” There was a general laugh as the Professor told the
clever youngster to come and do it himself.
Fremantle loses few chances of stressing the fact that
it’s “ the port of Westralia. ” Lately its municipal coun-
cil invited “the Firm’s” Sign of the Cross co. thither;
but the municipal enterprise was rewarded only with the
reply that the local town-hall stage wasn’t good enough.
Not to be beaten, the council at once resolved to make
the stage accommodation better. So the municipal
theatre gets close to the horizon.
That eccentric solicitor P. A. C. O’Far-
rell, who died last week in Melb. hospital, recently
sent a characteristically abusive letter to Chief
Justice Madden, giving, among other things, the
writer’s opinion in plain terms of the learned one’s
legal equipment. His Waxcellencty replied, cour-
teously excusing the letter under the circum-
stances, and enclosing a fiver. The eccentric one
was flabbergasted with the very welcome coals of
fire, and what is more, wasn’t too proud to feel
touched.
Henry Barkly, whose death at 83 is re-
ported from London, will be best remembered as
Governor of Victoria. He also governed Tas-
mania, the Cape, Mauritius and other places, but
he spent seven years in Victoria, and was one of
the two Governors whom that loyal territory
salaried at >£15,000. He was Governor there when
the Constitution was proclaimed. His first wife
was buried in Melbourne. He retired from the
Imperial service over 20 years ago on a substantial
pension.


BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
cyanide
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles
MANGANESE
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forwai
71%
d Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st. , Brisb-
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining-, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. (SOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tb€ R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors.
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* « * *
The Great Boulder scandal is not dying out, as
many another W.A. scandal before it has done, and the
ignominious retreat, or dismissal, of the directors for their
■conduct in this unpardonable business seems now only a
matter of time. The shareholders’ committee has sent
over the world a complete text of the agreement with the
Milling Co., a circular indicating its next move, and a
pamphlet giving 50 extracts from the English and Aus-
tralian press on the subject. The well-greased, and,
therefore, very greasy, rags that live on the game, and
die when it’s all over, continue to barrack for the direc-
tors. “Much satisfa''t ; on ” is expressed at the “great
success of the process,” and it has been predicted that if
the board could only stave off the outcry till October, all
would be well by reason of the results then obtained.
Here, at the end of that month, nothing satisfactory is
forthcoming. On the other hand, there is room for antici-
pationsof comparative failure. Thefeelingamongstmining
managers of the field is almost unanimous that Konemann
will never be able to make his estimated extractions.
Hamilton, the Boulder manager, while rendering every
assistance in its preparation, expresses no opinion. What-
ever the result—very good or very bad—the directorscan-
not escape punishment for making an outrageous contract
for the use of an unknown process.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, Menzies, W.A. : “ Mining costs
per ton, 13s. 8d. ; milling, £1 Is 8d.” Water, or the want
of it, the chief trouble.
* * * »
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vie., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * * *
George Brookrnan told a deputation of local
shareholders in Adelaide last week it was not true the
Bake View South Co. was £30,000 in debt, but it had a
credit balance of £6000 ; nor was it true the mine would
soon shut down. He would try to get an additional local
director appointed, but held out little hope of that being
agreed to. Wait till the balance-sheet comes out. The
mine has been a disappointment. It’s only hope is depth,
and should it be found that one of the Lake View ore
chutes dip into it, Whittaker Wright—now that Kaufman
has retired—will have his eagle eye fixed upon it. The
policy is to wait and watch, more particularly watch.
Understood that the mine will soon be opening up at the
500ft. level to see what it is stuffed with at that depth.
Better to go down another 200ft. and then open out.
Another disappointment at 500ft. may cause the mine to
be sold too cheap.
* * * *
Gilfillan and McOreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assaj'ers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
* * • •
Many variegated yarns are told of the richness
of the lode in the Lake View Consols mine, W.A., at the
300ft. south level. Six weeks ago it was known that, for
eight days, the average value for 8ft. wide was 32oz.
varying from 19oz. to UOoz. per ton. Test holes put in the
sides, ’tis said, prove this richness is not confined to the
drift, and it is also of considerable length—in fact, said that
the face has been walled-up, pending instructions from
manager Callahan, who, ’tis now said, has gone to consult
with Whittaker-Wright at Cairo, and will return to the
mine immediately afterwards.
* * * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feeders
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
* * • *
“Flabby Paul,” to The Bulletin, from “Ta-
mata,” Mambare River, New Guinea, 6/10/’98 There are
about 150 miners, of whom some do fairly well. Two men
are getting an ounce a day each. Flour is 14s. a fifty at
Tamata, but it costs 20s. to have it carried to the field—a
distance of 25 miles. Carriers are scarce ; some miners
are unable to procure any. Carriers’ wages are 10s. per
month and rations. They can each carry about 351b., and
it takes them three days to go and three days to return,
so you see each 351b. costs 2s. 6d. and rations for the boy,
besides the price of the goods. One miner died of fever
about three weeks back, and four had to go away by last
boat. Two carriers died last week of dvsentery. There
is not much danger from the natives between ‘here and
the field, although two prospectors had one of their boys
speared t’other side of the field. This place (Tamata) is
about 60 miles up the river. The Govt, surveyor is
laying-out a township here, and is going to survey
another at the field. The last two natives concerned in
the murder case have been captured.
F. A. Rocbfort to The Bulletin, from Gira
goldfield, B. New Guinea (10/9/’98)Misleading state-
ments are being printed in the Australian press about the
great finds of gold on the Gira River, in British Papua.
It would be well for men to think twice ere coming here.
Fair gold was got in three short creeks running into the
Gira, but these have been mostly worked out, and since
their opening nothing new has been found. The nearest
creek to Tamata, the Govt, station on the Mambare, is
about 30 miles over a very rough track ; closely adjoining
are the other two. The number of men at present work-
mg on the so-called goldfield is about 80, half of whom
are not making tucker. The Ivanhoe has also brought
63 men from Cooktown and Woodlark, all of whom intend
coming here. Packing by carriers is expensive, 6d. per
pound being charged by storekeepers ; so food is a costly
item to men getting little. Carriers are few, and it will
take them all their time to keep going the present popu-
lation with, the addition of the Ivanhoe crowd, and when
their time is up they will be hard to replace, as the mor-
tality among them of late has been excessive. Useless
therefore, men coming here without “ bovs,” as they can-
not carry their own swag and rations. "There is plenty
country to prospect, but it must be borne in mind that it
is only prospecting they are coming for. Fever, as usual
is prevalent; and dysentery has appeared in a bad form.
To Fruit Growers, Orchard! sts, and
Amateui' Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
Beresford’
CAUSTIC
SPRAYING
SOLUTION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and Roses;
0 The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPRAYING
bOLUiION have, after years of practical experiments,
®is most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amateur
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from E. ATKIN, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A, DAWBARN and CO.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
~ The Westralian Government’s expenditure for
rne quarter ended 30th Sept, was £695,331 against a net
revenue of 3691,001-deficit, £104,330 for the quarter,
thi - accordin g to Premier-Treasurer Forrest, Westralia
T ear was not only to meet all current expenses but
aiso to pay off the debit balance of £186,803 left over at
in June, 1898. The railway returns are another evi-
"fPi 5 ! °t trouble to come. In 1892 the Westralian lines
pa a as. ,d. per cent, on capital; 1893,75. 9d. per cent.; 1894,
T". p J er cent : 1895 > m 10s - P er cent. ; 1896, £9 Is.
\vl t el c' \ 1897 > t 4 12s ■ 5d - P er cent - In 1895 and 1896
westraha broke all Australian records in the matter of
railway profits, and even now it owns by far the best-
paymg- system in the Seven Provinces. But, according to
longer appearanoes > jt isn ’t likel y to keep its lead much
* * * •
£ a P t that Sydney alone—one municipality
oo c Ol i the 41 , which make up the area commonly described
-has written off £24,000 of rates as irrecover-
'f ' )le ln J'hc last eight years, is a powerful argument in
ravor of the proposal that every municipal council should
nave power to seize and sell a property on which five
'' ates are unpaid. That would give the council
ahsolute power to get in the rates if it wanted to. And
as the surest guarantee that it would want to sooner or
later, the council should have absolutelv no power to
give a release to any ratepayer except for actual cash.
-Lnen unpaid rates would be a mortgage on the property,
which nothing on earth could shift by any process save
pay merit in full. There would be very few municipal bad
debts under that system.
* * * *
.The National Bank (Melbourne) shows an im-
provement for the half-year to 30th Sept., 1898, the net
profits being £17,602. (The National has a ridiculous
nabit of putting down “ IVet profit, £20,526,” and then
aeciuoting note and income tax, £2924, wherefore a lot of
nnancial editors, even in papers of the standing of the
Age, describe the £80,526 as net profit.) This is nothing
' el .' gieat, still it is above the National Bank’s recent
averages, as the following statement of profits shows :
March, 1894 .. £31,312 Sept., 1896 .. £11,706
hept 1894 .. 25,231 March, 1897 .. 14,712
March 1895 .. 15,126 Sept., 1897 .. 18,275
Sept., 1895 .. 13,763 March, 1898 .. 15,471
March, 1896 .. _ 10,523 Sept., 1898 .. 17,602
The National pays its usual div. of 5 per cent, to prefer-
ence shareholders, £7645, and the remainder, added to
previous balance, leaves £47,438 at credit of profit and
loss account. The ordinary shareholders stand out
as usual ; after the preference crowd has got its
per cent., the balance would only pay the drdi-
? ar ' .people 1 per cent, and leave a fraction over,
respite the improvement, the National’s profit are
only equal to £1 14s. 9d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders funds, which is not a particularly good re-
turn. There will probably be an improvement through
saving of interest when the last of the 4) per cent, recon-
structed deposits are paid off ; but the amount of these —
though not stated separately in the balance-sheet—is not
no "G The relief in this direction may increase the
profits sufficiently to make them equal to a 2 per cent,
div. to ordinary shareholders, but even that is none too
certain. To pay a 5 per cent. div. to preference and a
very humble 3 per cent, to ordinary shareholders requires
a net profit of £32,692, which is nearly twice the present
earnings, and if it is proposed to make any serious
attempt at building up a reserve as well the earnings need
to be still larger.
Tbe National has a very large and solid busi-
reserve of cash and liquid securities
(£-.,49/,230) is very good, equalling about 37 per
cent, of all liabilities to the public. Why, with this
massive reserve, a greater effort is not made to pay off
the remainder of the 4j per cent, deposits is something of
a. mystery. There would be at least a saving of some
thousands per annum by the process, and the cash reserve
se.ems needlessly large. It is difficult to form an opinion
as to whether the small earnings are only owing to
depression, or whether the National has still some depre-
ciation to write off, but probably the depression is mainly
responsible. At all events, the situation is none too
bright . , r , , e ordinary shareholders—especially those
who paid £5 per share premium on the new issue of £4
shares in 1887. The National’s present troubles are
mainly owing to the boom policy of its directors in earlier
days. In the 35 years previous to ’93 it paid £2,686,329 in
dividends, and only put £199,424 of its profits to reserve
fund—the other £470,576 of the reserve being made up by
the sale of shares at a premium. A little less 12 per cent,
fi"’- ln the old days would have done a great deal to
lighten the present strain.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) has now so far
improved that the interest on reconstructed deposits has
been raised from 2£ to 3 per cent. The Colonial re-
arranged its disastrous affairs in 1893 at 4| per cent. In
1895 it re-arranged some more, and reduced the interest
on deposits to 2 .1- per cent, for five years, to be increased
to 3 per cent, when the earnings allowed. After the five
years, which expires in 1900, the reconstructed funds
are to bear interest at the current rate for 12 months’ de-
posits. The present is the first half-year when the Colo-
mal has contrived to pay the full 3 per cent., and its
profits compare with previous results as follows :
September, 1835 .. £7BO September, 1897 .. £3312
March, 1896 .. .. 2564 March, 1898 .. 3398
September, 1896 .. 2004 September, 1898 ~ 853
March, 1897 .. .. 3043
The present half-year’s profits would appear as £4164 but
for the extra, $ per cent, paid on deposits, so there is
really a considerable improvement. During 1 the half-year
the Colonial has paid off £128,988 of its reconstructed
debts, which are now down to £1,267,393, and this is
another evidence of progress. The cash and liquid assets
(£400,331) have declined £150,000, and now equal 17 per
cent, on all liabilities to the public, which is strong enough
for all purposes, seeing that the great bulk of said liabili-
ties are fixed for long periods. Still, it is about the
smallest percentage of cash reserve in Victoria, and with
so little of its money lying idle the Colonial ought to
show better results than it does.
The profit, after paying 3 per cent, to depositors,
which is about the same rate as paid by other banks,
equals a shade over 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
paid-up capital of £788,167. Of this, however, it is
admitted that £431,166 is lost and has to be written
off, so the profits equal 9s. 6d. per cent, per annum
on the capital (£357,000) which is alleged to be
good and intact. If the earnings (as compared
with those of even the worst of other banks) are any fair
criterion, then it certainly looks as if not more than
£150,000 of that capital at the very outside was intact if
the assets were written down to their present bed-rock
value. The Colonial is doing a very slow recovery, and
another year or two may tell a different story, but this is
certainly how things appear just now. The formal
writing-down of capital is still postponed owing to these
mysterious “difficulties” so often alluded to, but by a
steady process of forfeiture and by applying profits in
reduction of the old debit balance the said balance is
steadily diminishing. Apparently the Colonial has a very
weak crowd of shareholders, and calls are hard to collect
During the half-year another 6020 shares have been for-
feited for non-payment, which makes 44,578 forfeited in
all, or more than one-third of all the ordinary shares in
the bank. The whole ordinary paid-up capital is now
£484,123, so if the admitted losses were written off instead
of being carried forward there would remain only £53,000
ordinary capital and £304,044 preference capital in the
bank—or £357,000 altogether. This is certainly £06,000
better than the situation 18 months ago, for then the ad-
mitted losses were £43,000 more than the ordinary capital,
and it seems probable enough that the improvement will
continue. Still, it is a very bad situation even now, and
requires a great deal of improvement.
'* « * •
The South British Insurance Co. (Maoriland)
for the year ended 31st August, shows a profit of only
£6371, which is reduced by the writing of £441 off furni-
ture, &c., to £5930. The underwriting business shows an
actual loss of £4896 by reason of the great Melbourne
fire, but this is more than made good by interest on in-
vestments. The usual 17£ per cent, dividend absorbs
£11,310, so the co. ends the year with £5380 less cash than
it had at the beginning. This sort of thing doesn’t hap-
pen frequently to the South British, and it is a solid con-
cern with £64,000 paid-up capital and £176,000 of reserves
the kind of insurance co. which seems to grow in none
of the Seven Provinces save Maoriland—and can stand an
occasional shock of the kind. Still the 17£ per cent,
dividend looks rather too magnificent in-such a bad year.
* * * *
A casual remark in the winding-up report of the
Southern Insurance Co. (Melbourne), which lately sold its
business to the British and Foreign, is to the effect that
there is probably. £lO,OOO of depreciation to be allowed
for in the securities. This is equal to one-tenth of the
entire investments. To put the matter in the most un-
°l!?* irus ’ ve way it would seem to imply that a consider-
able part of the alleged assets'are quite well known to be
lost, and therefore the figures put- in the balance-sheet
are more or less misleading ; that the board is aware of
the situation, and isn’t at all ashamed of it ; that it went
on paj'ing big dividends so long as it could make even a
pretence of earning the money to pay them with, and
made no attempt to adequately provide for losses ; and
that its balance-sheet was not an exact and complete
statement of the co.’s affairs by any means. And that’s
just what is the matter with a whole lot of companies
whose directorates haven’t the courage to tell the whole
truth about them, or are too tired to face the situation.
* * * *
Tasmania’s little Perpetual Trustees, Executors
al ?d ®°- (Hobart) ended its half-year to June 30
with a profit of £420 as compared with £465 for previous
half. The usual 6 per cent. div. and div.-tax thereon
absorb £315, and the other £lO5, with previous balance,
leaves £556 to be carried forward. This concern started
11 years ago with a paid-up capital of £lO,OOO and it has
now in addition a reserve fund of £3500 and the above-
mentioned balance. Also it has paid its 6 per cent, very
steadily for a long while, so it has done well in very bad
times.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., joint-stock beer-makers, of Syd-
ney, report a profit of £36,125 for the half-year ended
30th September. Some recent profits of the Tooth firm,
showing the remarkable steadiness of the concern in good
times and bad, are as follows :
March, 1893 .. £40,435 March, 1896 .. £43,568
Sept., 1893 .. 36,455 Sept., 1896 .. 35,772
March, 1894 .. 37,603 March, 1897 .. 42,555
Sept., 1894 .. 32,048 Sept-., 1897 ... 35,573
March, 1895 .. 40,765 March, 1898 .. 42,778
Sept., 1895 .. 34,319 Sept., 1898 .. 36,125
The usual 7 per cent dividend is paid, absorbing £31,500,
and £2500 goes towards providing for depreciation. Also
£5OOO is added to reserve (most of this comes out of pre-
vious half-year’s balance) making it £85,000. In 1892, the
reserve stood at only £35,000, so it has increased in six
years by £50,000. The Tooth Co. is now ten years old,
and so far its career has been very prosperous.
There isn’t very much joy in being a big mort-
gage and wool co. nowadays. For instance, the Union
Mortgage and Agency Co. (whose balance-sheet is just
published) with £933,000 of paid-up capital and £987,000
of debenture money, borrowed at an average of about 4£
per cent., shows these results :
30th June, 1891 .. Profit .. £68,364
.» 1892 ~ „ .. 52,464
1893 .. „ 18,367
.. 1894 .. „ ... 11,457
•Ist Dec., 1894 (i-year) „ ... 6,487
.. 1895 .. „ .. 10,394
»» 1896 .. ~ .. 9,087
» 1897 .. Loss .. 4,603
Three years ago the Union Mortgage and Agency Co.
handed over a lot of its properties to a subsidiary co.—the
Australian Estates and Mortgage Co. Of the Union’s
assets £400,000 consists of 5J per cent, debentures in its
own “ pup,” and £1,229,930 consists of shares therein.
The total paid capital of the new co. is only £1,250,000, so
the old co. practically owns the lot. Therefore all the
Union’s paid-up capital and nearly £300,000 more is
represented by shares in its mysterious relative, the other
concern, which other concern has only paid one dividend
in three years, and that was 1 per cent. This year the
pup pays no div. and shows a loss of £933, so it would be
interesting to know what these £1,229,930 of shares are
really worth. And on top of all the Union Mortgage and
Agency writes off £lOO,OOO of its alleged reserve of
£175,000 to cover losses.
There are seven large pastoral co.’s doing busi-
ness in Australasia. Last year three showed a loss and
one showed a small profit only by leaving a good propor-
tion of its debenture-interest unpaid. Four paid no
dividends. Three have no reserve funds whatever, and
one has even to square its accounts by putting the accu-
mulated loss among the assets. Altogether the pastoral
business has fallen on evil days. Dalgety and Co., with
its 8 per cent, dividend, and the Australian Mortgage Land
and Finance, which pays 7J, are the only large concerns
which seem to be feeling reasonably good in this time of
woe.
* * m *
B.H. Block 14 Co., having got out of its diffi-
culty with the slag-wheelers, &c., at the Port Adelaide
smeiters, relieves itself of responsibility by letting the
work, over which the trouble arose, to contractors. And,
curiously, the contractors are the president and vice-
president of the new workmen’s union. The riled mem-
bers, who were looking forward to making another appeal
to the co. shortly, as the manager had invited them to,
promptly expelled the two officers and elected others.
But that doesn’t end the contract.
* * * *
Of the B.H. Proprietary’s 960,000 shares, no
less than 605,007 are now held on the London register ;
and of the Australian lot of 354,993, Melbourne, which
once held two-thirds of the total, owns but 122,528.
Adelaide’s total is 187,626, and Sydney’s 35,066.
* * * *
Cobar-Chesney. Main shaft, the manager re-
ports, going down to 560 ft. before opening out. Sulphide
veins in shaft at 500 ft. show that iron is increasing—all
that is wanted to make the ore a self-fluxing proposition.
North of the shaft at 360 ft. the lode is already proved
100 ft. wide of good value. In this as well as in the
southern ore body winzes are going down in excellent
ore.
* * * *
Acting-Judge Sly heard at Broken Hill a civil
case which has put wicked thoughts into the minds of
White Cliffs opal miners. The representatives, respec-
tively of the biggest Sydney and Melbourne buyers (one
of them was Aaron something and the other Mark some-
thing to the same effect) had a row; and in the end one
of them called the other a robber—which is a thing, of
course, that no gem-merchant could possibly stand. The
£5OOO he asked for dwindled, however, to a farthing by
the time the jury had finished with it. Meantime,
witnesses had stated the profit on opal-buying variously
at from 25 to some odd thousands per cent. For one par-
cel, worth over a thousand, the price paid was £'Bo, ol
which the share of I he lucky getters (they nearly all work
on tribute) was just £4O. It isn’t surprising that the
manager for the English co., which monopolises much of
the pick of the field, has lately thrown up his billet and.
gone opal-buying himself; and if they hadn’t taken re-
turn tickets his Honor, and barristers Wise and Gannon,,
and all the rest of the court would probably have giveni
Sydney and the law best with the same object in view.
Anyhow, the exposures have done good, and White Cliffs;
tributors and other sellers are for the moment complain-
•ng less than usual. The population of the field was never
before so great; and, though big finds are not common,
the output of average gem was never so consistent, nor-
was the product ever more marketable—in the seven-year-
history of this field, that is.
* « # *
If, as alleged, the air is impure at less that 500 ft.
in the big shaft going down on the Balmain side of the-
Harbor for the Sydney Colleries Co., what is it likely to-
be at five and six times that depth? A gigantic under-
taking this, the result of which is very problematical.
Also alleged that the hour’s delay that takes place when
a blast misses fire, as must often occur in such a shaft, is
docked from the miners’ wages. If so, it is the “ nearest”'
thing writer has ever heard of in mining work. After an
hour every man going back takes his life in his hand, and
the fact that he has lost an hour’s pay must be a lovely
consolation while he is engaged in the horribly- dangerous;
work of picking out a missed hole. Perhaps if he went
back in 10 minutes and got blown to atoms occasionally,,
tiie management would not deduct it! Holes will miss-
fire in face of every precaution.
* » * *
Said that a very big bid was made for the
Cobar tributors’ interest in Great copper-mine, the Nyma-
gee mine, the Peak freehold gold-mine, and the Lithgow
smelting works, on behalf of the Exploration Co., of
London, which is associated in the deal with another
strong Bull corporation. The examination of the proper-
ties lasted several weeks. Nothing came of it. Under-
stood that the tributors would not reveal their working
costs, and would not say what they really wanted to clear
right out of the business. Would be interesting to know
the sum offered, and equally interesting to find out the
exact amount the tributors think their interests all round
are worth. Between that offered and that expected there-
was probably a difference of a quarter of a million.
Whispered somewhere that the sum offered the tributors,
was £BOO,OOO.
« * * *
A White Cliffs man to The Bulletin : — Enough,
copper has quite recently been found about 100 miles N.E..
of Broken Hill to make the hair of any Mt. Lyell or Chil-
lagoe man stand on end ; but nothing is said about it,
because it is “ premature.” In this case premature means
quite a lot. Since the removal of the Broken Hill smelters
to Port Pirie, the Tarrawingee flux-quarries have been
shut down, and the railway from Broken Hill to Tarra-
wingee is offered for sale to Govt, for 115,000 (length, 40-odd
miles). If Govt, does not buy it, the rails are to be taken
up and exported to Tasmania (Emu Bay). The culverts,
bridges, cuttings, embankments, ballast, etc., will not be
exported to Tas., but will be in situ, and will, one would
think, be silent witnesses of the busy hum of the good old
days of Tarrawingee. No fear ! N.S.W. Parliament will
be asked to sanction the construction of a line by private
enterprise to connect the Hill with the new copper pro-
vince, and the aforesaid ownerless culverts, bridges, cut-
tings, ballast, etc., will come handy for the new line,
which will only be 60 or 70 miles longer, and which
will traverse country offering but small engineering
difficulties. While negotiations are pending, ample time
is gained to allow the copper-industry to be taken in hand
by the “ proper crowd,” and the stage of “prematurity’*
will have passed.
* * * *
Long time since any gold-production was re-
ported from the Wentworth mine, N.S.W., and a great
falling off has taken place at the Aladdin (its neighbor),
3130 z. for a five weeks’ run. No divs. in this. The
Wentworth must by now have made a big hole in the
reserve wisely put together two or three years back.
* • * *
Latest from the very hopeful Mt. Hepburn, a
Bull property at Oassilis, Gippsland (Vic.), 330 z. Bdwt.
from 370 tons. Result—a rest for all concerned pending
advice from ’Ome. Sixty men off. Nothing is doing at
Sheepstation, same locality, and the front of the local
P.O. is papered with suspension notices. “Never before
was a district in such a terrible state of suspense.”
* * • »
Considering the ease with which mining scrip
may be forged and got out of hand, it is surprising that
more manufactured paper of the New Perseverance and
Landy’s Dream character is not marketed. There are
thousands of buyers and sellers of shares who could not
tell genuine scrip from the simplest colorable imitation.
* * * *
Some Q. miming items. Both Gympie and
Towers again flattened out, the former actually shivering,
most of the prematurely-born pups doing a financial gasp.
S. Glanmire and Monkland latest addition to Gympie mal-
contents with 2310z5. from 291 tons. Gt. Eastern and
Orient, 6820z5. from 604 tons, paying 6d. div. On the
Towers one of the biggest and best mines contemplates
doubling its share-list; why, Heaven only knows. “ Water-
ing ” is a besetting sin of the Towers, and in the past did
more harm than, the cat. Vic. and Cal. Block, after weary
years, pays a modest 3d. div. The Brilliant pays its
hundredth div. ; total distribution to date, £507,000.
Victoria and Queen slumped owing to poor results from
last crushing. Brilliant and St. George, 1238 tons for
16250z5. Band of Hope, 650 tons, 5640z5. Victoria G.M.
co., 280 tons, 4940z5. (she was reported to be raked out 3
years ago but has been paying monthly divs. ever since).
Kelly’s Blocks, 252 tons, 5570z5, Brilliant Extended, 412
tons, 213ozs.—still low. Queen’s Cross down to 3s. 3d.,
owing to non-div. crushings. Papuans, ditto, ditto, 6s.
* • » *
Since the beginning of the year about 2000 acres
have been taken up in mining leases on Gympie, implying
an extra expenditure of £9OOO per month. As a result of
the boom, calls have gone up to £14,169 for one month
(Sept.) The calls for ’97 averaged only £7OOO per
month. Since Jan. ’9B nearly 3,000,000 new shares have
been created and 34 new co.’s registered with a nominal
capital of £388,000. New and powerful winding plants
are being erected—particularly on what may be called
New Gympie—away to the east of the old workings.
Value of new plant erected this year is put down at
£20,000.
* » * *
At Ch. Towers recently two miles of creek sands,
with three cyanide plants, were offered for sale and with-
drawn when the bidding reached £34,000. 18 months
ago the land was open to the first appropriator. Com-
panies have been recently formed for production of lime
necessary for cyaniding. ... At a gully near Mt. Daven-
port (Cape River) alluvial gold has been recently found in
small quantities and some 50 men are employed.
* * * *
Vesuvius, Charters Towers—the representative
in London reports that he is confident of finding money
there to keep this mine going. Well, the Victorians in-
terested have had a mighty hard time with it for six
years. A reef has been cut, and it would be Bull’s
luck if he came in and reaped the benefit after about 100
calls had been paid to find a reef.
• * « *
Croydon items. Sept, returns : Mills, 5421 tons,
68360 z.—an increase over preceding month of 2866 tons
and 43910 z. For Sept, quarter results were : Mills, 10,281
tons for 11,3460 z. ; cyanide, 3673 tons, 28070 z. Stone of
magnificent quality—estimated of record richness for
Croydon—was being raised at No. 5 and 6 Golden Gate
when mail left. No. 7 Golden Gate crushed something
over 400 tons for a cake weighing 1800oz. Bull will see
the slug at the Exhibition. Croydon business men and
miners have set themselves to disprove Geologist Jack’s
contention that the famous Iguana reef is lost beyond re-
covery. Local co. now sinking on a very promising indi-
cation that reef will be picked up again as good as new.
When mail leaving Croydon (Oct. 10) a lot of mystery
surrounded the alleged purchase by a Finch-Hatton syn-
dicate of Rogers’ No. 1 Golden Gate mine. Ex-newspaper
man Morgan went ’Ome to float the No. 1 for as much as
be could get over £60,000. He got considerably under
that figure; at least an alleged offer was “got” for the
purchase of the mine at £10,000, and a fifth interest in
paid-ups. This was a big drop, but the owner accepted—
and at latest he hadn’t even got the £10,000. It was a
big deal for Morgan, and he got several columns of a
slobber interview on the strength of his successful efforts
to sell. Of course the money and the mine are all right,
but Bull appeared to be very chary about closing.


d
ORIENT
'—> CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOE SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
Oppos^tej
SYDNEY.
Harrington $ (Jo. [td.,
. . . Photographic
. . . Merchants,
66 King Street, SYDNEY;
Melbourne Agents :
Messrs. CRAVEN & CO., 179 Collins-street
Brisbane Branch : 64 Queen-street
. (Agents in all the other Colonies) .
CARRY THE LARGEST AND MOST UP-TO-DATE
STOCK OF
Photographic Supplies and Novelties.
ts~ New Complete Illustrated Catalogue
(No. 7) Now Ready, post free on
application.
See our advt. on page 3 for Latest Novelties. £1
WATSON S WHISKY.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
Lock washday
Last Sunday was appointed in N.S.W. as
a day of prayer and humiliation for rain, but some-
how the rain came before the prayer, so there are
no definite results to show. The question is left
just where it was, which is nowhere in particular
and not very much of that. The situation goes
into these three propositions. (1) Rain was
bound to come after prayer because rain comes
after everything, including murder, hash and
measles—if you only wait long enough. (2) When
rain comes after prayer, even a very little rain and
a very long way after, it may be the result of
prayer or it may not. It is safe to bet that the
clergy will say it is the result, anyhow. (3) If
rain comes before prayer the clergy may claim
that it came because they were going to pray;
they have enough assurance to do that also. And
that about sums up the situation.
* * * *
Notable that, whereas the N.S.W. Pro-
testant Churches changed their programmes as
soon as rain came, and offered prayers of thanks-
giving, the R.C.’s were not so easily satisfied, and
in most of their churches pleaded for more rain in
the forsaken districts which will probably be
again bewailing the drought ere many weeks are
past.
* * * *
Waxellency Madden, retiring from the
Vic. Executive Council at the end of his six-
months’ dramatic season, said it was a great thing
for the province to have “ a man of Lord Brassey’s
experience as its Governor.” This w 7 eek Brassey
will be back upon the job, and one of his first
duties will be to congratulate the province on
having a Madden to represent our Gracious Queen
A DEGENERATE.
SHE: "How strangely low, sweet, dreamy music like that affects me!"
HE: "And me. I never hear it without regretting those sins I have-not committed."
whilst Brassey is droning away elsewhere. It is a
matter of utter indifference to the Vic. public
what these potentates say about one another.
Their measures have been taken long ago. One
man is awfully gloomy, and the other fantastically
spectacular. On their respective “owns” they
are about equally unsatisfactory, but they would
go very well mixed—like square gin and ginger-
beer.
• * * *
All Saints’ Church, Sutton Forest, the fane
which N.S.W. ruralising Governors patronise,
has been breaking a solemn church law for years
—in fact, since its erection—without taking any
account of the transgression. The Ten Command-
ments which should be carved or painted up in
sight of all were never displayed there, the reason
now given being that there was no room for them.
This plainly is a very insufficient reason and Gov.
Hampden takes a hand in remodelling the church
and setting the Ten Commandments in their
proper place.
“ Porthos ”: Hear the other side ! Money
spent in sending female missionaries to China pro-
vides amusement for that large section of the
population that must take its pleasure sadly or
not at all. And, as for wasted lives. The girls’
lives would be just as truly wasted in typing
at 7s. a week. Also, the Christians are as fully
justified in risking the lives of a few girls (for the
possible benefit of Chinkies) as the larger Austral-
asian public is in risking the lives of boy-riders
for the problematical improvement of horses.
* ♦ * *
A few- “good young men” and saintly
virgins hired a certain hall wherein to convert
the local Chow. John “ welly muchee likee,”
and there were so few backsliders that the young
men got suspicious. Dropped in late one night
and found young lady sitting beside John guiding
one' yellow claw carelessly through the alphabet
while the other arm was squeezing her waist. The
blackboard was plentifully decorated with loving
phrases. “Gland fun ” for John, but the young
men retired from the “ propagation of the Gospel ”
under such circumstances.
* ♦ * *
Re relics of pagan superstition amongst
1 Clistian ” Chinkies. Present writer visited a
wealthy Chinese at his elegantly-furnished villa
where he lives with his white wife, and is waited
on by a full staff of white domestics. In the fire-
place of the sumptuously-furnished drawing-room
was to be seen a little box of wax from which
sprouted a chevaux de frise of tandstickor-like
joss-sticks, which the host hesitatingly explained
were a protection against the powers of darkness.
Every ventilator and fanlight was similarly
guarded.
* * m •
In Broken Hill the Church of England
doesn’t own a stick of property. Years back the
mortgagee came down and sold up manse (poor
old Parkos laid the foundation-stone) and churches
and schools—and the parson bought them all on
his little own. And now, being anxious to leave
the city of dust and drought, he is offering them
at a sacrifice. This is a rare opportunity to secure
a job-lot in churches which ought not to be missed
—by those who have not heard of the amazing
liberality of church-collections.
* * » *
Not the least amongst the absurdities of
the recent “Reformation” fandango at Sydney
Town Hall was one rabid parson’s motion expres-
sive of “great thankfulness for the Reformation
of th o fifteenth century.” Nor was any man found
to say him chronologically nay, because, probably,
there wasn’t one among the sainted barrackers for
Luther who wouldn’t have made the same vulgar
blunder. And, after the Reformation ramp had
been ramped, the Ritualistic-rave was raved—
about bobbings and bendings and smoke-pots and
saintly smock-frocks, and things generally of no
more practical importance than the clerical no-
bodies who should never have had the citizens’hall
wherein to air their paltry fanaticism.
* * * *
Amenities of N.S.W. Registrar-General’s
Department:—Query to District Registrar: “ You
say Miss Jones was married on 30th Sept., and
that a child was born on Ist. Oct. Is this cor-
rect?” “It is not correct, it is exceedingly in-
correct, but —it is a fact.” • “Re birth, No. 68,212,
’9s; woman only married July, ’96. No. of
children, 3; How is this possible ? ” Answer:
“Triplets.”
* * » *
When Judge Docker, recently trying, at
Forbes, a larceny case, wanted to explain to the
jury that they must acquit unless they found that
THEBE’D BEEN A PREVIOUS AFFAIR.
FRIEND OF THE FAMILY : “ Now, tell me, dear, who teas the
first woman?"
DEAR : “ Well — er — ma’s never been able to find out yet; but she’s
going to make it hot for pa if ever she DOES!”
the property was removed “ with intent to steal,”
he simplified this difficult English phrase into the
animo furandi of the law-books with the result
that five minutes after retiring the jurymen were
all yelling “ animo furandi ”at one another. At
last, by promising to shout drinks when they
were discharged, t a juror gptt a hearing.
“Gentlemen, we have to find that the prisoner
removed this property animo furandi or else
acquit him. Well, animo means ‘animals,’ and
furandi ‘wild animals.’ Therefore, the man’s
innocent ; it was only tame sheep he stole.”
Acquitted accordingly.
* * * *
The “Pen and Brush Club,” recently
formed in Sydney, will be an interesting' experi-
ment to watch. Its objects are professedly
Bohemian, and the Philistine will be rigidly ex-
cluded. It is to consist of artists (whose absolute
unanimity amongst themselves is so well-known),
musicians (whose mutual feelings can only be
described as more than brotherly), and journalists
(who will probably be expected to act as the
harmonising salad between the oil and vinegar
of artistic rivalry). Bohemian clubs in Sydney
have so notoriously failed or filed that it would
really seem as if the abhorred business man and
Philistine were indispensable. Perhaps this ex-
periment may be the exception which proves the
rule. At all events, The Bulletin wishes it
success.
Melb. Tocsin charges The Argus with
blasphemy for tipping “ Rock of Ages ” for the
Debutant Stakes on the Bth inst. It refers the
matter to three clergymen, including the reputed
author of the Argus articles against Marshall
Hall, for settlement.
* * * *
An amusing misprint occurred in S.A.
Advertiser t’other day. The Chief Justice is
reported as urging the Society of Arts to widen its
scope by holding exhibitions of work in black and
white, etchings, wood-carving, and art needle-
work. Just at this point the titled widow of an
English army-surgeon is made to exclaim —“Hear
dear ! ” To make things worse, the little Chief is
no longer a bachelor.
Man is at heart a gara-
uler. In Perth (W.A.), the in-
mates of the local Invalid
Dep&t are in the habit of betting
chews of tobacco on how long a
sick fellow inmate will live.
Some of the chaps plunge heav-
ily in this line. In the estab-
lishment named the remunera-
tion for carrying a corpse to the
dead-house is a glass of grog,
while a fig of tobacco is given
to the one told off to perform
certain duties which, though un-
savory, are so eagerly coveted
that fights often take place as
to who shall have the privilege
of performing them.
* » »
“Hermes”: As the light
of a Sydney sunset streamed
across Hyde Park, I watched a
deadbeat stagger past the rose-
bed to where the steps led down
to the Refuge. He had, despite
his misery, a cultivated and in-
tellectual countenance, with, in
his hollow eyes, the awful ex-
pression of a refined soul that
had lost hope. Suddenly he
swayed, stopped, stretched out
one arm convulsively, and fell
in a huddled heap. As I bent
down to loosen his collar I heard
him quote “ Heloise! Dost
thou remember me a little still?”
Then a policeman took him away
in a cab, and I saw him no
more; but often, as I walk
home through the park when
the evening light is slanting
through the trees, I think of
the poor deadbeat and his sunset
memory of Heloise.
Gov. Buxton told a country agricultural
show crowd at Burra that he would not come
back to Adelaide without his wife. Now, H.E.
has confided to his intimates that Lady Victoria
does not intend to return.
» * * *
Mayor Tucker, of Adelaide, deliberately
postponed the date of his annual ball until after
the departure of Gov. Buxton for England,
because he had determined not again to ask His
Ex., and he did not wish to make the snub too
palpable. Last year the Governor attended with-
out any of the ladies of his entourage, and, as he
deigned no explanation of their absence, the
Mayoress’ feelings were naturally very much
hurt.
* * * *
The' recent committal for trial at Nowra
(N.S.W.) of a 16-year-old lad for improper inti-
macy with his 14-year sister (resultant baby), calls
attention once more to the fact that the frequency
of such horrible cases is due to the prevailing bush
inadequacy of sleeping accommodation for big
families. Boys and girls (at the critical age) bunk
together in the most unblushing fashion ; and so
usual in some provincial parts is this gross disre-
gard for common decency that only occasionally
does one hear a condemnatory comment.
* * *
Apropos recent attempts at legislation on
behalf of the distressed females of Tasmania, an
M.P. relates this story: Two girls (one 30, the
other 23, and both deaf and dumb) had, up to last
year, become possessed of four unauthorised
children between them. The unmarried mothers
dwelt at home with their parents. All sorts of
efforts—official and other—were made to discover
the males responsible, but neither of the girls
being able to hear, speak or write made the dif-
ficulty insurmountable. If the man or men
wanted had come into view while the inquiries
were being made, the girls might have pointed at
the guilty (or innocent) person, but the base
deceivers kept out of the way, and so evaded the
“point.” Eventually the local M.P. got the girls
into a charitable institution. Shortly after ad-
mission, the elder died. The other one, though
carefully guarded in the institution, and never
allowed out even to visit her home, unless the
Earents took her away personally, and brought
er back same day, was recently delivered of
another unauthorised infant. But this time she
pointed at one of the institution officials. The
man indignantly denied the paternity, and, so
far, there is nothing beyond the girl’s very
emphatic point to connect him with the trouble.
Possibly she was pointing with some totally dif-
ferent idea in her mind—there is no evidence to
show one way or the other. There the matter
rests, and the chances are that there will be no
more heard about it. The charitable institution
(a Govt, concern) keeps the baby inmate, and writer
wouldn’t be surprised to hear that it was regis-
tered on the books as “A. Point.” Tas. officials
are prolific of grim humor.
* * ♦ *
A miner who recently died at Wangaratta
Hospital (Vic.) under chloroform, was, according
to autopsy, perfectly sound internally, and had
been chloroformed thrice before without harm.
Verdict, “Syncope.” Again, the want of an
official drug-tester!
MISGIVINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come here, dear heart, and comfort me
Again, since, led by Fortune blind,
From want and wearing misery
You saved me, husband good and kind.
Strange thought to vex a new-made wife—
If Fate had made us strangers yet,
We might in this grim city’s strife,
(I, helpless and alone) have met !
Would you, who call me now your bride,
With tenderest words and soft caress,
Have coldly turned your eyes aside,
Unpitying of my wretchedness ?
“If so, not mine the fault! ” Ah, true,
But still, while fear in love endures,
My heart will ache, as if I knew
That possible cold glance of yours !
And love still shows me void of mirth,
Like shadows in the waters seen,
Beneath the kindest eyes on earth
The alien eyes that might have been.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
GREY-EYE: A BLEATING.
(Overheard in Rose Bay Tram.)
Grey-eye fritters love away
To hapless ones who woo her;
Grey-eye smiles at what they say,
Content that they pursue her.
Grey eyes smile—and that is all :
Yet could Love wish a sweeter pall ?
Gre.v-eye smiles when each has said
What sense forbade him tell her;
Grey-eye smiles when love is dead,
And pique and hate repel her.
Grey eyes smile—and yet grow old
While the same old tale is told !
Grey-eye, will you come and play
On shining sands with ine-ee?
Grey-eye, smile not when I say
What-1 so long to be-ee !
Grey-eye, in the moonlight stroll
Near the languid waters’ roll. . . .
Will yer? Ah— do!
Q. N.


vr
i
i
Ivaxloo-ao-i
nOK
3AV
What
has
long
been
wanted
is a Lager Bier
suitable to the taste and ideas
ot the people of New South Wales
This serious want is now met
Brewed and Bottled by
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
b y
Sydney Lager Bier.
A Run on Eggs. We can hatch chickens with
incubators, but before you get your chick you must get
the egg. A good hen lays an egg a day. We saw in a
late issue of yours that a poultry-owner was the lucky
possessor of a hen which laid two eggs a day. The ex-
planation, no doubt, is that this poultry-man knows
what to feed them on. He has evidently paid a visit to
our Melbourne or Sydney warehouses, bought one of our
new green hone-cutters, and gets two from one. M'LEAN
BROS. & RIGG LTD. have still a few of these egg-
producing mills for sale. Buy one before too late.*
“Leges:” The neophytes who get mar-
ried are not aware that they can escape setting
down their ages. At St." George’s, Hanover-
square, London, people write “full age” or
“under age.”
“A NIGHT CAP”
of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Fall directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
TTtt Monlrnrnl/1 178 William-sfc., Melbourne'
-Ciy. lTAdil Kwaia, 11 Pitt-str< et, Sydney ;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane,
Dunsford, Q. M.P., on impure drugs :—“I
\ s mi ’ • r * Sp ea ker, that there should be proper
spection of drugs ; because, sir, as things are at
'uVid t* 1 ” Ve know that competition begets
• * * *
Westralra is to be stirred to its muddiest
epths by a big libel-action. A Perth paper
c eclared that certain food supplied to the local
gaols was “■ rotten,” and the contractor has
whacked in a writ.” Defendant intends to put
some dozen ex-warders, two doctors, and about 40
convicts into the box to prove his assertions, and
threatens to rake over the whole history of W.A.
eon victism. The Forrest gang showed its
opinion of the alleged exposure by giving the
same contractor a three years’ contract for flour
2'fn i per ton, the local selling price being
A Such is retrenchment and reform in Wor-
stralia.
* * • *
►Some weeks back The Bulletin stated
that the genial Teddy O’Rourke, of Wellington
i- l. Ij.), had taken unto himself a half-caste Maori
Hide. Mrs. O’Rourke (n6e Miss Rhodes) is not in
any degree Maori, it seems, therefore this blunder-
ing journal lifts its weary hat to the happy pair,
and pulls its forelock, and hopes no offence. We
must plead the lady’s bright attractiveness as an
excuse for the paragraphic error.
* » • x
S.A. citizens unanimously support the
disarmament proposal of the Czar. The S.A.
army is gradually dwindling to vanishing point,
and on top of this Col. Stuart, Gordon’s magnifi-
cent successor, rated the soldiers recently for
s.ovenly. work, laziness and incompetence, which,
considering the way the militia has been starved
• k a Vt '’ * s not surprising. It is a sore point
with S.A. non-coms, that they are commanded by
a crowd of society men who join the army for the
sa, kf f>f the uniform and the opportunity to flash
eold-lace at big functions, whereas the non-coms.
"no form the backbone of the forces—fre-
quently old army men with experience—are never
promoted. Moreover, the average Australian
seems to prefer cricket and football and racing' to
lumping a gun about and looking ferocious on
Saturday afternoons.
SOME MAN’S IDEAL.
GENTLEMAN wishes correspond widow lady, view
Matrimony. Stout pref. J.W., P.O., Eliz-st., S.
Suicide reported of the unhappy young
German girl who didn’t get work to do because
she was “ haughty,” and “ didn’t know her place,”
so she decided that her place was somewhere
beneath the waves at Manly, and chose it with
much deliberation. Which shows, as nine-tenths
of the women suicides do show, that every un-
married woman should have =£so per annum from
the State, also every married woman as soon as
her husband begins to drink. The verdict suicide,
without any ornamental frill to it, comes to us re-
freshingly. How can we tell where the lunacy
comes in? For all we know, the angels may be
passing contrary verdicts on the numerous wretches
who half-suicide and then repent—“ Has Magkin-
son, the over-worked George-street barber’s assist-
ant, come up yet?” “No, yer honor—remained
alive in a fit of temporary insanity.”
• * * *
“ Quiz ” : I know men of means in lodges
who neither use the lodge-doctor nor draw sick-
pay ; yet other members grumble at this, because,
as they say, if the wealthy man draws not his pay
he lowers the status of the man who is obliged to
do so.
The abortionist’s life is not always a happy
one, as this story will show. In a certain town
up North the nephew of a small trader became
enamoured of one of the assistants with a not un-
common result. In her trouble she went to her
inamorato. “The best thing for you to do,” he
advised her, “ is to go and see Dr. X.” (the doctor
having a reputation in such matters). “ But I have
no money,” she replied. Nor had he. At last he
bethought himself that his uncle was away in
Melbourne, and that <£lo might be abstracted from
the cash-box. “ Take this,” he told her, “go to
Dr. X., and say it’s all you’ve got.” At first the
doctor was adamant; his fee was .£25, but at last
her tears and entreaties prevailed, and he con-
sented to do, and did, what was required. Mean-
while the date of the uncle’s return approached ;
how was the £lO to be accounted for ? The nephew
sat down and thought hard. Then he, too, paid a
visit to the doctor. “On such and such a date,
Dr. X., you performed a certain operation on Miss
So and So, for £10.” The doctor denied. “No
use; the girl has confessed that she stole the
money from us for the purpose.” The doctor at
length hesitated. “Well, we intend to prosecute
the girl for theft. It’s an awkward business for us
all; she is bound to confess why she stole the
money. Of course we don’t want any scandal
about our shop ; if you will replace what she stole,
we will try to hush it up.” At last the doctor
agreed to refund not only the ten pounds, but to
give the girl £5 as hushmoney. The young man
went away rejoicing, with £l5 in his pocket ;
whether he gave the girl the fiver history sayeth
not
* * # *
The Melbourne municipal by-law which
forbids loitering was recently put in motion
against the street flower-sellers, but the cases were
dismissed on the ground that, so far from “loiter-
ing,” the boys were doing a business brisk enough
to seriously interfere with that of the flower-shop-
keepers, at whose instance, it is asserted, the
proceedings were taken, and were in rapid
motion all the time. A further attempt to make
the peripatetics amenable to the by-law pro-
hibiting, within certain limits, fruit and vegetable
hawking, fell through on the decision that flowers
are not “ vegetables ” within the statutory mean-
ing.
* * * •
“ Constance 0.” : It’s a far cry from Dr.
Angel Money’s recent assertion (in the Lisson
case) that every somnambulist is ipso facto insane,
to the jury’s decision that a man with lunacy in
the very shape of his head—to say nothing of his
family history—may causelessly and murderously
attack his own theretofore-cherished offspring,
without being mad enough to escape judicial
slaughter. And, in any case, if Dr. Money’s dic-
tum is to be taken otherwise than “construc-
tively,” the bulk of the community has got straws
in its hair without knowing it.
* * • *
A dangerous type of Sydney Flossie has
taken to attiring herself in the comparatively
brief skirts of sweet 16, and goes about hunting
for jugginses with an artless-looking mandoline
case in her hand. It cost one gilded old roue £5O
to get out of a scrape with a damozel of this sort
recently, and he nearly had syncope when he sub-
sequently learned from the police that the lydy
was o’ nights a long-skirted pirate with a large
clientele in shipping-circles.
Constance Clyde on female erotic poets :
A “Red Page” poet sapiently inquires of Sappho for
whom she was waiting when the moon was set, and the
Pleiades were down. The answer is obvious. Sappho was
waiting for nobody. No female writer ever does wait, in
her poems, for any man except the man that never was.
The causes which militate against a woman’s writing good
verse are several. To begin with, her greater morality
and domesticity, so that when she sets out to write a
poem about love she ends up by describing matrimony,
which hasn’t necessarily anything to do with it. She
generally thinks it has. It is not, as many people sup-
pose, that woman is deficient in eroticism. It is not a
case of can’t, but won’t. She loves not man the less, but
marriage more. Take Mrs. Browning, for instance.
Despite her chronic invalidism, she had something of the
right stuff in her, but it never came out. Her Portu-
guese love-sonnets to her husband are all right as poetry,
but, considered as love poetry, Robert might as well have
been her grandfather for all the difference it makes. The
fact is that she wasn’t married to Robert when she wrote
them (nobody ever is), and Robert was a young man and
a real man, and she didn’t like to write things about him,
really ! Now, as far as poetry in general is concerned,
one can write very good stuff from the brain alone, hut
for love-poetry one must draw upon brain and heart both.
A woman eschews the heart for copy, and consequently
has to rely the more upon the brain, and she has so much
less brain, so much less creative and imaginative power,
than man ; so that when she does make an attempt, the
result is something not quite good enough to be called a
failure. The consequence of which is that Sappho wait-
ing when the moon is set and the Pleiades are down, in-
variably waits for nobody.
More Sydney meat-horror ! Mutton, this
time, affected with “ broken-down tuberculous
abscesses,” and intended for export to England—
has, it is alleged, been passed by two abattoir-
inspectors. Emphasises The Bulletin’s reiterated
reminder that quantity of supervision without
quality thereof is a mere increase of the danger,
as tending to produce false confidence.
* * * *
The Adelaide Hospital curse again. The
settling of the S.A. Critic libel-action has cost
the little paper ,£<Boo or more.
* * * «
For a new sensation try descending a Ben-
digo deep mining-shaft—one of those in the neigh-
borhood of 3000 ft. But it wants no such accessory
as four miners at the Carlisle United had, the
other day, when, after being dropped 2500 ft. of
the full journey of 2900 ft., the cage crashed upon
bearers which the engine-driver thought had been
removed. In this particular case nothing very
serious happened, though all were stunned—a
much less serious result than when there was a
similar sudden stoppage in a Broken Hill shaft a
few years back.
* * * *
Judge Hodges : “All the evils that afflict
this community are due to drink ” -
It may be that his Honor’s just
A trifle too emphatic ;
But from his list we will not thrust
The temperance-fanatic.
» f * *
The humors of the telephone. An artless
letter: —
Dear Bulletin. — l rang up a Macquarie-street dentist
the other day and asked him what he would charge for
putting in two front teeth. He said he must see the
mouth first —that the last time he gave a price through
the telephone he let himself in for the job of putting a
tooth in for the elephant at the Zoo for one guinea. I
have doubted since whether I was talking to the right
dentist. Is there any way of finding out who I was really
talking to ’—Anxious Enquirer.
* • * •
Among Victorian Anglican clergy there is
an agitation to do away with the use of the title
“incumbent” as applied to parsons, “because it
too much resembles incumbrance.”
THE “SANDY” BLIGHT.—A Melbourne
Highland-Regiment sketch.
Melb. Uni-
tarian Church,
in notifying its
Sunday services,
advertises its lo-
cation as “oppo-
site St. Pat-
rick’s.’’Remind-
ful of the small
draper who tells
his customers he
has removed
opp. Mark Foy’s
or two doors be-
low Hordern’s.
* *
The Sydney
citizen threatens
to throw off
“ that tired feel-
ing” as regards
the way he is
ferried o’er “our
beautiful ha r-
bor.” North
Shore boats car-
rying business
people to and
from the city are
shockingly over-
laden on certain
voyages as well
as being poorly
equipped in case
of accident. So
far nothing very
sensational has
happened, but
the evening-
paper reporter
keeps his pencil
sharpened ready
to take any sur-
vivors’ state-
ments. These re-
marks are in-
spired by a per-
sonal escape
made the other
night from the
Parramatta co. ’s
sinking ferry-
boat Eagle, after
a midstream and midnight collision with the
ocean-going steamer Colac.
• * * *
“ The first axiom of the fortune-teller is
to tell a wife she did not marry the man she liked
best.”
* * * •
A Benalla (Vic.) man was fined £5, with
£3 costs, or 14 days’ gaol, the other day, for kiss-
ing a local.widow in the dark. Accused pleaded
that the widow was willing. The moral:
When the widow’s willing and inviting,
Before the pleasant chance you seize
Get the dear’s consent set out in writing,
And witnessed by a few J.P’s.
* * * *
The recently-successful action against a
’bits-driver for breach of a promise said to have
been made on the box-seat sets this scribe rumi-
nating. In these days of freedom, when a lot of
lady passengers are “roofers,” a certain element of
romance has crept into the Sydney ’busman’s cir-
cumscribed existence. The hitherto arid ’bus-top
has become an unconventional courting-ground,
and quite a number of “ unattached ” drivers have
gone into double-harness since the new stairways
lured femininity into riding outside. One vehicle
is known as the “ Honeymoon ’Bus,” owing to the
faithful and pathrtic proceeding of a newly-made
Mrs. Jehu who, on the day after the wedding,
hubby failing to get “off,” rode with him to and
from town the entire day-long ! One charioteer
(married) supplied writer with a cynical side-light
on the subject of what he called the “ mislaid-fare-
sex.” “ You see a ’bus,” he said, “ with a crowd
of wimmen on top, bet your sweet life the driver’s
a single cove. Look at mine.” (Five men and a
boy. _ Nary a petticoat.) “ Bless yer, they knows.
It’s instinct with ’em.” Later on, he hailed a
companion on a passing car, and afterwards
observed, “ Last driver of that there ’bus was a
pal of mine. Girl used to catch him regularly,
mornin’ and evenin’. He proposed to her while
they was changin’ horses out Glebe way. An’ I’m
blowed if, last week, he didn’t come into money.
They’re goin’ to Hingland soon. Some folks ’as
luck. Gee-up there ! ” The new chariot of
Hymen—the twopenny ’bus !
In a N.W. (W.A.) township two
white prisoners were recently seen working
under the direction of an aboriginal trooper.
—who didn’t forget to let ’em know who
was boss.
» » • «
“ Raspberry ” : He fireman’s sick
wife who was not disturbed by alarm-bell—
in mining townships possessing a battery
many people vyho are not disturbed by the
stampers wake immediately they are stopped.
Also, screw-steamer hands wake if screw
stops revolving. Apropos effect of habit,
there is in Fremantle lunatic-asylum a
patient who never fails at Xmas to send a
card to an old chum of his ; yet, when said
chum visits the asylum, cannot call him to
mind.
FUGIT HORA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Life’s a sad and splendid dream,
A dream of hopes and fears ;
A war for goals that only seem
A smile that’s drowned in tears.
O woman’s Love is quick’ning fire !
A tragedy, a feast;
Man’s Love a rose of hot desire
That droops upon her breast.
So, as we know 7 not w 7 hen or where
We’ll lose this hurrying breath,
We’ll sine’, and take our fullest share
Of Life ; and Love ; then Death.
ALONE.
THE POETS REPUTATION
FOR THE BULLETIN.
bor’d lay irj tjje bu&lj Ipotel •
/q\ fFuly bar*die Sticker
(f-jl is fyead was doggerel.
fuller still lig OOP
SPfje ,t T/etT)pV'at7oe-iTjarj, search)
C 1 prey
Lfis yet"» pew
Passed by, oryd ffjrougt) +f)e
parlor Way
fSspied boozy sipper
Dear brother er>it)e‘Vr> gentle torjc,
s>aid I ’wtjy cfonjU you follow,
©•°od c i/erY)pl&rs’ aqd drif)K t?& aloqe
flqa'tead wljafiTyou swallow ?"
bard raised fyi&
feeery eyes,
rqurqbled 7 .' Doril-'yer
fetjow I {""i. ?
t T?t)arbtoonjir) coves, woijr recKer>o ,ze
I frj fipbef Blokes a poet^’
P 3 ike you Spates Hjis bitTp’ slbjtp.
wi&b iU fo ,
fi b^ ve •er booze.— yer trek) itii
CP rouglj-
uo keep rpy repul&TTor)' '”
6 x 8


The mark of a Gentleman.
Have
you
ever worn them f
A man’s boots tell the story. They tell
whether he is particular or not; sensible or
not ; tasteful or not.
Nicely-fitting Boots are the distinctive mark
of a gentleman.
Callaghan Boots combine all good qualities,
fit for any gentleman to wear.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
895 George-street, Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have M 0 Equal -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
, Sydney, October 24, 1898.
Mr Dear Myee—
Everyone is off to the Cup, and the usefulness
of entertaining Melbourne people strikes Sydney
harder than ever this month. For it’s one thing
to pay for your board, and go to the Cup bare, as
it were, and another to revel under the plumage of
downy Melbourne drag-owners. So careful So-
ciety persons are moved to write in October to
Dear Lady Blank ” or “ My Dearest Mrs. Dash,”
reminding them of “the pleasant time we had
when you were in Sydney in June.” Somehow, I
tancy that lots of Society people are still awaiting
their hostesses’ replies to their letters of invitation.
Yes, at Cup - time the passing Melbourne
acquaintance becomes a dearest friend. I’ve just
heard of an enterprising Sydney Mamma with five
unsettled daughters, who has written round to
every Melbourne woman she ever drank tea with,
asking airily, “ Can you put May, or Janet, or
Julia up for anight or two? They don’t in the
least mind sleeping on the floor.” Such hide (and
seek) always gets home, even if it’s somebody
else’s home, and she’s fixed every one of those
girls, and herself too, for a fortnight’s free board.
Ihe Cup agitation extends to country centres,
and country drapers are hard pushed by those
farmers’ daughters who don’t order from city
houses. One simple haberdasher was much em-
barrassed by a country belle’s enquiries. He had
just returned from the city and was explaining “In
skirts they are wearing black moire silk. In sailor
hats they are wearing wings in front, and in
blouses they wear checked zephyrs with pearl but-
tons down the front. ” Buxom belle : ‘ ‘ Are you
quite sure ? ” Draper : “Oh yes, I took particular
notice in h’order to be versed in heverything.”
Buxom belle: ‘ ‘ And what are they wearing in
stockings ? ” Draper, very perplexed, endeavours
to explain that he really couldn’t say for certain
on that point. He guessed they were black. But
they might have been white. Belle very indignant ;
thinks he ought to know for certain.
Croquet still seriously threatens the summer
season. The mallets clacked gaily at the Observa-
tory garden-party lately, and students and
librarians and other cultured people were able to
knock their heads against each other without any
of the noise peculiar to empty vessels.
There is nothing else half so popular as the electric
tram at Rose Bay. It is about all the conductor
can do to wrestle with the enormous number of
passengers who crowd the tram, especially in the
evening, and there is no thought of keeping to the
20 minutes time-table. At first, the time spent on
the entire journey was 3| minutes ; but since a con-
ductor was thrown out when shooting round a
curve the speed has been reduced to 7min. Rose
Bay householders are none too pleased at the in-
novation, as, by way of set-off to the convenience
of being able to ride so easily to town, they have
the objectionable determination of the “many-
headed multitude ” to picnic in their private
grounds.
The marriage of Miss Ethel De Lissa, a popular
girl grad., to Mr. Arthur Bensusan, was a pretty
thing in Jewish weddings last week. A large
party of smartly-gowned people, peppered with
black-capped students, scattered themselves about
the grounds and watched the binding of the pic-
turesque Hebraic knot under animpromptu canopy.
Miss Haidee De Lissa in lace frock and chiffon
sash played chief bridesmaid, and various other
lace-clad maidens bearing flowers made an admir-
mirable picture against a background of trees.
The rest of the afternoon resolved itself into a
garden fete, accentuated with fizz and strawberries
and speeches, and the unparalleled, if melancholy
happiness, of gazing at a wonderful display of
bridal gifts. The going-away gown was an Eng-
lish creation of piped tan voile worn with a mauve
hat, and a pretty guest frock was Mrs. Aronson’s
white delaine, the chiffon bodice appliqued in black.
A sheaf of purple irises made a noticeably happy
bouquet for this smart frock.
That decorative little theatre, the Palace, looks
on with surprise every night at its big audiences.
Ever since its birth this theatre was led to believe
it wasn’t going to hum, for the sound of dropped
coin has been chiefly a figure of speech in its
treasury. Yankee Dante long-nosed, flaxen-
haired, with a shrewd, boyish face, rouged cheeks,
and the sort of sudden smile that takes—has
changed all that, and everybody is crowding up to
see the lady burnt alive. One great attraction for
the multitude is the atmosphere of “ wegotism ”
you and me and all the rest of us—that Prof.
Dante creates as he wizardises. Anybody can
have a share in the play. The fat woman eating
oranges is asked for a loan of her handkerchief.
The little boy from the fifth class is allowed to
make four figures on Dante’s slate. The drowsy
individual with the rosy beak is invited to name
his drink from the magic-bottle. And anybody at
all can lend the bank-note whose number is magi-
cally read by a blindfold lady. So the audience
waxes weekly, and everybody raves.
The worst of it is that you don’t want any ordi-
nary happenings with a lot of positive wonders,
and a cold draught attacks the spinal column
when your trickster fails you. The other night he
was doing the bottle trick, giving anyone his
chosen drink from the same bottle. Some took
whisky, some claret. A clergyman with a true
clerical palate asked for champagne (he wasn’t a
bogus clergyman, but I won’t give him away to his
flock). Dante tilted his bottle, but nothing came.
The audience leaned forward. “But I can assure
you this has never happened before, and to-
morrow night ” So the clergyman went to
the other end of the drink-list, and asked for
milk. Dante shook his bootle, thumped it, and
finally had to own up that he couldn’t make that
drink either. The audience was a bifi uneasy.
Then he broke up the bottle and pulled out a white
rat and explained that that was the cause of the
clog, and the audience went home satisfied. All
except Dante, perhaps, and perhaps the dis-
appointed fizzler. Perhaps the moral is—never
let the cloth name its own drink. Or perhaps—
but, anyhow, Dante is worth wondering over.
Unlucky little Pattie Brown, with her bronchitis
and her sprained ankle, and that other unfortunate
invalid, Lesly Thomson, made their bow to a big
house on Saturday night. “The Dovecote,” from
the French, is just the thing for a flighty audi-
ence on the verge of the Cup. Pattie left all her
ailments behind her and sparkled away in various
frocks, the most alluring of which was a thickly-
jetted, shiney-sheeny black, with net sleeves em-
broided with turquoise stones and a corsage frill
to match. The little green frock for the first act
was too suggestive of a melon for my fancy, the
curving lines of black lace lending breadth to the
idea as well as to Pattie. Noni Rickards makes
wonderful sartorial advances from the biting blue
raiment which she used to top with a scarlet hat
m one of her first r6les. The improvement goes
deeper than dress, too. She moves well, and
knows how to sit down, and makes quite a pretty
little bit of stage furniture—she has nothing to do
except dress.
Lesly Thomson surprised everyone by looking
about seventeen. His long illness has probably
worn him down, and he now appears as a thin,
little fellow with no legs to speak of, a pleasant
face, reminiscent of Frank Thornton, and a ten-
dency to droop and stoop like a wilted flower.
According to real life, he is just the sort of
small, peaceable, pale-faced man whom a bouncing
wife wears her life out in suspecting. But, accord-
ing. to stage traditions, he lacks the physique of an
artist husband with an alleged eye for models.
But, in the face of Pattie’s red-gold hair, isn’t it
a little unsatisfactory that those two naughty
hairs on Lucas’ coat should have been golden ?
You see, she finds them on her husband’s coat, and
plays Vesuvius in consequence. As the piece all
hinges on the fact of the hairs being golden, the in-
evitable inference is that Pattie’s hair is red. And
even then there’s a hitch. A carrotty wife who
found a golden hair on her hubby’s shoulder would
be obliged, for the sake of her vanity, to think it
was her own.
The second Newbury Pop went off with a loud
report that hasn’t stopped echoing through this
city yet. A harmless little pianiste, Miss Lily
Juncker, essayed to please the audience with some
40 pages or so of Grieg with variations. Un-
fortunately, the audience wasn’t taking 40 pages
that night, and lashed itself into the wildest
demonstration of musical taste ever witnessed in
our Town Hall. Miss Juncker tinkled away
bravely through it all, pausing where teacher had
said to pause, and steadily maintaining the music-
lesson attitude. But the yells multiplied, until
the. front rows couldn’t hear their shocked
whispers. Wildly musical people, who know a
Jew’s harp when they see it from the Town Hall
organ, shrieked out to the girlish offender, “Go
home ! Stop your row ! Go to bed ! ” and looked
round for the shade of Beethoven to pat them on
the back. Other courageous spirits made feline
noises, and groaned and hissed, but they got their
Grieg allee same, every note of it, and Gouli
rejoices in their punishment. After this Newbury
ran his performers on with a scared promptitude,
not pausing for the interlude and a possible uproar.
Next Saturday will probably see a monster hall at
the third Pop, as a rumor has got about that
strange things are always going to happen at these
concerts. Last Saturday’s other strange thing
was the man-soprano, who sang, lady’s songs till
the audience choked.
Another evening entertainment of the week
was Miss Warburton-Matters’ dramatic recital.
Miss Matters is one of Adelaide’s “amateur
angels,” and her golden hair and bewitching
cheeks went a long way towards the success of
the recital. Flute solos by the only Lemmone
did the rest of the business. The recitations were
the ordinary things, the same dying London arab,
the same kind lady with flowers, a race poiyim, a
drawing-room sketch, all rendered with a bright,
but superficial, manner. The young reciter de-
pended rather too much on her smile, but still it
was nice to look at anything so dimpled and youth-
ful. Many good people think that the only
woman reciter who has lifted her voice success-
fully in these parts for a length of years was that
dark lady with dewy eyes who used to roll out
sad and funny things in a rich voice until you
were almost persuaded to be a blackie.
The, reigning attraction in the social world of
Brisbane just now is Walter Bentley, of Shakes-
perian fame. Society butterflies are fluttering in
crowds to his University Extension lectures on
oratory.. Bentley has also organised a dramatic
club, which is to perform Hamlet this month and
a comedy afterwards.
The .Griffiths sisters, thanks (say some persons)
to the influence of Lady Carington, Lady Jersey
and others (also, of course, thanks to their own
charm and talent) are doing exceedingly well,
having made £l3O by one afternoon’s recital. They
never wish to return to the land of their birth ex-
cept to see some warmth and sunshine once more.
Miss Beatrice Griffiths—who, a late cable says, has
succeeded greatly in the Patti provincial tour—got
so frozen driving once to a concert, that she could
hardly play when she got there.
Fashions will soon be settling themselves for the
summer, and, on the whole, there are no very
startling changes. The apron-skirt isn’t going to
rule over anything but ball dresses, because it’s
such an easy matter that. popularity will ruin it
with modish people. Hair-dressing wavers a bit
just now, and sort of totters on its throne.
The very few make knobs and pull them down
on their necks for evening wear, and push
them up a trifle higher for daylight, but the
rest of the world keeps its hair on the top of its
head religiously. Crimping-irons have their work
decreased by half. An odd wave here and there
follows the mad sea of billows that used to roll
over every dressed head. Next month the knob
on the neck will be indispensable. Race frocks
are going in heavily for the polonaise and frilly
underskirts, and white lace, over white, still flut-
ters from the top of the ladder of smartness.
Turned-up hats tremble a little. They may stay
in, but there’s just a chance that they will succumb
to the dressy little shop-girl, who chops up her
best sailor and stitches the brim on to the crown,
and heaps a yard or two of velvet over the scissors-
cut, and puts a bird in front of the velvet, and a
bow and a branch in front of the bird.
Poor little shop-girls—little bundles of headache
and anaemia, and hot, black boots, and mysterious
complaints ! Talk of cookery and suffrage, and
fresh air, and education of the masses—-in my
opinion all these burning questions fade and die
in the light of that sickening, barbarous, brutal
shop-rule that won’t let its women sit down when
they want to. Two years off the end of this
highly-varnished nineteenth century a shop-girl
has to kneel under the counter to give her limbs
rest, while a friend takes her place on the under-
standing that she does the same for the friend
later on. The Factories and Shops Act says that
proprietors will be prosecuted who prevent their
assistants from sitting down, or don’t provide
seats ; but there are wheels within wheels, and the
girls know how adroitly the “ sack ” can be given.
And what is the proportion of seats to girls, and
what is the meaning of the word seat ? One shop-
girl told me that she would rather stand and be
tired than take mock rest on an inch of
wood built up so close to the counter that
the backache exceeded the ache of feet and legs.
And there’s a final coat of gloss to all
this exquisite cruelty. When no one is waiting
to be served, and all the boxes are back in their
places, and there’s nothing in the world to prevent
all the girls at one counter snatching a little rest,
the management steps in with a humorous rule,
‘ ‘ Assistants must always appear to be doing some-
thing.” They must fumble about with a box of
ribbons or a basket of remnants, and open drawers
and shut them, and touch this article and that
article, and play to be just straightening up after
a huge rush of customers. This is supposed to be
good for trade. It is also supposed to delude the
public. Will the public kindly take notice that it
is being deluded, and stand up for its rights like a
woman ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ After repeated promises, winding up with that
confirmatory telegram from Sydney, Lady Brassey
did not manage to turn up at the Austin
Mansion, at Toorak, on Saturday afternoon (Oct.
22nd), to open the Time and Talents fete. Cer-
tainly the way-worn pilgrim would barely have
had time to change her frock prior to keeping the
appointment, and, as it was, her substitutes, His
Ex. and Aide Nevill, were half an hour late, de-
laying business in consequence. The Ancient
Mariner, looking pale and shaky, apolo-
gised quite affably for the absentee, while
‘ Lord Richard ’ was all smiles and compla-
cency. In the absence of Lady 8., Janet
Lady Clarke came in for the presentation
bouquet, took the vice-regal visitors under her wing
to afternoon tea, and later on helped them to invest
their small spendings to the best advantage.
Daughter Mary was in grey with plenty of white
chiffon, and plumed hat to match. Most of the
other girls wore muslin, white for preference, with
several flounces on their skirts and yards of lace
ribbon and chiffon all over. Not a creature but
affected a low-down coiffure, the figure ‘B’ as
popular a hair-design as any. With their white
pique or serge kilts, tiny boys of Toorakia wore
white Claude Duval coats and three-cornered
washing-hats.
“A pink-silk jupon was hawked all over the
grounds at the fete in search of a buyer. It was
Lady Rupert Clarke and Mrs. Geo. Chirnside, who
set the example of trading blouses and other high-
priced plumage at their Bon Marche stall at the
recent ‘ Ministering Angels ’ fair. One of their
customers, the Duke of Manchester, forked out
six guineas for a dressy bodice.
“An incongruous figure at the frilly ‘ Time and
Talents ’ fair was a lady-cyclist in a hotch-potch
garment of black and grey patches, sewn together
at sixes and sevens. Wheelwomen are apt to be
dress faddists. Some are hygienic cranks; then
there’s that lean brunette, who provides a spot of
color in traffic crushes on city crossings by her
flat-chested orange silk blouse.
. “A blood-curdling account of the rush to get
into the members’ tea-room at Caulfield (on Cup
Day) comes to hand from a crumpled victim. The
Cup catastrophe had such an awful effect upon
their nerves that the female holders of tea-tickets
made for the room at full gallop, but when they
§ot to the door they were asked to produce mem-
ers’ tickets as well, and some of them hadn’t
brought the necessary ‘brief,’ and others couldn’t
get to their pockets on account of the shoving, so
they began to faint with one accord, whereupon a
cruel stout gentleman snorted at them, and what
with tears, groans and supplications, it was a
‘ horrible scandal ’—more horrible than the fatal
accident on the course.
“ Self-approval comes very easy to the conscience
of a bishop’s wife. Lately, when Melb. Women’s
Hospital committee was debating as to which nice
young man it should select, from four applicants
for the billet of assistant resident surgeon, it fell
to Mrs. Goe’s lot to give a casting vote. The
estimable matron seized this opportunity to feel
very proud of herself. Of two candidates who bad
polled an equal number of admiration votes, one
young man, said Mrs. G., was a personal friend of
her own, nevertheless she couldn’t ignore the
other fellow’s ‘ better recommendations, ’ so she
voted for him. Whereupon, all the other com-
mittee ladies murmured ‘ What a noble sense of
duty! ’ Seeing that Mrs. Goe couldn’t give an
honest casting vote without commenting on her
sacrifice of personal prejudices, I would like to
know which young man she voted for in the first
instance.
“The tall, athletic-looking young man who is
accompanying Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb in their
tour through Australia is Mr. Charles Trevelyan,
eldest son of Sir George Trevelyan and therefore a
grand-nephew of Macaulay. The range and
quality of his conversation seem to indicate that
he inherits the literary instincts of his family.
His grandfather, Sir Charles Trevelyan, wrote a
‘Life of Fox’ and other works, and his father
is the author of the ‘ Life of Macaulay ’ and of a
fine little book on the Indian Mutiny. Mr.
Trevelyan, like his father, is going in for a
political career on the Radical side, and he evi-
dently has a good grip of big questions.
“David Syme gave a big dinner party on Wednes-
day night, in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Sidney
Webb, of whose economic works the old autocrat
has a iarge admiration. But it was somewhat of
a joke for Henry Wrixon on the previous
evening to have given a dinner in honor of these
vigorous Socialists in the sacred precincts of Yic.
Leg. Council Chamber. No wonder the Council
agreed to the second reading of the ‘ one-man-one-
vote ’ Bill on the same evening without a division !
Is society safe when a pair of dreadful Socialists
can be allowed to dine in the very halls of Fat-
manocracy ? But then, it was from Sidney Webb
that Wrixon got a vast amount of the information
for his dreary book on Socialism. The forty-eight
Rich Landlords cast side glances at Webb and his
wife as they sat in the gallery before the dinner
hour—Mrs. Webb in a black satin skirt and a blue
silk bodice; and, no doubt, marvelled how on
earth a woman who has written Socialist books
could look so charming and refined. Fatman
clearly gave up the Webbs as ‘inexplicable
enigmas ’ —to use the phrase of one of their number
on a recent occasion.
“Irene Fletcher, the clever young.Yic. pianist
just back from Germany, wore a floppy, white-silk
frock, & la Elsie Hall and AdelaYerne, at her first
recital (Oct. 17). Otherwise, tall, willowy Miss
Fletcher, though slighty round-shouldered and
with hair overprone to tumble into her eyes, is
more graceful of platform deportment than either
of the damsels aforesaid, less timorous than Elsie,
not so slap-bang as t’other. Once on a piano-stool,
however, positions are reversed. The new girl,
crouched over the keyboard with pencil wrists and
big, capable hands hard at work, is more impres-
sive than ornamental. Not that her performance
either quite equals that of her two predecessors.
At the same time, Madame Clara Schumann,
Miss Fletcher’s teacher, vouched for her pupil’s
‘ soul, ’ which valuable asset, taken in conjunction
with cultivated memory and execution, should
help the owner in time to repay the self-sacrificing
efforts of her devoted mother and sister.
“At the Bijou, with Yic. operatic amateurs,
Miss Millie Tree Chapman was a bright and tune-
ful, if not extra-beautiful, Bohemian Girl. Her
gipsy costume was more becoming on the whole
than the pink satin and plumes of her Court
toilette; but Thaddeus Neilson looked such a
Simple Simon in his stage-finery that Arline was
quite dressy, enough to shine by comparison. The
Polish hero in question wore one of those babyish,
black knicker-suits trimmed with blue ribbons,
and an ill-advised bandana handkerchief tied
round his naturally over-substantial waist. In
the scene where Lord Thaddeus and friend Devils-
hoof come to coax Arline away from Pa’s palace
back to the greenwood-tree, the latter falls asleep
on a sofa, and during the billing and cooing lies
placidly scratching himself in his dreams. If the
young lady had noticed his proceedings, every
scratch should have been a warning to stay where
she was and let picturesque squalor go hang.
“ Knowing ones still couple the name of a well-
liked widow with that of a pensive, impecunious
lordling, somewhat the lady’s junior. Undeterred
by her weepful garb, the alleged wooer un-
doubtedly seeks the mourner’s society, though,
with a grown-up daughter to confuse the trail,
onlookers are apt to go off on a wrong tack.
"Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The self-dynamitard is on the increase. A
Croydon miner has just blown off his head, as
another man did in same locality about a month
before; and from M.L. it is cabled that Louis
Chenis (once convicted of murder) recently ex-
ploded his head-piece so effectually that the body
could only be identified by articles found in the
pockets.
At the recent Sydney police-court pro-
ceedings Meagher said Norton couldn’t grow eye-
brows. At Monday’s big municipal meeting at
the Town Hall the audience bellowed for “Nor-
ton,” and wouldn’t be quiet till it got him. When
he at last stood up a sudden silence fell upon the
meeting, broken only by the shrill veil of an in-
terested female : “Look hard, Jim"! See if he’s
got eyebrows ! ”
Victor Daley writes : “I have been
glancing through an advance copy of Ogilvie’s
volume, ‘ Fair Girls and Gray Horses.’ In my
opinion it will be the most charming book of Aus-
tralian verse that has yet appeared. For Ogilvie
can not only write ringing rhymes that make the
blood spin through the veins ; he can also sing
dainty and delicate songs which remind me at
times of the cavalier songs written between a
battle and a banquet. There is much of the
cavalier and, as becomes his name, not a little of
the moss-trooper in Ogilvie. He writes with a
galloping heart. But, above all, there is the
passionate bloom of youth in his verses. He looks
out upon the world around him and finds it fair
and young, and makes it so for his readers by the
magic of his rhyme. Sadness is not his metier.
If I were asked to name the source of his literary
inspiration I would say—the old Scotch ballads.
He is essentially lyrical in his manner. His songs
need no musical setting. They provide their own
music.”


fesIvEoISZiES
THREE CASTLES
f
m
CIGARETTES.
Tlie Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOCBUT-inEBIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Age°ntsf e W. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 Georue-st,, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mat. Davies is said, to be in treaty for a
mansion equal to his historic Bracknell.
Daniel Cooper preceded Saul Samuel as
Acting N.S.W. Agent-General, and, after 18
years, succeeds him in the same capacity.
The magnificent Majah Neild is evidently
booked as representative of N.S.W. at Paris Ex-
hibition. Premier Reid won’t deny it, and that
may explain several things.
“ Captain ” Hancock, who has managed
S.A. Moonta mines for 34 years, lately resigned.
During his term the co. has paid 5| millions in
wages, and total profits were 1| millions. Hancock
has outlived all the original directors, all overseers
and foremen, but one, and nearly all the men
originally employed.
THE FINGER OF DRINK.
THE BULLETIN'S OWN PARSON (in tones of horror) :
“What! sober, again? (Hie.) You oughter
he ’shamed (hie) of yerself. You was shober
yesserday too! (hie) ”
Re mixed metaphors. One Dixon, when
member for Prahran (Vic.) accused the Patterson
Govt., of trying to “grind the faces of the poor
down to the lowest rung in the ladder,
A notable feature of late Lord Rosmead
(Hercules Robinson’s) will is that the trustees of his
p ersona i esta te are restricted from investing in
any securities outside England and Wales,
j n W.A. Assembly. George, M.P. (speak-
ing re Public Batteries, to interrupter): “ This is
thebattery question. The assault question can be
dealt with afterwards if necessary. Neat,
~ , .
The estimate that one-third of the mhabi-
tants of Norfolk Island have Nobbs as some
portion of the i r names is only a slight exaggera-
tion. Dr. Nobbs, a physician and clergyman,
volunteered to serve the islanders in the early days,
and devoted himself so strenuously to their wei-
fare, spiritual and temporal, that the people no
only gave his name to their children, but in some
cases to favorite animals and birds.
Brisbane has its Norton-Meagher vendetta.
Bobby Byrne, of Figaro, and Walter Bentley, of
Saturday Night, are libelling each other with a
ferocity which would turn Potts and Slurk green
with envy.
Australia has three foreign-born Premiers
—Dickson, Reid, and Braddon —and three Aus-
tralian-born—Kingston, Forrest, and Turner.
Dickson, the youngest Premier, but the oldest
man of the six, save one,, was born in Plymouth
G 6 years ago.
Justice Stephen, who has temporarily re-
tired from N.S.W. Supreme Court through ill-
ness, was called to N.S.W. Bar in IFSO, three
years before the Chief-Justice and eight years
before Justices Owen and G. B. Simpson, his
nearest colleagues.
James Dickson, Queensland’s new Premier,
is a holy, bald, dull auctioneer, and also collects
rents. James Munro, ex-Premier of Victoria,
was a holy, dull, rather bald man who collected
rents. Come to think of it, what a lot of dull,
holy men collect rents !
After his brief spell as editor of the Wel-
lington Times (M.L.), that clever pressman Harry
Taperell has returned to Sydney, and to the
Daily Telegraph. No fewer than three seceders
from the D.T. within the past three years have
gone back to that journal.
In a down-south Parliament is a weird,
hairy jumbuck sent along in the “cocky” inter-
est. T’other night he told the ’Ouse that he could
remember when he used to be sent out with a gun
to frighten the crows. Whereupon an irreverent
Labori'te—“ But what did you want the gun for ! ”
Adelaide obituary—W. C. Cox, octo-
genarian and first S.A. Govt, printer. Retired
through ill-health about 20 years ago, only to see
two of his successors, Spiller and Leader, die
before him. In Australia, somehow, the retired
Govt, printer generally sees a lot of his successors
“out.”
It is scarcely to the credit of Maoriland
that no adequate memoir of the gallant Maori-
fighter, M „or Von Tempsky, has ever been pub-
lished. His contemporaries are fast passing away,
and soon his name will be forgotten. Some time
ago it was reported that his eldest son was work-
ing as a butcher at Honolulu.
Died in Adelaide, a few days back, Mrs.
Hill, grandmother of one of the most aggressive
of the Adelaide Ho pital honorary staff under the
Kingston-Tucker rule. Right down to this year
the old lady used to chat interestingly over her
personal recollections of such way-back incidents
as the crowning of the fourth George.
The Irish-born William Bowen, one of
the first Victorians who crossed the Murray to
open up the N.W. country of N.S.W., passed
away near Dubbo a week or so ago. He was a
successful pioneer, and his Bowen Park estate is a
model of its kind. He died at 71, but till his
last days the acquisition of land was his ruling
passion.
When young Loch was at Melb. Grammar
School the ordinary common schoolboys were
snobbishly instructed (in addition to the ukase
against swearing) to call the Governor’s son
“Master Douglas ” when they spoke to him. To
their credit it is that the boys did nothing of the
sort, and even applied to him the term “ candles ”
—suggested by Ins locks. . '
The late William Collard Smith,
Vic. politician, had historic feet, and once
when he sent a pair of boots back to the
maker as being too small, the artist com-
plained that they would be on his hands.
“ There ain’t another man in Australia
could make any use of them boots. Might
do for show-boots in the winder; but even
then I’d have to explain who I made ’em
for, and that they was too small for you,
Colonel. It’d be a good advertisement.”
“ That’ll do ! ” shouted Smith. “ There’s
the money, and let me see you cut up
those boots before I leave the shop.”
Hori Grey’s opponent in his prin-
cipal election contests in Auckland was
softgoods-man James M'Cosh Clark, a
man possessing far more than the aver-
age calico-Jimmy intelligence. Clark,
who had been three times Mayor of the
city (elected by the burgesses), had set
his heart on ousting Grey from the
Auckland City East seat, but was de-
feated again and again. On one occas-
sion, when it was not convenient for Grey
to contest the seat he expressed his “you-
he-danmedness ” by nominating against
Clark an utterly-unknown man, a gold-
fields pumping - engine driver named
Speight. Speight threw himself into the
contest attired in a rusty frock-coat and
patched pants, and though assailed by
all the swagger influence and sneered at
by the press “ as dirty water from the
Thames,” he handsomely licked his op-
ponent. Clark died recently, his ambi-
tion to reach Parliament ungratified.
A Sydney solicitor, who was recently sent
for in great haste to make the will of a dying man,
called thrice at the man’s house, and each time the
supposed moribund was out! Probably arranging
for his funeral !
What people thought to be a miraculous
accidental resemblance to Henry Parkes in a
recent London Snap Shots illustration is ex-
plained by the fact that Victorian Frank Nanki-
vell is the artist.
Neat sentence from Stockdale’s report on
Rougemont: “ Far be it from me to make little of
or cast a shadow of doubt upon any traveller’s re-
port, for verily I know that truth at times is really
‘ stronger than fiction.’ ”
The doyens among Australian ex-G-overnors
are Augustus Loftus, formerly of N.S. Wales, and
George Bowen, Victoria’s Governor during the
historical Berry regime. Both are very old now—
Loftus 81 and Bowen 77.
Rev. George Walters, head of the new
Australian Church, Sydney, tampers with the
Lord’s prayer, and always reads, “Be with us in
temptation.” Surely a distinct improvement on
the familiar form of the otherwise sublime sup-
plication.
W. Archer, M.L.A., who ousted M’Millan
from Burvvood at last elections, was one of the
first batch of miners from the South to arrive on
the Palmer diggings (Q.) close on 30 years ago.
Archer did well—in fact, secured an indepen-
dence. Instead of tempting Fortune, however,
by sticking to the field, he turned to stock-raising
and similar prosaic pursuits.
Julius Vogel, while delivering his financial
statement on one occasion in M.L. Parliament,
jauntily remarked that his surplus had exceeded
the estimate “by several thou.” Wakefield, who
abhorred the Hebraic Treasurer, condemned Vogel
for degrading his high office by using “ the lan-
guage of the gambling-den. ”
A Maoriland caricaturist once represented
Hori Grey as wearing a shocking bad hat. As a
matter of fact, the “old man eloquent ” invari-
ably wore a chapeau of uncompromisingly antique
shape, but it was ever faultless as to nap. Judge
Fenton, an inveterate punster, pointed the picture
out to Grey, and suggested that it was a compli-
ment to his “ fur-tile imagination.”
Nobody yet enquired how it was that
Rougemont, born and bred a Swiss, and having
had at time of sojourn with the “ Australian can-
nibals ” no connection whatever with England or
things British, beyond a few days’ stay at Singa-
pore—was so suddenly seized with devotion to
Queen Vic. as to paint her colossal picture on a
rock, and expatiate to the wondering savages upon
her power and glory.
The attention of the gods, listening to the
requiem mass for the Empress of Austria, at St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, must have been
sadly distracted by the frills and furbelows and
general get-up of some of the suppliants. For
instance, Premier Turner appeared in a suit of
elephant’s-breath grey, tan boots, black boxer
hat, blue starched shirt and pink tie.
Feelers are being put forward in behalf of
Col. Campbell, Waxcellency Madden’s fussy
private secretary, hinting at his fitness for the
office of Chief Commissioner of Police when
Chomley retires. Campbell hasn’t the ghost of a
ghost of a show. No. Vic. Government would be
so foolish or dare be so culpable as to appoint a
merely ornamental personage to so important a
post.
The latest move of Premier Reid in getting
himself appointed a Q.C., has not raised his
popularity amongst the members of either branch
of the legal profession. Indeed, some barristers
profess to see in Mr. Reid’s action a thinly-dis-
guised attempt to bring the hitherto honorable
office of Q.C. into disrepute. For the N.S.W.
Premier is certainly not regarded as an eminent
lawyer.
Early Westralian explorations records have
been ransacked and put in order for the Lands
JJept. by Trant Chambers, to whom fall most of
such plums as the Govt, has to dispose of. Cham-
bers, a capable penman, is a member of the family
so long associated with English Land and
Water ; this side he put in a few months on
Sydney Evening News, and a few weary years
at Broken Hill.
The bright particular stars of ELori
Grey’s Maoriland Ministry—James Maeandrew,
founder of the direct steamer lines between the
island province and Europe ; John Ballance, who
will probably be awarded by history the highest
rank as a constructive statesman ; and rollicking
“ Johnny ” Sheehan, the first native-born Maori-
lander to attain Cabinet rank—all preceded their
chief to the grave.
The late Jim Crotty’s Queenstown (Tas.)
paper, established to boom his Lyell shares, has
points about it. Lately the first president of the
local A.M.A. died, and, for some reason, his
friends accorded him a tip-top send-off. The pro-
portions of the Gortk'ie stimulated the editorial
soul, and the next publication contained the an-
nouncement : “ The funeral must have been a
very gratifying sight to the widow ” !
After a recent great fire a former high
brigade official snubbed more than one of his
friends. It was the first big fire “ job ” after his
retirement, and a severe trial of his successor’s
worth. Said one sycophant, “My word, you’d
have had the big engine there long before —— did.”
“Pooh!” thundered the ex-official, “you don’t
know what you’re talking about. I’d have done
just the same thing as he did, right through.”
“Jun”: Once, in jest, asked Melb.
Coroner Youl to teach me a form of suicide that
would baffle autopsy and make my death appear
natural, and he straightway did give me a method
which he assured me had been successful with a
prominent Maoi kinder. Told me also never to
live near a man whom I thought would never
suicide, “ because he is the very man who will! ’’
DULY QUALIFIED.
SHE : “I’ve got such a pleasant surprise for .you,
Dolly. Air. Litely is going to be your new
papa.”
DOLLY : “ Oh, I'm not surprised, ’cos I’ve-seen him
kissing the governess lots o’ times.”
In the Vic. Libel Bill discussion Trenwith,
with evident relish, revived the following story of
his unpopular days—
He remembered an incident that occurred to himself
when he was standing for Villiers and Heytesbury some
time ago. A certain newspaper asked in its leading
columns —“ Who is Mr. Trenwith? Is this Trenwith the
drunkard? Is this Trenwith the wife-beater? Is this
Trenwith the pot-house brawler ? ” And having assumed
by innuendo that Trenwith was a drunkard, a wife-
beater, and a pot-house brawler, it proceeded to comment
upon it, and to ask whether that was the sort of man who
should be sent to represent the people in Parliament.
The paper alluded to was the now defunct Melb.
Daily Telegraph, the then custodian of what
passed for the Nonconformist conscience of Vic-
toria.
The death the other day, at Chatswood
(N.S.W.), of the widow of John Bowie Wilson
revives memories of the turbulent N.S.W. Lands
Minister of 35 years ago. Bowie Wilson was
Minister for Lands in three N.S.W. Administra-
tions, commencing Ministerial life with James
Martin, and quitting it when that forceful
personage got out of Parkes’ road and took
the first seat on the Bench. Wilson was
a variously, and deeply - read man, with a
creditable record from a couple of Scotch
Universities, but was singularly impression-
able by spiritual, and particularly spiritualistic,
influences. His father was a parson, and no doubt
he drew from him his passion for discussing affairs
of the other world, said discussions generally
leaving in doubt what opinions he really enter-
tained. He was equally vigorous on questions of
social reform, but with much more practical and
lasting results.
NOT USED TO TRAINS.
“Give me a stamp for Rookwood, please .”
Shortly after good old-fashioned Gov.
Buxton arrived in South Australia, full of the
belief that Victoria Regina and Providence had
ordained him for the task of ruling in wisdom
over a people, a judicial sentence came up at an
Executive meeting. After a while, a Minister,
seeing how the feeling was, gathered it up with
the remark—“ Then we will reduce the sentence?”
His Ex. : “I—ah—l think you mean I will re-
duce the sentence ” ! Collapse of Cabinet.
The late Hori Grey’s invariable courtesy
to the poor was one great secret of the love which
everywhere enveloped the person of the great
Pro-consul. Once, in Wellington, his house was
invaded by a humble, weatherbeaten widow from
the bush who desired to know if Grey could find a
situation for her daughter. The old man was out
of the Ministry then, with no hope of a return to
power, and the lady wasn’t even a constituent—
besides, women had no votes in those days. Yet
he received her personally and heard her tale out,
and offered her refreshmen 1 s ; and then he paid
for a cab to take her to her lodgings, and assisted
her into it, standing bareheaded on the pave-
ment, as the average politician would do only to
the Governor’s wife, or the wife of his most influ-
ential publican-constituent. And after that he
hunted up the desired billet for the weather-
beaten dame’s daughter. Grey never snubbed
the person who was down, though to the person
who was up he could be even more unpleasant
at times than the average man.
Hori Grey’s departure from Maoriland
about five years ago was most undemonstrative.
The Gothic was lying in Wellington harbor on
the occasion of her first visit, and a few days
before her departure for London Grey tottered on
board leaning on the arm of a friend, to whom he
expressed his thankfulness, as they left, that he
had lived to see so fine a vessel placed in the local
trade. Two days later it was whispered that he
intended going to England in her, but this was
denied ; and as no one could exactly sound the
deep old man, no steps were taken to give him a
send-off. On the day the steamer lay in the
offing preparatory to picking up the mails and last
passengers by the two o’clock tender, a shipping
reporter on the same staff as the writer strolled
with him on to the wharf, and there, all by him-
self, walked the “great pro-consul.” Taking his
seat on the further side of the bridge he remained
hidden from the eyes of the few people down to
see the small boat leave with the mails, and the
last view of him was as he leant on his stick
apparently buried in thought and oblivious to all
around him. There were no cheers, no speeches,
nothing to indicate that the greatest man Maori-
land has known was leaving its shores for ever.
The Rougemont business revives memories
of Capt. Jackson Barry, the Maoriland J.
Verne, who 20 years ago published a book of
adventures, of which the making of sea voyages on
whale-back was not the most difficult of digestion.
A little gnome-like personage and as truculent as a
Comanche. In his best days woe betide the wight
who betrayed any hesitancy in accepting his most
airy flight of fancy, or, indeed, who crossed him in
any way. On one occasion, when he was Mayor
of Cromwell, in Otago district, he visited Dunedin
and overstayed his leave. On his return he found
a vote of censure against him on the minutes of
the council. “ Who moved this vote ?” he asked,
with an angry snort. “ I did,” said a councillor.
“ Well, take that ? ” roared His Worship, smiting
the mover a “ sockdolloger ” on the chin and send-
ing him to grass. “ Who seconded it ? ” was his
Worship’s next query, but no one responded—too
much respect was now felt for the captain’s handy
left. “Well, then,” said Barry, “as no one
seems to have seconded this motion of censure, it
is informal and I now expunge it from the minutes.
Next business, please?” By the way, it appears
that Captain Jackson Barry finds a difficulty in
grasping some of the Rougemont items. He says
“ A man can ride a whale—l did. But d d if
you can make me believe a man can ride a turtle.”
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. I.—The Baker.
Mr. T. Streater writes : “ I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. I am a baker by
trade, which, as you know, is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say that when I am done of a
night I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa,
and feel quite fresh again, and then I go and
enjoy myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, I used to mess about indoors as tired as
could be.”
YkCocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted dietetic
value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once digestive
and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating. This
is the secret of its phenomenal success. It seems,
so far as we can gather, to agree with everybody,
and everybody is agreed in giving it a good name.
Apparently it is the accepted beverage of a people
who have recognised and appreciated its remark-
able health-giving properties. And certainly in
this age of rush and worry, wear and tear, when
the energies of mind and body are severely taxed,
it is an ideal food. 1 .
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
As an unparalled test of merit, a dainty sample
tin of Dr Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa will b'e sent free on
application, to any address, if when writing (a
postcard will do) the reader will name Ihe Bul-
letin.


WOLFE’S
Bchicdam^toirHfkid
A SUPERLATIVE
TON IC. DIURETIC. AMT Iff
’PTiriya
tfnTpTTfc
wSt
INVIGORATING CORt
aim jg
tunrm
<gTa>
6,TH‘
- -f'l
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
is a
PURE
and
WHOLESOME
SPIRIT.
It is
V astly Superior
to the
Liquors
of
Everyday Use.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Look out for
Imitations. Ask
for and see you get
Wolfe’s.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriglnalities.
A strange case of disappearance occurred
on the Tasmania N. W. coast a few years ago.
A child of about three years, after being dressed
by his mother, ran out into the enclosed yard at
the back of the house. Two or three minutes
afterwards the boy was missed, and, although the
house and grounds were turned upside-down, he
was as completely gone as though he had been
borne upwards to the clouds. The whole country
was systematically searched by scores of bushmen
and the police, but in vain—the child had “gone.”
The sequel is just as strange. Long afterwards
some men were clearing a paddock a few chains
from the house, and beneath a quantity of bark
and rubbish, which had fallen from a large, ringed
tree into the hollow at its roots, they found the
skeleton of the little wanderer. In this paddock
the search had been hottest ; and it was, more-
over, proved that it was impossible for the child
to have gone beyond the yard in the time. There
is only one solution of the mystery. Some high-
strung females declared that the child had been
carried off by an angel. Perhaps, but the angel
was an—eagle.
* * * *
Note that when the dead body of the
thirst-killed prospector is found in Westralia—and
such corpses have been turning up pretty regularly
once a month at least during the winter —it is
almost always stated that the victim died full-
dressed and with his boots on. The latest cases are
those of Anderson and Power, found in Roe-
burne district. Ninety-five per cent, of the writers
on bush perils have hitherto pictured a maniac
tearing his clothes off when the end came near;
and far-Western N.S.W. and Northern S.A. ex-
perience seemed to pretty fully warrant it. Whence
the difference ?
* * * «
“ Inverell ” : The old-maid species is nob
so responsible for cat-prevalencj’ as the supersti-
tion which allots the cat-slayer a long term of ill-
luck. In this district, scarcely anybody would
kill a cat right-off, though they don’t mind so
injuring the creature that it dies a slow, torturous
THE ACME OF VANITY.
HE : “Do you really think Cholly is so very vain? ”
SHE: “Vain! Why, I saw him using the undertaker’s window for a mirror as he passed it.”
death, or placing batches of kittens in hollow
stunips to starve and sizzle under a hot sun. A
common practice is to keep the cats till about half-
grown, then bag ’em up and loose them miles
away, regardless of the fact that the tame cat gone
wild is even a greater enemy to fowl-roosts than
the “ native cat.” Sometimes these fate-dodgers
return from such expeditions to discover a small
regiment of strange cats in possession of their own
hearthstones, someone having been along in the
interim and done unto them as they were doing
unto others. Have heard many —women, of course
—defend the stump atrocity—“ It’s so cruel to
drown the poor little things ; I couldn’t do it! ”
• * * *
“Tom A.”: Be women-workers. Once
knew an old couple on a selection in one of the
most God-forsaken places I ever saw. They lived
principally on goat’s milk and flesh ; and the day
I fell across them they were ploughing in the
“ cultivation ” paddock, on the side of a barren,
sandy ridge. The woman, habited in one single,
loose garment reaching from neck to midleg, and
with her unkempt gray hair straggling from under
one of her old man’s cast-off tiles, was leading the
miserable moke in the furrow, while the old man,
nearly blind, was steering. They were very hope-
ful, and anticipated grand results, but are. now (if
alive) in one of Sydney’s institutions, and the
selection, I suppose, is “ Crown Lands ” again..
• * * *
“ W.K.A.” : Be “ Steele Rudd’s ” remarks
(10/9/’9B) that there is a species of kangaroo found
near Fingal (Tas.) which is as destitute of a tail
as man himself. This ’roo, nathless, is sure-
footed, swift, and A 1 over the sticks ; and I am
prepared to lay heavy odds against “5.R.,” or
any other sprinter, running him down in dis-
tances from 50yds. to five miles in open country.
Should any Bulletin reader be sceptical, I refer
him to the caretaker of Launceston (Tas.)
Museum, where may be seen a specimen.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be bottle-tree (8.,
24/9/’9B). It is true that the pithy interior of the
bottle-tree is edible and will fatten stock, but that
it contains water is a mere fabrication. Some
bushman has been “ ringing a pitch ” into
“ E.S.S.” On this station we had recently to cut
down a number of these trees, some of large size,
but not one yielded a drop of water. The old
hands in this district ridicule the idea of such a
thing.—D.L.H. [There are several kinds of
bottle-trees (Sterculia). The Queensland variety
often contains water, or mucilaginous juice, and
ots of it.]
♦ * * *
“ Borak ” : In answer to “E.S.S.” The
bottle-tree is very serviceable in dry seasons.
Have seen wool scoured by water from one ; but
it will scour sheep best. Also, is not generally
known that the last great Brisbane flood was
caused chiefly by the bursting of several large
bottle-trees. Cannot give the diameter of the
trees, but was out in a dingy in one once duck-
shooting.
* * * *
Quite common on the W.A. gold-fields for
a diggers’ camp to have one or two gins living
in it, and, lately, a N. W. pastoralist brought down
to town with him three lubras, taking apart-
ments for them and himself with the utmost sang
froid. The beneficent Forrest Govt, has cut
down the diurnal support allowance for aged and
infirm niggers to threepence—just enough to buy
half-a-pound of flour in the wayback country.
* * * *
“Tomahawk”: Be hamstrung niggers.
On a Northern river is a half-caste, who was ham-
strung in infancy because he wasn’t born black
enough for the “ old man’s ” fancy. Moves along
on hands with legs doubled under him. Can ride
(hauling himself up horse’s fore-leg into the sad-
dle with assistance of stirrup-leather). Can chip
corn and cane, and climb trees with anybody.
* * • •
E. M. Curr, in his “ The Australian
Race,” says: “No Australian black in his wild
state can, I believe, practically count as high as 7.
If you lay 7 pins on a table for a black to reckon
and then abstract 2, he would not miss them;
HE CHANGED HIS MIND!—A North Queensland Episode.
THIRSTY TRAVELLER : “ That was grand; ’nother one, please
SUDDEN APPARITION : “ Beet-riss, bring the towel.”
though he would miss one, because his manner of
counting by one and two amounts to the same as
if he reckoned by odds and evens.”
“R.G.L.”: A N.S.W. farmer who has
been long ploughing with same pair of bullocks,
has been in habit of unyoking them at lower end
of paddock when the missus cooees for dinner.
One windy day he did not hear the cooee ; but the
bullocks did, and stopped at the usual place. He
has since often tried, but never succeeded in getting
another round out of them after the cooee has
been heard. Also I know a cow that won’t give
down her milk if her owner’s horse is fed first.
Jealousy ?
• • * *
Thus A. Meston, S.Q. Aborigines-Pro-
tector, re supply of blacks’ blankets :
Your correspondent (15/10/’9B) forgets that Queensland
is a territory of magnificent distances. The 150 Boulia
blankets, which arrived Aug. 20, were despatched 21st
Jan. The blankets for Birdsville were at one time sent
ma North Australia, and were once eighteen months on
journey. The Boulia blankets for next winter were sent
away 9th Sept, (ult.), in time to arrive at Boulia for April
or May, 1899. In the coming days of aerial navigation,
the Govt, storekeeper will doubtless be able to sail over
the west and drop bales of blankets into all the myall
camps on Ist May, but till then he must be more-or-less
regulated by floods and droughts, and so forth, to say
nothing of erratio tea msters and wayward pack-horses.
* • * *
“ Rougemont, Junior ” : One day a
picaninny, a few months old, was playing on the
grass near our camp when suddenly a native bear
was seen to rush out of the woods and seize the
child. The shrieks of the mother alarmed the
camp, and a rescue was attempted, but the bear
placed the child in her pouch, and made off at
such speed that pursuit was hopeless, and we gave
up the picaninny as lost. About a month later,
however, a chief of another tribe killed a native
bear in the woods after a desperate struggle, and
on approaching the huge carcase was astounded
to find a fat black baby in the pouch. The news
eventually reached our tribe, and the child was
restored to its mother none the worse for the
attentions of its strange foster parent. The
above is accredited by nine scientific societies of
Great Britain and two real live dukes.
* * * *
“S.S.”: Have been told of a peculiar
mare-and-cow friendship. The two animals were
the property of a Gippsland settler, and were
reared together, paddocked together, and in winter
stabled in the same shed. They made no show of
friendship that struck the settler, but when the
cow was sold to a farmer about five miles off, the
mare became strangely uneasy, and wandered
about the paddock and the house for a day and a
night whimpering queerly. On the following
morning she had jumped the fence and dis-
appeared. She turned up at the house of the
farmer who had bought the cow, and meanwhile
the latter animal, after carrying on in a most out-
rageous manner, had broken loose, and bolted into
the bush. Cow and mare returned in company to
the home of the original owner during the after-
noon. Subsequent efforts to keep them apart
failed, and the settler got his cow back at half-
price. He is looking for another purchaser.
* * * *
“R.W.” : Yes, most out-back publicans
“ do their own killing,” to their neighbors’ dis-
comfiture, but it works out all right in the end.
“I had dinner, at Hogan’s to-day,” said one of
my acquaintances, “and I’ll swear I ate my own
meat.” “I hope the change agreed with you,”
remarked his hearer.
* * * »
Way back in the 60’s some bullock-drivers,
arriving with tired cattle at the mile or so of steep
hill on the road from Bruthen to Omeo, unyoked
their teams and went to the pub. at Tambo cross-
ing. When they came back to their drays in
the evening they found a case of gin out of the
loading open on the ground, with all the bottles
but two neck-broken and empty, and had to pull
the roasted boozer out of the fire, just in time to
see him die. His swag gave no clue to his identity,
so he was buried on the spot, and his logged-in
grave remained a gruesome reminder for years
before a bush-fire removed all trace of it.
» * * *
“Lynx”: Be “Steele Rudd’s” par.
(8., 8/10/’9B), the laughing jack is not a fraud !
Know personally of several instances of snakes
being swooped upon and killed by jackasses. In
one case last summer, where two men were clear-
ing, jack, without warning, swooped down and
nailed a 2ft. long snake close beside them. Know
of another instance where two jacks swooped down
simultaneously on large snake, and, in the end,
finished him. My experience is that jack prefers
to fly with his snake to a height of from 30 to 40ft.,
and then drop him, obviously for disabling pur-
poses. “ S.R.’s ” idea of placing jack and a snake
together in a cage, or 24ft. ring, has nothing in it.
J ack is too shy for circus tricks.
• » * •
Copy of letter received by a N.S.W. M.P.
from one of the free and independent of his dis-
trict :
Dere Mr. i writ to ask yuo for sum emplyment, I wud
like a bilet as forrestr but i sooner to be a ganger on rale-
way. iff yuo carnt menage i wud to be satissfid to be
nusenoe inspetion or drovver anyhow i cleaned the scool
up here, i will be glad if yuo cud to colect /2 & 6 from
the Minnistry for Scools thay wont pay me up hear, if
yuo carnt can yuo sent to me a pass into s electorts
as i no ’im every well.
This sad case shoul d certainly be brought under
the notice of “ Ministry for Schools”Hogue.
• * • *
“ 8.D.5.”: More dingo. Was camped one
evening on Koolburra Creek, Cape York Peninsula
(N.Q.). Time, middle of wet season. Creek run-
ning strong—nearly a banker. Saw a kangaroo,
close pressed by two dingoes, jump on to an almost
submerged rock about 10ft. from bank. Dingoes
held hurried consultation. Evident conclusion,
“current too swift for straight swim ” ; and one
goes a little way up-stream, the other standing
guard opposite kangaroo. First takes to water, is
swept down to the rock, and, making ineffectual
snap at besieged in passing, lands lower down.
Same thing repeated several times, till dingoes,
disturbed by rifle-shot, decamp, when kangaroo
hops ashore and away.
* * * *
“Jep”: lie “ B.P.’s” account of supposed
bunyip at head of Murrumbidgee, and bunyips in
general. If he isn’t lately from England he should
know that the creature he saw has been seen in
different forms and circumstances, all over N.S.
Wales. Early settlers called it “ too much ’pos-
sum.” The Camden cookies have a traditional
bunyip—half fish, half dingo—which disports itself
in the lagoons and feeds luxuriously on podgy
calves for choice. Sensible folk call it “snake-
juice.” And, away out in the “flat country,”
boundary-riders, shepherds, and such lonely liars
have given freezing accounts of a fearsome-looking
monster seen in the lakes of that region. “ Touch
of the sun ”is its other name. Finally, let B.P.
study Bulletin’s pork-supper sketches and see if
he can’t pick his bunyip.
* * * *
“J.D.”: About trees leaning to N.E.
Never observed it, but majority of trees twist
, towards sun. Moreover, every splitter knows that
when the bark of a (say) stringy-bark or messmate
twists ever so slightly away from the north-east,
i.e., with the sun, it is well to leave that tree
severely alone; only corkscrews could be split
from it. But when the bark twists against the
sun the chances are that the grain of the wood is
quite straight. I suppose the sun draws the bark
round after it, or has a tendency to do so. If it
also draws the whole tree in a similar fashion that
would account for the “lean ” being north-east.
* * * *
“Malle” : A N.S.W. pastoralist of great
wealth ran a store, in a i fining township, in the
very long ago. Once he found himself with a
large quantity of weevilly flour on hand, and the
way he traded it off on the rival storekeeper fully
explains how he attained his present affluence.
He had a dray-load of flour coming up from
Sydney, and, when the new consignment was
about due, he loaded up the weevilly lot on his
own dray in the dead of night, and drove out to
intercept the teamster and his load. Then he
made an exchange, and got back at dawn with the
new lot, while the teamster had instructions to
drive in with the old decayed sample a day or two
later, and go through certain performances on
arrival. In the interval, the wily storekeeper
went round to his rival, lamented that he was
out of flour, and tried to buy “a little to goon
with,” and was repulsed with scorn. Then the
teamster came and surreptitiously whispered
that other storekeeper in a dark corner. He
said he had a load of flour for Blank, but he had
heard on the road that Blank was just about
insolvent, and he didn’t think it safe to deliver.
Did the other storekeeper know anything about
Blank? The other storekeeper didn’t commit
himself, but, seeing a chance to make a corner in
flour and snatch all the trade, he offered the cur-
rent market-price in cash for the entire consign-
ment. And there and then he acquired the whole


THE “F* AND R” WATCH
0
0
(D
©
ars
©
■» B
as
25/0
“ THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE
AGE.”
The movements are on the Lever principle, have
Brequet Hair-Springs, are jewelled in 10 holes ; have
expansion balances, are Keyless. In SOLID SILVER
CASES, which SCREW together, thus making then)
dust-proof and practically watertight.
The same Watch in
42 -
Oxydised Metal Case, 25 6
THESE WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED FOR 15
YEARS, AND KEPT IN ORDER (BREAKAGES
EXCEPTED) FOR 2 YEARS.
They go with profound accuracy, and stand hard
riding and knocking about.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
25 Hunter Street, Sydney (only).
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30;- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. BIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
WHITE LABEL LAGEB
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
of Blank’s stock of weevilly flour. Blank came
round a few minutes later, and remonstrated with
his rival for his sharp practice, but the other
storekeeper only laughed a loud shriek of mirth.
Next day, the other storekeeper came round to
say that he had changed his mind and thought
better of it, but this time Blank did the shrieking.
* » * *
“ S.S.”: The idea that animals go to
heaven is not uncommon in this country. Houli-
gan, dying at Haddon (Vic.), was asked had he
many to meet him in heaven : “ Katie, an’ me
bye Tom, an’ me two horses pwhat doied on me,”
was his reply.
* * * *
“0.C.”: Re the carpet-snake as a rat-
eater. Writer once put two big rats into a box
with a 7ft. carpet-snake. Next morning found
that the rats had eaten the 'snake’s head off and
laid bare about 4in. of his spine.
• * • •
“ Long-Un ” : On Lake Everard station
recently some Fowler’s Bay blacks joined the
local tribe, and, when all are squatting round fire,
gin pulls out emu breastbone, places one end in
ashes, and tilts other over towards coastal Jimmy,
who, the moment he spots bone, collars his spears
and ’rang, and makes off full gallop. Next day
sent after him a black boy, who returned in a fort-
night. “Find ’em, Jimmy?” “Yes, bin find
’em alonga sandhill (pureba hill) ; ’em peg out
alright.” Over 50 miles distant!
“Bogan”: Re slanguage. In grasping your
meaning, the Australian youth will either “ brown-
joe to yer dicken graft ”or “ take a tumble.” His
home is ‘ * therubby dub, ” his occupation “ the j pint, ”
his friends “cobblers,” and gaol “ booby.” If ar-
rested, a “John” “sloughed” him. A glass of
beer is “ a pot of wollop,” and the previous night
he was “on his pink,” “juiced,” “wined,” or
“shikkered.” His horse and cart is “ the puff
and dart,” and he drives it along; “ the frog and
toad.” On a racecourse, the other day, saw a
gentleman manipulating a purse and sovereigns.
uddenly “ cobber ” walks up behind him, “ Nit 1
Hopscotch on yer paddy-whack, right hook.”
Artist disappears. Interpreted, “ Stop it. Police-
man after you, right-hand side.” Bub, after all,
it’s mostly cockney thieves’ patter.
• * * *
House-removing on the Barrier is done
with jinkers. Record travel was in shifting store,
Silverton to Broken Hill (20 miles) with 38 bul-
locks, in three weeks. Some days didn’t do over
100 yards.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Witnessed delights of
cheese-making once when boarding at N.S.W.
farm-house. First the farmeress caught whole of
“ curd ” in her arms and pressed with all her
might on the side and one-half of the tub, thereby
letting the whey out; then she called “ Pig ! pig !
pig ! ” and a porker rushed grunting up and pro-
GEORGE MAJERONI, as Cion, the dumb man, in “ Under
the Red Robe,"
Photo., Talma, Melbourne,
ceeded to drink the liquid. When the swine
finished, the lady calmly let the curd slip back
into its original place, and it was then I noticed
that her arms had previously been in contact with
dirty kitchen utensils, and that the pig’s cheeks
were covered with filth. No more cheese for—
Ethelle.
* * * *
“ Lob ” : Best way to get rabbits out of
burrow is—give a crayfish a piece of lighted candle
in his claw and put him tail-first into burrow.
He will keep backing away from light until reach-
ing end of burrow. Knew an experienced cray to
go four miles through burrow and have candle
alight at t’other end. The cray is called “ Cousin
Jack’s ferret,” and, like any other ferret,'if he
nabs a bunny inside he’ll stop and feast on him
unless hauled out by a piece of string tied round
his neck.
Alba Studios, photo.
Mr . and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH .
“J.H.8.”: To “Yokel’s” question
(8., 24/9/’9B) “ Are pigs strychnine-proof ? ” Yes !
The nut from which strychnine is prepared poisons
humans ; also dogs, rats, and many other quadru-
peds, but can be eaten by hogs and goats with
impunity. It is also non-poisonous to many
species of the S. American toucan. [This doesn’t
square with the fact that the toucan is poisonable
by “ woorali ” and the pig by sumpitan-dart
poison—both obtained from strychniferous plants.]
“H.S.R.”: Are black
spoonbills common in any
part of Australia? I have
only seen one all black, near
Texas, Dumaresq River, Q.
Arethe black-and-white ibis?
We have the black ones by
the thousand, but I have
never seen above six white
ones together, and always on
rivers or water. The black
ones are everywhere. How
does the platypus suckle
young ? How often do mar-
supials breed in the year ?
I think at least three times,
for I have hardly ever seen
females at the productive age
without joeys either in the
pouch or the uterus. I have
got as many as three joeys in
the pouch of the scrub wal-
laby, two in the wallaroo’s,
only one in the grey kanga-
roo’s. Have seen nine young
attached to small native-cat.
Have seen old - man grey
kangaroo with pouch. Have
seen scrub wallaby with only
one arm, born that way.
Have found bullet embedded
in spine of old-man wallaroo
who was fat and hearty, and
must have got it years before.
* » * *
“ 8.W.”: Ee “F.H.’s”
par. (B. 17/9/98.) On Coola-
matong (Monaro district), in
’66, when the cattle were
dying in hundreds from
pleuro, the swarm of eagles
was so great that boundary
riders often killed them
with their stock-whips before
the gorged birds could rise
from the carcases.
Dear B.— “ E.H.W.”
seeks (10/9/98) from any “na-
turalist by appointment ” sug-
gestion of something to take cat’s place as rat-des-
troyer. I can lay him on. Get an empty beer-
bottle (dcadmarinus vulgaris), pound into fine
powder, mix with lard, butter, or axle-grease, and
leave lying round where the rats frequent.—N. by
A.
“C.H.” : Can vouch for the truth of this
case of pre-natal influence. A young woman,
some weeks prior to the birth of her infant,
received a nasty blow in the eye from her husband
whilst the latter was in liquor. The child was
born minus an eye ; and from just above where the
eyebrow ought to have been (for there was neither
eye, brow, lids, nor, in fact, the sign of any orifice)
to the cheek-bone, and extending partly across the
nose, was a smooth, dark-purple mark, correspond-
ing exactly with that on the woman’s face. I saw
both mother and child, and could, therefore, com-
pare satisfactorily.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Seudo : Sydney Harbor is, as it were, a public
park. A water-park instead of a land-park. No one is
allowed to offend the public eye by disfiguring the Cen-
tennial Park with brutal poster-advts. Then why should
anybody be allowed to brutalise the Harbor with floating
whisky, tobacco or pill advts? Waipiro :In sending
extract-verse in MS. form you should have expressly said
it was extract. The fact of its being written, not printed,
and on a page bearing your signature, led us to believe
you were tendering it as original Z. : Lynching-in-
etfigy is an offence against the law. And it would be
libellous to print photo, of proceedings Sen to : As
case is sub-judice, cannot comment. The circumstances
surrounding the identification of the accused will evi-
dently need keen scrutiny when he stands his trial
T.P. : Saints trend to the suburbs because they scrape
together a home on time-payments. They also trend
to heaven because they scrape together a mansion there
on time-payments--3d. a time E.M’D. : Yes, it will do.
It may travel on its simplicity J.H.G. : “ Tuo D.” ex-
cellent .G.P.B. : Will print A.N.A. : Coals to New-
castle—anagram long ago printed in Bulletin C.W.S.:
Show us the other paper in Australasia out of whose
columns a quarter as many successful books have been re-
printed as out of the Bulletin’s. Or show us the other
paper out of whose columns successful books could be
reprinted. “ The Bulletin is not what it used to be.”
To quote Jerrold, in reply to someone who said the same
thing about London Punch —“ No, it never was.’’
P.T.D. : Simply monstrous thing to expect one man to
personally discharge the duties of Registrar-General and
Examiner-of-Patents. More than enough work in either
position to occupy the undivided attention of an energetic
specialist. To unite the offices is inexpressibly false
economy Kai Viti: Theory based wholly on ignorance.
There have been abundance of applications to purchase
Papuan lands by Australian settlers—but they were
almost invariably refused. And when a Melbourne syn-
dicate offered to buy at a higher price than the Somers
Vine grab it was curtly informed that land-sales were
contrary to the Govt, policy. Possibly the Australian
settlers didn’t—er—placate some influential quarter which
needs placating R.R.P.: None suitable The Pipe:
The work of Mr. Pearse, in our opinion, cannot compare
with that of one of the Australians you name. W.J.H. :
The yarn is built on the popular delusion that “Money”
Miller was a miser. He wasn’t. He lived in good style,
and could even bring himself to denote £5OOO to the
church at one fell pop. Nor is Tyson a miser in the
popular sense of the term M.B.P. : Quite unsuitable.
Philos: There is an eighth hell, and it is called
mediocrity Rapho : Not force enough L.I. : Too
much “ trembling birdie.” One trembling birdie can fly
from hera to Jericho A.A.A. : Your grit is smothered
in words. Put your “ beloved ”in three four-line verses,
and let’s ogle him again A.B. 7 : Too stiff and solemn ;
try less starch and more blue V.K. : Yes, you must be
pretty young yet J.W.H. :No objection to reforming
a little bit of the English language when we feel that
way; but aren’t taking any revolution at present
L.M.D.: Little in “Land Board.” L.A.” : “Angel”
declined P.R.A. : What on earth is your Muse doing
among castles and moats and feudal romance ? You live
to-day, sing to-day Jingo : Better stick to prose : in
your verse prose sticks to you A.J.G. : Thump 1
thump !go your elephantine verse-feet Dis : “ Only
16 ” —but your yarn is only six Fidelis : Unto death.
A.A.M. : Grateful for distinguished consideration
C.N. (Gympie): Spare the dead that injustice Machete :
Possibly rondeau... —D. M‘L. : Notified none usable
Alley B. : No. 11, as usual, just outside the fold Wan-
deroo : “ Genesis,” will consider. “ Episode,” too too-
too ! J.F.D. : Pretty well done, but marred by violent
improbability Dodd M. : “Champion” may do;
“Tree,” only make par. ; other two off our beat Mur-
mur: Mere spectre of a story H. Benn : Too little
consequence Halie : Plaintive little squeak P. Hill:
Pretty good, but not strong enough C.G.F. : Fairly-
written, but would only make par Winda : “ Teeth,”
feeble of interest Frank K. : “ Royal Mail ” starts in
great style, but gets on very rough road, and finally
pitches over a bank of doggerel in w.p.b J.B.D. :
Thanks, but couldn’t use Emilius : Only beaten on the
post Eileen C. : You haven’t the dramatic touch re-
quired by subject Anthrax: Got nothing for it but
your say-so. Soil: Barren! ... F. Croson : “Witch,”
well-handled, but situation of the tritest. ... Namoi :
Doesn’t suit, but doesn’t deserve the hard knocks you
deprecate in advance .... 6xB: Amounts to an obstetri-
cal record in indifferent verse. Yal. H. : Another such
“ poem ” would make us arise and flee into the wilder-
ness. C.L.R. : “ Incompatibility,” motive threadbare.
A. Fitz. : Hadn’t a dorg handy, so tried it on a
printer’s-devil. Condition critical.-.. ..Lucius : On con-
trary, yon must have basis of facts before you can weave
fancies. Imagination is only a subtler combination.
“Animism,” shortly put, is converse of notion that
matter is essential vehicle of mind Logan : Perfectly
true. Pish is Toxote s jaculator; toxotis was a misprint.
Larger variety will unerringly pot a fly at Bft. above.
L.V.B. : Send some pars when you have grown more
accustomed to The Bulletin’s mannerisms. Buxton is
not an exciting subject, by the way. Neither is Brassey
a thrilling incident. Can’t you tell us something naughty
about a dufce or two? Yando : Bulletin less inclined
than ever to labor through slovenly MS. Why, scores of
English and American prints won’t look at anything
which isn’t type-written. Also, hardly anybody who has
anything good to offer writes illegibly B.E. : Look
here, it all just comes to this—you can’t get any
bench to flog a “ gentleman ” or a gentleman’s son, any
more than you could get any bench to flog a lady.
Flogging, because it never was and never can be im-
partially administered, must be an anti-democratic
punishment. That which in a larrikin is savage brutality
is in a fashionable young clubman mere friskiness
—high spirits, doncherknow .Subscriber : Only
another clerical error. Jake Garrard was so beastly
clerical that his department couldn’t help making them.
F.O. (St. Kilda) : Declined. The copper-plate poem
with beautiful red-ink heading always is E.E.
(Sydney) : Re “ God of Accidents,” was it a miracle that
struck the faded Polly on the head—or what was it ?
Yokel : Hardly up to mark .. C.C.: You leave out the
point. Bulletin didn’t object to Young or Reid helping
Smith by pointing out that Smith and his party were
better than Barton and his party. But when Young and
Reid persistently recommended Smith as the only man of
the pair who would get public works for the district it
just about boiled down to the statement that the Govt,
would give the district public works if it elected Smith
and not otherwise. Maoriland has a local Government
system ; N.S.W. hasn’t ... R.T. (Adelaide) : “ fn Memo-
riams” unanimously rejected R.B. (Bourke): Where’s
the evidence? Noss: “Dirty Dick” poem jammed
full of fine, rich libel ... J.J.O’M. : “Esther” under con-
sideration Cleoro : There is no better investment
for a man than nourishing and appetising food. Money
saved from food is the very worst form of extravagance....
Maud W. : Some merit; but too many words for the
worth. Write verse short and lively, not long and 510 w....
A.G.F. : Parkes, dunno ... R.S.E. : You badly parody a
good Bulletin rhyme J.A.W. : Now, did you really
think we’d print that? Baron: “Show” declined
O.R.M. : Large fog in a small cellar To several thou-
sand contributors : Don’t write notes; and do write your
name and address on the copy —not on separate sheet, or
an envelope, or a visiting-card, or any ornamental fake
whatever Viator : Par.-material only good when it’s
good. Learn to wash and dress your own literary babies.
Parasite : Yarns too tough ; at your disposal Gay
R. : Melancholy verse, anyway E.L.M. : Don’t ask the
girl in “poetry,” or she’ll throw you over sure
G.L.S. : Stick to milking T.E.D. : Drivel—abject and
hopeless R.J.C. : Right Joyously Cursed Jumbuck:
Sentiment all right; verse execrable .... Sixty-six : Sonnet
on “ Virtue ” dull. Would sooner have a bright one on
“Vice.” Spuds: Verse suggests nothing but a title—
“ The Corpse among the Cockroaches.” Barkis : “ Rin-
garooma ” only half alive A.8.C.: Not enough skill
Seoro : It is old, but worth reprint : “ Why is it that a
married man lives so much longer than a single one ?
He doesn’t; it only seems longer.” . Emsev:
Not quite up Slim Jim : Sorry unusable .... E.B. :
“The dark cloud hangs over” this office no more.
Yang A'. : Verse no chop Angsha : One’s old ; so
what’s the betting on both? His Worship: “ n ur
opinion ” unprintable Maroon : Declined ... Hogg :
Verse dull ... P.H. : Better enquire locally ... H.M. :
Tozer is a back number for illus. purposes .. Chief :No
grit A.G.F. : Presume line “ Fair Science frowned
not on his humble birth,” in Gray’s elegy, means that
Science didn’t regard him as the village squire did, but
yielded her boons despite his poverty. Others held.


THE CUP-A DANGEROUS OUTSIDER.


A DAY OF HUMILIATION.
AQUARIUS: “ Don’t shoot ! I’ll come down!”


Query. Will the new-old Q. Premier fol-
low the example of his predecessor and oppose the
attempted New Guinea land steal ? Echo answers,
“ ’E ain’t built that way.”
Perth (W.A.) Council advertises for ten-
ders for “ the right to search the Council’s rubbish
heap.” Another sign of hard times in the land of
the setting sun and the stormy wild cat.
Sounds apocryphal, but isn’t so. A Cairns
man, working at a centrifugal, wore an apron
which caught somehow on the revolving shaft.
Every scrap of clothing was torn off the man into
the veriest shreds ; and the man himself—never
budged and never got a scratch.
A N.S.W. country alderman is fond of
scraps of Latin, &o. Questioning the genuineness
of a certain disinfectant to be used by the council,
he remarked : “If ya read th’ advertisement, yull
see th’ gen-uin stuff has got a face smile of th’
manufactrer’s signachure, which this lot ain’t
got.” During late lamented election same genius
orated: “I’d do ennythink ta frustrate the tic-
tacs of those demi-dogs, the so-called Labor-
party.”
Walking on the sea-cliff, while Cape
Governor, Grey’s foot struck an obstacle. It
proved to be a skull, with a piece of golden hair
Sticking to it. This was the burial place of a
cargo of female convicts, for Australia, drowned
through wreckage.
tm
M
m
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear, : “ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns ? ”
Second Bear : “ No 1 Kodaks ! ”
Australian Depots
—FOB—
KODAKS.
Wm.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER* ROUS€
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY competition.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
The Eleventh Report of the Directors of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited,
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Eleventh Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the Bank, 126 Elizabeth-
street, at Noon, on Monday, 31st October, 1898.
REPORT.
The directors beg to submit to the shareholders their eleventh report, with a balance-sheet and statement of
profit and loss, for the half-year ended 30th September, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, and tax on
note circulation, the net profit amounted to £4163 17s. 3d., which the directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Additional interest, at the rate of one-half per cent, per annum, on the deferred deposit
receipts, in accordance with the terms of the arrangement of 21st June, 1895 ... £3310 17 4
In reduction of bad debts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 852 19 11
£4163 17 3
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year ending 30th September, 1898.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ Capital, viz.
31,184 preference shares paid in cash to
*9lss ±304,044 0 0
125,000 ordinary shares
paid up to £3 ss. per
share, representing the
paid-up capital of the
Old Colonial Bank of
Australasia... ... £406,250 0 0
Calls on 125,000 shares
at £2 per share, £250,-
000 ; calls on 105,522
shares at £2 per share,
£211,044 = £461,044.
Instalments not yet
due, £120,633 ; calls in
arrear, £9OlO 10s. ;
amount owing in re-
spect of forfeited
shares, £lOl,OlB ss. 6d.
= £110,028 15s. 6d.=
£2 30,661 15s. 6d.
Calls paid in advance,
£30,707 = £199,954 15s.
6d. Amount of calls
actually paid in cash. . . 261,089 4 6
£667,339 4 6
Less 44,578 shares for-
feited as above ... 183,216 4 6
484,123 0 0
„ Notes in circulation
„ Bills in circulation
~ Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
„ Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest —
New deposits ... 194,669 0 2
Deferred deposits .. 1,267,393 1 0
~ Interest accrued thereon and rebate
on bills current
~ Contingent liabilities, as per contra ...
„ Profit and loss
£788,167 0 0
90,249 0 0
94,800 0 1
37,773 16 10
169,341 8 6
455,704 9 1
1,462,062 1 2
19,377 4 2
26,361 11 6
4,163 17 3
£3,148,000 8 7
Cr.
By coined g-01.l and silver
and other coined metal
~ gold and siver in bul-
lion or bars
„ By cash at bankers ...
„ balances due from
other banks ...
„ notes of other banks ..
~ bills and remittances
in transitu ...
„ stamps
£295,253 7 10
13,987 14 6
11,431 11 It
14,704 12 7
499 0 0
63,799 5 2
655 17 8
~ Government debentures at face value
~ Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank premises at cost to new bank...
Other real estate at value ..
Shares in other companies .
~ advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts
„ bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted, not included in
above, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts
„ chattel property at value
~ advances, bills of exchange, and pro-
missory notes, treated as bad, and in-
tended to be written off capital
~ liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra ...
£400,331 9 8
1,000 o 0
184,507 10 1
72,855 17 9
23,095 11 0
1,674,654 1 8
_ 330.452 8 8
3,575 18 8
431,165 19 7
26,361 11 6
£3,148,000 8 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.) ... £20,549 13 7
~ Bank note tax 850 10 6
~ Balance 4,163 17 3
£25,564 1 4
By Gross Profits for the Half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, and rebate on bills current ...
£25,564 1 4
£25,564 l 4
_ Melbourne, 20th October, 1898.
To the Shareholders of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
_ Ladies and Gentlemen,—We beg: to report that we have audited the accounts of the Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited for the half-year ended 30th September, 1898, and that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the
balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the “ Companies Acts,” and
present a correct view of the state of the company’s affairs, and that all our requisitions in regard to the shareholders’
as well as the private balance-sheet have been duly complied with.
We are, ladies and gentlemen, yours faithfully.
W. BOULLY, A.1.1.A.
FRED. H. WILSON, F.I.A.Y.
Auditors.
A. Saunders.
8-Heart Amethyst Bird and Chain Brooch, 15s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Gold Name Brooch, 9c., 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
15c., 15s ; 18c., 20s.
Any Name or Motto tree.
A. Saunders.
8-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15a.
Strong and Pretty. Silver, ss.
A Saunders.
16c. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold Brooch, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c., £2.
Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six different Patterns similar.
A Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Red, Blue and White Stones,
Bell and Chain, 12s 6d. Silver, 4s.
0002
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Gold ~ „ 455.
15c. Gold,
4 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, or
Rubies, 255.
Send for illustrations.
Solid Gold Bands,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255,
30s, £2.
Any Name or Initials
Free.
18c. Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds,
£4 10s and £5.
8 Sapphires or Rubles
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds, £2, £2los,
£3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 & £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold Buckle
Rings.
a Xo
T.O
9 A
A. SAUNDERS’
Strong Reliable English Levers.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest,
and best time-keepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6 10s,
£6, £7, £B—3, 4,5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or
Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality, 20s ; guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherhams and Waltham Levers. Send for
Price List.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases, £4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee;
ditto, 14c. Gold, patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the same strength
as a £3O watch.” Ladies’, “beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
9c. Solid Gold
Diamonds, 2 Red
or Blue Stones,
10s 6d.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
A. Saunders.
9a Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,
15/-, 20/-
Send for Illustrated Book.
Heart and Dumbell.
Plain, 10/6; Eng., 12/8
15c., 22/6
20 different patterns, same
price.
Gold Horseshoe Locket,
255. Silver, 6s.
Silver and Gold, 7/6 & 10/-
SEND FOR OUR
Beautiful Illustrated Book
—OF—
Silverplate, Watches,
. . and Jewellery.
r »■ ■ lap ..
—-
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
WATCRBURY . .
. . . WATCN€S
FURTHER REDUCED.
Quick-Wind, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 20a,
Silver, 355. Gold, £2 15s.
We Are the Direct Agents.
Gold, Pure White Pearls, 10s 6d ; worth 20s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, Pure White.
Pearls, Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c. £2.
. -
A. Saunders.
2-Bar Horse Shoe Gold Brooch,
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Wish-Bone Heart and Arrow,
Redstone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold-Mounted Boar’s Tusk Chain and Bell, 15/6.
Without Bell, 12s 6d. Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders ( Registered ).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13/6. 15c. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders.
2 Love Birds Pearl Gold Brooch.
Pearl Set and Chain, 15s 6d and 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney


“ Timi ” : I was intimately acquainted with
William Sylvester Pulford (the ex-Vic. police cadet
alluded to in a recent Bulletin) during his Maori-
land career. He was business manager of Auck-
land Observer, Charles Otho Montrose being
then editor. Both men had been under fire,
Montrose as a soldier and war correspondent dur-
ing the Waikato war, and Pulford while bush-
ranger-chasing, and it was the fun of the world to
hear “ Monty ” relate a tale of derring-do, which
Pulford would most artistically cap. One time a
trick-shootist struck the town, and gave public
exhibitions of his skill. Pulford challenged Mon-
trose to mount the stage and display his nerve
while the shootist removed an apple from his head.
Montrose, nothing loth, submitted himself, and
the apple was deftly divided by a bullet. Then
Pulford insisted upon emulating the feat of his
friend, but, expanding his chest just as the trigger
was pulled, he imperceptibly increased his stature,
and the bullet furrowed his skull. Poor Pulford
never quite recovered from the injury, and even-
tually died under distressing circumstances. He
was the father of “ Willie ” Pulford, once well-
known as a scenic artist to strolling theatrical
co.’s.
“The struggle for a crust.” “Cyril” to
The Bulletin:—
Re recent par. on the text: “ Country editor wanted ;
salary, £2 a week.” Nearly 100 “ atonies ” replied, all
eager to lead bucolic thought, with the help of stereo,
supplements, to better things than pumpkins. Which
roll-up of the ready writers is but a circumstance com-
pared to another muster about a month back. An advt. ap-
peared in S.M. Herald requiring services of gentlemanly,
companionable man for a driving tour through Riverina.
Apply 2.30 p.m., , street, North Shore.” Such
was the rush for , street, that the cable-tram
guards thought a land-sale was on, sure. And as mobs of
“gentlemanly,” &c., went up the hill by tram or on foot,
according to finance, other obviously disappointed droves
were passed coming down in a long procession. When
the writer’s brigade arrived at , street, about 2.25
p.m., the advertiser declined to be interviewed, but
Bhouted through the keyhole he had been suited at 6.30
a,m. Several rude remarks were passed by the applicants,
who, seeing another detachment advancing in skirmishing
order, retired cursing. Over 200 men applied for that job;
taking fares, boat and tram, at 10d., and allowing half
walked, over £4 was dragged out of their pockets,
thanks to the laziness of advertiser, who might as well
have arranged for written application. But the “ side ” of
the person eager to become a white nigger-driver is
colossal. “ Wanted, a gentleman of good address, familiar
with suburbs, to represent business firm.” Then fol-
lowed address—a very far suburb ; and the far end of that
suburb, too. What was the fate of the many who called
in answer to this, I do not know; but one man,
whose previous excellent position was only lost through
prolonged ill-health, states “ the business firm ” was first
represented by a bare-footed woman, and subsequently
by a frowsy older man. The meeting-place was a cross
between a pig-pen, duck-pond, and fowl-yard; and the
job consisted of hawking round, on foot, a dozen or so
live ducks and cocks and hens; no salary—commission
ljd. to 2d. a bird. The fowl-run being too muddy to
enter, the interview was conducted and applicant
sampled at a range of about 121 f. ; also, the male partner
of the business firm sampled the effect of a large handful
of gravel travelling on a true trajectory; point of impact,
his pachydermatous cheek.
m
ALBA
<Hc?
N
Sydney
15
"&KL EliWVroß
f,TT TRE£T e^ P
Christmas and New Year
CARDS.
1008 AND 1888
TX7E have very much pleasure in publishing
VV our PRICE LIST of CHRISTMAS and
NEW YEAR CARDS for 1898 and ’9.
To our Country Customers, who are obliged
to do their Shopping by Post, we would re-
spectfully intimate that all our Cards have
been selected with great care, and with the
desire to suit all tastes.
Those of our Customers who have for many
years past favored us with their orders know
very well that we do not insert “ puff ” adver-
tisements ; we always call “ a spade a spade,”
and when we say that the CARDS now adver-
tised are the Choicest, Best, and Cheapest we
ever had the pleasure of showing, it is suffi-
cient to convince our friends of the verity of
our statement.
We would emphasize the fact that all our
Cards are this year’s production ; not a single
old card amongst the lot.
We have also got a Varied Selection of
. CALENDARS .
for 1899, from 2d. each.
The “EXCELLENT” Packet of 18 Cards.
Price, 3d; by post, sd.
The “ IMPERIAL ” Packet of 25 asstd. Single
and Folding Cards, 6d ; by post, 9d.
The “FOREMOST ” Box of 50 Single and Fold-
ing Cards, 1/-; by post, 1/5.
The “LEPORELLO” Box of Six assorted
Folding Cards and Envelopes (pretty little
scenes and floral designs), 6d ; by post, Bd.
The “TRIUMPH” Box of 10 asstd. Folding
Cards and Envelopes (floral designs), 6d ;
by post, 9d.
“IN THE COUNTRY” Box of 10 assorted
Folding Cards and Envelopes (pretty little
scenes and floral designs), 6d ; by post, 9d.
The “MAJESTIC ” Box of 10 assorted Folding
Cards and Envelopes (very pretty scenes
in black-and-white), 6d ; by post, 9d.
The “ ELDORADO ” Box of 10 Folding Cards
and Envelopes (pretty scenes and floral
designs), 1/-; by post, 1/3.
The “SIXTEEN” Box of 16 Cards and Enve-
lopes, all folding and assorted sizes and
designs, 1/-; by post, 1/3.
The “ EXCELSIOR ” Packet of 25 Cards. These
are splendid value. The Cards are well-
assorted, and suitable for Children and
Adults. 1/3 ; by post, 1/7.
The “ IDEAL” Cabinet of 25 Cards (Single and
Folding), lovely designs and well-assorted,
1/3 : by post, 1/7.
The “ IMPERIAL ” Box of 20 specially-selected
Cards, 1/3 ; by post, 1/7.
The “ NONPAREIL” Box of 12 Artistic Cards
(all folding), with envelopes, 1/3 ; post, 1/7.
The “ROYAL CABINET” of 20 very Choice
and Artistic Cards, with envelopes, 2/6;
by post, 3/1. This Cabinet would be cheap
at ss.
The “LAND OF FLOWERS” Box of Six
Charming Cards, with envelopes, 9d ; by
post, lid.
The “ FORGET-ME-NOT ” Box of 10 High-
class Cards, with envelopes, 9d ; post, lid.
AUTOGRAPH Cards, well-assorted and en-
tirely New Designs; eight in a box, with
envelopes, 7Jd ;by post, lOd. Ten in a
box, with envelopes, 1/-; by post, 1/3.
LOOSE CARDS in endless variety, from 6d to
12/- per dozen, Post Free.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211,
PITT ST. (ONLY), SYDNEY.
TIME-TAELE FOE POSTING
TO EUROPE, &c.
Letters Posted in
Sydney.
Oet. 25th.
Nov. Ist.
Nov. Bth.
Nov. 15 th.
Nov. 22nd.
Nov. 29th.
Dec. 6th.
Arrive in Lon-
don.
Nov. 29th.
Deo. 4th.
Dec. 13th.
Dec. 16th.
Dec. 27th.
Jan. Ist, ’99.
Jan. 10th „
Drop Us a Line Early, Please.
SYDNEY.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
TiOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by 0. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c. , Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB. ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Boole Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELEVENTH REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The national Bank of Justralasia [united.
The Directors now submit to the Shareholders the BALANCE SHEET of the Bank as on 30th SEPTEMBER last,
and the Profit and Loss Account for the half-year which terminated on that date.
The net Profit for the period, after deducting l expenses of management, and allowing
for the other items enumerated in the account, amounted to £20,526 2 9
Balance from previous half-year 37,479 12 6
Deduct Note Tax in Australia, and Income Tax in Great Britain.
Leaves Available
This sum the Directors propose shall be thus dealt with
Dividend at 5 per cent, on the Preference Shares
Carry forward to next half-year
£58,005 15 2
. 2,923 13 5
,£55,082 1 9
. £7,644 10 0
, 47,437 11 9
£55,082 1 9
The Ordinary General Half-Yearly MEETING will be held at the ATHENAEUM, Collins-street, MELBOURNE,
on WEDNESDAY, 2nd NOVEMBER, at Noon.
By order of the Board of Directors,
F. G. SMITH, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office, Melbourne, 20th October, 1898.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDING 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1898.
(Including London Office to 27th August, 1898, and Western Australian Branch to 19th August, 1898.)
Dr. CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital-
-30,578 preference
shares, paid in cash
to £lO £305,780 0 0
250,000 ordinary shares,
paid up to £4 per
share, representing
the paid up capital
of the National Bank
of Australasia, £l,-
000,000. Calls made
on 250,000 shares, at
£3 per share, £750,*
000 of which there
has actually be e n
paid in cash, £715,-
305 ss. 3d.—Total,
£1,715,305 ss. 3d.
Less 10,531 shares
forfeited, £45,456 4s. 1,669,849 1 3
Reserve fund account 60,000 0 0
Profit and loss account 65,082 1 9
£2,080,711 3 0
Notes in circulation ... £271,224 2 6
Bills in circulation .. 391,920 7 6
Government Deposits —
Not bearing interest,
£46,046 3s. 6d.; bear-
inginterest, £247,383
16s. 4d. Total, £293,-
429 19s. lOd. Other
Deposits—Not bear-
ing interest, £1,965,-
835 7s. 6d. ; bearing
interest, £3,686,056
18s. 3d. ... .... 5,945,322 5 7
Interest accrued, and
rebate on current
bills 52,206 17 2
Balances due to other
banks 107,440 1 9
6,768,113 14 6
£8,848,824 17 6
Contingent liability, as per contra
£262,054 7s. lOd.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined
ASSETS.
metal
„ Coined gold in tran-
situ
„ Gold or silver in bul-
lion or bars
~ Cash at bankers
~ Government, muni-
cipal and other pub-
lic stocks, deben-
tures and funds
„ Notes and bills of
other banks
~ Balances due from
other banks
~ Bills in transitu
...£1,385,70S 1 4
200,000 0 0
27,748 19
7,700 12
617,809 19 1
1,804 610
67,581 19 7
285,887 5 6
Or.
£2,497,236 3 8
~ Beal estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank .. .. 459,236 14 11
„ Other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £108,097 13s. lOd. written off ... 430,774 6 1
~ Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts ... ... 4,459,641 18 8
„ Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts ... ... ... 999,006 12 7
„ Duty stamps M 2,929 2 0
£8,848,824 17 6
Liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the act authorising their
issue, £114,600 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of credit
apd drafts, £147,454 7s. 10d., as per
contra, £262,054 7s. lOd.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 108 branches
and 10 agencies
Note and income taxes
Balance
£50,872 6 8
2,923 13 5
65,082 1 9
£108,878 1 10
By balance brought forward
Gross profits, including 1 recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises and rent...
£37,479 1 2 5
71,398 9 5
£108,878 1 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
... £60,000
By Balance last half year ... ... ...£50,000
The customary Auditors’Report and the Directors’Statements, to comply with the Companies Act 1896 (Vic-
toria), appear On the official report.
F. Q. SMITH, Chief Manager.
BRA-KTDT’a PATENT
HAND KEMAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Prices:
205., 405.. and 50s. Delivered at any Port or Railway Station
in Australia, 2s. 6d. and ss. extra.
BRANDT BROS.
Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
1
Do You Want a Pleasant Evening at Home,
or to give an exhibition? The
<SRRPHOPHON€,
a most marvellous instrument ; reproduces the music
of great military bands, famous opera singers, and
celebrated comedians in laughter-provoking monologues
produced upon the stages of the great cities of the world.
Simple to operate. Will not gettout of order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
,r THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS »re FASTCOLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get fo :
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .


Nues Pepery!
“CHRONICLES” of the “TIMES.”
Ours ai’e not
Teas of the “AGE.”
It needs no “ ARGUS ” eye to find that out.
But Billy Tea, Goldenia and liota in Teas.
GRANUMA, FODAH and HOMAH
in delicious Porridge Foods, and WHITE
HEATHER in Whiskies,
are Best Values, Highest Qualities, and
absolutely First of their class.
“HERALD” it! “TELEGRAPH” it!!
It’s good “NEWS.” A “STAR” of hope, and
these brands are the “ STANDARDS ” of excel-
lence to all “DAILY OBSERVERS.”
JAS. INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Proprietors and Agents. Wholesale Only.
• ' •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
A Professional Confession.
A Prominent Medical Man
Admits Prescribing
WARNER'S SAFE CURE,
With Grand Results.
Rockhampton, Queensland, 2/9/’9B.
H. H Warner and Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
“Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in stating
that I prescribed Warner’s Safe Cure very fre-
quently whilst acting as medical officer on the
Cairns-Herberton railway contract, and obtained
more satisfactory results from it than any formulae
of my own prescribing.—Robert Shaw, L.D.S.,
M. 8., D.A.”
Warner’s Safe Cure merits the high confidence
it enjoys. Take the advice of the best and most
reliable people. It cures all forms of kidney and
all stages of liver diseases. Not an experiment.
An old, reliable cure.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Extract from letter of a W.A. legislator to
an importunate Town Council:—“There is no-
thing left in the Treasury but a large hole, and
that is getting larger every day.”
Seven Ms.L.A. lately expelled from Q.
Parliament for over-excitement, as alleged, con-
stitute the phalanx of -inveterate opponents of the
Parliamentary spirituous refreshment-bar.
Henry Copeland, whose Parliamentary
jemmy opened the doors of Sydney Zoo and Art
Gallery on Sundays, refuses to stay his hand till
he works the pub.-doors ajar on the same day.
A Leg. Assembly return reports that 38
(coal-laden) vessels sailing from the port of New-
castle, N.S.W., were lost in the last five years—
and 261 lives. The loss of vessels and life from
Sydney in the same period was nothing like so
heavy, though Sydney has many times the traffic
of Newcastle.
Premier Reid publicly declares that he will
not accept the Agency-General. Let’s see. So
did Premier Cowper, and he got there ; Premier
Forster, and he got there ; and Premier Alexander
Stuart, and, in a sense, he got there. Stuart,
indeed, was appointed in 1879, but resigned in
1880 without actually taking office.
Three months ago Premier Braddon gave
as his reason for not appointing an Agent-General
for his province, the imminence of Australian
Federation. Last week he appointed Fysh for
the full term of three years. Has Federation
receded in the Braddon eye, or was the “gentle-
man ” Premier merely talking politically ?
Thus Leahy, a prominent Q. legislator, of
Hibernian extraction : “ We are not followers of
Mr. Dickson, but followers of Mr. Philp, who is a
follower of Mr. Dickson.” This is really a fine
distinction ! If a cipher follows a cipher that fol-
lows another cipher, which cipher is boss, and
what do they all amount to in sum-total ?
“ Yic.” : How remarkable to find Deakin
leading the way for religious education in State-
schools ! This must be a clever politician’s indi-
cation of the current of public opinion—or else a
blind politician’s mistake. When a Democracy
takes the power nobody is to prescribe what it
will do. I believe Australia will come round to
a State church.
Edward Terry, M.L.A., leader of the
little Independent party in N.S.W. Assembly,
started his maiden speech by remarking that he
was a neutral Independent. Having said so much
he proceeded to rub it into Reid—
“ I’m in a peculiar position,”
Said the wealthy man from Ryde—
“l’m a neutral Independent
On the Opposition side.”
The funny little Freetrade Democratic
Association of Yic. has found a real purpose in
life. H. R. Reid, the brother of “No-Yes,”
addressing an attenuated meeting of the Faithful,
a few nights ago, besought them to keep their
association on its feeble legs “ until the time came
for them to urge their Freetrade policy on the
new Commonwealth of Australia.” Meanwhile,
they are maintaining their Collins-street office on
a small income and a forlorn hope.
Re Mrs. Sidney Webb’s remark to Kater,
M.L.C., that “the conservatism of thb colonies is
not the conservatism of England 'to-day but of
the England of 1534 ” ! it may be apropos to point
out that Arthur Griffith, M.L. A., has not, so far,
been able to get any prominent member of N.S.W.
Leg. Council to take charge of his “Bill to
abolish attachment of wages.” Yet this Bill
merely seeks to bring local law into line with that
in Britain, where a similar Act was passed years
ago.
With another change of Premier in Leper-
land, it may be interesting to note that since the
Northern province was granted Responsible
Government—3B years ago—it has had 13 prime-
ministers—Herbert, Macalister, Mackenzie, Lilley,
Palmer, Thorn, Douglas, MTlwraith, Griffith,
Morehead, Nelson, Byrnes, and Dickson. Nation-
alities : 3 Australian, 4 Scotch, 1 Irish, 4 English,
1 Welsh. The most brilliant of the crowd was
Griffith ; the dullest, Thorn. Lilley was the most
progressive ; Nelson the most reactionary. Griffith
held sway the longest—seven years and four
months ; Byrnes was Premier for only 168 days.
Dickson may hang on for something over 168
hours.
Another conference of the rail way
managers of N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria, and
S.A. has been held at. Melbourne, and last week
it closed up in disgust with no results. The four
distracted departments couldn’t decide on a uni-
form rail way-gauge, because they couldn’t agree
on a fair division of the cost of alteration. There
was some talk of giving up the policy of carrying
goods from the border districts at a heavy loss in
order to attract traffic, but each one reckoned that
the other province was trying to get ahead of his
province, and each man reckoned that the other
fellow’s proposal was loaded. The Vic. and S.A.
men reckoned (in their own interests) that traffic
should be allowed to go to the nearest port, and
the N.S.W. and Queensland men considered (in
their own interests) that each province should get
all its trade for its own port. And until the
Federal Government grabs the situation with a
strong hand, and abolishes provincial boundaries,
and runs all the railways on plain commercial
principles, they will go on just like that.
Re disarmament. Armies provide billets
for the aristocracy and employment for millions of
men, and, though the people em-
ployed might just as well be idle if
peace is possible, many of them will
resist the destruction of their means
of livelihood if they have to fight
for it. The standing armies of the
world, as the Czar seems to see, are
a decayed tooth that needs extrac-
tion, but, if he thinks a suggestion
will hurry the patient off to have
it out regardless of the pain, he may
be a first-class emperor, but he’s a
mighty poor dentist.
Someone should submit a Bill
for the suppression of that heavy
bore of N.S.W. Assembly, Broken
Hill Sleath. Sleath is possessed
of the strange delusion that he is a
born humorist, and spends much
of his time interjecting inane re-
marks, presumably intended to be
funny, and laughing hideously and
immoderately at them himself.
Labor-member Ferguson, who also
interjects frequently, does possess
humor, but Sleath is about as comic
as a heap of wood.
Another burden added to the
load carried by N.S.W. country members :
Hawking their constituents’ “ pomes ” around to
newspaper-offices.
When a Yic. M.L.A., in recent debate on
Libel-Law Amendment Bill, asserted that the
Age’s manufacture of oratorical absurdities for
the Delatite member was calculated to bring him
into contempt in his constituency, Graves
promptly interjected that his constituents con-
sidered that paper too thundering a liar to take
any notice of what it said. Another member, in
same debate, observed that “ things had come to
such a pass that if a public man fell out with the
two morning papers in Melbourne they could
practically ruin his public career by writing him
down and falsifying his statements. The dis-
agreement between the reports of the two papers
on the same subject had become a perfect
scandal.”
The agitation for the separation of the
Eastern goldfields of Westralia and annexation by
South Australia is a fizzle; though the constitu-
tional provision by which a portion cut off is
saddled by way of debt with only the amount
spent within it will help separation movements
when the time is ripe. At present Coolgardie
sniffs at the agitation, Kanowna is inclined the
same way, and only Kalgoorlie is at all warm.
“ South Australia is a poverty-stricken province,
already overburdened with territory, with a
revenue and population no greater than ours, and
with a per capita debt of 4264 as against 4224 of
this colony.” Upon that argument, repeated with
a hundred variations, those who pooh-pooh the
enthusiasm stand solid.
The cable-man, who generally gets things
upside-down,- has been circulating a report in
England that the Maoriland Old Age Pension
scheme provides an income for every old man
who likes to claim it—in fact, that it pro-
vides a pension for every old man on earth if he
chooses to come and live in Maoriland. Seven
ancient gaffers have already arrived from England
with the avowed intention of living on .the M.L.
Govt, for the rest of their days ; they started out
so promptly that they reached the spot before the
Pension Bill was even passed. And now that
they find a 15 years’ residence-qualification is
needful, several infuriated ancients have given
notice that they want heavy damages, and will
apply to the British Govt, to bombard Wellington
if necessary.
A SURE SIGN OF OVER-FEEDING.
"You must be starving that ’orse. Look how ’is bones is stickin' out.”
“ That’s because he’s overfed! ’E's so chock full of feed that’s there’s no room for
’is bones, and they’re getting pushed out!”
The suggested making of Port Darwin a
second Australasian naval station would greatly
increase Britain’s command of the down-under
maritime situation, and would be a good thing
for Australia generally, as tending to wake up a
very lost and forlorn corner of this continent.
The Salisbury (N.S.W.) land exchanges,
which were at the bottom of the Carruthers-
Norton-Lonsdale criminal-libel proceedings, have
not yet been effected, and negotiations will, it is
said, end without any exchange whatever. The
why of this will make an interesting Parliamen-
tary return.
LAW BREAKING AND RECORD
BREAKING.
MAGISTRATE (to bloomered cycliste ): “ You have
been found guilty of running over and injur-
ing this old man.” To the court orderly,
“ What’s her record?”
PRISONER (sobbing): “ Two-forty-five unpaced,
your worship."
Premier John Forrest’s excuse for refusing
the goldfields adequate representation in W.A.
Parliament—in proportion to population they have
about one-eighth the representation of the other
parts of the province snows great poverty of in-
vention. He says the last Parliament made a re-
distribution of seats, and he can’t overturn the
arrangements again so early. If the last Parlia-
ment had made a fair distribution of seats there
might be something in this, but all it did was to
give the goldfields about one-sixth of the Parlia-
mentary representation they were fairly entitled
to. Forrest’s attempt to calm the Separationists
by reminding them of that bygone outrage is
merely pouring curses on the troubled waters.
A telegram from the dusty West expresses
surprise that Wentworth (on the Murray, adja-
cent to Sheol, close to where the three provinces
meet, where the wind shrieks on the plains in
winter and the summer temperature, reaches 115
in the shade) hasn’t been more often mentioned
as the Federal capital. One good reason for plant-
ing the capital out thereis that it would give the
Federal Government a grand chance to read up
the irrigation problem. The shortest way to a
good comprehensive irrigation policy is to deposit
the Government in the. dry wilderness and let it
see the thing for itself. Out there it couldn’t
help learning something about this question—one
of the most important that Australia has to deal
with.
The com-
puls o ry - re-
sumption - of-
large; - estates
idea in Vic.
Land Bill has
moved the Ar-
gus to two se-
parate and dis-
tinct griefs.
One is that
the system
will deprive
the big- land-
owner* of his
property, t o
which are at-
tached all the
tender remin-
iscences of
childhood and
home and mo-
ther. The oth-
er is that the
big landowner
will rush and
sell his pro-
perty to the
State at an ex-
orbitant fig-
ure. These
two griefs
don’t seem to
hang together
very well, but
that matters
little.
A Labor
member pro-
tested in S.A.
Assembly the
other day be-
cause some
other M.P.
had slipped in
before him
with a motion
in favor of
making travel-
ling allowances uniform in all grades arid
departments of the Public Service. He hotly
declared that there should be honor “ even among
members of Parliament.” His statement is that
many of the most highly-paid S.A. civil-servants
travel by railway on a free pass, carry sandwiches
and a bottle of milk with them, and sleep on board
the train—and yet never fail to claim 10s. a day
travelling expenses.
_‘‘ He (the Hon. W. Downie Stewart)
frightened us with the threat that capital would
fly out of the country. How often have we not
heard this during the last year ? How often have
we not had pictured to us the gaunt picture of
frightened capital striding with furious stride sea-
ward, with its money-bags under its. arm..
Twomey, M.H.R. (Maoriland).
The latest addition to the ever-changing
yet continuous Q. Ministry is G. W. Gray—a
small, harmless, semi-articulate Scotsman who
married a rich R.C. lady and —got converted.
The Govt, clearly intend Gray as a bait for the
R.C. vote —his elevation is not understandable
otherwise. By this move Dickson has shown a
lamentable ignorance of human nature the
“ ’vert ” is really looked upon with as much
suspicion as the apostate.
The Westralian Govt.’s latest retrench-
ment idea is the abolition of all public schools
where there are less than 35 or 40 children (if
this is carried out it means the closure of about
one-third the schools in W.A.), and the refusal to
open new ones even when buildings are offered
free. This cuts two ways :It is found that educa-
tion opens people’s eyes too much, and a retro-
grade movement is desirable to preserve the
ascendancy of the Forrest crowd. Also, it saves
money. In answer to a letter of remonstrance
from Goongarrie, in which it was hinted that
retrenchment might take some other form less
disastrous to the community, the mouthpiece of
the Education Department wrote : “ The Minister
agrees with you that it is desirable that economy
was (sic) observed in other directions, but he has
to deal unfortunately (sic) with facts. ’ Which
burst of grammar from a high educational source
suggests that W.A. can’t spare any of its schools.
For ten years past the subsidy paid by
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria, and W.A. for the
government of Papua has exceeded the outlay,
and when the subsidy agreement expired this
year there was a surplus of =630,000 to be returned
to these provinces. Gov. Bill M‘Gregor gently
persuaded them to hand over this sum before he
sprang the news of the great syndicate-grab upon
them. M‘Gregor, by the way, is represented as
saying that he never had any idea that the N.S. W.
and Vic. Premiers didn’t know all about the stu-
pendous land-deal which practically shuts out
Australian settlement from Papua for 30 or 40
years or so. Mac. recently met these Premiers in
conference on Papuan affairs. He didn’t mention
the great syndicate ; neither did they, because
they never heard of it. And this dead silence on
everybody’s part, including his own, about the
most important Papuan subject of the day seems
to have struck M'Gregor as quite natural. The
fact that M‘G. said nothing rather tends, it would
seem, to prove that he hadn’t the least desire to
conceal anything.
J. A. Andrews : X am surprised to find
The Bulletin, which I used to imagine was
nothing if not Australian, insisting that the
Federal capital must be in a cold climate. Such a
situation may be admirable for the imported
people, who would only be in their own element;
but haven’t we had rather an overdose of im-
ported politicians and civil servants ? What about
us Australians, the majority of whom have not
been born and brought up on Mount Kosciusko,
and are only at home in the friendly rays of our
glorious sun and the genial freshness and warmth
of our life-giving breezes ? How could we attend
properly to the affairs of our country as legislators
or civil servants, or do our business with the
Government as members of the public, in a state
of morbid frigidity or feverish waste of hydro-
carbon, with our toes frozen, our shoulders drawn,
our limbs benumbed, our bodies shivering, and our
brains hypnotised with the desperate craving for
blankets and hot whisky ? Let the Australian
capital offer a fair average sample of the Austra-
lian climate; or it will afflict the land with a
deadly chill of un-Australian-ness for ever.
Auckland (M.lj.) people are clamoring for
their long-postponed Trunk railway.' The North
Island would have got its railway long ago but for
the fight over the rival routes. Some want the
railway to go through the centre of the island,
while the majority favor a West Coast route.
This would be more to Auckland’s advantage, as
it would tap Taranaki for its benefit. Unfortu-
nately, an independent committee, years ago,
decided in favor of the Central route, which
Wellingtonians strongly favor. They have the
further pull on Auckland that construction, in-
cluding a ,4230,000'viaduct, has been begun at their
. end. Auckland vehemently asserts that the
Central route passes through 40 miles of desert —
which is true; Wellington replies that it taps a
magnificent totara forest—which is also true.
Auckland says that the Stratford route opens up
a lot of good land—which is true ; Wellington ex-
plains that aforesaid good land is so broken as to
make railway construction too expensive—which
is also true. The Bulletin’s local correspondent
favors the Taranaki route (which happens to pass
right through his farm). Auckland is in deadly
earnest on the matter. Its tradesmen are using
invoices headed “ Remember the Taranaki route.”
Meanwhile, Govt., which depends chiefly on
South Island support, sits tight and does nothing;
and, so long as Auckland and Wellington are pull-
ing different ways, it is not likely to do much.


N.S.W. Government Railways.
Special Cheap Excursions to and
from the Country.
OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER, 1898.
RETURN TICKETS at specially low rates
of per mile first-class and Id. per mile
second-class will be issued at Sydney and inter-
mediate suburban stations to country stations by
trains leaving Sydney as under :
To the NORTHERN and NORTH WES-
TERN LINES at 12.45 p.m. on MONDAY, 31st
October.
To the WESTERN LINE and BRANCHES.
To main line stations beyond Wallerawang and
to the Blayney-Cowra, Forbes, Condobolin, War-
ren and Cobar Branch Lines at 3.0 p.m. on TUES-
DAY, Ist November.
To Springwood, to stations Lawson to Wallera-
wang inclusive and the Mudgee Line at 7.50 a.m.
on THURSDAY, 3rd November.
To the SOUTHERN LINE and BRANCHES
(except the Culeairn-Corowa Branch) at 4.20 p.m.
on THURSDAY. 3rd November. To stations
on the CULCAIRN-COROWA BRANCH at
7.15 p.m. on FRIDAY, 4th November.
Similar cheap tickets will be issued from all
country stations to Sydney by trains leaving dif-
ferent stations as under :
FROM THE NORTHERN LINE, TUESDAY,
Ist NOVEMBER.
FROM THE WESTERN LINE (except Mudgee
Branch), THURSDAY, 3rd NOVEMBER.
FROM THE SOUTHERN LINE, FRIDAY,
4th NOVEMBER.
Albury dep.
Hay
Jerildene
Cootamundra
Goulburh... ... Jf
From the Corowa Line on
Saturday, sth Nov.,
leaving Corowa at
4th NOVEMBER.
Cheap tickets (minimum 7s. 6d. first-class and
ss. second class) will also be issued from stations
beyond Goulburn and Bowenfels to stations Goul-
burn to Mittagong inclusive on the Southern Line
and to stations Bowenfels to Emu Plains inclusive
on the Western Line.
These tickets will be available for return from
stations distant 300 miles and upwards, for four
weeks, and from stations distant under 300 miles
for three weeks, from date of issue by certain
trains.
Handbills and further particulars as to fares and
stoppage at intermediate stations, also trains by
which tickets are available on return journey, can
be obtained from all stationmasters.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Doctor Bevan, the Melb. divine, de-
scribes the objects of the order of “ the Daughters
of the Court”—a semi-pious hen-convention—as
“ the assistance of Art in all its forms, and the
encouragement of people never to speak ill of one
another.” Two very long-felt wants in godly
circles.
Rougernont, whose picturesque narrative
is the subject of so much controversy, has been at-
tacked by Louis Becke in The Daily Chronicle.
Becke spent many years in the island trade, and
got enough story matter out of the islands to make
himself famous as a writer. So he is undoubtedly
well-equipped to make things warm for Rouge-
mont. Becke roasts Rougemont’s turtle stories,
especially the one about Rougernont sitting astride
a turtle’s back and steering the marine gee-gee by
thrusting a toe into its eye. If you stuck your toe
into a turtle’s eye, says Becke, the turtle would
sink vertically. The best thing now for the ex-
islander to do is to each prove his case by experi-
menting on the Thames, before a crowd at so
much a head. Becke would certainly look as
picturesque on a turtle as Rougernont ever did,
and if the Rougernont toe can serve as a bridle,
there appears no reason why the Becke toe should
not. And, if either Rougernont or Becke desire
any training for the experiment he had better
do it on Sydney Lager Bier. It is the best tonic
going.*
The recent death of a singularly alert
young Sydney bankruptcy official, was attributed
to overwork in connection with the Horton insol-
vency case, he having had to take voluminous evi-
dence in shorthand and type-write it in addition
to regular office-work. This, following the sad
case of Parry Long, the Registrar-General, seems
to point to the necessity of some regulation by the
Public Service Board against the overworking of
willing public servants who can be ill spared.
Any Bulletin reader in need of a long-
lost brother, or an unexpected estate, is advised
to consult J. W. Holdsworth, the well-known
Melbourne inquiry agent, who has lately had
much success in unravelling intricate claims of
next-of-kin, and tracing missing and mislaid
persons.*
All kinds of rumors have been attached
to the return from England of the canny
and deliberate S.M. Herald editor Cur-
now, and The Bulletin is waiting to see the
E air fax organ slide gradually back to the abnor-
mally-cautious traditions of its unemotional
past. During the reign of acting-editor Gullett
the Herald has persistently plugged the stolid
Brunker with a playful left, and has lodged its
good right hand in the most vital portion of Pre-
mier Reid’s anatomy—the place where the wind
comes from. And, although the yarn that editor
Curnow was suddenly recalled to end the Herald’s
unwonted burst of patriotism is apparently un-
true, it will need long and careful nursing, and an
unbroken diet of Herald'milk-and-water, to re-
store Reid and his holy lieutenant to their normal
health. It is understood that with Mr. Curnow’s
resumption of Herald editorial control Mr. Gul-
lett will visit England for a substantial holiday,
to which he and Mrs. Gullett have long looked
forward.
N«w Zealand NATURAL JV|ii)«ral WATER
A R«fr«sbi»g, PURE aQd
invigorating
TABLE WATER
For
iQdigtstioo,
(SoCit or RbeO-
ipatisn) it is
- - - Is Dot a Preparation
bGt tbe Flow of Natural Springs.
Sole Proprietors:
The Campbell and Ehrenfried Co., Ltd-
Auckland, N.Z.
Agents for N.S.W. and Q’land :
E- Rich. & Go-, Ltd-,
24 O'Connell St.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OE ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE! IT IS INVALUABLE!
TUB No. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
Srietor of Scott’s Hotel,
lelbourne, writes :
“ 1 have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
-which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, and I can strongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled.”
c/'V'*-
SS
It is Supplied..
WITH :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., STD3XTEY;
or to 364 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
<?e
/A
mam
*
*
m
iKM
«
jm
;'\' \V> ‘A'< \\' \\\\ \\
till
m
i\u
m
m
i 1
i
|IN OA !R
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
TobaCCO Leaf - - Monday
Leather - Tuesday
Bark - - ■ - Tuesday
Fur Skins - - Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
A matter of moment
to all Cyclists—-
We undertake to
replace or repair (FREE OF COST) any of our
Jo-9 Australian or English made Roadster
Dun igpTyres
which fail by reason of fair wear and tear, or
detective material or bad workmanship on the
rn , . part of the Company.
I his undertaking lasts for 12 months from
date of leaving works.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
None genuine or guaranteed unless embossed with
the attached Trade IVTark.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
TradLe
Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
, , 486 Kent Street , Sydney :
and at a ’
. . . Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z. . . .


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Hill!. IQont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawribrolzing Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
P»ER 3MOKTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
"'^IW
H £4 fC E
!NT E RS ECT JO nH 0 N TER,B LIGH AN 9
Castlereash Streets.
- STPNEY•
tSTASUSMSO -1879.
In**?'
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed JgOO 000 9er/in£,
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Jjrnsr Pitt & Bridge Str3ets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Notice is hereby, given that the management of
the Company has been transferred to Mr. E. N.
Parker, who will in future conduct all business
in connection therewith at the above address.
C. DANVERS, Manager.
BanJc of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,0 )0 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
oames Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Dondozi Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New.
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ST. PAULI
TRADE WfflH MARK
GIRL ll BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches (Open Face or
Hunter). Jewelled Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. List Price, £5 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
won the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Real Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
registered Post. Address —
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €x€C^torS,
AND
Conjpapy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,500,000
Paid-up .. .. £3.069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry G.vlesTurner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary :.A- Ross-Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,-860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o) London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P:, Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Mass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Pros pectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
A] ATIO IM A L TRUST EES,
-i-N EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing- Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st,, Melbourne.
fie j{ank of Dorth |ueens!and
LIMITED.”
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager — Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address— Btemseij,. TELEPHONE No. 095.
Code— Mousing & Neat,, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOO.ULTE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott's
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Friday, October 28, 5 p.m.
-Buninyong - , Wed., Nov. 2, 5 p in.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 5, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Friday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Wed., Nov. 2, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyongr, Wed., Nov. 2, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Sat’day, Oct. 29, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Nov. 1„5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 5, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 29, 2 p.m.
"Leura, Saturday, Nov. 5, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWES!' €IJIMtENT LAKES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
JpiN GLAND
VIA
by the
AMERICA
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICR.
Avoiding' alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
ALAMEDA „
MARIPOSA ..
MOANA ..
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Qo.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings* George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA —
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & GO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
zfkin < ts)i4ea4e4.
S#9leti) Wkcotiery
“*£igmol{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGM OLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OE SUFFERING.
'M/t>
4l\l
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 4 p.m.
3158 |Nov. 21
3158 IDec. 10
4-000 LTn.n 1 0
Leave
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
Nov. 2(5
Dec. 24
.Tn.n 9.1
Arrive »b
San
Francis o.
Dec. 14
January 11
WHAT THE DOC TORS SAY
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Malign,—
I have used vour ointment. Ligrnolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Oall Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligrnolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain vours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. and 7s. 6d. per hox.
AGENTS
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SUpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO:
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Cintra, Friday, November 4.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Wednesday, November 2.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
November 4.
-
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Wednesday, November 2.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Nprth to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Saturday,
October 29.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. 8. Y'IIILL AND CO., f.TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touohing at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, i 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s; £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
.1 :
Huddart, paster § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBA RT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H)‘|liuraith, & (}o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S- IM. Goy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Gooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, Ni£W CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 XOs.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T * E T * M * F * R E * E *y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising' our goods.
“ The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
-A- Solid. Silver ‘Watch.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
(Tan you read this :
|W* A * S [| T* E || T*M * |
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
W AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
W'here. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
rwgiK
mm
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Rounmnia,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is;
100, 2s 6d; 150, ss; postage, 2d. Remit
P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price Lists,
Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH. 1
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
TEIMIS
A. H. MOORE & CO.,
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“PERFECT” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect” Racquet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. HOYVTTT,
Champion of Australia, says: “No
matter how good a plainer one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
the inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H< Smith I S^n,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
David Graham $ Jo.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OP —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy vestings
LADIES’ - - ATREF p°KmEs
AT TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Cramps
i Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup, ,
Coughs,
Tooth-
ache,
Cats,
Burns,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"Pain-Kittev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. NIOXHAM & CO.,
■WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
ON€ HONCST MAN.
“TvEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
-L' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering-from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
Jt has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Senu for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation h ree and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, IW.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
lEtLO-A^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PrANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PI AN< >S.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
KTICHOLSOKT & CO.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent m the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveitatnal.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
Dr. TARRANT,
E.Ii.C.S.R, L.R.C.P.E., L.R.0.5.1., L.M.KC.P.E,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may. be stopped at anytime,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired', was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
Wo Ma.zi or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT S exhaustive work,
“ functional DERANGEMENTS. ”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
orio-in, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint Brmht’s Disease, ‘Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Symptoms,
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eves • Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bow'els • Bad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfnlness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely Wo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr’. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT who’will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language. .
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney *, or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Cr.P.O., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.


eshehb
&O To HELL-
100LAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real {food stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Geo. Prince, the Sydney cyclist, on his Red
Bird Special, won three firsts and one second in four
starts on Eight-hour day.*
“Swift” machine on which MacDonald
rod e from Port Darwin to Melbourne has been placed in
lustra! Cycle Agency’s window, Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, and has daily attracted great crowds.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
Sydney * ny fr ° m th ® dep6t > 257 George-street,
The coming mosquito season is seriously
affecting recruiting for the Victorian Scottish
Kegiment, and only 64 heroes have been enrolled so
tar, out of the required 400.
. S le W - Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. ihis bier is the choicest thing ever offered
hkrhn Pe ‘, >P ?° f ?S -‘ S - W - Analysts praise it most
highly; doctors recommend it to convalescents
Shnw°r° IS f the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave U first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is what to drink.” There is no fun
lioiioin'S wea^ ler in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tmn heart, liver and kidneys ; and on the other
there. 1 * only an intense vagueness and total
dnsatiHaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com
WIt p t i he q T \?' W ‘ La B' er Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
!f : * new lager is so much superior to all
market * th<3 mosfc reasonable m cost upon this
If the unusually busy commercial atmosphere
surrounding the preparation for the coining Melbourne
uup be a correct indication, the dressing for the great
event this year will be on a scale of exceptional grandeur.
Nor is this to be wondered at, if we consider the copious
field for selection afforded by the present fashions and the
lavishness with which our leading costumiers offer them
to the public The display made by Messrs Stainer and
L-0., of Swanston-street in the sister capital, is admitted
by the most critical to be absolutely unique even for
them. Magnificent Parisian models in millinery, cos-
tumes, blouses, etc., vie for supremacy with the various
smaller but equally important addenda in parasols, lace
dainties, gloves, etc., all en suite, and it is not difficult to
assume that opportunities such as this firm offers will be
plenteously availed of by those who usually lead the in-
comparable fashionable promenade on the world-renowned
Jtlemington Lawn.*
&
-ri
Va
)s^“
-/
A QUESTION OE PRICE.
HIE BEST' PRICE TO PAY FOR A CYCLE IS THE
PRICE OF THE BEST CYCLE.
HKH n on a oycle>
goodjrold for Blcjc,e Vak,es > and decline to PW their
Australia^ 6 As* a < lpl^.i?' rec * i branch °f a n exclusive Bicycle Factory represented in
has a fi;r- Can guarant i ee ou , r “BLACK BIRD” at £l6 10s. is as
Bicycle sold bv u improvements, and costs as much to manufacture as any
recycle sold by other firms in Australia at £25 or over. Examine
It ED BIRD SJPECIAL, - RED BIRD No. 1,
and BLACK BIRD Cycles,
mol ' e ° f th6Se ° yCleS resold in Australia than any other
Our CATALOGUE for the asking.
The Goold Bicycle Co. limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY.
234 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE. O.
VICTORIA ST.,
Factories—BßANTFOßD, Canada.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
JJAVI.OJjrV.LN IL,
Town and Country.
USE THE
Sunlignt in Your Homes.
New Sunlight Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, 6s. 6d .
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Running a weary eye over the Melbourne Cup
card this year one is struck by the weakness of the 3-year-
old forces. Last year Aurum and Aiuberite, likewise
lleet Admiral, were thought possible winners of the
Derby and Cup double, but nobody to-day can be very
sweet on any of the young horses for the two-mile handicap
Bohadil, a legitimately hot favorite for the Derby was
scratched for the Cup when the weights appeared. If
Bobadil wins the blue ribbon—as he probably will, though
all the same, he isn’t worth backing at the price-Cocos
and Gardite will not look dangerous next Tuesday. And
if Cocos takes the Derby it will merely prove that Bobadil
can’t stay, and Cardite is a commoner. The writer
reckons that none of the fancied 3-year-olds are Al—that
the Derby result will be Bobbie 1, Cocos 2, Cardite 3—and
that Cardite should be equal to Cocos over the Cup dis-
tance, wherever they may finish. Woodlark or the dark
Symmetry may beat them both.
By the way, The Provost, judging from his
running at Caulfield, the other Saturday, will have more
than an ordinary chance to win one of the hurdle races
at Flemington. Make a note of The Provost.
Lightly-handicapped Cup horses are Massinissa
Woodlark, Dreamland, and Plutus. Massinissa didn’t finish
well for the Caulfield Cup. It seemed that he wasn’t a
sticker, and after the race the gelding had a dead-beaten
appearance. A non-stayer can even win Caulfield Cup
as Massinissa might have won it with better luck
and yet fall to pieces at the end of the Flemington
two. miles. Dreamland is now given a better chance
than ever before. He is said to be a better horse, too
But he has failed in four successive Melb. Cups, carrying-
stable-money each time, wherefore the writer loves him
not. The writer’s two-and-sixpence has too often been
misplaced on Mentor’s half-brother.
Take Rosebery, Wait-a-Bit, Catspaw and
Clarion as middle-weights, ranging from 7st 61b
to Bst. 51b. Of these Wait-a-Bit has the finest
shov L ‘ on paper.” If he were a straggler he
would be a ‘moral,” “cert,” “dead-bird,” &c He
hasn t ever struggled into first place thusfar-not when
good horses were bustling him. Rosebery is fast but
> S u ’ and may not be a genuine 2-miler when “ fit ”
1 erhaps it wasn’t merely superfluous flesh that made
Rosebery drop back so suddenly in Caulfield Cup. The
big horse may be only another Hopscotch. Clarion has a
chance on his “ form ” in weight-for-age races, because
he meets his conquerors on much better terms. No man
knoweth, however, the exact comparative value of
Clarion’s running in the many races which he hasn’t yvon.
lhe writer reckons that this respectable performer
will get among the first eight for the Cup. Likewise
Catspaw. Everything depends on which end of the
eight places they arrive at.
® ne °f the top-weights—Amberite, Battalion,
Merloolas, The Grafter, and the Chief—should win the
Melbourne Stakes on Saturday. Presuming that the
state of the course doesn’t change in the meantime,, the
stakes winner and runner-up may have a big say in the
Cup The writer reckons that Amberite will beat
Grafter on a hard course, and Grafter will beat
Amberite if the going is soft, as it was last year. A
strong case can be made out for Merloolas, and though he
has had less “ preparation ” at Flemington than some of
the others, he is possibly all the better for the indulgence.
Many connoisseurs prefer an underdone gelding to one
» at ,- as een well-backed and basted on the track.
According to some of his public performances Merloolas
should beat all the other top-weights. But The Grafter
pretensions to do likewise. Ditto Amberite.
Ditto The Chief. There is more or less reason why any-
one of them should turn up trumps on the day.' The
writer likes Amberite best of the lot, on the strength of
nis proved ability to do big things in handicaps when he
has had all the worst of the weights.
Reducing the guess to six names, the writer
takes Amberite, Catspaw, Clarion, Merloolas, The
Grafter, and The Chief, and places them accord-
th®. wea ther. For a dry day—Amberite,
Merloolas, Clarion, The Chief. For a muddy day—The
Grafter, Catspaw—well, if there were several other
sorts of days he would mention all the horses in the
race, ana perchance strike the winner somewhere.
Believers in coincidences may note that prior to
Gaul us winning Melb. Cup he was the last horse to leave
d o ne ,£ tO . tkafc engagement. This year’s Cup candi-
date Toxteth, is the last to leave for the Vie. capital,
>' k e Gaums he also won Rosehill Oct. Handicap
prior to his departure. Gaulus won his race at Rosehill
by any number of lengths ; so did Toxteth.
«•* * * *
‘ Victor ”: A wary backer of any horse for a
big event generally wishes to be satisfied on the following
points ere he planks down his dollars-Are owner, trainer
and jock right ? And is the horse a good ’un ? For Melb.
Cup, the Carbine horse, Carbinier, seems to about fill the
ticket, for not only are the above conditions fulfilled, but
this genuine candidate is the best-bred horse in the race,
'or three yearold 8 DOt been raCed t 0 death eithel ' as a two
• * * *
Astonishing how the horse-reporters worship
success. They are all agreed that the Caulfield Cup
accident made no difference to the result. Hymettus
must have won under any circumstances, they think but
y th an tSay i t u e seven horses that toDpled over,
and the several other horses that lost ground through the
scrimmage, should not have provided the winner if the
luck had been equally distributed.
* * * *
It was the circular shape of the course that ac-
counted for Aiemene falling in Moonee Valley Cup, any-
how The Gozo mare ran up to the Locksmith at the
tmal turn, and in trying to rush round she lost her footing.
• inquest on little Flanagan had a ridiculous
side to it. A police officer conducted the case for the
police, and his cross-examination of the witnesses almost
gave the impression that he held a brief for the V. A.T.C.
and was trying to put blame upon “the man who’s
dead. It is a wrong impression, no doubt, but the
?i t w Stl^K S u lmost J usti *V Here are some of them :
Was the horse a safe horse to ride?” “ Did you say
o D il h '"s + to hlm J* o®* 0 ®* h's being very young to ride such
a desperate race ? How long has lie ridden in public
to your knowledge? All of which had not the slightest
bearing upon the cause of Flanagan’s death. He rode
Su f!L H 0 ln ' he T , W u ake » f A , cton and Reka - When they
fell they brought Robin Hood and four other horses to
grief. Seven boys were thrown to the ground, but Flana-
gan was the only one who got fatally injured. He hap-
pened to fall in the unluckiest place, and if he had been
a veteran rider instead of a 14-year-old lad the horse-hoof
that smashed his skull would have killed him hist the
same. Meanwhile the rider of the horse that fell first
was in a position to escape with a broken ankle.
* * * *
Jockeys, seemingly, look for foul riding as a
matter of course, where there is a lot of Ikev Mo’s money
at stake. Said young Foulsham, rider of the Caulfield
Cup favorite to an Argus reporter-” When the barrier
rose I got well away from where I was in the middle of the
field, and seeing Australian with Carson on him I im-
mediately steered for him, as I knew that he would not
interfere with me in any way, whereas I did not know
what some of the others might do to me.” Considering
that every jockey who rides a bona-fide trier is instructed
to avoid bumps and keep out of danger as much as
possible, it follows that Foulsham was dreading “ some
others ’ who were not on the winning job at all, and had
as he thought, probably taken instructions from some-
body desirous of spoiling the favorite’s chance.
* * » «
The 33 starters for Caulfield Cup included 13
geldings.
* * * *
On Saturday Randwick had a better day than
was expected as regards the paddock, but the deserted
leger-reserve showed that the crowd has not got over its
prejudice to Randwick as a speculating medium, and the
odds quoted against the winners in Monday's papers
must have reconciled them to their absence from the
scene. Infanta, 7to 1, won the Hurdle Race; Oban, 10 to
1, the Stockbridge Handicap ; Beaulieu, 5 to 1, the Tyro
Stakes ; Keystone, 10 to 1, the Salisbury Stakes ; and
Blanche Florence, 14 to 1, the Welter Handicap. Beau-
lieu, the Tyro winner, is a likely colt by Mr. Long’s old
champion, Grand Flaneur, and his win imposes a penalty
of 51b. in Manbyrnong Plate.
* * * *
„ r Th ® “sending-up” of jockey Gainsford by
Warwick barm stewards for his riding of Toxteth, on the
evnlence looks ridiculous. Judged from the speech of
Mr. Daly who presided at the enquiry, Gainsford was
suspended for six months for unsatisfactory ridin«- and
not for any suspicious practice. Query : What is unsatis-
factory riding? At the enquiry Mr. Mavo, owner of
Toxteth, was examined with the result that the stewards
were satisfied that the horse had been backed If the
stewards were satisfied that the horse wasn’t pulied why
was Gainsford suspended for “ unsatisfactory ” riding?
*****
Some kinds of handicapping are hard to under-
stand— e.g., the light imposts awarded the smart pony
Brown Mantle, who has won three times successfully at
Kensington. Her first win was with 6st. 71b., and for'this
success her weight for her next race was made 6st 111 b
an increase of 41b. only. On her third appearance she
was asked to carry 7st. 41b., and again easily beat her
neld.
* * * *
Queensland Derby should afford an interesting
race between the old opponents, Boreas and Dundonald
and of this pair the former will likely prove the victor. '
* » * „
Queenslanders are congratulating themselves on
having got hold of a real "smasher” in fie two-year-old
Lotos, by the imported sire Far Niente. This youngster
so completely smothered his field at the recent Q T 0
meeting that every race for juveniles, this season, is sup-
posed to be at his mercy.
• * • •
“Maluma,” writes The Bulletin's London
correspondent, “is in great form just now, and Mr
‘Jersey’ considers the Caesar, and Camb. are in her
breast pocket.” [Maluma didn’t run in the Cies., and her
stable companion, Merman, last year’s winner, finished
third this time,] “ * Billy ’ Jones won with Stonebow at
Yarmouth the Nelson Plate and Yare Handicap in two
consecutive days. Mr. Fairie’s (Cox, of Bananaland)
Chubb won the Great Yarmouth Welter (£150) at 7’s.
» * * »
The death of Judge Clark, of English racing
fame, is cabled. Though of the same family, he is not to
be confounded with Lindsay Gordon’s Clark who held
the same office. ' 1
* * * *
Re W. R. Wilson’s suggestion that acceptance
fees for the Cups should be raised to £5O, the voice of
Ikey Mo is heard protesting—“ Why put impediments in
the way of the struggling owner?” and “What’s the good
of trying to reduce the size of the field as long as there is
Tatt.’s sweep-money to induce owners to start duffers on
the off-chance?” . The answers to Ikey’s vociferous ques-
tions are, firstly—the turf ‘doesn’t want struggling
owners; they are the curse of horse-racing in Australia.
The less needy the owner, the more easily he can afford
to be honest. Secondly, the objection to Tatt.’s sweep-
money arrangements is “rot” for the most part. If a
horse had no visible chance, its owner wouldn’t pay £5O
hard cash to start it merely because a ticket-holder had
laid him “something to nothing’’ against the animal for
win or place. Moreover, the public will soon discontinue
the foolishness of making arrangements of ariv sort with
owners. Thirdly, the biggest fields for Caulfield and
Melb. Cup races were in the old days, when sweep induce-
ments didn’t exist. 41 horses started at Caulfield in 1885.
There were 36 runners for Melb. Cup the same year, and
39 for the famous race which Carbine won. Tatt.’s sweep
had nothing to do with the size of the field in that case.
A good many of the horses were started on the off-chance
of their interfering with the great “ dead bird.”
» * * *
The owner of Grafter expressed his annoyance
last week because the Melb. bookies forced his horse into
the position of first favorite for Melb. Cup, a position nob
warranted, according to Mr. Forrester, by the amount of
stable money betted on it. Mr. Forrester, in his own
interests, should keep his feeling of irritation to himself;
it tends to create the impression that the Grafter is the
right pea in the stable, and will have a tendency rather to
shorten than to lengthen the odds.
* * * *
As here prophesied, the Plover, Sam. Hordern’s
22-footer, showed herself a heeler in a light air last Satur-
day, when she won the Johnstone’s Bay Handicap from
scratch, beating the 18-footer Stella 11., 7 minutes, by a
few feet. The ex-champion Eflfie, off scratch, finished
third.
* * * *
The Golden Gate Club, Sydney, brought off
another set-to, on Saturday night, between the Kaffir and
Tom Christie, when the difficulty of finding equally-
matched men was again experienced. The Kaffir knocked
his man to a standstill in about half a round.
* * * *
There was nothing startling in Sydney cricket
last Saturday. Leichhardt, last, season’s weak team
playing against Paddington, began well, the two first men
(Diamond and Hornidge) putting together 49; then a rot
set in. The remainder scored from 6to 0, and the innings
closed for 93. Paddington then lost 3 wickets for 148
Alec Mackenzie top with 60. Burwood compiled 157 as
against East Sydney’s 6 wickets for 45. Redfern played
a miserable innings against Glebe of 38 runs, top score 9 •
coming out with a bowling average of 7 for
21 runs. Glebe responded with 1 wicket for 110. Waver-
ey playing North Sydney, made a poor show, Iredale
leading off with 6 ; 5 wickets fell for 21 runs.
These are the charming introductory-
verses to Ogilvie’s book, which The Bulletin
will publish on Ist Nov. :—,
For keen feeling of his position, the re-
cently death-sentenced Archer (for Strathmerton,
Vic. murder) is remarkable amongst alleged cri-
minals. At the police-court his misery was piti-
ful, and during his trial at Benalla he neither ate
nor slept. But the cruellest touch of all was when
brought back to Melb. gaol after sentence.
Archer had had three epileptic fits on the way
down, and had with difficulty braced himself up
to put on the prison-clothes, when a brass band at
the irades Hall opposite the gaol rang out with
Home, oweet Home.” The prisoner immedi-
ately collapsed, and cried like a child for several
minutes.
The big M'Sharry arbitration case—like
the almost as big Robb case—is a monumental
warning against the folly of trying to get too much
out of a good thing. The parties to the ancient
quarrel were the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
on the one side, and M'Sharry and Maerossan—
the famous Q. politician, John Murtagh Maerossan
long deceased—on the other. M'Sharry, with
Maci ossan as aid and backer, executed a railway
contract, and was not satisfied with the payments.
He claimed some .£130,000 additional, arid after
an arbitration suit which commenced in 1895, and
took 323 days in hearing, he gets ,£l3,ooo—and
"'S °osts are stated at anything from £50,000 to
£60,000. If the Q. N. Bank really backed
M bharry, as alleged, there will be no balm in
Cilead for the shareholders this year, or next or
the year after that. The Bulletin, however has
a great deal of sympathy with M'Sharry. The
issues were not so complicated that the case could
not have been decided in a tenth «f the time, at
a tenth of the cost; and the way in which days
and fees were wasted is a scandalous satire on
arbitration methods. Taw has a bad name ; but
the settlement of the case at law would have been
far cheaper.
Ernest Howard, an Adelaide professional
shorthander, is trying to arrange with the Pit-
mans for a world’s speed competition, in which he
believes he will have a say. Howard finds piano-
playing first-rate exercise for speed-developing.
Ogilvie’s book of verses, • ‘ Fair Girls and
Gray Horses,” will be published on November 1,
and will be sent from The Bulletin office to any
address for 4/6 in stamps.
AMBERITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve not been sleeping on the track
To tout the nags at early dawn ;
I don't advise you what to back ;
But, all the same, I mean to pawn
My Sunday suit next Monday night
And risk the stuff on Amberite.
Nine-stone-eleven sounds a lot;
They haven’t “ chucked him in ” the race—
I must admit he hasn’t got.
A soft thing on in any case.
But though his ’andioap ain’t light,
I’ll take my chance with Amberite.
’Cause why? The nag’s a cut above
So many that he'll have to beat;
The “ bit o’ class ” which turfmen love
Is stamped on him from head to feet
He looks the “gentleman ” all right,—
Old Carbine fathered Amberite.
He’s just the sort of boy that takes
Some doin’ in a big event;
He travels best when bonnie stakes
Are urging on his deep intent.
Shakespearian, my language, quite,
When speaking of an Amberite.
Some say he’s had uncommon luck,
Luck comes to them who’ve got the 'eart:
And here’s the point by which I’m struck,
His times were mostly pretty smart.
There’s speed, and stamina, and fight
In lucky ones like Amberite.
Two Derbies, and the Caulfield win—
A Champion in decent time !
His form on paper’s not too thin ;
And, anyway, he fits the rhyme.
A dozen verses one may write
To end, you see, with Amberite.
And when he came in Number Two
At Randwick for the Sydney Cup
The veteran that “ put him through"
Had 18 pounds less burden up.
He beat The Grafter out of sight
At level weights, did Amberite.
The Grafter’s looking great, I’m told ;
Already he is all the rage.
Well, my horse, as a three-year-old,
Could smother him at weight-for-age.
The chance for Clarion looks bright—
Still I shall stick to Amberite.
Will Massinissa stay the course ?
I doubt it; but I like The Chief.
Old Dreamland lacks internal force,
And Wait-a-Bit’s a dandy “ thief” ;
But nothing harsh or impolite
Was ever said of Amberite.
There’s Rosebery, he’ll make some pace
And Ikey Mo will yell his name. ’
Young Cocos, too, might get a place.
I wonder, is Merloolas lame?
I give them all a show in spite
Of my regard for Amberite.
If Reka (wounded in the smash
Which gave the coroner a job)
Can toe the mark, I’ll have a dash
On him for ten or twenty “ bob.”
His colors, too, are black and white.
Reminding one of Amberite.
The smash ! The mention of it sends
A chill through one’s prophetic soul.
The horse that starts wit h many friends
May never reach the winning goal.
A shocking accident may blight
The hopes I pin to Amberite.
Oh, never fear ; the course is wide,
And duffers will be dropping out
Ere comes the rush for berths inside ;
And though Grim Death be thereabout
He’ll need to ride with main and might
To overtake good Amberite.
I see the “hoops” a-flashing round
The final turn in rippin’ style ;
He’s going strong, and gaining ground—
The Grafter wins ! Well, I should smile '
He’ll finish in the foremost flight,
But not in front of Amberite.
I’ve not been sleeping on the track
To tout the nags at dawn of day;
I don’t advise you what to back
(’Tis far the better game to lay)—
But midst the din of punters’ skite
I sing my song of Amberite.
Melb., Oct. 21.
EDMUND FISHER.
FAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES!
Pair Girls and Gray Horses! A toast for you
Who never went wide of a fence or a kiss :
While horses are horses and eyes are blue
There is never a toast in the world like this 1
To all Fair Girls ! For the sake of one
Whose bright blue eyes were awhile ray star,
Whose hair had the rich red gold of the sun
When his kisses fall where the leaf lips are !
To all I'air Girls ! how the red wine fleams
To the glass’s rim as it gleamed that night
In the jewelled hand of my Dame of Dreams—
O, jewelled fingers so soft and white !
To all Fair Girls ! Turn your glasses down.
Here s “ Blissful bridals and long to live ! ”
And if I am slighting your eyes of brown,
O, Gipsies Born of the Night, forgive 1
To all Gray Horses ! Fill up again
For the sake of a gray horse dear to me;
For a foam-fed bit and a snatching rein
And a reaching galloper fast and free !
To all Gra3' horses ! For one steed’s sake
Who has carried me many a journey tall
In the dawn-mists dim when the magpies wake
In the starry haze when the night-dews fall l’
To all Gray horses ! Now drink you deep,
t( For red wine ruins no rider’s nerves :
Light w ork and a long, long after-sleep ! ’*
As each gray horse in the world deserves.
Fair Girls and Gray horses ! To each his way
But golden and gray are the loves to hold :
And it gold tresses must turn to gray
Gray horses need never be turned into gold.


WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £l§ : 0:0
or £18:0:0? Of course you
would not 1 But there are lots of
people who are doing so; they are
riding the £l5 : 0 : 0 and £lB : 0 : 0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:0:0 or £10:0:0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris.
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort ?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High-bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847-
MASSEY- HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
.Branches : JPunedin—Sydney— Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—lS or tham.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
N.S..W Branch:
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
“ DOWRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tj>res or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
tT. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
£»REMODERMA,” the Great Freckle CURE.
„ “? mo '; es Freckles, Pimples, &c. Cures Eczema,
fu 7?“ tin diseases ; Beautifies the Complexion ; and is
the Creme des Cremes for the Skin. Price Is., all chemists.
Post free all parts, Is 3d, from A. KING, Chemist, No. 2
Gurner-street, Paddington, Sydney. Wholesale Agents,
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THU CItESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
"XTeaterday !
and To-morrow !
TT7'E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
&3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. fST Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVE RLE Y
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
0
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRJMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
T 0.....
PIGEON SHOTS
..AND OTHERS.
A GENUINE Greener
Gun can now be ob-
tained from all the principal
dealers in Australia, bearing
the well-known GREENER
marks. Write for a Gun
bored like Mr. D. Macintosh’s,
who has just returned from
Europe loaded with trophies
of his skill and won by hia
favorite “GREENER” to
ID J. Greener,
BOX 326, G.P.0., SYDNEY ; or to his Vic Rep
Wlog-MELBOroflg 1 *- 18 C “"* 1 E “ d ' ELSTE ™'
Victoria Racing Club.
CUP WEEK.
LARGEST ENTRIES ever received. Accom-
modation for Thousands. The Conveniences
for the Comfort of Visitors to Elemington now
surpass anything in the World.
Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
JEiF” Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Personal.
N THE ESTATE” OF SUSANNAH
FISHER BOBY, Deceased.
If C. W. E. BOBY, born at Lyttelton, N.Z.,
in 1852, will apply at the office of the undersigned
he will hear of something very much to his
advantage.
W. H. QUICK, Solicitor,
Wellington, New Zealand.
BRITISH COLUMBIA. —Advertiser leaving
next month, offers from accessible mining
districts, reliable descriptive letters to Traders
and prospectors, subscribing 3to 5 guineas. Ad-
dress, Kootenay, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
Talkiog Macbipg Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Clanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
ALSTONS
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
I
A FRIEND IN NEED
IS A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €fi)brocatioi>.
<2>
IS
your
WIF€
PRETTY
nearly tired out after a ride on her cycle ?
What else can you expect if you let her
ride a machine weighing pounds more than
your own ? Get her a
Featherweight
which has many good qualities beside actual lightness. Send or call for an ART CATALOGUE, which will give you
full particulars.
Sole Agents for “SWIFT” Cycles with Dunlop Tyres.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide) Perth, Brisbane, Charters Towers, Rockhampton, Wellington Christchurch Dunedin
Launceston, Hobart, Bendigo, Hamilton, Warrnambool, etc., etc.


stop coughing!
Every cough makes your throa u more raw
and irritable. Every cough congests the lin-
ing membrane of your lungs. Cease tearing
your throat and lungs in this way. Put the
parts at rest and give them a chance to heal.
You will need some help to do this - and -ou
will find it in
yti(er’a
'Cherni
S’eeteral
Prom the first dose the quiet and rest
begin; the tickling in the throat ceases; the
spasm weakens; the cough disappears. Do
not wait for pneumonia and consumption but
cut short your cold without delay.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral cures because it
heals. It goes to the very seat of trouble,
quiets the inflammation and makes a perma-
nent cure. Begun in time, it is the one great
preventive to all serious lung troubles.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the glass of
each Bottle. Put up in large and small bottles.
D . S .MAI R
gp
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N."wigz«ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamp® for full Price List.
Prompt attenbion'giyen to Country Ordera
CRAid & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/0 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/0 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
Another coincidence. Both Arthur Orton
and Rougetnont, the champion liars of the last 30
years, have their stage on this tired island. Also,
both took their wares to John Bull and co., and
both seem to have got the fabric from outside
accidental suggestions. There is, however, this
distinction: Orton lied with circumstance and
u * or y ears scores of shrewd men, whereas
the Munchausen exploits of the Swiss had a
gamey flavor from the start.
A curious note sent to The Bulletin
by “C.S.”
*'7* ,llen O'd the other day with the Pythagorean
method (as per an ancient work on auguries) of depicting
toe character and prognosticating the future of a person.
After “trying it on the dog” in the shape of George
Dean, the poisoner, whereby the result panned out
marriage—calamity,” Sulieman Amien, the Sydney
chutney-boss, was experimented with—with the startling
answer, “A long voyage—a cure (for)—ambition.” This
gentleman, ’twill be remembered, foolishly stood for Cook
Division at the general election, and polled eight votes.
Next jammed “ Yes-No” Reid’s name into the prophetic
alembic. Subsequent distillation gave this curiously*
apropos condensation : “ Strength—blindness— error—
affliction.” Supply the needful prepositions and conjunc-
tions, and what could be more accurate? [More convinc-
ing had the oracle said something about grease.—Ed. B.]
Jack Want’s little lot sums up into: “Persecution —
praises (of)—liberty—(and subsequent)catastrophe.” [No-
thing about Japan, or fishing-excursions ! —Ed. B.] Ex-
Minister Garrard will possibly be pleased to hear that, in
a Pythagorean sense, he is just a mixture of “ Struggles
imperfections—diminution and grief.” [Nothing about
Gas ! —Ed. B.] Ex-Minister Sydney Smith is to be an
“adept (in) taciturnity,” which, as he is relegated to
absence from the talking shop, seems to meet the case.
One more example—Albert John Gould : “ Silence—
merciless—errors and catastrophe.” Suffield and Single-
ton, please note. As the above are no fakes, this system
is hereby recommended to aspiring politicians, &e.,
anxious to see themselves as others see them, and also to
know their own fate. John Norton, by the way, works
out: “Combats—struggles— patriotism—misfortune.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lookyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Dear Bulletin.-- I can hardly let pass
such a slur on late Fred Weld’s memory as is con-
tained in “Yang Anyut’s ” story (B. 8/10/’9B). No
one who had travelled in Gov. Weld’s company
could believe that he would drink “ ayer klapa ”
at all, unless largely diluted with whisky, and any
journey of his would have come to an abrupt con-
clusion as soon as the “ s’tengah ” ingredients had
run out. When one M was D.O. at an out-
side station in a certain protected state Weld
(travelling through the country) intended to stay
a night at M——-’s bungalow, and to the latter
came the A.D.C. in advance to inquire into state
of his whisky-and-soda stock, as the gubernatorial
supply had given out. Said M , “Very sorry, !
but I have none. My supplies haven’t come to I
hand.” By Jove, then,” said the A.D.C., “ you’ll ]
have to tell the old man yourself. I daren’t, as he
has been without a ‘ s’tengah ’ for at least two
hours.” When the Gov. arrived, after the pre-
liminary greetings, said M , “Exceedingly
sorry, your Ex., but you are aware that in these
outside districts supplies do not always come to
hand in time. lam therefore unable to offer your
Ex. anything to drink but green cocoanut-water.”
His Ex., after speechless glare of some seconds,
“ Green eocoanut-water be d d, sir ! ” and,
turning to the A.D.C., “Order up those horses
again ; we’ll go on to Blank’s place if it takes us
all night.” And so departed without even an
adieu.— Man in the Lalang.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPyHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
FOOD
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
The Australian UJidouis’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Hon. Sir ARTHUR B RENWICK^M.D^M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE lIS THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/- eacb.
Proprietors .' GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIffOCK & CO., KENT and IJVERPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
18-XT ROYAL WARRAKTT OF AFFOIKTTMZEJNTT TO “ THE QXJESBIff.
Ask for
Whisky aod
‘ScbW€pp€’
SCHWEPPES
( 3dd9M<ps>
pOe ApOejg
JOJ >|Stt
SO PA WATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
■OA.IPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lalto Illawarra),
SYDKTBY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
. .
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAHRA”
. . BKAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


N err ßasSn)<iSS€Q’S AlfaliQe Herbal RerpcdicS
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
j&l. Few of Them.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Ba,iley-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers l come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason, to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City', W.A.
Mr. O. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing-
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a cle\er botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the buna Jidvx of his testimonials appear to
be well established. ”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— " Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
Hts remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present, time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in t he
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last 1 tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, !<iver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HtRR RASMUSSEN’S
IDission in the Herbal ||jorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
musseifs A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Dah’ Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
- • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alt aline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will he given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RRSSMOSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials.
Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmuSSeib
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RasSlXlUSSeil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIS T
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered. )
HERE RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Qure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability
no matter how caused or of how long- s anding.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Fills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent five.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the st out est
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Golds, < onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender Imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Bassmussen’s t.tf- a VITALITY □E > IXL.X J iS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmnssen’s Head Office: - 547 George Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:


With reference to certain Boyle Roche-
isms recently credited to Vic. M.L.A. Graves, he
writes to Bulletin that (1) the locutions in
question are chestnuts; (2) he didn’t use them ;
and (3) the attribution to him of such flowers of
speech was an entire fabrication by Byrnes’ base
myrmidons in the reporters’ gallery. “ The Dela-
tite member,” another correspondent writes, “has
never been forgiven by the Age for his outspoken
attack, on the floor of the House, upon the power
of King David.”
Newnes, of the Lie World Magazine,
now admits that Rougomont is Grien. Newnes
is green too. He adds that the romancer is a liar
unequalled since Defoe—though the crude stu-
pidity of his yarns would get him driven from the
swagmen’s hut with mutton-bones. And as com-
paring him with Defoe ! —it is Defoe’s style , not
his facts or fictions, which has preserved “Robin-
son Crusoe” and the “Journal of the Plague.”
“ Art alone enduring stays to us.”
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUES of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
MelDourne.
I SIUER Ilium FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATOH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s! 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send vou
fcixofour full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
rru 6 ™? S'Od call their attention to this advertisement,
lhe Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TAEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company-
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Legal Notices-
In the Supreme Court
op Queensland.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
}
•8681 jo zfi -oj
Mr. Justice Cooper.
Between WILLIAM THOMAS PHELPS,
Plaintiff; and FLORENCE PHELPS,
Defendant; and CHARLES GORDON
McKEOWN, Co-Defendant.
rpO CHARLES GORDON McKEOWN. Take notice
that this action was commenced against you by the
Plaintiff issuing a Supreme Court writ dated the fifteenth
day of July, 1898, and by the filing of his petition for a
dissolution of his marriage with the Defendant, on the
ground of adultery with you. And take notice that the
Court has ordered that, service of the writ, and petition
herein, upon you, shall be effected by the publication of
a notice of the abovenamed action, and by the insertion
of the same once in the Queensland Government Gazette,
once in the Week, once in the Queenslander, and once in
The Sydney Bulletin.
And further take notice that you are required to
appear to the said writ within eight days after the publi-
cation of the last of the said advertisements, and that
within twenty one days after the time limited for your
appearance you are required, to file your Statement of
Defence, otherwise the said action will proceed against
you, as for default of appearance.
J. R. McSWAINE,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor,
George Street,
BRISBANE.
Amusements.
ITER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
SATURDAY NEXT, 29th OCTOBER.
First Representation in Sydney of the Romantic play, in
four acts, entitled
UNDER THE RED ROBE.
Adapted by Edward Rose from the Novel by
Stanley Weyman.
Plan, Nicholson’s. JgT’ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
JJALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE, The G-reat Juggling Genius.
Now filling this sumptuous Theatre to its
utmost capacity every night.
The Great DANTE BOOM. The Talk of the Town.
The Greatest Novelty in Sydney.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Alhambra, Sydney.
Lessees ... St. John and W. J. Wilson.
EVERY EVENING! at 7.55. EVERY EVENING 1
Mr. JOHN COLEMAN.
THE LINGARD SISTERS, Miss EMMIE SMITH, Mr.
MILLAR FRASER, Miss RAE COWAN, Master VIN-
CENT BOLTON, and our Grand Treble Company.
New First Part ! New Olio ! CINDERELLEN Burlesque.
Popular Prices—2s, Is, and Sixpence. Plan at Elvy’s.
Doors open, 7.15. Overture, 7.55. p.m. No early doors.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager ... Mr. George Buller.
THE REAPPEARANCE OF
JYXxFJFIED DA.MPIBR.
in EVERY DAY LONDON.
A Magnificent SUCCESS in Every Way 1
Theatre Crowded from Floor to Ceiling Nightly.
Admission —Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle,
Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
Am us<-incuts.
Town hall, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Director
Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o'clock.
I/- TH€ “ POPS.” I/-
ler - NEW ARTISTS and NEW ATTRACTIONS !
Miss Mavis and Miss Donelly, Miss Maud Dalrymple, Mr.
Rodda Perry (male alto), Mr. Tralford Foster, Mons
Wiegand, Madama Spada, Mr. Philip Newbury, and the
Marvellous BIOGRAPIIE.
Plan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Tr VO L 1 TREAT I! E, SYON E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TODAY (SATURDAY) 29th OCTOBER,
First Appearance in Australia of
Miss FLORRI€ W€ST
(THE DAZZLED).
Miss CORA CASELLI, D. H. CASTON, H. F. JULEENE,
The BO VIS BROTHERS, SISTERS TERRY, FOREMAN
and FANNAN, THE ELECTRIC ORGAN, and our
Grand Douhle Company.
Plan at Paling’s, George-street.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Miss Peggy Pryde
Miss ETHEL YORKE.
Mr. GEO. BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
PRICES AS USUAL.
AJAX.
Mr- G-- H- Wood
SYDNEY DEANE.
Miss NELLIE WILSON.
WALLACE KING.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MEI-BOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovk.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
The Enormously Popular Comic Opera,
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
DERBY NIGHT, mh OCTOBER.
Re-appearance of the popular comedian, Bland Holt,
supported by his STERLING DRAMATIC CO.
First Production in Melbourne of
“SPORTIN6 LIF€.”
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Seymour Hicks.
A thrilling narrative illustrated by brilliant scenic effects.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. Mr. Hamilton.
C3T" SATURDAY NEXT, 29th OCTOBER.
Tbc BroGgb Coipedy Coy.
First Production in Australia of
“ THE LIARS.”
An original comedy, in 4 acts, by Henry Arthur Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
il. stories), Is. 3d.
Bs@“ Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
TV orth Queensland..
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
” of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
Ostrich Tips
Almost GIVEN AWAY
as an advertisement for
TWO WEEKS ONLY.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM TIPS, three for Is. 6d., post free. Write now.
This offer will not be repeated. Extra Large Ostrich
Tips, three for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for the amount, and
add 2d. extra for exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel-st., PRAHRAN, MELBOURNE.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de*
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the knov*
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Paraph! on the disease of Drunk,
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
'V
jyr. Clarkson’s
Me-Invigor ator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sentsealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
QTn
DEAF
k 033
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
' to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL.
'"***r<^
wV-w
WHAT MY PREPARATIONS WILL DO.
THE RESULT OF USING QUACK NOSTRUMS.
“ with **—«»° £w - *“ » £ tes^oni^rrrr’af
“*l " can be removed and your hair
has ever been written. Every person should secure one “ Queen Bee ”in hi f - P f Jf 011 / 6 the most P ractlcal treatise on the hair and its treatment that
«*>. growth and to restore Th“there 1 EHdlLt £?l **• =~“ *> P-
ceedingly pleasant to use.” ° xionanas ±iair Restorer. It is free from all greasy appearance, and is ex-
Mrs. SADLIER FORSTER says “I do not know anyone who has been more successful in the treatment of impoverished hair than Mr. Holland.*'
Marvellous Hair Restorer.
This is a Splendid Preparation for removing Scurf, promot-
mg trie growth, and giving lustre to the hair. Every person
desirous of preventing their hair from falling off, and securing a
luxurious head of hair, should use it. Ladies should use it on
their children, as it is perfectly harmless, and will positively
secure to them a good head of hair.
Price, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per bottle, with6d. extra
on small and 9d. on large bottles for postage.
N ATUR ALINE
Is the Best Preparation yet discovered for restoring Grey Hair
to its original color. It acts naturally, quickly, and effectively.
It contains no lead, sulphur, or other injurious chemicals. One
lady says:—“My hair looks to-day—after applying your
Naturahne a few times—as it did seventeen years ago.”
Price, per bottle, ss. 6d., with 9d. extra for postage.
PARASENE
la a Preparation specially prepared for destroying all parasites
and for making hair grow on bald patches that are the result of
parasitical diseases. lor restoring Eye-brows, Beard and
Price, 6s. per bottle, with 9d. extra for postage.
Consultation Free.
Sold by all Chemists,
and by the Proprietor,
\VvVs
9
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.


Missing Friends.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY.-HOLDS-
. WORTH & CO.’S -Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wtills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
Publications, etci
A CAPITAL IDEA ! and
Something QUITE NEW!
W. H. GLEN & CO.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
Call the attention of the MUSICAL
PUBLIC to their
P«rf€ctioi) . . .
MUSIC BINPCR,
which enables you to BIND YOUR MUSIC
AT HOME Cheaper and Better than in
the Ordinary Way.
A CHILD CAN USE IT.
Old Music Can he Removed and New
Pieces Inserted Without Any Trouble.
Testimonials from all the Leading
Musicians.
COMPLETE OUTFIT (including //>
MUSIC FOLIO), Price <&/ O
Postage, Sixpence Extra.
W. H. GLEN & CO.,
272 and 274 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE ;
AND AT
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Songs . . .
that Everyone
.. Like.
TRICE 2/TEACH.
LULU. Sung by Ada Reeve.
IN the CATHEDRAL. —Philip
Newbury’s Greatest Success.
THE SONG THAT WILL LIVE
FOR EVER.
LITTTLE DOLLY DAY DREAM.
SOLDIERS of the QUEEN.
I HAPPENED to be THERE.
THE TIN GEE-GEE.
I WANT YER, MA HONEY.
All the Above
Successful and Popular
. SONGS . .
ARB PUBLISHED BY
W.H.GLEN&CO.,
MELBOURNE
and
SYDNEY.
Mrs. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6d.
To be obtained, from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list’ of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d, from ANGLO AMERICAN
vo% TSHING C0 *’ Comm ercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N .S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other East
Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
TTAVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
J ~ L Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
First, Second apd Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Randson’s History 3/6 for 2/6 ■
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/-; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3/6 for 2/-; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3/- ; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3/6 for
2/-; Todd. Hunter’s Algebra, 2/6 for 1/6 ; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4,6 for 3/-; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4/6 for 3/- •
Todd Hunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/- ; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/- ; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/- ; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for ; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3- ; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
Physics, 4/6 for 3/-; Otto’s German Grammar, 5 - for 3/- •
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
E. W. SKINNEE,
Telephone, 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
(Continental Supply Agency,
f Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
dssTSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Pastor Gribble—if it is the old original
Pastor Gribble whose name still appears in
the papers — must know as much about
the condition and' treatment of the Austra-
lian aboriginals as most people. He has had
many years missionary work amongst them
and has made himself rather unpopular more
than once by his outspoken denunciation of
the white men’s treatment of the blacks. A
good many years back he undertook a mission
to the Gascoyne (W.A.) blacks; after a few
weeks’ work, seeing that they were not being
treated humanely, he visited Perth, and,
having tried in vain to bring about aruenquiry
into the matter, he delivered a lecture detailing
the whole situation. This—as some of the leading
residents of W.A. were in the Gascoyne—raised a
great outcry, and the West Australian, then
Perth’s only paper, severely attacked Mr. Gribble,
who took action for libel—of course unsuccessfully.
For he was, as the West Australian said, “ not
fighting the paper, but the whole colony.” (The
paper’s expenses were subscribed for it mainly by
Gascoyne residents). Truly, as an American
humorist says, “We do not care what is said
against us, so long as it is not true.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Concerning Melbourne Anarchist Club
Nobody—including its own advocates—has ever taken
the Great Cause seriously. An attempt to do so was
made about eight years ago, when the Anarchists’Society
used to meet in the Alexandra Theatre buildings. The
society never got beyond six active or visible mem-
bers, and at the end consisted of but two, who solemnly
met each Sunday night and read each other long philo-
sophical papers. But the growing desire of each member
to be the reader and not the listener eventually led to an
estrangement, and, after the sole survivor had convened
himself and carried a resolution unanimously expelling
his absent comrade, he was forced to join the Demo-
cratic Club to learn that the cause of revolution
was advanced more successfully by 8-round glove
fights than by the advocacy of bombs and barricades.
The last reunion of the Anarchists took place a couple of
years back, when three turned up at Young and Jackson’s
Hotel to join in the celebration of the Fall of the Bas-
tille. There were altogether about 20 present, and the
speeches which everybody wanted to make and nobody
wanted to listen to were concluded by the singing of 24
original verses of the “Marseillaise.” At the fifth verse
the common or garden democrats gave out; at the
tenth, the Trades Hall representatives cried go ; at the
twelfth, the Socialists girded up their bats and fled ; but
the devoted band of three Anarchists disdained to take
their lOsec. at any time and kept on to the bitter
end. Two were Yarra-bank orators, one old, one young,
and the third was a man of no apparent age—a man with
l° n £ _ yellow hair and a long yellow string-like beard
hanging straight, like a cataract, over all but his eyes and
nose and the gap through which the song escaped. His
eyes were turned to the ceiling, his hands trembled with
excitement, and he wore on his face that sublime serenity
which is seldom seen outside small religious sects. It
was a great night, and when the Yarra-bankers cleared
out, the yellow-haired anarchist yelled “Vive 1’ Anar-
chic !” da capo and da capo until the barman chucked
him out. Bomb-throwers are made of sterner stuff than
these.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact
Size and
as Illustrated.
V $r A
y
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. •
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will SEND
Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT Parcel, con-
taining all the below-mentioned articles (100) for Postal
Note 55., or Three for 14s. Money returned if not satis-
fied : One pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look
and wear like oil paintings ; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent ; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes ; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber ; 0 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can thread them; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
SEND for this GOLD-MINE Early (Carriage Paid) 5s •
or Three for 14s. In return for the WONDERFUL VALUE
we give you, we certainly expect you to show your friends
the whole lot, and give our-name and address.
H. POT IE R &. CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAh CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Goughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GUIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold bv all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbuyo,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds , Braises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
In the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide. _
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
The [atest Insect pouider.
KILLS AL'li INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS.
u
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to .Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Choice Old Highland
SCOTCH WHISKY
TRADE
MARK
LIMITE
c lan-casti.£
Fine Old
SCOTCH WHISKY
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia orNew Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
&
The Result .
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder atid shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
r FREE’
TO ALL
k MEN i
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, — Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to ali
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st.,-Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
ftnd CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing’ in "Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
WUijjiiiliii I
ffllliiiijiiiiinifiii l !!.
WHyijiri
!"!!!!!' i'HOiiß'-' ■
l/i;; i, » l 1 n'*-
':!■!!!!!!! fiiiiiii i H !!!!
rn ii ? ' ‘ ? ; ' 1 *" Iff l " ViS\ v j«
!!!!JJ!Jiijil, |9,iiiiij!!!!j
iiiiii}!!!!!!
i iff • !'•
■
MMfiiiiijji.
1,1 '"i
•"fl'iiiiiii
i-j ihi V
iSKiiiil"!!!
iiiiiiinii!!!!
niiiiiiiii'!!!
1 ' .
liiiiiiiiwt'!
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf-
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
| &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32,6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 7 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hq,ts, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10trimmings included.
OUR SPECIAL
REALLY a MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
1^:
n
m
(I
'■*v a
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), jrivinj; illustrations of differ, t appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL suspensory belt™
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
IDinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. (id. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for ■ Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists & Food Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK: Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M •rtraret-strget.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE,
DRROBERTS’
SO/?
MM i)/SEA$Ef
AN a WOL/AJDS
Of £- V£R Y
DESC RIPTIorf
D r ROBERTS
ALTERATI
FOR SKIN DISEASES.!
A/VDALL C/SOEDERS of the
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/.STS //// X 2/<?£ACH
BEACH & BARIVICOTT L°. BR| DPO RT.
MELBOURNE.
DO YOU want
CATALOGUE?
FREE-^>
Watches- Clocks-Jev/ellery-BirtHdaV’
WEDDiNc l Presets
Tl’isEWMAN- I755I77-ELIZABETH 5 t *
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137.'
0-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
No. E864.-9-cfc. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 111.—New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 201.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 999.—9 c. Gold, Fearl and Amethyst
Brooch, 15s 6d.
No. 139.
9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198. •
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d ;
16-ct., £1 10s; '
Silver, 4s.
No. E550.—9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6di
No. E1765.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds,
18-ct. Gold, 17s 6d.
No. 141.
ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. -235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d
m
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
No. 216.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. long, 9s 6d.
No 245.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread iTork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
JSTo. 285.—Finest Cut Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s 6d.
No. 361. —Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Oruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish. 31in. lons'
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct Gold, £llos ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3a.
No. 386. —Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
No. 402.—Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-SilVer Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to £1 Is
i. 414.—Elegant Clock
fiin. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, B|in. high, £1 Is.
No. 369.
Elegant “ Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon Tea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
EBBt!
E BI
innsufi
IfeBRSl
1
EEM
DniiS
m
IMg
SjULiid
Eem
IUEpSI
QQ
[Q
No. 364.—Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers 'may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of * which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New. Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free. "
STEWART DAWSON
/ T
PH 412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE. AUCKLAND, PERTH.


At MICK SIMMONS’
A NEW
DEPARTURE.
CASH TRADE ONLY.
Cut Prices to the Trade. No Travellers Employed.
NO CREDIT. NO RISK. RESULT: BOTTOM PRICES.
Cherry wood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherry wood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
THE TRADE are advised of Large Shipments of the above, which are JUST OPENED. The
same being quoted at UNHEARD-OF PRICES, and would recommend Tobacconists and
Storekeepers in the Country to send for Sample Orders. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
CI6ARS. Special Value to the Trade. CI6ARS.
La Parold, box of 100 10s Od
High Life, box of 100 13s Od
No. 1 MANILA, box of 100 11s 9d
No. 1 MANILA Heavy Weight, box 100 13s 9d
FLOR-DE-S ANTI AGO, box of 100 ... 15s Od
NIMROD, box of 100
TRABACO, packets of B—per 100
LA HOF A MEXICAN, box of 100 ..
LA HIJA DE CUBA, box of 100 ..
MADONNA ROTHSCHILDS, 25 ii
box —per 100
. 13s Od
. 8s Od
. . 20s Od
. 20s Od
l
. 24s Od t
FLOR-DE-HENRY NEVARRE, Heavy-Weights, Havana, box of 100
~ ' ~ Bouquet „ „
EL MUNDO, Heavy-Weights, box of 100
FLOR-DE-TORELLA, box of 25—per 100 ... ...
... 33s Od
... 33s Od
... 24s Od
... 33s Od
The Trade Supplied Cheaper and Better than any other Wholesale
Establishment in the Colony.
PURCHASE your Goods direct from our Warehouse, and save TRAVELLERS’ EXPENSES
being added to the prices of your Merchandise. ALL LETTERS ADDRESS to
[|)ick Simmons,
Tobacco Merchant
. . . and Importer,
Haymarteet, Sydney.
The Summer is upon us, watch your Children’s EYES ;
No house should be without a bottle of the greatest of all Australian remedies.
Ro&e’S Celebrated Eye LotioQ.
The only practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS arising from Sandy Blight, Sun Glare, Inflammation,
Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, etc.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
BEWARE OE WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLE IPIROIPieaEETOIR, :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney.
Lint of Testimonials il Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
VOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
18c. GIPSY.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£2 ss, JE3, £i.
1 Fine Diamond, with 2
Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals or Pearls,
£1 15s, £2 ss, JE3.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s, 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30s,
455, 60s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, 17 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
3Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, 15.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. ENGAGEMENT.
3 Fine piamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal or Pearl,
£3 15s.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s each.
Gold Name or Motto BROOCH, 8s 6d;
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
OUR NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
r CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9c. GOLD.
255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
60s, 70s, 80s.-
Children’s, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15c. GOLD.
£2 ss, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
£5 10s, ' £6 10s.
Children’s, 32s 6d, 37s 6d.
Fitted with Key Padlocks, 10s. extra.
Sterling* Silver Ghain Bracelets, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
OUE NEW WILD BOAE’S TUSK
BEOOOH,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-Mounted, 5/6
Gold-Mounted, 14/-
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
GOLD IVY BAR BROOCH, 10s 6d
With Looped Chain to Heart.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT,
5s each.
With Pin & Chain,
8s 6d.
Real Amethyst
HEART'
PENDANT,
2/6 each.
Real Amethvst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Usefui,
2s 6d each.
These Three
Patterns
SLEEVE
LINKS.
9c. Gold, 13, 6;
15c. Gold, 27/6;
Silver, 3/-
per pair.
PLEASE
SEND FOB
OUR
Illustrated
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES
“One Way of Love.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ George, I want to speak to you.”
He looked up and saw his wife standing in the
doorway. Her face was set, her eyes bright. He
rose and drew a chair forward for her.
“Let me stand,” she said, “I can talk better
so.”
He looked at her anxiously. “What is it,
Helen ? Is anything wrong 2 ”
“Everything, I am afraid! I have come to
you for help and advice. I want to put the whole
matter in your hands.” She was trembling with
excitement, and as she came forward rested her
hand on the table for support.
“ We must begin at the beginning,” she said,
controlling her voice with difficulty. “ And the
beginning is, that we are not in love with each
other, and have not been for the last five years.”
George Greer looked at her for a moment, then
away out of the open window.
“The next fact is that you love Edith Stafford,
and that she loves you.”
He started, but said nothing.
“ I have known it all along; and, George, believe
me, it has hurt me most terribly—not the loss of
your love ” She laughed drearily. “ But the
fact of your sacrifice ; it seemed so unavailing,
so ”
“ Is it of this only that you have come to speak
to me 2 ”
“ No, not of this only ; though many, many
times I have wanted to speak of it to you, for I
am your wife, George; and also, apart from that I,
have some human sympathies.” .
“ I am sorry that you know this ; it must surely
make things harder in every way. What has at
last led you to speak of it to me ? ” It was char-
acteristic of the man that he made no attempt to
deny or argue the point.
“My own affairs. In this last year I have been
very unhappy. Do not blame yourself, the fault
lies with me if anywhere; but I think fate and
circumstance have been too hard for us.” She
paused a moment, then went on quickly : “ I have
found most consolation and happiness in Carl
Ramer’s company. ” She looked at her husband,
but he only ma'de a gesture for her to continue.
‘I am in love with him, and he with me. We
have realised the truth utterly; what is to be
done? ”
For a moment Greer made no answer ; then he
replied thickly: “You must send him away.”
“I must send him away!” she repeated in a
dull tone.
“ There is nothing else to be done ? ”
“No, there is nothing else.”
For some moments there was complete silence ;
they stood facing one another, looking in a hope-
less way into each other’s eyes.
“ There is no other way ? ” she asked at length.
“ Can nothing be done ? ”
He shook his head. “ You can do nothing but
send him away from you.”
She turned as if to go out of the room. ■■ . _
“Helen, I cannot ask your forgiveness for ,my
part in this. I should have foreseen it, but lam
very sorry, dear ? ” He felt how hopelessly inade-
quate his words were, but knew she would under-
stand all he wanted to express.
She came back towards him. The long, wakeful
night had done more for Carl’s cause than the
most eloquent pleading. She knew she scarcely
dared face the future without him. She felt
utterly helpless, and had come, on an impulse that
she half distrusted, for help to her husband.
“ George, is it worth while wrecking four lives for
. a shadow called Respectability ? Is it worth while
to break four hearts for a col'd something called
Principle ? Must we live a lie for the rest of the
time, so that the world be not offended ? Listen ;
I know what you and Edith suffer. I know what
it is to break your heart and cover the wound. I
know the long days, and longer nights, the wild
crying of one’s nature for some happiness. A cry,
which, in our case, the world says must be stifled.
What ! —may it judge for us, when in judging it
breaks our hearts 2 George, must I send him
away 2”
He was trembling, and answered almost in a
whisper. “ What course could you suggest,
Helen?”
“ That Igo away with him. You need never
see nor hear of us again, and, George—you would
be free! ”
He drew a hard breath through his set teeth.
“It must be right—it must , I say."’ Tears were
streaming down her cheeks, and her voice shook.
“ I have coine to you, because we care for each
other a little still, and ( because you are stronger
than I, and far, far better.”
He made an impatient dissent.
“Ear better,” she repeated; “and I’ll leave
you to decide. I will do what you tell me ; if
you say lam to stay here with you I will do it.
I owe you that.” '
“ You owe me nothing. You must judge for
yourself.” . , ,
“ But I cannot. I only know what 1 want, that
I want it passionately ; but I am strong enough
to bear things, I suppose ?” ■ • . .
“No love on this earth, or beyond it, should
rule us completely.”
She looked up, and could have laughed wit-
right but for the pain she saw in his eyes. Do
you really love when you argue like that 2 Does
it mean everything to you 2 ’’
“ We cannot discuss that.”
She walked slowly towards the mantelpiece, find
laid her arms upon it, resting her chin on her
folded hands. She did not speak for some time,-
then she glanced round at him.
“ The world is very weary; and in search of new
sensation, when it sends a wife to consult her hus-
band as to the feasibility of her elopement. ”
He looked at her sternly. Such speeches jarred
upon him. He could not understand a good woman
uttering them: ■
“I come and ask for your permission. You
refuse it. I obey you. Send the man away, and
we will live unhappily ever after.”
“ You make things no easier to bear by treating
them lightly.”
“Don’t I? I often think I do. It seems to
shift a burden a little ; but I don’t want to appear
flippant to you, for you do not understand. But,
George, duties are very terrible sometimes, they
don’t always fit one’s shoulders squarely ; they rub
and fret, and wear wounds that never heal.”
“ Helen, a thing is either right or wrong ; one
could not deliberately choose the wrong.”
“lam afraid I could; but, apart from that,
who is to judge? Who is to say that a strong,
fierce, overwhelming love is not a better guide
than a worn, world-tutored conscience ?
I cannot argue about it. ’
George, and you love her ! Did she put her
arms round your neck, and lay her cheek against
yours? Were her lips wet with streaming tears
as you kissed her good-bye ”
“ For God’s sake, Helen ! ”
“ Weren’t you even tempted? Didn’t you put
her from you—comforting her broken heart with
the cold cheer ? It is right ? ”
“ Helen ”
She saw he was suffering, saw the sweat gather
on his brow. She came towards him, and laid her
hand on his arm. “ George, defy the world, and
custom, and prejudice Give me my freedom and
take yours. I do not only plead for myself, but
for her. X know what a woman can feel, X ah,
George, think ” ——
“ Helen, no amount of thinking could alter it.
Do you think I have not thought ? ”
“ But you have thought only of cold right and
wrong; and you do not really know which is
right, and which wrong, and you will not think of
her, of her suffering and tears, of the sadness and
loneliness of her life, of how her arms go out for
you, and you are not there ”
“ I will not listen. You are melodramatic.”
She saw he was with greatest difficulty keeping
command of himself.
“Ami—at least I know what a woman can be
made to suffer through a man’s terrible con-
science. Is it so very valuable, this right and
wrong, that it is worth a woman’s broken heart?”
“ Listen to me. I advise you—l certainly can-
not, and will not, command you. You have heard
what I think. Nothing could alter my views, and
even if you took your freedom, I would not take
mine.”
She looked at him wonderingly. “Poor little
Edith,” she said, in a half whisper. It was no use
arguing any further. He was certain he was
right, and in her heart she believed he was.
“There is nothing more to be said, then?”
She felt numb and weary, and wondered vaguely
if the life she must lead would he even possible.
“ Helen ! he spoke hesitatingly, and as if the
effort was great. “ I blame myself for all this,
I would give my life, were it any use. I thank you
for coming to me. I knew my wife was an honor-
able woman, and I am proud of your strength,
and of your trust in,me. You are strong enough
to go though with life as it is. Do. not be led
away. Let us help each other if we can. We
will leave Australia. I say nothing of Ramer’s
career, which would be ruined if nor of our
own relations. I only look at bare right and
wrong, and, as there is a God above, I knew it
would be wrong. Brave it out: we have a strange
and sad secret, to hide from the world, but I do
not fear for you. I do liot offer you 1 sympathy,
but ,I will help you if I can.”
He paused ; the sentences had been broken, dis-
connected. He held out his hand, and his voice
gave for a moment. “ Helen, my poor girl !” he
said.
She took his hand and looked into his eyes ; her
expression was cold and grave. “ I will do my
best, as you have done,” she answered.
A. LEO. WATTS.
Ferguson, M.L.A. (N.S. W.): “ The time
a man wants a drink most is just before going to
church .on Sunday. The hon. member, Mr.
Moles worth, is in the habit of going to church
without being fortified, and it is killing him by
inches.”
S.A. Assembly decided, after a hard
struggle, not to include butchers among the people
who are to close at the statutory hour. But, after
all, it isn’t the hour at which the butcher-man
closes which is of most importance to the public.
The great essential is that the dog shouldn’t be
shut in with the meat when he does close.
N.Q. advt. :
EMPLOY SINGALESE CHEAP LABOURERS.
TXUNDREDS of Domestics (male and female), Grooms,
Laundrvmen, Field and Farm Labourers, Clerks,
Overseers, Children’s attendants, etc., seeking employ-
ments in Australia are in my Register. Give me a trial
and save half of what you spend now for servants. State
wages you could pay when writing. Address —J.
WICKRAMANAYAKA, Colonial Labour Agency, Co-
lombo, Ceylon.
Purnamoota, the fore-runner of Broken
Hill, has existed only on Govt, maps for the last
half-dozen years. Plans still showed it a thorough-
going township, with all the usual trimmings of
common and pound and cemetery and so on. But
now even these have been swept away by a
few unrecognisable Gazette notices; and a
selector has taken the whole lot up in the vain
hope that a few goats and cows will be able to
chew enough mulga-leaves and old prospectors’
ancient boots to keep themselves and him alive.
So Purnamoota, which Speaker Abbott, then
Mines Minister, tried to get changed to ’Moota
because he feared that people would confuse the
original native name with Parramatta, fades
further off the maps.
A kleptomaniac of : 30 years standing has
been arrested at Oama'ru (M.L.), and the law has
jmoceeded, as usual, to minister to his diseased
intellect by putting him in gaol. The following
collection was found on his premises : 40 hedge-
knives, 2 garden hose, 1 wire strainer, 11 gorse-
cutters, 11 crowbars, 1 pair leggings, 6 scythe
stones, 1 door mat, 6 balls twine, 1 horse rug, 2
choppers, 14 adzes, 14 brushes, 3 tape measures,
3 rules, 12 shirts, 1 tent, 2 surveyor’s chains, 21
picks, 8 tomahawks, 38 spades, 20 shovels, 35
garden forks, 31 hoes, 17 rakes, 26 hammers, 18
saws, 1 spokeshave, 15 axes, 2 squares, 1 plane, 5
trowels, 1 dish, 7 door-handles, 2 chisels, 400 books.
He never sold anything, but lived alone in a cot-
tage with his accumulated property.


The New York Legislature lately held a
special sitting to pass an Act enabling citizens
absent on war-duty to record their votes for New
York in whatever part of America or the West
Indies they might happen to be. This was done
without difficulty, yet Vic. Assembly hesitates to
pass its Absent Voters’ Bill, which accords similar
privilege to sailors and shearers, and professes not
to see how the thing can be done. No will, no
way.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very: palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
are a great Blood Purifier and Nerve Tonic; they Cure*
when other remedies have failed—
ssu
isss*
Anasmia, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism
Sciatica, Neuralgia, Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, St. Yitus’ Dance’
Nervousness, General Weakness, Ac.
They restore the pretty colour to pale cheeks, and
are a specific for troubles peculiar to Ladies,
while in men they produce a radical
cure in all cases arising l from
Mental Worry, Overwork, and Excesses of any Nature.
Kidney Troubles Cured, and a Weak
Heart Made Strong-.
“Six boxes cured me,” said Mr. Carl Mont M‘Croy, of 204 George-
street, Sydney, to a reporter, “and that was after I had been
attended by doctors in vain, and tried several different sorts of
medicines. My heart trouble was, I suppose, the most serious. I
used to be seized with violent spasms in the left breast, which nearly
doubled me up in agony. After these fits I would be panting and
quite exhausted, and my heart would palpitate frightfully for more
than half-an-hour. In addition to this, I had a lot of trouble with
my kidneys. .There was a continual, dull, leaden, dragging pain in
the lower portion of my back, which was especially bad after I had
been lying in bed. Nothing would make my kidneys act properly.
My heart and my kidneys got worse and worse, notwithstanding
the most careful attention of my doctors. For five months I lay
on a bed of sickness. I had fallen away to a shadow, and my bones
nearly came through my skin. When 'I felt there was no hope left
for me, I read a story of a remarkable cure by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. I asked for them, and with some trouble I managed to get
them. It was after taking a few pills that I had for the first time
for months a really refreshing sleep. I procured some more pills,
and at the end of a fortnight I could see 1 was making rapid head-
way towards recovery. The distressing symptoms of my kidney
complaint began to abate, and my heart almost ceased to trouble
me. Day by day I got better, and after taking six boxes I was
completely cured. My recovery was very rapid, for in ten weeks’
time I was as well as ever I was, and have never had a single
symptom of heart or kidney disease since.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold only in a white package, upon
which is printed in red ink the full name, “Dr. Williams’Pink
Pills for Pale People.” Do not accept pills, even if colored pink,
in any other form. ■
Write to us about your case. We shall be pleased to answer
freely. Address Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
How Influenza Weakens.
STRENGTH, VIGOR, AND BEAUTY GIVEN TO A
SUEEERING GIRL.
The after-effects of influenza made Miss Jamieson, of Autumn-
street, Ashby, Geelong, Victoria, exceedingly weak and wretched
Below she tells a startling narrative.
“Some few years ago,” she told a reporter, “ I suffered from a
very severe attack of influenza. I could never get rid of its after-
effects until I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Although generally experiencing robust health, when at last I was
able to leave my room I was almost of ghostly proportions. But in
March of last year I commenced to experience great inconvenience
from pains in my right side. I consulted a medical man, who said
that it was merely the after-effects of influenza, and I was not to
worry myself. But, as the pains continued, I went to Melbourne
to consult a specialist. He informed me it was partial paralysis
He put me through treatment that left me as I was, and I returned
home fairly worn out. Whether the worry or the heroic treatment
I had undergone was responsible or not I will not venture an opinion
upon, but a week afterwards erysipelas set in on my face, and for
months I suffered the greatest agony. In January a friend (a Miss
Evans, of Eaglehawk, near Bendigo) came down to see me, and one
day she brought me a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People. When visiting Melbourne I took them, and four days
after the pain commenced to go away. I continued taking them
for some time, and, in all, I used eight boxes, discontinuing them
in August. From then until now I have not had the least symptom
of a return of either complaints—complaints that I had not been
free from for four years. lam 22 years of age. Scores know my
sufferings, and the means of my recovery I am only too pleased to
supply.”
Obtainable from all chemists and dealers, or from the Dr
Williams Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W., who will forward six
boxes for 15s. 3d,, or one box for 2s. 9d., post free.
INDIGESTION.
Pains in the stomach, unpleasant taste and fulness
after meals, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, distaste for
food, lack of energy, peevishness, pallid complexion,
bad breath. •/
LLIAMS
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
Those are the symptoms of in-
digestion and dyspepsia, and they
have been cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
fur Pale People have done for
others they will do for you.
Reader, if you are a sufferer,
you are invited to write to us.
Please tell your friends they can
write. It may be news to them,
and the means of saving years of
distress and pain.
Address: Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney.
Feeble and Weary Women are
cured by DR. WILLIAMS’ Pink
Pills for Pale People.
Babel Town.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(“ Dwellers in citydom—children of Babel.”— Richter.)
When the breath of misty morning wakes the
fever in your blood,
Have ye felt the Babel frenzy in your brain?
Have ye felt her fury lift you like a feather down
the flood
And her subtle virus coursing through your vein ?
Have ye heard it coming down
Ev’ry street and alley brown,
The rout and roar of crazy, murky, mazy Babel
town ?
Hid ye say the fight was flagging and the times
were growing tame
Because we’d left behind the bow and spear?
Is a man the less a Hunter if he follow Human
game
Than the man who drank the life-blood of the
deer ?
Hark ! the chase is coming down
Every street and alley brown,
To the cursed roar eternal of infernal Babel Town.
And I hear the city murmur in a sombre under-
tone :
Ye must battle in my by-ways for your bread ;
Ye shall grind yourselves to powder, thew and
sinew, blood and bone,
And the Dust shall fill my nostrils from your
Dead;
Ye shall tremble at my frown,
Ye shall greet me in my Crown,
V e shall love me and no other—Queen and
Mother—Babel Town ! ”
Did ye mark the mob a-dancing in the merry
Babel-street,
While the gutters ran between with ripple red ?
Did ye see the fierce Bacchante with her flying
hair and feet;
Did ye see the craven smite the hoary head ?
Did ye hear the thunder drown
Ev’ry cry for mercy down,
When her ranks without a tether came together—
, Babel Town.
Have ye heard the homes a-singing on the city’s
outer rim ?
( di, the gentle isles that dot a stormy sea !)
Have ye heard her temples echo with the peal of
holy hymn
And her halls unholy chanting in their glee ?
Have ye seen the Night come down
rn-n Dn the dusty ways and brown
lill a respite brief and eerie broods on weary
Babel Town ?
O, the magic of the mother ! Could we linger if
she lead us ?
Lo, her fingers move our heart-strings when they
play !
Her voice above all other ! Could we falter if
she need us ?
In her passion she is Potter—we are Clay ;
Things of clay—she draws us down,
Prince and pauper, clod and clown,
lo the merry madd’ning medley down in deadly
Babel Town !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
On Our Selection.—A Scheme of
Dad’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dad used to say that Shingle Hut was the finest
selection on Darling Downs; but we never could
see anything fine about it—except the weather in
drought time, or Dad’s old saddle mare. She was
very fine. The house was built in a gully so that
the bailiffs (I suppose) or the blacks—who were
mostly dead —couldn’t locate it. An old wire-
fence, slanting all directions, staggered past the
front door. At the rear, its feet almost in the back
door, sloped a barren ridge, formerly a squatter’s
sheep-yard. For the rest there were sky, wallaby-
scrub, gum-trees, and some acres of cultivation.
But Dad must have seen something in it, or he
wouldn’t, after he had knocked off work' of an
evening, have stood feasting his eyes on the
wooded waste. In all his wanderings^—and Dad
had been almost everywhere—swimming flooded
creeks and rivers, humping his swag from one end
of Australia to the other—at all games going
except bank-managing and bush ranging--he had
seen no place timbered like Shingle Hut.
“Why,” he used to say, “it’s a fortune in it-
self. Hold on till the country gets populated, and
firewood is scarce ; there’ll be money in it then-
mark my words.”
Poor Dad ! I wonder how long he expected to
live ?
At the back of Shingle Hut was a tract : of
Government land—mostly mountains—marked on
the map, the Great Dividing Range. Splendid
country, Dad considered it— beautiful country—
and part of a grand scheme he had in his head; A
wild place. Giant hills and lofty peaks ; mighty
gorges that seemed asleep, so silent were they..
Bush it was indeed—weird, ghostly, magnificent
bush !
* * * *
The day had been hot. Inside, the mosquitoes
were bad ; and, after supper, Dad and Dave were
outside, lying on some bags. They had been
grubbing that day, and were tired. The night
was nearly dark. Dad lay upon his back, watching
the stars ; Dave upon his stomach, his head rest-
ing on his arms. Both silent. One of the draught-
horses cropped the couch-grass round about them.
Now and again a flying-fox circled noiselessly
overhead, and “ Mopoke !—Mopoke ! ” came dis-
mally from the ridge and from out the lonely-
looking gully. A star fell, lighting up a portion
of the sky, but Dad remarked it not. In a while
he said:—
“How old a,re you, Dave?” Dave made a
mental calculation before answering.
“ S’pose I must be 18 now . . . Why?”
A silence.
“I’ve been thinking of that land at the back—
if we had that I believe we could make money.”
“ Yairs—if we had.”
Another silence.
“ Well, I mean to have it, and that before very
long. ”
Dave raised his head, and looked towards Dad.
“ There’s four of you old enough now to take up
land, and where could you get better country than
that out there for cattle? Why ” (turning on his
side and facing Dave) “ with a thousand acres of
that stocked with cattle and this kept under culti-
vation we’d make money—we’d be rich in a very
few years.”
Dave raised himself on his elbow.
“ Yairs—with cattle,” he said.
“Just so—(Dad sat up with enthusiasm) but to
get the land is the first thing, and that’s easy
enough only (lowering his voice) it’ll have to be
done quietly and without letting everyone ’round
know we’re going inforit.” (“Oh ! yairs, o’course, ”
from Dave). “ Then (and Dad lifted his voice and
leaned over) run a couple of wires round it, put
every cow we’ve here on it straight away ; get
another one or two when the barley’s sold, and let
them breed.”
“ ’Bout how many’d that be t’ start ’n ? ”
“Well, eight good cows at the least—plenty,
too. It’s simply wonderful how cattle breed if
they’re let alone. Look at Murphy, for instance.
Started on that place with two young heifers —
those two old red cows that you see knocking
about now. They’re the mothers of all his cattle.
Anderson just the same. . . . Why, God bless my
soul ! we would have a better start than any one
of them ever had—by a long way.”
Dave sat up. He began to share Dad’s enthu-
siasm.
“ Once get it stocked, and all that is to be done
then is simply to look after the fence, ride about
among the cattle every day, see they’re right,
brand the calves and every year muster the mob,
draft out the fat bullocks, whip them into town
and get our seven and eight pounds a head for
them.”
“That’d suit me down to the ground, ridin’
about after cattle,” Dave said.
“ Yes, get our seven and eight pounds, maybe
nine or ten pounds a-piece. And could ever we
do that pottering about on this place?” Dad
leaned over further and pressed Dave’s knee with
his hand.
“ Mind you” (in a very confidential tone) “ I’m
not at all satisfied the way we’re dragging along
here. It’s utter nonsense, and, to speak the truth ”
(lowering his voice again) “ I’ve been sick of the
whole damn thing long ago. ”
A minute or two passed.
“It wouldn’t matter,” Dad continued, “ if there
was no way of doing better ; but there is. The
thing only requires to be done, and why not do it ?”
He paused for an answer.
“Well,” Dave said, “let us commence it
straight off—t’morrer. It’s the life that’d suit
me.”
“Of course it would . . . and there’s money in
it ... no mistake about it ! ”
A few minutes passed. Then they went inside,
and Dad took mother into his confidence, and
they sat up half the night discussing the scheme.
* * * *
Twelve months later. The storekeeper was at
the house wanting to see Dad. Dad wasn’t at
home. He never was when the storekeeper came
—he generally contrived to be away, up the pad-
dock somewhere or amongst the corn—if any was
growing. The storekeeper waited an hour or so,
but Dad didn’t turn up. When he was gone,
though, Dad walked in and asked mother what
he had said. Mother was seated on the sofa,
troubled-looking.
“He must be paid by next week,” she said,
bursting into tears, “or the place ’ll be sold over
our heads.”
Dad stood with his back to the fire-place, his
hands locked behind him, watching the flies
swarming on the table.
Dave came in. He understood the situation at
a glance. The scene was not new to him. He
sat down, leant forward, picked a straw off the
floor and twisted it rouml and round his finger,
reflecting.
Little Bill put his head on mother’s lap and
asked for a piece of bread. ... He asked a second
time.
“ There is no bread, child,” she said.
“ But me wants some, mamma.”
Dad went outside and Dave followed. They
sat on their heels, their backs to the barn, thought-
fully studying the earth.
“ It’s the same thing Dad said, reproachfully
from one year’s end to the other ! . . . alwuz
a biH !
“Thought last year we’d be over all this by
now ! ” from Dave.
“So we could . . . can now ... It only wants
that land to be taken up ; and, as I’ve said often
and often, these cows taken ”
Dad caught sight of the storekeeper coming
back, and ran into the barn.
* • • *
Another six months later. Dinner about ready.
“ Take up a thousand acres,” Dad was saying ;
“ take it up ”
He was interrupted by a visitor.
“ Are you Mister Ross ? ” Dad said he was.
“ Well, er—l’ve a fi. fa. against y’.”
Dad didn’t understand.
The Sheriff’s officer drew a document from his
inside breast-pocket and proceeded to read :
“To Mister James Williams, my bailiff. Greet-
ing : By virtue of Her Majesty’s writ of fieri
facias, to me directed, I command you that of the
goods and chattels, money, bank-note or notes or
other property of Murtagh Colin Joseph Duncan
M‘Gregor Ross, of Shingle Hut, in my bailiwick,
you cause to be made the sum of =£4o 10s., with
interest thereon,” &c.
Dad understood.
Then the bailiff’s man rounded up the cows and
the horses, and Dad and the lot of us leant
against the fence and in sadness watched Polly
and old Poley and the rest for the last time pass
out the slip-rails.
“That puts an end to the land business ! ” Dave
said gloomily. •
But Dad never spoke.
STEELE RUDD.


F
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PE|CHAM’S
°® B ' 110,,s a s d Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, S'ck Headache,
. h ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Ofiids, Flush-
a cT? eafc ’ Loss of A l’P° tite Shortness-, of P.reath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
wtt 6 ? , ! i and all Nervous and Tremblin'- Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
Sr ILL fi Vh RKLTEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
GOInII-a'a^OX” 0110 B ° X ° f fchese Pills ’ and they WiU be acknowled^ed t 0 be " tiY ORTd A
BEECH AM S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly j emove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion- Disordered Liver,
a f fc Q ke lnag!c — a , few d oses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
n,v„,o Uiar i restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
with the of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
i.- acts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Lamest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
He world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND,
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is 1-id, and 2s 9d each.
M I
3 sm
ss
fitm
a-
SE
%
v
2
ns-v-
-m
li
3
A SLIGHT HINT.
He: “What is your favorite melody?”
Shk : “Mendelssohn’s wedding march!”
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P P S’S
GRATEF UL CO MFORTING.
COC O A
BRE AKFAST - SUPPER.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
MOLLOWAY'S pills and ointment.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £W“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA AND PERRINS’
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blaekwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
Owbhidge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,’
until it has become
r a Household Eemedy, in all parts of the British
for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
when you ask foe
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever _be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBEIDGE'S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lfd., 2s. 9 d., is. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPT&IUBT.
SOLD BY THE LAV KBS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
ease, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
»♦♦♦♦♦ ♦♦♦♦
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop that Con
Don’t Delay.
A A • TAKE • A t
Eonnington’s
u miss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bennington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eatino-, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
A Is- Box.


LARGEsi
ESTABLISHED
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MAS3EY-MARRIS CO. LIMITED
Read Office and Factories - Toronto , Canada.
Australasian Hpadq’rt’rs, 168-369 William-st. Melto.
New South Wales Address 5
3S Broadway, George St. West. Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost every wh' r\
Illustrated Catalogue Ireeu <>n app.icatiotl.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
K.
MAR
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
BBOT
Umpire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl>iogtoo POrppiog Ei)gii)€ Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SllH JDBOH. KrOtll©rS. (Australasian Branch.)
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, N.S.W.
- p*
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
ISlept -i.il. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRUMT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
TMieumatism, Sciatica,
lAnnbago, &e.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA It K KR, 145 Victoria Parade,
FIIZKOY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
Permanent Cure.
OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Uttdd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince o£ Wales
ECZEMA
Self Applied.
JarSCoonoentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
DEPOTS:
“OLEAC
Sidney—M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide— Harris & Kemp, 6 Rundle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J E. Phillips, 317 Collins St,
11l
N
"Pinnom , o n-f ie Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
x IUIIuuIS U 1 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
EVERYWHERE. send to thb “hbab officr- # struct, H . PATESON, Manager.
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
.... 0
Patentees of —Popp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “ James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. —We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
**L n 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co..
Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price _
£'B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ‘TO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £6 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s Gd per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colo lies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
*
i
.s.
-I-HE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET,
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes .all Nickle, Peary’s; 3/6 gross’), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/11 gross), Rim Washers (0d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6),'Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Racing Sets, S‘2/6.
SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent.
Cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to date, £7, £B,
£ ), £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
P. GREGORY &
ENGINEERS &
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence si,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tb.e Geo. F. Blake Manfg. 00.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W. F. «Sfc John Barnes 00.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
33. F. Sturtevant 00.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, ETC
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand —J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
