

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S RUM.
m FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GHTA.RA.KrTBEir> PXJRE COCOA. AIKTD EXTRACT OP MALT.
R. G, WATK.IIVS «§& COT,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining 1 Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
zm
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES’ SYDNEY
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY°SIZE OF LOGS.
Up-to-I3a,te Flour IVti;ling Madainery, Engines & Boilers,’ Steel Wiudlmills.
Milld Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
2 8 8
Prize
Medals.^
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
*' i 1
■y ■ W~,y'
‘ \sl tr * -.. ._ _ 1
ifenir
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
. m
/
'mzmr
.
GIBSON, BATTLE & ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Rnston, Proctor & Co.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTAE
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIX
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
1, ,3E3C3E1.-A.SI3EX3XrC- S_A.'W" REIKrCEBS, &C., &c.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Fitt-st., Sydney;
SRA.WDT’S PATE?
P ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE,
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Price
- 5 Os.
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
— ‘
Hadley’s Orient |jotel.
COtfe*, a//, fJaMsoo ti/i
00
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
ECigUest A.wards wherever Exhibited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
1! diswan
■
m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
'the Eiia m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch t
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol 19.—N0. 980. j
[Saturday, November 26, 1898.
E egi stered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


j^rrcffr-
BY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
. GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. AUSTRAL.
Schloss’ Methods of Industrial Remuneration, 7s 6d,
post 8k ; Peary’s Northward, 2 vols., 21's, post 23s ; Still-
man’s Italy, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Atherton’s Californians, 6s,
post 6s 6d ; YVigley’s and Stansbie’s Goldsmith and
Jeweller, 8s 6d, postils ; Lineham’s Engineering-, 12s 6d,
post 13s ; Smith’s World of Golf, ss, post 5s 6d ; Shaw’s
Capt. Siormalong, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Lyall’s
Hardy Norseman, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post. 3sand 4s; Mather’s
Bain Wildfire, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Besant’s
The Changeling, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Becke’s
Rodman the Boat-steerer, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Woods’ Through Battle to Promotion, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Caffyn’s Poor Max, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Phillips-Oppenheim’s Mysterious Mr. Sabin,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Crokers’ Pegg of the
Bartons, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Sidgwick’s Dull
Miss Aohinard, 2s (id and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Kipling’s
The Day’s Work, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Jokai’s
Hungarian Nabob, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
JUST PUBLISHED.
THE BUTCHER’S GUIDE AND FARMER’S COM-
PANION. By William Dunstan, Cr. 2s 6d ; post 3s.
BELOW AND ON TOP. By Edward Dyson, author of
“ Rhymes from the Mines,” etc, Cr., wrapper, 2s 6d ;
cloth, 3s 6d. Post 3s and 4s.
THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN : ,A Practical
Manual, by J. S. Heron. Is ; post free, Is 2d.
NEARLY READY.
WARRIGAL SERIES—No. 4. THE ONE BLACK
SHADOW. By Bessie Cole and F. W. D. Moore.
Is 6d ; post free Is 9d.
THE JENOLAN CAVES. Illustrated with 24 Plates and
Map. By Samuel Cook. 6s ; post free 6s Bd.
TALES FOR YOUNG AUSTRALIA. By Ernest Favenc,
Mab, James and Josephine Fothbri'nGhame. Picture
Boards, Is Od ; post Is 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE A.RGOKTAITJT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
“The Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “Argonaut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors :
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at The Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail; price, Sd. ; posted, 9d. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; cloth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Eavenc, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs op the Armt op the Night, 2s. 6d. A
few copies remain.
Now Ready.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie (“Glenrowan”);
with three vignette illustrations by G. W.
Lambert; cloth, gilt top, 4s. 6d. post-free.
In the Press.
A Bush Tanqueray and Other Stories, by
Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion”).
The Ways of Many Waters; Verses by
E. J. Brady.
In Preparation.
On Our Selection, by A. H. Davis (“Steele
Rudd”). Illustrated by Alf. Vincent.
Maoriland, and Other Verses, by Arthur
H. Adams.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Adviet,and assistance given.
B'ees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
Ask for CAMEOS
Are
Always
Evenly
Excellent.
THE RED PAGE.
A Spring Ride: Tasmania.
I turn my horse on the hill that leads from the
Carlton for a last look at the valley below. The
river winds gently round green knolls set with
homesteads, and then, after broadening to a lake-
like expanse, flows through a narrow channel into
the open bay. There is a feeling of Spring every-
where: the light is clear ; a glad movement stirs
the trees, whose tops are green and massy ; the
waves of the inland sea jet against the islands, and
ever y fold and scar can he seen in the violet-blue
of the mountain. This unusual breadth and deli-
cacy of peaceful light and shadow reminds one of
the simple beauty of an early English water-
colour. Still, to an Englishman, there is a lack.
There is a subtle something absent: it must he
that precipitant up-breaking of the land into a
wayward drift of green and white, that surge of
infant blossom, that thrill of the life in the En-
glish Spring. There is, indeed, in the settled dis-
tricts of Tasmania, a procession of orchard bloom—
almond, peach, apple, and pear—white, tinted,
ethereal mists; hut of Spring—“Primavera,” as
the Italians call it—there is little to mark in the
wilder bush. Changes there are, and great to the
seeing eye, but not to the unobservant; There is
no springing from universal death to newness of
life, no vigorous noon, no serene decay, no lapse
again to rest and death. And in this loss of
nature-teaching—this pathetic parable of human
life—there may lurk a reason for the arrested
development of the Tasmanian aboriginal. Lost
in this thought, I shake my rein and ride down
the hill to the Carlton'bridge.
And here, by the side of the ascending road,
stands the emblem of the Tasmanian spring—the
wattle-tree. in bloom. Trees have character:
some are friendly, some stern, some stately ; and,
to me, the characteristic of the wattle is a strange
aloofness. Its pale yellow fans, its scent so
heavy and drowsy, its foliage of faded green, fit it
rather for the landscape of our dreams than for the
sober earth. But what shall be said of its relative,
the prickly broom ? How beautiful it is ! There
is a shade of warm lemon-green in the gold of its
bloom and in its leaves, a delicate lightness in its
growth, that end ears it to my heart. Of or leagues
and leagues of its living gold !
The magpies are in full chorus. There is a cer-
tain harsh music in the song of this bird, best
heard in the early morning, which stirs and excites
like the dissonance of a trumpet. They are the
free-lances of the air, merry light-hearted rogues,
and ought to be dressed in flaming red. For
color is not wanting in Tasmanian birds : parrots,
some green and red, others black and yellow ;
robins with red breasts that seem for a startled
moment to fill the landscape ; firetails, dusky and
plum-colored, like the —th Hussars ; shy diamond-
birds, with pure gold on their wings—alas ! that
they should build in banks, where boys and snakes
can rob and slay;—all these, and more, flash and dart
in the sunshine. But song is denied to them. Their
voices are, as a rule, harsh : one passed the day in
shrieking “Take off your hat! ” and another the
night in demanding “More-pork ! ” while the shag
has the hoarse, hooting laugh of a wicked old man.
But the jo-wik-ee calls his name with a clear,
liquid, joyous note; and the peep-peep flutes softly
in solitary places, as if it were the spirit of a bird
that haunted the dim recesses of the bush.
The land between the Carlton and Dunally
lies in four parallel waves, with the blue waters of
Norfolk Bay on the right, and on the left a
straggling bush, broken near Dunally by cultivated
fields. As I ride, my horse suddenly swerves to
one side, and from the torn carcase of a sheep two
eagle-hawks rise heavily into the air. The plain-
tive bleat of a new-dropt lamb comes from near.
Under the influences of the Spring I had forgotten
Death’s ambushes ; but now, reminded by this
tragedy of the fields, I ride on with a sad heart.
But not for long. A plant, however frail, will
force its way upwards and flaunt its spike or flame
of color in defiance of gravity ; and man has too
many resources of soul long to droop in despair.
He soon recovers, and marches towards his destiny
with a desperate courage.
From East Bay Neck, Mount Wellington is
again in sight. It lifts its crest through a region
of white and azure cloud, and from its slopes comes
a wind that breaks, the violet-blue of the waters
into foam-tipt, clear green waves, and drives them
in hurrying crowds on to the sand at my feet. The
white sail of a fishing-boat is echoed by wings of
soaring sea-birds. Sound and light are eloquent
of the joy of life. On the other side of East Bay
Neck the water is blue and still. The Boomer
hangs above its mirrored shape, and, as I look at
it, I have a dream of a happy home and an old
age spent in its solitude. In more populous times,
when these shores are covered with the rest-
cities of Australia, the Boomers, Big and Little,
will be eagerly seized upon. Two slender cause-
ways run out into the water and swell into tree-
crowned headlands : on such stately and secluded
promontories the lords of ancient Rome loved to
build their pleasure-houses; on such secure spots,
with wood, water, and fish, the monks and the
barons of the middle ages delighted to dwell; and
these all-but-island Sirmios may yet be famous in
the passionate lines of some'modern poet.
A gallop along the sands and an hour’s quick
walk, and lam at the Sounds. This is an inlet
from Norfolk Bay, having an island and a tumb-
ling Stream, After leaving the Sounds there is a
dreary ride of eight miles through bush, in which
are still found kangaroo and wallaby. The latter
makes an affectionate pet. With appealing looks
it puts up such pathetic little hands, and washes
its master’s fingers with the greatest care. The
, house dogs will not touch it, but a strange doer is
its fate. 6
The bush is monotonous ; that cannot be denied.
Y et I have seen the flat tops of the gums thrown
against the sky in a way that reminded one of
Turner and Italy—lovely gum and lichened rock
for stone pine and tomb. And when young the
strmgybark is very beautiful : the topmost twigs
are a warm transparent red; the leaves droop
gracefully, and when the sun shines behind them
and the wind moves them, there is a wavering of
clear solemn green and shadow that draws the
eye again and again.
But the pools by the wayside are crimson, and I
look round in alarm, thinking the hush is on fire.
1 he sun is low among the trees, and his rays make
lanes of glowing red and golden light on the shiny
fronds of the ferns and between the desolate white
stems. A canter .to Eaglebawk Hill and the diffi-
culties of that descent make me pull up to a walk.
The road winds down the-side of a hill and the
bush closes in on each side, and owing to this all
is green, wet, and muddy. I have travelled this
steep with fire on each side, in the roaring dark
with huge trees falling across it, in clay so thick
that the horse could scarcely move ; but this after-
noon, like the ending of the Valley of the Shadow
to Christian, it is very peaceful and light. The
wattle’s dead yellow shines in the hanging woods ;
the chip-ee-ehip of the honey-bird has a homely
sound; and the fringe of buttercups—how came
they there?—brings up a vision of English golden
meadows. There is something of that sense of
gladness which we feel on leaving the daily task
to find the sun still shining and the sky white and
blue. But now a hollow boom pervades the air,
and presently the ocean thunders into view. The
isthmus bar—the bridge of sighs, the gate of
Arthur’s natural prison—the famous or infamous
Eagle Hawk Neck lies at my feet. But let the
memories of the bad old times perish. How can
they lie remembered with that glorious sweep of
firm white sand in sight, those rugged cliffs
in the centre, those island-guards at each
horn, with that swelling flood pouring land-
ward with purple underglow of kelp, with
those white horses maned with rainbow light,
with that romantic trend of coast to the south
and the rosy Hippolytes set firmly in the blue ?
To-day there is no time to visit the wonders of
the shore : to see the Blow-hole with its swirling
rush of waters and weird, black mouth ; the
Natural Arch, the Bowl, and the Devil’s Kitchen.
Yet I would fain carry you to the north island
of the bay. It hears a rude resemblance to a
castle ; you have, after waiting till the kelpy
arms strain seaward,- to jump the moat before the
swelling green hills break to a volleying rush ;
and then, clinging to bushes and roots, you
creep along a narrow ledge and gain the summit.
A dark, turfy mound of trees falls to a fiat rock
terrace, fitted with natural seats, and forming, as
it looks to ocean, a perfect privacy of dreams. It
is full of solemn beauty: water and sky meet,
gulls dip, a whisper of waves reaches the ear—it
is a (dace where Homer might have been read to
a circle of white-robed Greeks. I know no finer
retreat for meditation on what is high and lovely
and of good report :
The world forgetting, by the world forgot.
But it is late afternoon, and the Taranna Road
waits.
Tasmanian wild flowers suffer m appearance
from not being massed : there are no glorious
breadths of intense color. Here is a slender blue
flower sweeter and daintier than the hyacinth of
the English woods ; and here, in the golden
creeper, we have a flower of peerless beauty.
Half-blown, it is a cup of the purest leaf-gold set
in sage-green filigree. It loves to star the sides
of banks and cuttings, and some day it may over-
run them as the primrose an English lane.
But the purple and the white heaths form a con-
siderable mass of color on the Taranna-road, and,
seated on a grey, cairn-like stone, I seem to hear a
fairy chime rung on their waxen trumpet-bells. It
is just the place for a dip into my reading-com-
panion. To travel well one must carry a book :
not an absorbing one crying to be read on the
instant, but one full of noble thoughts which can
be taken up and lovingly examined as one examines
precious stones. And it is a wise thing to form
environments for such thoughts, so that the words
may call up the place of reading, and the place the
thought. Especially is this good in an un-
memoried land: each one of us thus makes his
own legend, antiquity, and sacred association.
My travelling companion is the Imitation. Read-
ing it I hear the grave sweet voice of a Kempis
speaking from the romantic cell to the spiritual
ear of brave yet hopeful resignation and courage.
The sun calls to horse. Woody Island is before
me, set in a very lake of light; and in its cot and
rounded sheoaks there is a quaint suggestion of a
Bewick woodcut. A shag leaves a wake of rippled
silver. The barge with all its sails spread does not
seem to move. O perfect sunshine !
By the time I enter the valley that leads to
Port Arthur, now called Carnarvon, the sun is
touching the top of one wooded wall, and the
glistening gums stand in depths of shadow, but the
airy summit of the opposite wall still sleeps in the
glow of clear, purple light.
The crows are cawing before settling down, and
the sound calls up a dream of quiet avenues to
old manor-houses and deserted church-yards. Let
us canter through the shade and overtake the sun
at Carnarvon. . . . There it lies, bathed in the last
rays, with hedges of sweet briar, and rows of
willows and of oaks, and the ivied ruins of its old
church.
How the half-forgotten lines of Virgil come to
us with a penetrating sweetness in certain happy
combinations of time and place; is there not a
passage somewhere which tells of the calling of
the new lands by the old names ?
But here is Head Island.
It is the hour of sunset; on the hills
A rose-light slumbers ; in the quiet west,
Deep in its heart, soft splendours roll and rwn,
And twilight falls upon the dead who rest
So thick beneath my feet. Farewell, O Sun /
The far blue heaven fills
With starry lamps ; an echo of the roar
Of distant wave adds to the solitude
Where, heaped together, gentle, fierce, and rude
The trumpet wait on this forgetful shore.
0 sombre island, grave ! among thy shades
I stand on guard, the living with the dead,
And sadness infinite swells in my breast
For all man’s generations that have;fled
The lonely earth on which they found no rest :
Here as the slow light fades
How strange seems life ! We love, we strive, w.e hate,
We weep and passion ; grayer groiys the day ;
And one by one, friends, foemen, steal away ;
And Death and Time in silence close the gate.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE.
J. A. A ndrows [?]rauslates Bardeh[?]'s "Hymne"
To her, the dear, the fair benign
Who fills my heart with sunshine free,
Angel, immortal goddess mine !
Greeting in immortality !
Like the salt sea-breeze round the shores
A freshness through my life she brings,
And on my soul insatiate pours
The savor of Eternal things.
The casket whence soft perfumes fill
A favored nook, in airy flight;
Forgotten incense, burning still
In hidden fragrance through the night.
O deathless, changeless Love serene,
How token thy reality ?
A grain of musk, that scents unseen
The depths of my Eternity.
To her, the good, the fair benign,
Bearer of joy and health to me,
Angel, immortal goddess mine !
Greeting in immortality !
“ H.”: Faust has the body of Byron and soul of
Shelley.
“Fred. C.”: Some variants of “ carrying swag ”
are coiling his turkey, leading the bundle, and carrying
the curse.
W.H.S. : Heard a Tas. native assert that he had
been “ Showing an Atlas all over the West Coast.” This
for “ humping bluey.”
“M.D.”: The practice, if not the word of ring-
barking is no doubt co-equal with clearing land for culti-
vation in Europe, and may have been mentioned by some
of the old historians. That it was practised by the
colonists in North America is evident by the following
passage in “ The Life and Times of Sir William Johnson ”
(1738), viz.: “He occupied his time in girdling the trees
on his uncle’s land preparatory to clearing it.”
“M.” : Be larrikin : When I was a child an old
hand used to amuse me by chanting a ditty, each verse of
which ended with “ Larrikin Barney O’Hea.” He told
me he heard it as a boj- in London. This would make it
at least a hundred years of age. There was no mistaking
the larrildn. Also, re “ The Real M‘Kay,” What about
that very ancient Irish song :
Like a fool I took a wife
My fortunes for to try ;
She’s been the cause of all my strife —
For I married the real M‘Kay.
And what is the source of take shirokker for moving on*
or resuming a journey ? Heard all over Victoria.
A N.S.W. school-teacher’s opinion on educa-
tion : —I would have education secular, free, and compul-
sory ; school hours from 9 till 12 in the morning, Subjects
—Reading, writing, arithmetic, composition, drawing ;
upper classes in addition—elementary book-keeping,
physical and political geography, one science—in rota,-
tation. Sufficient drill to ensure discipline. Drawing to
be freehand, and also geometrical. Anything else to be
acquired by people’s own efforts, or at Technical College
centres, or per special arrangement, in afternoons.
Reasons for wishing abolition of other subjects Singing:
what is learned in theory does not compensate for time
used ; the songs become a nuisance to neighbors; the
voices often become strained. I never heard of a first-
class musician ascribing any of his success to our public
schools. History and descriptive geography : as at pre-,
sent, only cram ; if composition and reading be systema-
tically taught, these subjects will arise naturally, and be
better impressed. Sewing should be transmuted into
cutting-out, finishing, and sewing-machine work. French,
Latin, extensive drill, cooking, carpentry, swimming,
bank-books, all crowded in, so as to preclude any one
thing being perfectly known, and so as to exhaust the
physical frame—should go. At present, supposing a
child lucky enough to live in an artistic or a scientific
home atmosphere, his school hours don’t allow him
enough time to be imbued either with art or science.
Yon may object that Australian youth—already too free
—would run wild in afternoons. I think parents would
often be glad to set them to their life-work as soon as
possible, and we should get sound workers, from regular
“’prentice ” study, done.daily. And.from the one science
of the morning work I should exclude physiology,
natural history, or anything that would tempt, to
destruction of life, or irreverence for living things.
Physics, chemistry, and botany 'are the best, I think.
Now, there’s a lecture ! And I hate dogma. Oh 1 I’d
.abolish Kindergarten in Australian schools, unless " the
child’s circumstances necessitated his attending school
before seven. For the child from three to seven who
must go to school, Kindergarten is admirable ; it teaches
him Method, which he runs the chance of not learning
elsewhere. Otherwise, Kindergarten deprives him of the
one opportunity of self-development which modern sys-
tems leave him—that is, originality in his play. If
Froebel had learned Kindergarten in his infancy, we
should never have heard of him, genius as he undoubtedly
was.


■ ■
a
Sydney s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
Symptoms
of Dreaded Diseases which
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less se £ious
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unniarrried man,
“ Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoQ-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
arc affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
AT
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
Debility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Offioe, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, bashtulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. Ihe cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious—successful. Don’t delay. Immediate
action is far the best. . „„ - .
ej
€
m
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
I ake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. . .
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges.
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don't be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
CURED, we are ready to help you Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO —
1
i
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Ltreets, lycaey,
CORRESPONDENCE P.O. BOX 135.
I
»
Elizabeth Street,
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universil n-s, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He lias, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Yonugf Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
IMIMIIH
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescripts Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor, 1 ” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily, |
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE. |
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
4 TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOIt and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Rev, £l which in most cases is sufficient
fora complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for IVEAKN ESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE MEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
TH ERA PI O N
MARK.
This successful ami liiulilv popular remtUv, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Iticord,
Kostan, Jobert, Velpeau, ami otlieis, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No.l
in a remat ka dy so 11 time, olten a tevv days only ,
removes all discharge s from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
anti other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity ol tlm umod, scttivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewhole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nerv.ms exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
’* ie Principal
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Therai’lon ” as it appears <nt the Government
Stamp in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Therafion-— FELTON, 6EIMWADE & Co., and TtOCKE, TOMPSITT & Co.
VAR I CO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng,,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN IN STRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away 1 Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c. ;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & C 0„
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pillr.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs; no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE ; Pairiphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourkb Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
ATROPHY
IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit —a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
Manhood. I .osses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures of Vacuum Appliance.
Address: -DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘‘Liglxt and Xjife. 7 '
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Uunter-st., SYDNEY


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
When Full, will he Drawn on the Advertised Date of Each
Principal Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ;
NEWCASTLE TATTERSALLS C. Dec. 2
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,
Name
Address
£ s z
shares in the above.
ROSEHILL S. December 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me 1 shares in the above.
Name
Address
SUMMER C. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : _ shares in the above.
N ame .
Address ;
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame,
Address
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
* • u . ■■ ‘- ;t ' i
N ame .
Address ..
ANNIVERSARY H January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ■. -
Address
NOTE.—The SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Race,
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


I)? <alasS
of FaSbioi)
fItITHOHY • dORDERN’B
PORTFOLIO OF . • »
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY.
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions «
Horticultural and Garden implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
BOOMS .... 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOABDEBS 30s. to £3 3s.
farati
>Sf3
MELBOURNE.
USE
Spooocr’s
FOR
1 BROWN LEATHER
I BOOTS & SHOES
E OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Minin? Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Meltoonrne.
THE
D
HEAR
“Common Sense Ea 1 ”
Drums ” relieve Deafness an™
Head Noises, where medical ski 11
fails. The only Scientific Aura l
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear’
comfortable, invisible, no (dan'
gerous) wire or metal attach'
ment. Recommended by physi'
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins street, Melbourne.
Where the Dead Men Die, and Other
Foems, by Bahcrokt Boake; w >th memoir,
portrait, and 32 illustrations, ss.
Sydney Lager Bier
. * . TOOK . * .
FIRST PRIZE & GOLD MEDAL
. . AGAINST . .
all competitors
. • . AT . ’ •
The Sydney Royal Agricultural
Society’s Show.
7\(istra liao LE^^ a 1 Proyid*i)t Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional pdicms themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst 6 the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £415,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors • The Hon Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Depiity-
D Chairman® A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. • R. j’. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Established 1819.
Sulkies, £i 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
%
ma
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m
m.
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
-with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA3MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time 1
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr JUSTICE MURRAY and Mrs. Murray both certify to the Curative
Properties of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. Upon their recommendation
several obstinate cases of eye-complaints have been cured with the Lotion after
the failure of doctors’ treatment and the frequent use of other so-called remedies.
They give Mr. Rose full permission to use their name.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOXffE PBOPBIET OE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
1
mm ..
Telephone, 26 KOGrARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort, Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand 1
Water Baths <
also, splendid
Tall trill accommodate GOO persons.
a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
'Stabling Accommodation.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS MODERATE.
THE
‘ Plum’
THE
THB
‘ Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rimrs like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
nf vears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
y ’ The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake. . .
Price
(Single Razor, in strong leather case, 103. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
[Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
TNT S ’W. Carriage & Saclcllery Manf
* * Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY WHEELS, or any description ot SADDLERY r
It so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent.
by 0u l r y 0ne-m°an Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 -3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £11. Double Buggies,
£20 Buckboard Buggies from £910s. Laaies Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward vou our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
Company
SYDNEY
(olose to Redfern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* Duncan Mclntyre, who was sent out in March, 1866,
to look for Leichhardt’s remains. He died, and was
buried near the head of the Flinders River, Feb., 1867.
Will Ogilvie’s charming volume of verse,
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” is now ready. In
case of any local difficulty or delay in supply, the
best plan is to order direct from The Bulletin,
enclosing 4s. 6d. in stamps or postal notes; and
get the book by return post.
A conspicuous bore interested, among
other things, in the preservation of gum-trees,
tells a Sydney daily that he has “ written on the
subject in conjunction with the native birds,
animals and flora.” The literary ability of the
“ native birds,” &c., has not hitherto been sus-
pected. “ Many eminent persons,” he adds,
“ wr ote thanking me for the great trouble I took
in the matter. It is to be hoped a bill will be
brought in to protect, rather than to destroy,
them.” If the “many eminent persons” are in
danger of being destroyed steps certainly should
be taken to protect them.
McIntyre’s Ride.
Mclntyre went riding,
Riding to the west.
(A ghost glides through the gidya, and across the
rough hill-crest.)
Hear the hoof-beats clatter
On the drought-dried down,
But Cooper’s Creek was empty, with a bed and
banks of brown.
Mclntyre went riding,
Seeking Leichhardt’s grave;
(Oh, the quick-gasped curses and the prayers
when bushmen rave !)
Riding by the Blinders,
Fever in his veins,
And blurred and blue the ranges backed the bare
and baking plains.
Mclntyre went riding,
Faint and fever-racked.
(Oh, the cool, wide ward-room ! oh, the ground
agape and cracked !)
By the pine and sand-patch
Where the nmlgas grow
(Dead horses in the desert, and the camels crawl-
ing slow).
Mclntyre went riding,
Riding to his death.
(Oh, the new-made grave-mound, and the scarlet
Sturt-pea wreath !)
Lone the grave they made him—
No shorn priest to shrive,
To bind the restless spirit or the roving soul to
I gyve.
Mclntyre goes riding—
Wan and white he rides
Ghostwise through the gidya, wild warrigals for
guides.
Wraith among the ridges
(Hark, the wild-dog whines !)
The myall hears him gallop—past the sand-patch
—past the pines.
W.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.
A Downs Homestead.
«« Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.”—
Wordsworth.
Kareena stands by sunlit waters shining,
Remote from din of towns,
And sheltered from harsh western winds repining
That sweep the Darling Downs.
Wild cedars tall, and fragrant pepperinas
Shadow the rose-decked home.
The drooping date-palms kiss the sweet verbenas
And jasmine white as foam.
Deep peace reigns over downs and streams and
islands,
And the flower-scented air
Only resounds with notes from plains and high-
lands,
Bird-music, far and near ;
With cheerful sound of laughing children’s voices,
And song of honey bees,
And carolling when each tuhitt rejoices
Among the bunya trees.
In summer fields, where mild-eyed flocks are
straying
Rise ricks of golden hay.
In summer fields are rosy children playing,
Where blooms the English may.
No ploughman prays in vain the mighty mother
O’er all the smiling land,
Ungrudgingly as brother unto brother
She gives with open hand.
One wearied of the court and camp and city,
And townsmen’s ceaseless strife
That checks and dries the springs of love and pity,
Here leads a purer life ;
In every bird that through the forest wanders
Unending pleasure finds,
In every breeze that stirs the oleanders
Sweet balm for wounded minds.
Q.
BERNARDINE.


&
b 3 ? inos H NOIONIHSVM
WITH EVERY NOVELTY
Brushes
Pri c'es Mod e rate
& Qualify Unexcelled
pERFItyIEKf
lti0&:f U ” UF *CTuR E
CtMItMTEE THt
IiOYERS Baking Row£>ii
Hotel
wfrcm /2/6 perdat/'&aptt
IACLUtTVEOF ALL MEALS AMD ATTEMDAMCE
Aujtkaua
){ M?ore.
4mp%£F
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
P #
, St 3 *..
Wellington, N.Z., 19th,February, 1898.
ROSS & JACK, Agents for P & B Materials,
10 Custom House Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Dear Sirs.—We have resolved to use P& B Building Paper in all our houses, and
we shall probably enclose them from the roof to the ground. It would be as well,
therefore, if you were to make certain of having a stock always on hand. We shall
use the 3-ply only.—Yours truly,
CLERE FITZGERALD & RICHMOND, Architects.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. VV. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rosb&Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington,N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigs, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Piierson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W,
HE LID ON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
THE MARBLE BAR,
• • PITT STREET, SYDNEY . .
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Paintings.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says .
"• J. ADAMS, Manaokr.]
Do not miss The Marl)!*' Bar/’
Faizxlesa Dentistry,
THE ....
Institute.
Dh. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. D. ASH HI), Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in nil its Branches
Tjeyitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Ilollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOO' H POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellenee, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ILLER
MPA
BIMTI
Trade
Hark :
n 9k ■~O PH I CTORC ' ji£>
« Distillers Company IS
I™ EDINBURGH.
4 Jifj/feW
GXI'M
"y a.
h>-r~Z?JJ%L‘£z£S.
*'-•&£*■/ “ini /,iA imu/yn^*
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
) drink the very best
on can get. “ D.C.L.”
cotch is the best. One
(lass at meals, diluted
ji ther with aerated or
jdain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
' D.C.L.’
Sufferers from Uric Acid
Take special note 'WW* TjTE IP T?
ti»t r UlilUl
is not an artificial preparation from
mineral water,
but is
the wonderful curative mineral water itself.
Bottled direct from Maori springs.
Cures Gout, Indigestion, Rheumatism, Sluggish Liver,
&c., &c., &c.
TESTIMONIALS from doctors of highest reputation may be had from
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., O’Connell-st., Sydney,
AGENTS for N.S.W. and QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY of
YANKEE DOODLE
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
10 America.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
orces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
leat was so intense that some refused to
ight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
lesperately. As the day waned, and the
lagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
s m with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
fight of battle was in their eyes, they
new no fear, and many a wild cheer
rose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
10 Australia.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a ddightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although m Id, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY EOR HIMoELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 980.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1898.
Pbiok 6n.
The Clifton amateur meteorologist, Mr.
A. E. Stopford, forecasts another storm
to take place about the 22nd instant. Tt
'will not be ao wild as “ Luita.”
At 12 noon.
A t 2 p.m.
At 4 p.m.
A v Amateur Meteorologist !! “ Well, there certainly has been something
amateurish about the weather lately. The above is sample day. This weeß,
NATURAL HISTORY IN SCHOOLS.
Dr. Ross, M.P., desiies to know what is
taught in public schools on the subject of Aus-
tralian natural history. He asks whether the
teachers give lessons on snake-bite and how
to cure it.
■The anticipated shower of
the constellation Leo, of which your vajtlable .
columns gave notice last Saturday, has proved
a disappointment this year, at least so far as'
observers situated in our longitude are con—
cemed. A
First class in snake-bite stand up !
London, Nov. 18,-Messrs. George
Mnsgrove and George Darrell, theatn-
,„l managers, have engaged M. de
Ttoguemont for a lecturing tour.
The Lecturer “In conclusion, ladies and every time ! ”
truth ia stranger than fiction ; but, as an investment. 111 back
London, Nov. 17.—The Sultan has
made inquiries regarding Lord Salisbury’s
reference to dying nations in his speech
at the annual meeting of the Primrose
League. If the speech was meant for
Turkey, the Sultan warmly repudiates the
assertion after the recognition by the
Kaiser of the nation’s vitality.
The Sick Man : “ Allah i) Allah ! Any nation that can survive
a visit from Kaiser Wilhelm has vitality enough to please the most
fastidious. ”
Editor (to artist) : “ I say, here’s a whole page of
your usual weekly drivel, and not a single reference to
Geo. Reid—not even so much as an eye-glass.' If th©
circulation falls off this week we will take it out of your
wages.”
Our artist, with a hollow, sardonic laugh, tumbled down stairs and landed in the
cashier’s room.
VARIOUS MATTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleop, of
Potany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to Willi am Macleod, Managing Oireetor.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. II.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria., S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial N eivspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Giving to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —1 \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
sbtcZZefzoi.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1898.
To a Number of Correspondents.
The Editor of The Bulletin. —Dear Sir,—l would like
if you could advise me what is a good country for a young
man to go to—some place where a cove would have a
chance to get on. There is no show here now. Do you
think Borneo is any good, or is there any prospect in the
Phillipines when the Americans get into possession ? I
have also been advised to try some parts of South Africa.
I will be glad to hear from you on this subject.
The above letter reached The Bulletin
last week, and other letters just like it have
been of regular recurrence in this office for
the last six or seven years. Presumably
they also reach other newspaper offices.
There are all descriptions of them : ill-
spelled, worse - spelled, purely phonetic,
greasy, blotted, dirty with various grada-
tions of dirt, red with the dust of Oool-
gardie, brown with the dust of Cobar,
smelling sometimes of eucalyptus, often
of horse, very often of plug-tobacco. They
are long, short and medium, and vari-
ously profane. The stamps on the en-
velope are of all the Seven Provinces ; the
writers often hail from places like Uardry,
and Doodlekine, and Boppy Mountain, and
Dry Diggings, and Dooboobetic, and other
spots that no one hears of in his sober
moments; the writing is variously awful,
and the writer sometimes describes himself
as a bloke and sometimes as a cove. But he
always asks the same question : What is the
address of that legendary place where a cove
can get on, this being a country where there
is now no chance whatsoever for a bloke.
* * * *
The Bulletin hereby answers all these
letters in one sentence. It doesn’t know the
name or address of any such country. There
never was any such country within its know-
ledge. Now and then, when a new land was
discovered, there was a brief spurt of pro-
sperity for everybody while the plunder was
being shared out, but the sort of land which
is meant by the correspondent who asks
where a cove can get on seems to have had
no settled existence anywhere, or at any
time. There is a vast amount of emigration
in search of it. All over the world there is
a steady movement towards that distant hill,
which looks green afar off, and is very dry
and bare when reached ; and a few excep-
tional individuals who had no luck in the
old country grow rich in the new .one,
just as exceptional individuals grow rich any-
where. But the person who wants to know
where the mass of ordinai’y individuals, of
ordinary intelligence and industry, can rely
on constant work and decent wages, is only
wasting postage-stamps. Either this world
has missed its destiny up to now, or else it
never had one to miss. It has spent a pretty
long time in doing it, too. The globe is
middle-aged—-if it isn't getting well on to old
age. There is a streak of civilisation, mostly
consisting of debts, and fortresses and guns,
in Europe, North America, Australia, and a
few other scattered spots, though even the
civilisation of Europe tails off into semi-
barbarism about the fringes of that small
continent. There is a tired semi-civilisation
in South America, which seems to have fired
off its one cartridge, and missed. There is a
dead semi-civilisation in China and Persia
which never had a cartridge to fire ; it pegged
out in the bow-and-arrow days. And the
rest is mostly plain barbarism, or barbarism
with trimmings. Among them all there is
no place to which any self-respecting paper
can advise its correspondent to go in the
glad certainty that he is striking the real
promised land at last.
* * * *
Of all countries, Australia is the one which
ought to be the working-man’s paradise, but
it has missed its destiny worse than almost
any other land on earth. Probably it is one
among the half-dozen best lands that the
sun shines on even now, but it had more
chances to begin with than any other com-
munity of modern history, and it has fooled
away more chances than any of them. Its
only consolation is that, simply because it
started with so many opportunities, there
are more hopes still left for it than for most
of its contemporaries, despite the monu-
mental ass it has been and the one it still is.
It began with a whole continent—a reasonably
fertile one also, in many places—and one of
the richest gold deposits on earth for its for-
tune. It had no dangerous neighbors, no wars,
practically no military or naval burdens, no
hard-fighting aboriginal races to contend
with ; and it was the only one of all the new
nations which made its beginning in days of
comparative enlightenment. All the other
failures among the nations can plead in ex-
tenuation that the seeds of their downfall
were sown by the misgovernment of the dark
ages when man didn’t know how to come in
out of the wet. Australia had no dark ages
in the ordinary historical sense. It began its
real existence in the gold days with the
biggest and richest endowment on record. It
could find profitable employment for almost
every able-bodied male not otherwise em-
ployed, at making roads, bridges, railways,
and all manner of public works, and it had
its land-revenue with which to pay for them,
so that it neither required to borrow nor to
seriously burden the community with taxes.
And Australia now, with, in proportion to
population, the biggest dead horse on earth,
and with its constant struggle to keep its
head above water, is mainly the record of a
lost opportunity. What remains of the
opportunity—the tail-end of the great
chance it started with—is being further lost
every day through the want of courage to
face things as they are and to attempt to re-
trieve the past.
* * * »
Australia now has thousands of men want-
ing work. If also has work for them all to
do in the way of opening up the country—
making more roads and bridges and railways
and irrigation works. All these are urgently
wanted, and they would mostly yield profit
to the Treasury when constructed, and also
make the State lands more valuable, thereby
yielding more profit, and make room for new
population, which would still ■ further en-
hance the revenue. And it has the money
to do these works with, if its rulers had the
courage to levy the necessary taxation—a
taxation which would even then be vastly
more moderate than that of many European
countries. It would make the country no
poorer ; if New South Wales paid £2,000,000
a year for public works, and the money was
spent in New South Wales, the end of each
year would find just as much money in New
South Wales as there was at the beginning,
and no increase of debt, and £2,000,000
worth of valuable assets as well, in the shape
of new works constructed, awl a revenue of
probably £30,000 a year, putting it at a very
moderate computation, from these assets.
And afcer ten years of this self-reliant policy
New South Wales would still have as much
money as it started with, and no increase of
debt, and £20,000,000 worth of new assets,
less a small percentage for depreciation,
and £ooo,ooo or so annually of extra revenue
from these assets. The old debt burden
would be lighter by that time, because it
would be spread over a larger population ;
and the country would be enormously richer
by virtue of its new revenue and its unmort-
gaged works, and trade would be improved
by the forced circulation of money, and there
would be work for a vast number of the
people who now write to The Bulletin ask-
ing where they had better go to get away
from the newest country on earth.
* * * •
And, as things are, the tail-end of this
country s great lost opportunity keeps vanish-
ing. I here are vast areas, still nearly
empty, which would support a larger popula-
tion than all Australia now possesses if they
were made available by roads, bridges, rail-
ways, and irrigation-works, and there are
people wanting employment at constructing
these works, and people wanting to use the
land when it is available. But the borrowed
foreign money costs 3 or 3j per cent., and
hardly any work that is still to be constructed
would yield more than half that for a con-
siderable number of years, and the country
can’t see its way to pay the difference, and
it has come to be regarded as a black and
awful sin to build public works without bor-
rowing the money, so these essential im-
provements must stand over indefinitely.
Manufactures are slow and unprogressive
because Australia is afraid to take serious
steps towards shutting out foreign competi-
tion for fear of offending the fellow who
lends the money. The country is loaded
down with tribute paid to absentees
of all kinds—absentee landholding syndicates,
private property-holders, squatters, banks,
mining companies, insurance companies, and
trading corporations ; and it daren’t put on
a tax which will discourage these burdens
out of existence and preserve these valuable
sources of revenue for Australians, lest the
person who lends the money should be
scared at such un-British proceedings. It is
afraid even to deal with the big Australian
land-holder and compulsorily purchase his
waste provinces for closer settlement, be-
cause it couldn’t do that without treating
the foreigner in like manner, and that
might “discourage the investment of capi-
tal. ” The great difficulty about starting a
State Bank, or State Insurance Department,
or an efficient State Land Bank, or a State
note-issue, is that all these things are liable
to tread on the vested corn of the foreign
individual who lends the money. There are
many reasons why Australia is the great
lost opportunity that it is ; and, so far as
The Bulletin can see, nine-tenths of them
are connected, directly or indirectly, with
the foreign money-lender. This paper can’t
advise the man who wants to get away from
Australia about any reliably better land to
go to, but neither can it advise the man out-
side Australia to come here unless he is in
a very bad land indeed. Judging by present
indications, this country’s destination is that
of the busted South American republic—not
the most busted kind of South American
republic, but the rather better-class variety.
Foreign capital can’t last for ever, and by
the time it stops it is probable that Australia
will have leaned on it so long that it will be
too old to learn the art of standing on its
own two feet.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Swish!—Bang!
The jury in the Meagher-Norton assault-case,
recently disposed of in Sydney, expressed
itself, in the face of strong testimony to the
contrary, as convinced that the assailant had
used the scourging end of the whip—not the
bludgeoning end ; and, as said jury further
expressed its “warmest sympathy” with
Meagher, on the ground of severe provocation,
a £5 fine was considered adequate to meet
the case. But since—thick end of whip, or
thin Norton, according to the clearest
medical testimony, had received, from behind
or beside, severe injury in a dangerous part of
the head, the infliction of such a nominal
penalty will simply mean that the irate and
viudictive citizen who can afford a fiver will
now probably be cheerfully investing that
amount in public assault and battery of
his foe. Also, said foe —being very possi-
bly in such unatliletic physical condition as
would render a violent personal struggle dan-
gerous to health, or even life, and holding,
naturally enough, that for the sake of those
dependent on him he is justified in safeguarding
that life at ail hazards—will probably take to
walking about “ heeled.” In the case, for in-
stance, of a man suffering from a certain con-
dition of heart or brain, an attack upon him
with a so-called non-deadly weapon would in
reality mean a most imminent endangerment of
his life; and such man, knowing this, would
certainly be morally, and even legally, justified
in defending that life with a pistol. And, in
any case, it will be found here, as it has been
found elsewhere, that undue leniency in the
matter of attack with whip, stick, or fist means
increased resort to deadlier weapons. More
whip, in a word, means more pistol. The case
isn’t one of avoidance of two evils—it’s a deli-
berate acceptance of the greater.
♦
Three Railways.
Maoriland is a good deal worried about its
three great unfinished railways—the Main
Trunk (North Island) line, the Midland, and
the Otago Central. They were all started by
bygone Conservative Governments in the big
loan days when all M.L. was painted red, and
the country looked on the beer when it was
long, and had to empty the snakes out of its
boots before it could get them on in the morn-
ing. Then the Tory Governments and the
boom and the big loan policy died, and the
three unfinished lines are on Seddon’s hands.
And this is his difficulty : (1) If he borrows the
,£3,600,000 required to complete them he will
be cursed (quite deservedly) for reverting to the
old disastrous loan policy. (2) While they
remain unfinished he gets particular Gehenna
from the different sets of inhabitants, for each
set wants its line badly; also, the unfinished
lines yield a far smaller percentage of interest
than the completed ones woulddo. (3)Theannual
appropriation of £lOO,OOO out of revenue won’t
finish them for 36 years, and the country will
be very tired long before then. Yet apparently
Seddon hasn’t the courage to propose sufficient
new taxation or to hunt up sufficient new sources
of revenue, to enable him to pay £500,000 or
£600,000 a year towards the construction of
these three much-needed trunk lines, and
thereby finish them in the reasonable period of
six years or so. Seddon, in this matter, is an
example of the disadvantage of staggering be-
tween two opinions. He doesn’t want to borrow
because Maoriland is up to its hair in debt
already. He wants to construct public works
because the country must have them. And he
hasn’t quite courage enough to find the extra
revenue required to get on w'itli these works at
anything like reasonable velocity. So Seddon,
in this matter, is nowhere in particular. It is
a fine opening for a heaven-born financier, if
there ever was such a person in these provinces—
somebody with a cold heart, and an iron pur-
pose, and a No. 8 hat, and the long business
nose of Abraham, and, above all, with a capa-
city for getting out of the rut. Even in heavily-
taxed Maoriland there are still a few means of
raising revenue left. The man with the nose
above-mentioned might double the totalisator
percentage payable to Government; raise the
minimum fine on the common, ordinary drunk,
and some other classes of offenders, to ,£1 ; run
a State lottery—which couldn’t do any more
damage to public morals than Tattersall does,
assuming, on no evidence, the Tattersall is a
damaging institution ; double the absentee-tax
and the tax on patent medicines ; tax foreign
fire-insurance companies ; and charge income-
tax, as Great Britain does, on dividends paid
to foreign holders of Government stock. (This
w'ould probably put an end to the flotation of
new loans, but Maoriland would be better with-
out them, and it w'ould probably make it neces-
sary to renew the old loans simply by telling
the holders that they couldn’t get their prin-
cipal at present, but 3 per cent, interest would
be paid till it was forthcoming). And if all
this additional revenue was set aside for rail-
way-building, and the Government issued
<£500,000 of legal-tender notes redeemable in
(say) 10 years (a province with a note-issue of
over £900,000 could easily keep half-a million
of paper afloat and maintain it at par), and set
the work going in real earnest with the pro-
ceeds, M. L. might get its three trunk lines
finished by 1905 or thereabouts.
The Crown as a Fizgig.
The Crown is still in a very tight place in
Victoria over the Russell-Potter abortion
case. Some time ago the Crown, wishing to
put down abortionists, authorised a detective
to lay a trap for two suspects. He hired a
widow to submit to the operation, or as much
of it as was required to procure a conviction ;
in fact the Crown, through its agents, incited
the accused to illegally operate on one of its
agents—the widow aforesaid. It also paid them
for doing the operation, and later on got them
gaoled for doing it. Then one of the prisoners
proceeded against the Crown, through its
agents, for illegally “procuring” him to do
the operation, and against the two agents for
conspiring to incite him to break the law. A
small, harmless P.M. dismissed the case on the
ground that “no offence w’as disclosed,” but
the matter was carried to the Full Court,
and the Full Court, possibly because it
has a more independent grip on its bil-
let than has a mere P.M., ordered the
matter to be submitted to a grand jury. The
situation is highly interesting. There is no
doubt that operations to procure abortion are
illegal; the fact that this particular abor-
tionist is doing 18 months in a large, retired
stone building is solid evidence of that. There
is no doubt, either, that it is criminal to incite
or hire another person to do an illegal act; the
statutes are as solid on that point as on the
other. And the assertion that the Crown’s
agent did engage these persons to do this illegal
act rests on his own official oath to that effect.
Of course, the Crown’s motive w’as good;
opinions may be very much divided about the
more or less dirty way in which it set about its
motive, but in a general way the goodness of
the motive itself may be allowed. The Crowm
had a pig-headed idea that something was
wrong, and it incited some people to do that
wrong thing once so that it might lock them up
and prevent them doing it oftener. On the
other hand, the prisoners allege that they
weren’t in the habit of doing the wrongful act
in question ; that they w’ere perfectly respect-
able though humble citizens whom the Crow'n
tempted with gold and led astray, and they
allege that the Crown is a spy and a pimp and
a procuress and a fizgig. The Crown has only
the goodness of its motive to allege against
these charges, and there is no statute which
makes any definite allowance for motives.
Altogether it is an interesting situation.
♦
The W.A. Dry-Blowers’ Trouble.
The Westralian new’ Mining Bill solves the
difficulty of the dual title by giving the lease-
holder sole right to the area for which he pays
rent. The digger and the dry-blower, who
have hitherto been allowed to look for alluvial
on or near the surface of the lease while the
leaseholder had the sole right to all reef gold,
is solemnly warned off. If this new idea
doesn’t prove to be loaded, then the luck of the
Forrest Government is something wonderful.
The leaseholder has no special claim to con-
sideration in the matter. He took up his lease
under a law which gave the prospector full
authority to look for alluvial on the property;
he knew the terms of the bargain, and his rent
was fixed according to these terms. When
Govt, gives him the alluvial also, it makes him
a present to which he isn’t entitled in any way.
On the other hand, the private miners poured
into the country partly because this same
alluvial gold was at their disposal; they
helped the revenue by paying food and
drink and tobacco duties, and fines for
being drunk, and generally did their duty
as citizens. When the Forrest Government
takes a great part of their living from them in
order to make a present of it to the foreign
mining syndicates, and doesn’t “compensate
them in auy way, but simply leaves them to
walk back to the East or otherwise shift for
themselves, they may rise up and club that
Government, or again they may not. If they
do, it will be a distinctly illegal act, and all
right-thinking people w'ho respect law’n’order
will be much shocked. Of course, if the
miners bad a majority in Parliament, and
they confiscated by formal Act of Parliament


all the property of the FORRESTS. and[ the
rest of the ruling gang, and left them out in
the streets, ar.d gave their goods to the dry-
blowers, and they kicked against it, then the
conduct of the Forrests and others would be
quite as illegal and quite as shocking >ut in
the meantime, when a man s alluvial churn is
his only property, and he is in lawful possession
of it, and the crowd in office makes a new law to
throw him out without compensation and give
his property to some oneelse, itis quite obvious
that he can’t try to hold it without acting in a
shockingly illegal manner. Ihe rule of all
Respectable People is that the law must be
obeyed, and plainly the crowd in power can
make any kind of law it pleases. If the mining
men were represented in Parliament according
to their numbers, probably the new Mining Bi
would have been lost, but then the crowd in
power has made another law whereby the man
at Goolgardie has only one-twentieth the repre-
sentation of the one at Ashburton, which
settles that matter. So the alluvial diggers
must either acquiesce, or else wreck the statutes
in a truly disgraceful fashion.
The Things that are Always About to
Happen.
Premier Reid and Attorney-General Want
scorn, of course, any truckling to the Labor-
party, but this is the magnificent bid they put
in for the Labor-vote when Barton’s censure-
motion was heard of (Daily Telegraph re-
port) :
“ This action of the Opposition will, of course, seriously
delay business t”-“ Yes,” said Mr. Reid. “Everything
was prepared for the submission of the Federal resolu-
tions to the Council. Then I had in my hands, prepared
in Cabinet to-day, a written notice of motion for the im-
mediate introduction of a Bill to make provision for the
prevention and settlement of trade disputes. This Bill
has been urgently called for, in view of the threatened
serious trouble in an important trade, which is likely to
take place early next year. Again, my colleague, the
Minister for Public Instruction, had also a notice pre-
pared for an Early-closing Bill” (“ which,” said Mr. Want,
who happened to be present at this time, “ everyone is
calling out for.”) “The Minister for Public Works had
notices ready for no less than 10 public works, including
three railways, which had been passed by the Public
Works Committee. All these will have to be laid aside
for the time, because members of the Opposition are again
making a discreditable attempt to get into office.”
Now that the members of the Government have
successfully finished their discreditable attempt
to remain in office, and there has been no
serious delay, this beautiful programme bad
better bustle along. At every political crisis
Reid breaks the news that, if thrown out, he
will be prevented doing something tremendous
for the masses, which something lie was just
about to suddenly accomplish all at once. At
last general election he was deeply grieved to
think that if he didn’t get in again he would be
deprived of the chance of giving the police an
annual holiday (which hasn’t come along as
yet), and granting the money for an increase in
Civil Service salaries (he has granted enough to
give a rise of about 18s. each per annum), and
preventing any tinkering with the tariff (since
tinkered with). Election before (1895) he was
all broke up in public at the thought that if
he didn’t get back to office the immediate re-
form of the Upper House (now entirely
dropped) might be postponed for a long time.
Same old George every time.
—
Tlie N.S.W National Art Gallery.
“ Smith ” in reply to Raphael Sanzio Jones :
Dear Bulletin. —Your contributor, Jones, means well,
but leads a forlorn hope. His order is too large. Writer
would be only too happy to assist him in denuding the
walls of the Art Gallery of pictures that to their respec-
tive tastes seemed bad. The gap should be considerable.
Each would then probably have a secret hankering to re-
instate what the other feilow had pulled down. Herein
lies the trouble. Enlarge your committee of critics,
and, with a few notable exceptions, everything on the
walls would come under the ban, likewise be approved.
The catholicity of taste in Art, whether music, literature
or painting, &c., is something marvellous. In a liberal
community every individual has a right to his own taste,
and the right to pander to it in so far as it interferes with
no one else. The Art Gallery being national property, no
one should be allowed to monopolise its possibilities.
The Town Hall organ is a municipal asset, and the city
organist recognises this fact musically in his programmes.
And the question of Education ? Best served by this
broad treatment. First coax your public. Let them admire
the rot (to you) if they like it. Some day the rot
may tire, and the patient, silent picture alongside (that
you admire), from evoking a mere casual glance, per-
chance of contempt, may at length arrest, then arouse,
then pour its beauty drop by drop into the scoffer’s
heart. So give us our Gallery just as it is with all its
mongrel show. Let us suffer evil that good may come,
Let Jones linger over his “ Garden by the River.” In
the “Sunlit Haven” Smith will find something
more satisfying to his artistic sensibilities. And
while Jones gloats over Margetson, the wearied Smith
will lift his eyes unto Hood above, and find refresh-
ing dew. Then both will turn w’ith mouthed disdain
from the “ Requiescat.” And the other man’s had taste
will invariably warm each with a righteous glow of satis-
faction.
But, for the love of man, do not let us value
Art by shekels. Finally, Smith has a plaint, too. He
doesn’t object so much to the bad things being
bought as to the good things being missed. Some
of the finest painters in the world, dead and living, are
represented on our walls either miserably or not at all.
And why do the trustees invariably take pictures out of
original frames, designed by the artist and harmonising
with the subject, in order' to substitute pompous gilt-
edged borders, often quite alien to the feeling of the
picture and spoiling its’simplicity ?
+
Closer Settlement.
One of tbe best ideas in the new Victorian
Land Bill is the series of clauses giving the
Government power to compulsorily purchase
large estates and cut them up for closer settle-
ment. No province wants such a proviso
worse than Victoria. It is not that the large
estates are unusually large or unusually numer-
ous, for in these respects the province has come
off better than most of its neighbours. The
trouble is that many of them are located in the
most fertile, and what should be the most
thickly-peopled, part of the country. Right at
the back door of Melbourne there are huge
grass areas kept in a state of nature with only
a few' sheep roaming over them. If these could
be broken up they would afford homes and em-
ployment for 100,000 more people close up to
the capital, and the extra revenue that would
ensue would give the depressed province an
enormous lift. No doubt, the owners will cut
them up some day and let them out to
rack-rented tenants, but these owners are
very slow to move, and the population is
drifting away meanwhile to look for
homes further afield. And, in any case,
no community which knows enough to dodge
the inclemency of the elements wants to create
a class of burdened tenant-farmers wl.<> touch
their hats to the “ squire.” Nobody supposes
that anything will come of the new proposal,
for the Council, which was almost reasonable
in the early days of the Turner Ministry, is
now wildly rampant again, and throws out
everything. The said Council has great mone-
tary interests in Melbourne, but it is too slow
in its think-apparatus to see how Melbourne
would boom again if a vastly-increased popula-
tion was settled in its immediate vicinity. bo
Minister Best’s idea is only an interesting
dream, after all.
+
Appeals from Acquittals.
British criminal jurisprudence has always set
its face against any attempt being made to
review a verdict of “ not guilty. And very
properly so, provided, that proper measures
have been taken to ensure that the interests of
the public, as well as the interests of the
accused, are attended to. At first sight, it
would seem contrary to that principle that an
order of justice dismissing a summary criminal
information should, as in the recent Vic. case,
in which the famous Madame Brussels was
concerned, be subject to review by a higher court.
But, when one remembers the constitution of the
average Vic. bench of justices, the frequently
whispered allegations of pecuniary and personal
bias, the revelations of the Lormer inquiry, and
the crass ignorance, class feeling, and doubtful
honesty of so many Vic. justices, it would
have been nothing short of a national calamity
if the Full Court had held that justices’ orders
of dismissal were not subject to review. They
have already too much power, and know how
to exercise it, in being given a practically
absolute discretion in questions of fact; but to
have given them in addition the power to
repeal Factories Acts, Police Offences Acts,
Licensing Acts, and any other Acts that
offended their class prejudices or affected their
own pockets, by simply dismissing without the
risk of appeal any cases that came before them,
would have made Police-court justice an even
more ulcerous thing than it is. It is certainly
a violent reflection on the administration of the
law' in Victoria to have to admit that it is far
better to violate a sound principle of criminal
jurisprudence, and allow appeals from ac-
quittals, than to run the risk of having justice
administered in the low'er courts according to
the caprices, the prejudices, or the bribableness
of the honorary justices of the peace.
The Crow-eaters’ Labor Platform.
The new revised programme of S.A. Labor-
party :
1. Stopping any further alienation of Crown lands and
substituting instead a system of leasing.
2. The remission of the duties on tea in bulk, raw coffee,
cocoa, sugar, and kerosene, and upon other articles which
are not grown, nor produced, in the province ; and result-
ing deficiency in the revenue to be made up by increasing
the tax on unimproved land values. .
3. Amendment of Land Values Assessment Act of 1893.
4. Encouragement of local industries and the fuller
development of the resources of the province.
5. A steam boilers’ explosion Bill, early closing of shops,
amendment of Employers Liability Act (its provisions to
apply to all workers, including seamen), amendment of
Shops and Factory Acts, amendment of Workmen’s Liens
Act, a minimum rate of wages and maximum hours of
labor where practicable. .
6. Amendment of electoral laws by giving greater
facilities for the registration and transfer of electors and
a redistribution of seats by an alteration of the boun-
daries upon a population basis.
7. Reform of the Legislative Council in the direction of
shortening the term of membership and liberalising the
franchise.
8. The extension of the Department of Labor.
9. The extension of the functions of the State Bank.
10. The State ownership of all railways, and State or
municipal ownership of tramways.
11. Repeal of Indian Immigration Acts, prohibition of
the influx of Asiatic and servile races, and restriction of
the introduction of immigrants bound to service before
arrival in the province. , ,
12. The introduction of the Initiative and Referendum.
13. The extension of the State Export Department for
wheat, wool, wine, and other agricultural and horticul-
tural produce, by giving assistance in the shape of ad-
vances and facilities of transit, so that producers may be
able to obtain the full benefit of foreign markets.
14. Mortgagors Liability Limitation Bill.
15. Abolition of attachment of wages and distress for
16. Union of the Australian provinces on a Democratic
basis.
17. State Insurance.
18. Old age pensions. .... -
19. In favor of any equitable and reasonable claims oi
women for the amendment of the laws.
The S.A. Labor-party is the most successful in
Australia, mainly because it has never gone on
the disastrous rule of the whole hog or none.
It has always taken just as much hog as it
could get, and then asked for the rest.
Wrecking the ’Ome.
Maoriland has been trying its hand at a much-
needed new divorce-law. Hitherto, in M.L.,
a husband could obtain divorce on the ground
of adultery, but a wife had to prove adultery
combined with desertion for two years, cruelty,
or other aggravations. Also, if the deserting
husband went back to his native country at the
other end of the earth, the antiquated M.L.
statute held that the wife had to follow him
and apply in the courts there; he took her
“domicile” with him, and the law decided that
she had no standing in M.L. at all. The new
statute abolishes this very stupid proviso, and
allows either party a divorce in case of adul-
tery, desertion for five years, habitual drunken-
ness for four years (with neglect of domestic
duties on the wife’s part, or cruelty or failure
to support on the husband s), and also in
case one of the happy married pair is sen-
tenced to seven years or more in gaol for attempt-
ing to murder the other. This certainly is an
improvement as things go in Maoriland, yet it
isn’t by anv means a violent improvement.
Five years’" desertion—five years making a
scraggy living at sewing or laundry work, and
battling with the rent-collector—is a long
stretch out of any woman’s life, and so is four
years of a drunken man, hunger, and battery.
And the law which holds that, if, one party
attempts to murder the other, but gets off with
six years in gaol, the sacred tie must hold
good, is a grim slab of humor. Any decent law
would allow that attempted murder, if legally
proved, should be good" and sufficient cause in
itself. ' Yet Maoriland’s Excellency has sent
the proposed law to England for Victoria’s
personal consideration, lest it should be loaded
with revolutionary tendencies and calculated to
wreck the ’appy ’ome
Juries and Other Matters.
The deafening American gentleman who makes
things hum in S.A. Assembly raised a very in-
teresting point of justice the other day.
(Advertiser report): —
Mr. O’Malley moved to insert in the Law Reform Bill
a clause providing that in case of felony or misdemeanor
a jury should be empowered to award the punishment to
prisoners brought before the court. Several members
supported the proposal. The Attorney-General, however,
suggested that Mr. O’Malley should not press the clause,
but should end dy it in a Bill with the other provisions
dealing with the admission of women under 60 y ears of age
to juries to try other women for felonies and misdemeanors.
Messrs. Batchelor, Price, and Wood supported the
principle, but also advised its withdrawal. Mr. Kingston
urged as against the first clause that juries cannot fix
punishments, as they do not know the past records of
the prisoners as the Judge does. Mr. O’Malley objected
that once a man has served his sentence he should not be
further punished for that crime, while he ventured the
opinion that if he had been charged with an indictable
offence Mr. Justice Boucaut would have given him 20
years. At 1.42 a.m. Mr. O’Malley obtained leave to
withdraw the original clause.
Premier Kingston’s argument that a jury
shouldn’t fix the sentence because it “ doesn t
know the prisoner’s past record as the Judge
does” is pretty thin, anyhow. .The Judge
doesn’t carry the prisoner’s record in his head ;
he gets it supplied to him by a court official.
The jury, after it had decided that the prisoner
was guilty, could also have his record supplied
by the same official, and then it could pro-
ceed, just as the Judge does, to consider
the sentence. But, after all, the community
doesn’t want the jury to fix the sentence
accurately. What it wants is to have
serious crimes divided into degrees after the
U.S. plan. Now, when the prisoner has obvi-
ously committed manslaughter, the jury has to
bring in the same verdict whether the crime
was wholly unprovoked or brought about by
extreme provocation. The most it can do in
the latter case is to add a recommendation to
mercy, which is of very little account; a
callous Judge often gives the man thus
recommended an extreme sentence which
a callous Government refuses to modify,
while the man whose case is so bad that
the jury doesn’t feel equal to even suggest-
ing mercy, if he has influence or strikes an
easy-going Judge or a kindly Ministry, often
gets off with a comparatively light one.. I he
easiest way out is to let the jury convict of
manslaughter, or whatever the crime may be, in
the first, second, third, or fourth degree, each
degree carrying a different punishment, so that
it can enforce its own recommendation to
mercy. As regards the idea that a prisoner s
previous convictions should not be brought up
against him, it looks reasonable—yet it isn t.
It looks reasonable if it is put that the man
has expiated his past offences and shouldn t be
punished for them again. It is utterly unrea-
sonable if it is put the other way—that the
person who has offended once, and who will
probably, under humane and sensible treatment,
never offend again, should be treated just as
severely as the ope whose 35 previous convic-
tions prove him to be beyond reclamation, so
that the only thing to be done with him
is to keep him out of the way for as
much of his remaining term of life as possible.
Hunting up a prisoner’s past record may be
looked at in two ways—as a means of giving a
longer sentence to the man who has a bad
record, or as the means of giving a shorter one
to the man who hasn’t. If it isn’t hunted up
then the latter individual gets no consideration
on account of his previously clean character.
There can be no merciful First Offenders Act if
the Judge isn’t allowed to know which is a first
offender and which isn’t. And if the Judge
is left to speculate in the dark about the
history of prisoners he will probably feel
worst towards the first offender with red hair
and a broken nose, because he looks like a har-
dened ruffian, while the person with a saintly
profile and ten previous convictions will strike
him as a good man who is more sinned against
than sinning, and he will feel reluctant to
blast his apparently promising career. The
man with the broken nose and the red hair
should at least get the benefit of the fact that
he has led a spotless existence prior to this one
offence.
♦
An aesthetic crusade would apparently do no
harm in Imperial German circles. For moral
and artistic gaucherie it would be hard to beat
the case of a presumably religious and honor-
able Empress accepting a .£40,000 diamond
present, clammy with Oriental vices and
crimes, from the bloodstained hands of Ab-
dul the Damned ; and the spectacle of the
intelligent and educated Emperor of a highly
civilised and cultured people allowing the
ruins of Baalbec to be “ illuminated ” (ye
gods !) in his honor. If instead of having the
stately remains of the ancient Heliopolis dese-
crated by gaudy illuminations Emperor Wil-
helm had had himself plioto’d at dawn
or dusk alone on the site of the great Temple of
the Sun, with a copy of Volney in his hands,
and clothed in an up-to-date sigh of resignation
at the phantasmagoria of Imperial grandeur
and the run-’em-up architecture of human em-
pire generally, one could have admired the
poseur, however one might have assessed his
sincerity.
4.
Good land is scarce in Victoria now, and a lot
of that taken up lately at 20s. per acre proves
to be not worth the money. So the Turner
Govt, proposes to allow a re-valuation, and a
reduction in price where necessary, to the time-
payment purchaser not over six years in pos-
session. The selector has to be over six years
in possession before he can sell or mortgage his
property, and the idea is to confine the conces-
sion to recent purchasers —the ones who had to
be content with inferior land—and to the
original selectors actually in possession. But
the Tory party saw a chance to snatch a victory
in a thin House, and enacted that all time-
payment selectors should get the benefit of the
re-valuation. This would mean that, in some
cases where, say, £6OO had been paid, .£2OO or
£3OO would have to be handed back—to the
bank or private money-lender who foreclosed
on the original selector years ago. Much wail-
ing was wailed by the banking section of the
House about the necessity of doing this in jus-
tice to the “ poor farmer,” but the Govt, wasn’t
taking any farmer of that kind, so it rallied up
its forces a night or two later, and got the
amendment rescinded. It will be heard of
again, most likely, in the Council later on. r lhe
48 Rich Landlords are bursting with sympathy
for the agriculturist who gets up early to plant
potatoes in the big ledger and' ploughs the
cash-book far into the dewy night.
About the neatest item in the late N.S.W.
censure debate was the plaint of Labor-member
M‘Gowen that the rejection of the Reid Minis-
try “ would result in the defeat of Federation
as agreed to by the House and as demanded
by the people on June 3” (S.M. Herald re-
port). Even the most crawlsome supporter of
the Reid Govt, needs a good deal of assurance
to talk like that. The form of Federation
agreed to by the House isn’t at all like the one
“demanded by the people on June 3.” The
people, on June 3, demanded the old Bill; they
demanded it by the sacred process of the
Referendum which the Labor-party so much
admires, and by the voice of the majority.
The Labor leader is now supporting the
Government which threw the Referendum over-
board and over-ruled the will of the majority.
And he accuses the most enthusiastic Federalist
in N.S.W. of wanting to obstruct his own
cause when he gets in the way of G. Reid —the
blatant political impostor who prevented the
people getting the Federation they demanded
six months ago.
According to the Telegraph, N.S.W. Labor-
party was half-inclined to object to Premier
Reid’s tea and rice duties as a move in the
direction of shifting the burden back on the
poor; but it now inclines to support them
in consideration of Reid making the shadow
of a half-promise that £50,000 or £60,000
a year of the proceeds shall be set aside
for old-age pensions. But, according to the
calculations on which the Maoriland scheme
is based, even if the pensions are restricted to
persons over 65, of unblemished character, at
least 25 years resident in the province, and the
person with a small income of his own only
gets enough to raise that income to £52 a year
at the outside, and nobody gets a pension of
over £lB a year at the most, and colored
people, Chows, unnaturalised foreigners and
persons with £320 worth of property, even if
it yields no income at all, are all shut out —
even with all these restrictions it would require
about £200,000 a year to start the system in
N.S.W. As for the proposed £50,000 or
£60,000 it would only be a fly-speck on the
surface of the problem. The province spent
three or four times that sum last year in relief-
work alone !
♦
Mr. Arthur Palmer Blake, the newly-elected
Governor of the Australian Agricultural Co.,
has, it is announced, made up his mind to visit
the property of the co. This co. land-grabbed
early N.S. Wales by much the same strategy
as that employed by Somers Vine and his
associates in New Guinea. The agreement was
for 1,000,000 acres, in return for which the co.
was to introduce immigrants, grow wool, culti-
vate the olive and vine, and, as a speciality,
select and despatch from England servant-girls
of the right stamp. The co. started in 1824.
The members of the first co. were politi-
cally and socially strong. Twenty-eight of
them were members of the British Parliament,
including the Attorney and Solicitor-General,
Lord Brougham and Joseph Hume ; and the
Bank of England and the East India Co. were
up to their necks in the speculation. The pre-
sent directors of the co. see the democratic tide
rising in Australia, and have of late shown
signs of uneasiness. The land-tax, though a
small one, is a reality and may soon be gradu-
ated, and an absentee-tax may fall any day.
For these and other reasons, Mr. Blake sets
out for Australia.
Premier Reid’s alleged attempt to tinker
with the question of Ministerial pay without
first consulting Parliament on the principle
involved revives interest in the early N.S.W .
Parliamentary fights on that subject. In the
first Responsible Parliament several members,
amongst them James Martin, afterwards Chief
Justice, held the view that the salaries of
Ministers should be subject, like other salaries,
to an annual vote. On the other hand, it was
contended that, like the Governor, Ministers
should be freed from having to come periodi-
cally before Parliament for their salaries,
thereby encountering the possibility of members
moving to cut down an obnoxious Minister by
(say) £5O. Martin felt so strong on his side
that he tabled a motion bringing the salaries of
Ministers annually before the House, as the
salaries of other public servants are brought.
The motion was defeated by 29 to 14 votes, but
all through his life, in Parliament and on the
Bench, Martin held tenaciously to the view he
championed in 1857.
+
“ Anti- Margarine ” on locked-up N.S.W.
dairying-areas :
Ed. Bulletin.— The expansion of the dairying industry
on the Richmond is much hampered by the policy of the
large land-holders. You can take a journey in any
direction from the town of Casino and traverse miles and
miles of country held in fee simple and granted in per-
petuity to a few individuals. That town is hemmed in
by three large holdings which abut right on the muni-
cipal boundary, containing vast tracts of splendid agri-
cultural land—within easy reach of creameries and a
large central factory—the owners of which prefer to con-
tinue grazing to selling or letting to dairymen, except at
most exorbitant rents. Indeed, it is reported that some
time ago the manager of a large South Coast estate,
alarmed at the exodus of dairymen from that
district to the Richmond, wrote to the chief
land-owners there, and urged the necessity of combining
to keep up rents—which may, perhaps, to some extent
account for the milk in the cocoanut, which should be in
the butter-factory. Of course such a state of things is
not singular to the North Coast. There are a few nice
examples in the Hunter River districts, the A.A., and
Peel River co’s to wit. The time is ripe for the “ Yes-
No” Govt, to push into law' a Closer Settlement Bill, or
else adopt the graduated land-tax and force -the hand of
these monopolists. There is “ much cry and little wool ”
in the blow' about settling the people on the-land of recent
years. There are-millions of acres lacked tip in the hands
of absentee-landlords in the Eastern Division of N.S.W.
which the people would be only too glad to settle on if
they got the chance. Meanwhile, they are mere sheep
and bullock walks employing a few boundary-riders and
stockmen where there might be settled thousands of in-
dustrious revenue-producers. _ There is a grand oppor-
tunity for some Democratic Ministry to undertake
“ settlement on the soil ’’ on these lines.


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in the year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pre
ferential policy-holders. In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-five Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps of its
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS.
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year 1898 it is
certified that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on DecembCT
31st, 1897, held
“ Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,437.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 7a. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with th
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t oonfuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company's Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE
. AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
for Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C 0.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, Ac.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Bob.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Harbour Lights.”
Lyceum “ Brother Against Brother."
Criterion. “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John's Variety Co.
Town Hall Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Mikado.”
Bi.tou “ Lord and Lady Algy."
Theatre Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Any reputation that the Julius Knight co.
lost over the “Red Robe ” it has mostly regained
this week. It is difficult at this late hour to throw
any new light on the ‘ 1 Lady of Lyons, ” but it is a
very respectable and artistic version of that fine
old drama which is now filling in a spare six nights
at Her Majesty’s. Lytton’s play is a trifle turgid
in its dialogue, but it is glittersome and
full of opportunities for fine millinery. And
besides, the world loves a person of monumental
inaccuracy like Calvert or Rougemont, so the hero
with his alleged palace by the lake appeals strongly
to its better feelings. The world in general would
be just like that if it had the gift and could get
an audience, which it can’t, as a rule, for want of
money to keep the audience in beer. Her
Majesty’s co. gives a good even performance all
through. Nobody towers very high above the rest;
this writer has a sneaking preference for Hawtrey’s
Colonel Damas, but Julius Knight, Cecil Ward and
Geo. Majeroni all go strong from start to finish.
Pa,uline and Widow Melnotte are represented l»y
Misses Ada Ferrar and Harrie Ireland, the latter
tall and handsome lady having wisely thrown up
the tea-room at Adelaide (if there ever was any
such tea-room) and returned to a sphere of life
which she should never have quitted. All things
considered, The Bulletin would rather see the two
characters reversed ; in Pauline’s stormier moments
it has an idea that Miss Ireland could look the
stormier and the more scornful of the two, and as
the peaceful old mother she is very moderate in-
deed. And Miss Ferrar’s best line is the white-
robed saint who is going to be utilised as lunch
for the Roman lion. On Saturday the Knight-
Ferrar co. is to break out into a gorgeous repre-
sentation of ‘ ‘ Harbour Lights. ”
** * *
At the Criterion, Alfred Dam pier has re-
vived “ Robbery Under Arms.” The tale that
was written by police-magistrate Browne, in the
days when Browne could write a little, at all
events, is steadily becoming an Australian classic.
It has taken deeper root than any other kangaroo-
land drama; in fact, it and “Natural Life” are
the only ’roo dramas, so far as the writer can
remember, that ever took any root at all. And
“His Natural Life” contains no two characters
that ever got a hold on the affections of the public
as Maginnis and O’Hara have done. George
Buffer’s small Irish policeman and the large Irish
policeman of John Forde are beloved of the push in
the gallery, and it tries to holler confidential
communications to Maginnis and O’Hara in their
disengaged moments. Dampier’s Captain Star-
light is as fine a piece of work as he always has
been. As for the bush, and the “stuck-up”
coach, and the gum-trees, and the malefactors, and
the cattle-duffers, and horse-lifters, and prospec-
tors, and fossickers, and hatters, and aboriginals,
and native bears, and the smell of the eucalyptus,
and the back-blocks race-meeting, and the Billjim,
and the bark hut, and the swag, and the selector,
and the other things that are racy of the soil,
they are all there and in good condition.
Dam pier always puts his best work and his best
bush scenery into “Robbery Under Arms,” and
the occasional revival of that drama promises to
be a paying spec, for many years to come. Pro-
vided, of course, that Dampier survives to play
Captain Starlight, for Australia couldn’t imagine
any other man in the part, and that O’Hara and
Maginnis are properly looked after. The other
characters don’t matter so very much, and since
Miss Lily Dainpier and Rolfe left the co. some of
them look as if they didn’t matter at all. But
when Dampier drops out, “Robbery Under
Arms ” will probably quit the boards for good.
** * *
“ Bob ” a comedy-drama wherein Miss
Maggie Moore poses as a school-girl in a short
blue frock, started a none-too-promising existence
at Sydney Royal a few nights ago. “Bob” was
turned upside-down at the beginning, and the
author started from the middle, said middle stand-
ing on its head, and thence it progresses both
ways at once tiff it meets itself at the other end
and arrives nowhere. All the small things happen
on the stage, and all the large ones are casually
mentioned. Most of the first act is taken up by
Miss Moore, in the short blue frock, giving back-
talk to her school-mistress in the presence of nine
other girls in short blue frocks. It transpires
quite casually that she had been in Australia with
her father; that the father did wicked things there
(particulars mostly suppressed as unfit for publi-
cation) ; that his accomplice, the wicked French-
man, helped him to shoot the other girl’s father at
Ballarat m order to get the property; and that the
Frenchman has some dark influence over the
spectacled lady who runs the school where the 10 girls
in short blue frocks do congregate. But all these
solid facts are mentioned inside a minute or two
after three-quarters of an hour have been spent by
the biggest blue-girl giving cheek to her harassed
instructor. Later on, somewhere between the
song and the dance and the jump, the dead
father of the other girl comes to life, and arrives
to claim the property, and dies again, and has his
papers stolen, and is inquested and buried; but all
this is a speck on the end of a long act, the rest of
which is a long, weary lover’s quarrel. And the
other girl recovers the property casually, in an off-
moment, at the end of Act 111. “ Bob ” evidently
wasn’t written because the writer had a story to
tell. It was built to let a blue-girl in a short
frock lead a cheerful song-and-hop existence, and
be a promiskous Topsy in the centre of the stage,
and the other people mention the drama to each
other when she is resting, because her legs have
given out.
* • * •
Roberts is the only person who acts his
part in full view of the audience. His wicked
Frenchman is a perfect piece of work, and
is the one live-meat character of the cast. Harry
Leston occupies a painful position. He arrives
in Act I. at the academy of the ten blue girls to
ask for employment as a man who makes expen-
sive noise on the piano. He arrives again in Act
111. to say that he has told the detective to come
and arrest the wicked Frenchman for the acts
which were too horrible to mention in Australia;
but as the latter puts his shiny hat on his oiled
head and goes before the ’tec. arrives, and as the
’tec. doesn’t arrive after all, the reason of Leston
is a mystery. Miss Melville does a very clever
little sketch of a perfectly superfluous old lady
whose mission it is to be called “Sweet Lamb”
by a ridiculous husband. Miss Ada Woodhill—
who recovers the property in an odd moment—
leaves an impression of a pretty and talented
actress who gets no particular show: the old,
bearded woe who led a bad life in Australia can’t
be taken seriously; and Alec Cochrane has only a
fleeting opportunity now and then. As for Miss
Moore, she is really connected with the story for a
few minutes only; the rest of the time she is a
cheerful excrescence skipping on the outskirts.
“ Bob ” is all outskirts.
** * *
“Against the Tide,” a drama with the
howling deep in it, will heave its kedge-anchor at
the Lyceum for one week certain. If the binnacle
contrives to keep out of the lee scuppers it
may last a fortnight, but in case of difficulties
“ Brother Against Brother ” is already in prepara-
tion. “Against the Tide ”is a drama which com-
mands much respect. It has a tremendous tale
to tell, and it is told with vigor and with very few
of the discrepancies which disfigure so many stage
productions. Barring the fact that the heroine
isn’t dead when the two bad characters who want
her fortune put her in the packing-case that is to
be shipped in the vessel that is going to be lost
because there is too much insurance on it; and
in consequence she is liable to holler while the
entry is being passed at the Customs; the
story hangs together remarkably well. The
scheme for getting the manly Briton into gaol is
better than usual. When he is out of employment
and almost falling through his boots a kindly old
man engages him rather late at night to manage
his business at a large salary, and takes him round
to the office to show him his duties, and leaves
him in charge with the key of the safe and his
blessing.. And but for a sudden warning that
makes him drop the key and the new situation on
the floor and fly for his life, he would be caught a
minute later opening the safe of a benevolent
gentleman who is prepared to swear that he never
saw him in his life before. The reason why all
this trouble is taken about him is that he has come
home married to the girl that the two men be-
lieved to be drowned, and whose <£250,000 they have
inherited under the will of the old father, who
perished on the wreck. Having sworn to her
death, they are next driven to great expense hiring
people to deny her identity. And, not being able
to hire sufficient people to swear hard enough,
they are at last forced to the desperate expedient
of giving her chloroform when she comes to start
work as the new typewriter. All which circum-
stances are too probable to require any comment.
The large and weighty John Cosgrove does
the best work in this drama as the wrecked
and utterly depraved Johnny - son of the
principal conspirator. Cosgrove, in a “ straight ”
part, is apt to be a rather ordinary indivi-
dual in a cumbrous tail-coat, but in an
eccentric character he sometimes shows up
brilliantly, and this is one of the occasions
when he illuminates a good deal. Frank Har-
court—an honest but red-nosed boot-repairer—
Diver, Bert Bailey and Fred Patey all have strong
parts and shine therein with a very large-sized
glimmer. Two good women, Misses Burdett and
Alice May, look pretty and go round in a hard
world in cheap old clothes ; and a bad one, Miss
Julie Woodville, looks pretty also, and has the
most beautiful clothes that ill-gotten wealth can
purchase. This world is built that way. The
writer had thought of doing a bitter scoff at the
old gentleman who dies on the wreck, but, after all,
he doesn’t matter much. The wreck is a rattier
picturesque piece of work anyhow, and the steamer
which comes to the rescue has its red light on the
port side—which is something to its credit. The
usual stage steamer has its red light just any-
where.
** * *
The Sisters Phillips and the Brothers
Lorenzi, just imported from London, are due at
the Tivoli on Saturday. As there has been nobody
who could fairly be called the most wonderful
person on earth m his own particular line at that
theatre for some time, they will probably be wel-
come. The Tivoli has been giving a good solid
entertainment, as usual, but the overwhelming
star who knocks the audience all of a heap has
been conspicuous by his absence.
* *
Dante had a jubilee at Sydney Palace on
Wednesday of this week, when he reached his 50th
performance. So far as present appearances go,
he may stay on there till he has another jubilee.
The Alhambra still keeps open and makes
a living for the two lessees, and Pedro, de-
scribed as the “marvellous trapeze artist ” from
Paris, is to give the show a special lift on Satur-
day and thereafter until further notice.
* # 3* *
The Sydney Choral Society announces the
third of its series of Venetian Boat Concerts to
take place on Monday evening next by steamer
leaving Circular Quay.
** * *
Signor Hazon’s orchestra will play for the
last time this season on Wednesday night in the
Town Hall. The energetic Italian conductor has
sent his society along with great courage, and
the players, most of whom were real raw ama-
teurs a few years ago, now give a creditable
rendering of very difficult orchestral work, Three
singers, Miss Edith King, Mr. Henry Weir and
Mr. Burns-Walker, will give vocal help by sing-
ing several numbers from the operas including the
dramatic trio from “ Lucrezia Borgia.” This was
promised for the two preceding concerts, but its
appearance was defeated by a combination of
measles and sore throat.
** * *
The slump in Melb. show business is
less siumpy at the Royal than elsewhere, therefore
“ Sporting Life ” will hang on to its reputation for
another week. Slowly, but surely, Walter Baker
improves his method of biffing the Bristol man on
the jaw point, and the sudden defeat of that for-
midable stranger begins to convince the public
against their will. Nobody has ever heard of a
real “chicken” getting worsted in half a
round by a puffing lord who scraps in his
braces, but no one can deny that the victim
falls without any apparent premeditation like
a brick from a chimney. Also, the joy of
Baker, when the other fellow doesn’t get up to re-
sume the conflict, is duly impressive, and the voice
of the timekeeper counting ten is produced with
great feeling. Some references to Bland Holt,
Arthur Styan, Mrs. Holt, Miss Ross, Charley
Brown, Miss Watson’s violent decease, and many
other things, are omitted for want of space.
Various members of the show, together with the
chariots and horses, dogs, and tame pigeons, can
consider themselves praised in detail.
** * *
“The Liars” continues to travel on its
literary merits at the Bijou, but the demand for
high-class comedy is not universal, so Brough’s
public is mostly waiting for a change of bill. Ex-
cept that two men tell one another to be damned
in the third act, “The Liars” makes no direct
appeal to the masses, and two damns don’t go very
far. Perhaps, if Miss Emma Temple were
to cry aloud the awful thing which another
lady said about Mrs. Brough’s husband, instead of
merely whispering the spicy remark into Mrs. B.’s
ear at the back of the stage, they might have run
“ The Liars ” for another week, but it is now too
late to remedy the defect. On Saturday “Lord
and Lady Algy, ” by R. C. Carton, wiil make a
first Australian appearance at the Bijou. In this
comedy, which is said to be very light and airy,
the new co. will come up for further consideration.
** * *
Peggy Pryde is to leave the Opera House
on Friday, but Lieutenant Travers, an absolutely
Greatest ventriloquist, falls due next night, and
Biondi will do six more turns, commencing on
Tuesday, before setting sail for Maoriland with
the Rickards expedition. Wallace King warbles
at the Opera House these times, and Whitburn is
coupled with Chas. Coghill in a burst of black
madness.
** * *
At the Princess’s Charles Kenningham
was out of “LaPoupee” (though notout of the
advt.) two or three nights last week, and Bracy,
junior, figured as principal man, with rather pain-
ful results. The part of Novice Launcelot
is beyond young Bracy for the present. If
he can put some muscle and staying power
into his respectable tenor voice he may hold his
own in leading characters anon, but meanwhile he
isn’t Kenningham, and any weakening of “La
Poupee” cast makes the performance look poor
in the light of the Firm’s best traditions. Gilbert
and Sullivan’s revivals are to fill in the time before
Xmas, when “The Geisha” will probably come
along. “Mikado,” on Saturday, will start the
series.
** * *
Saturday Pop. Concerts, engineered by
C. J. Frank, are getting along fairly at Melb.
Town Hall, and deserve to catch on. The pro-
Samme, as a rule, is strongest on its female side.
iss Mylott, from Sydney, scored a deep con-
tralto success, the other week, and, last Saturday,
Miss Lili St. Leonards, a Bendigo soprano,
made a first appearance attractive in every respect.
Miss Nina Schlotel (violin), Miss Minnie Waugh,
harpist Barker, with a clever, nervous young lady
pupil, Charles Rose, and sundry other people ap-
peal for an encore every Saturday, and get it in
most cases. Sometimes an appallingly bad vocalist
contrives to slip into the programme, and is doubly
encored, just to show that the audience bears no
animosity.
At Poverty Point.
“ Melba,” says J. C. Williamson, “ before going to Eng-
land was paid by me £2O a week to sing. When she and
I arranged, at the Savoy, for her to come to Australia, I
contracted to pay her £2OO a night. So far, she has not
ratified the contract by appearing here. I paid Bern-
hardt £BOO a week and £2OO a week in extras ; £lOOO in
all. I reasoned this way on it; there is only one Bern-
hardt ; the people must see her. And you know how she
simply drew the people into the theatre.”
May Habgood (Mrs. T. P. Hudson’s) recent death in
Adelaide was due to mental worry, following on the fear-
ful accident to her eldest boy in London awhile ago.
When playing with his younger brother the youngster
fell from a second-storey window and fractured his skull
For weeks his life was despaired of, but he recovered.
May Habgood was a brilliant pianiste, and could play
hundreds of difficult pieces entirely from memory.
Ada Crossley’s many friends in Melbourne are delighted
at her score over her deep-chested rival, Clara Butt, at
Leeds Festival. The musical critic of Truth (Percy Betts)
describes how it happened. Clara Butt was not ill in
bed, as some of the papers said, but was asleep. She
forgot that the performance of “ Elijah ” was in the morn-
ing, and, when her maid called her, just turned over and
went to sleep again. Arthur Sullivan beckoned to the
Crossley, who was in the audience, and called upon her
to sing the contralto part without rehearsals, which she
did. A friend in England writes to a friend of Ada’s in
Melbourne: “Your Gippsland girl is now not quite the
principal contralto in England, but—all Butt! ”
The ageing Patti, who is now, it is cabled, about to
marry again, seems fairly cosmopolitan in her choice.
Her first matrimonial enterprise was with a French mar-
quis, afterwards thrown over for Italian Nicolini. And
Patti speedily solaces herself for the loss of her plump
tenor by marrying Baron Cederstrom, a Swedish courtier.
From ardent Italy to icy Scandinavia !
The benefit for Charles Ryley’s widow, at London
Shaftesbury, was a huge success.
Dear B.—Please don’t be any more exasperating than
you can help. I said nothing about the controversy re
glorious (?) John Coleman. I remarked the shovelful of
jam. I did not say Jim Milburn originated the “ scare-
crow.” I saw him do it 25 years or so back. It was
originated at Beth El, near Bar-ak-Golosh, by Kib Giveah
(he Hittite, when he was scaring “ Hoopoes.”—P.A.
Odd coincidence : Scot Inglis, actor, suicided in New
York ; and Scot Fyshe, actor, suicided in London at about
the same time. Apparently a dangerous front name.
Another case of the kind, and insurance rates for stage
Scots would go up.
Grien De Roguemont’s lecturing tour through England
under the management of G. Darrell and G. Musgrove
will presumably be conducted by the author of “The
Sunny South ” in person. Darrell, disguised in his
famous red shirt and big boots, ought to embellish the
proceedings with a lime-lit tableau entitled “ The Spirit
of the Australian Wilds,” or the “ Kangarooster,” or any-
thing else that seems suitable to a red shirt and a De
Rougemont legend.
George Weston, the estimable, short-haired violinist,
writes from Melbourne to say that it was his father and
not he who went the way of all flesh, the other week.
Also G.W. wishes to contradict the yarn as to his having
been less than an actual leader of the Victorian Orchestra,
for which position he was engaged prior to the arrival of
conductor Cowen and the imported instrumentalists. By
the way, The Bulletin remembers that Mr. Weston
always ranked as leader of the Orchestra in the press-
notices.
Ed Bulletin. —Notice the big “ Robbery Under Arms’
poster at Sydney Criterion. Supposed to represent stick-
ing up of coach in the ’so’s, but the trail of the “ dime
novel ”is over it all. Every man in the kind of knee-boot
the Australian bushman and digger never wore, though
the stockman did, up to the ’7o's, All the hats of the
slouch-felt sort—not a cabbage-tree amongst ’em. Police
have, apparently, Martini breech-loaders and tube car-
tridge-belts. Coach like nothing ever seen in Australia or
anywhere else. The poster, it is true, is not Australian
work, but it is, apparently, accepted by the public as right
and correct. For dense ignorance of Australia and her
history, commend me to the average Sydney man. In
the novel, by the way, the egregious blunder is made of
arming the police with Snider carbines—in the ’so’s I—G.
Irving, it is cabled, is seriously ill. Even the iron man
must crack at lest. The world has probably never seen
Irving’s equal as a stayer-up-all-night-and-ail-day.
The heavy stage furniture in “Under the Red Robe”
was specially made for the Firm’s stock from historical
designs collected by architect Annear, who built the
“ Alcestis” setting a while ago. It is probably the most
correct and carefully-finished “ property ” furniture ever
made in an Australian theatre—and the most effective.
Harry Plimmer is leaving a trail of enthusiastic notices
behind him all through the West, as Rudolf Rassendyll
Marcus Superbus, and other notables. By the way, the
usual Australian critic has risen to say that Plimmer is a
servile copy of Wilson Barrett, which is a worse mistake
than usual, for Plimmer was on his way back from India
when Barrett raged in Sydney, and he never had a chance
to see that gentleman at all. But the charge of copying
imported actors is a stereotyped one in this country. If
the imported man has two legs, the Australian is
generally accused of being a servile imitation of him for
having two legs also.
Kearnan, the Zeb. Lane and Boulder-crowd commis-
sioner to Klondyke, prospected Dawson City ’alls as well
as its gulches. His description : “ Variety entertainment,
$5 entrance. Ten girls run it; principally high-kicking.
Dance after the show ; $1 per damsel per dance. After
Well, anyhow, these women are said to be very
rich.” J
When the Georgia Magnet was in London, a British
journal explained to its faithful readers that there was
“ absolutely nothing” in the show, it was merely the way
the lady held herself, and so on. Rats ! A 15st. police-
man, all muscle, can lift an Bst. woman in any position
she likes to assume, and standing with her arms bent is
about the easiest of all. And how comes it that the
“ Magnet ” herself can lift a quarter of a ton of humanitv,
or thereabouts ?
Poor Kate Vaughan, the angelic golden-haired danseuse
of auld lang syne, was lately travelling around the Eng-
lish provinces as second lady in a second-rate co., Minnie
Palmer, another fading identity, being cast for the “star”
character.
Rickards had big houses in Adelaide right through his
season, showing that good shows can make money in the
city of gloom.
American letter at Bulletin office for Mr. Edward
Farley, late of Montague-Turner Opera co.
The Curfew bell is not law in Hobart.
The Upper House threw out the Bill.
Premier Reid’s ultimatum to the N.S.W.
sugar-district members, that their voting for the
censure-motion would bo followed by the removal
of the duty on sugar, was surely the lowest ebb
of the game of party politics. “ Vote for me or
lose your <£3oo a year,” demanded the Premier,
and not one of them would risk the sacrifice.
The Dreyfus drama approaches its last
great scene—the confrontation of the guilty with
the innocent, whichever is which. But as Ester-
hazy—upon whom the writing of the incriminat-
ing “ bordereau ” has now been fixed—will be
severely elsewhere, the part of First Villain will
have to be left out.
Hon. Jno. Hughes, M. L.C., the “ thorough
freetrader and believer in direct taxation ” (vide
daily papers), who joins the Reid Ministry as
Vice-President of the Executive Council simulta-
neously with the imposition of the new protective
and other duties, is the same Hon. John who
four months ago forsook the Federal party for fear
of the Bartonites sneaking in Protection.
Lord Hampden is retiring from N.S.W.
Governorship before his term expires : reason,
urgent private affairs demanding him in London.
Lord Hampden has been the ideal figurehead—
tactful, conciliatory, and unaggressive. Since im-
ported Governors are apparently an inevitable
accompaniment of the British connection, New
South Wales may very judiciously pray that all
hers may be Hampdens.


BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv- Markwald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lanibton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
1 i : :
mm s
GrO TO HBX.L-
TGGLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbe R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
To Fruit Growers, Orchard sts, and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
geresford’s
CAUSTIC
SPBAYING
SOLUTION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and ltoses.
The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPRAYING
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiments,
produced this most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amateur
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from 13. ATKIN, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAWBARN and CO.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Victorian Government’s loan of <£250,000
at 3 per cent. was floated in Melbourne last week,
£292,750 being offered. The price realised was £lOO 55.,
and, after deducting the small expenses, the net return
will be about £99 16s. Allowing for the loss on repay-
ment, this means that the loan will cost about £3 os. 4a.
per cent, per annum. N.S.W. is raising its local loans at
the same cheap rate, but no loan floated in London by
any of the provinces shows as good results as the N.S.W.
and Yic. local stock. The cheapest loan ever floated in
London was the 1896 one of Westralia, and even that costs
£3 Is. per cent, per annum. The best loan N.S.W. ever
raised in London cost about £3 2s. 6d. per cent. ; Queens-
land’s best was £3 3s. percent. ; S.A. s, £3 4s. BJrt.
per cent. Victoria has floated no English loan since 1893,
so there are no recent figures for comparison in its
case. And the case for the London market is even
worse than it looks, for management expenses in
England, cost of remitting’ interest, cost of remitting
principal when loan is repaid (presumably it will be re-
paid some day), loss of income-tax on interest (the
British stock-holder being exempt), and loss of probate
duty when the holder pegs out, are all to be reckoned.
Probably if the Government paid £3 3s. per cent, in Aus-
tralia it would be cheaper than if it paid £3 per
cent, in London. There are so many small losses over and
above the nominal interest that the London market is
even worse than it looks.
Yet by some weird brain-kink the Treasurers in
these provinces, instead of being willing to pay the local
investor more than the foreigner, always expect him to
take less. N.S.W.’s local 3 per cent, stock is sold at par,
and, after allowing for expenses, it yields the Govern-
ment about JL 99 17s. 4d. for each £lOO debenture. The
N.S. W. Government not so long ago stopped the issue of
this stock—and floated a £1,500,000 3 per cent, loan in Lon-
don w’hich yielded about £98135. sd. In 1896 S.A. issued a
3 per cent, loan in London, and got £95 6s. lOd. per £lOO,
and it floated another in Adelaide the same year, and
realised £9B 2s. It couldn’t raise all the money it wanted
locally without giving the local man as good terms as the
London one, and it didn’t feel like doing that. Maoriland
in 1894 started selling consols locally at 3£ per cent., and
then put a 4 per cent, loan of £2,000,000 on the London
market to relieve the necessities of the Bank of N.Z.
Considering the average luck which these provinces meet
with in London it would be certainly quite as cheap—
possibly- much cheaper—to pay 3J per cent, locally for
loans issued at par than to float 3 per cent, loans at the
inevitable discount in England. And it is no good saying
that the local market can’t supply the money required
until it is given a fair trial on terms as good as those
cheerfully granted to the foreigner. The policy of de-
manding that the local man shall take £3 minus income-tax
and pay the full £lOO, while the Britisher is offered £3
clear and is allow-ed to take up stock at a discount, is a
beautiful way of encouraging local industry.
Premier Turner made a serious mistake when
he offered his loan by tender. Under that system, if the
whole amount asked for isn’t offered on the exact day
fixed for receiving tenders the loan is a widely-advertised
failure and a bad shock to the province’s credit. If the
stock is simply put on sale at the Treasury- in the N.S.W.
fashion, then the Government doesn’t stake its financial
reputation on its luck in getting the money by a fixed
date, and whether the loan goes off fast or slowly there
can be no definite or damaging failure. However slowly
the money comes in, the Treasurer can always put a good
face on it and say it is coming in faster than he expected.
Also, at a great emergency, he can go round secretly after
dark, and take up some of the loan himself out of trust
funds.
* * * *
Apropos the Barrier ore-freight ructions in S.A.
Parliament—both Houses —there is more trouble brewing.
Somehovv or other, but partly through _ the skilful
manoeuvring of ex-Railway Commissioner Smith, the Sul-
phide Corporation, which talked of business on a tre-
mendous scale, got from S.A. Govt, an agreement for
sulphide-cartage at a much lower rate than other co.’s
were paying. The B.H. Proprietary, engineered by John
Darling, director and M.P., came down promptly with all
the weight of its vast influence, and squeezed out of the
department a similar concession ; Darling got the under-
taking from Treasurer Holder in the Assembly. But no
agreement, it is said, has been given ; and the department
will not, it is further said, give one. The co.’s relations
with the railways are already strained, and things are
shaping for a row.
• * * *
Apropos of the indignant protest of the Broken
Hill mining co’s against the proposal to increase the
freights on ores on the S.A. State railways by Is. 6d. per
ton : The Silverton (private) railway co. carries these ores
from Broken Hill to the S.A. border, 36 miles, for 3s. 3d.
per ton (a penny and one-twelfth per ton per mile). Then
S.A. Govt, carries them from the border to Port Pirie, 218
miles, for 9s. per ton (rather less than per ton per
mile). So it would be a great deal more to the point if the
Barrier co’s kicked hard at the extortions of the private
railway shindykit rather than at the, by comparison,
exceedingly moderate charges of the S.A. State lines.
» * *
The borough of Lambton (N.S.W.), which has
had a receiver put in by its biggest and angriest creditor,
the Commercial Bank of Australia, is a fine instance of
the impotence of N.S.W. municipal law. According to
the statute, no municipality is allowed to borrow to the
amount of more than five years’ revenue ; or, to put it
another way, it is bound to put up its rates to such a point
that the annual revenue will reach one-fifth of the debt.
Five Dock owes six years’ revenue ; Lambton, 11 years’
revenue (interest, 7J to 8J per cent.) ; Penrith, 10 years’
revenue; and some more are over the limit. But
nobody enforces the law, or prosecutes the law-breaking
aldermen. Every now and then, however, the Govt, puts
through an Indemnity Bill to prevent the aldermen being
prosecuted for breaking the law, and whitewashes them
all up to date. And what use there is for a law which
everybody breaks with impunity no one knows.
* * * *
Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. (Sydney)
realised £2lBB profit for the past half-year, and a divi-
dend of 3s. per share (about 8£ per cent, per annum)
absorbed £2489, so the balance at credit of profit and
loss is reduced from £747 to £446. The co. has also an
insurance fund of £27,000 ; a year or two ago this was as
high as £31,000, but it has dwindled somewhat of late,
and as in the last 2| years the co. has paid away in divi-
dends some £2OO more than its earnings there is little im-
mediate prospect of repairing the damage.
* * * •
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Associa-
tion (Melb.) has got to the end of another year of its
troubled existence. The profits are *2ll—equal to 14s. Id.
per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital of £30,000.
Some recent doings of this luckless institution are as
f0ll0WS: - Dividend.
1892 . Profit £3191 .. 10 per cent. £3OOO
1893 .. „ 1423 .. 8 „ 2400
1894 .. Loss 204 .. 4 1200
1895 .. „ 197 ... m }
1896 .. Profit 85 .. nil
1897 .. „ 957 .. n !
1898 .. ~ 211 ..
7 years’ Profits £6268 Dividends £6600
In 1892 the Perpetual Executors and Trustees’ Association
had £18,445 of reserves, which have now gone down to
£6Bll, the balance having been swallowed up by “ de-
preciation.” And there will probably be further losses to
provide for, seeing that the Association has been com-
pelled, after a disastrous law-suit, to take over a quantity
of City of Melbourne Bank deposits, and certain law costs
are apparently still to be paid. In addition, the assets in-
clude “ Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank Preference
shares at cost £585,” and these are probably worth from
£2lO to £270 at present prices.
The marvel is why the P. E. and T. Association
keeps going at all. It has a very small business,
and the earnings for the year are only £1758, while
expenses are £2658. Over four-fifths (£899 out of £1110)
of the monev that is earned by the investment of the
shareholders 5 capital has to go to pay for the hollow joy
of running the trustee and executor business, which isn t
near large enough to stand the expense of a manager and
board of directors and an office and staff and the other
needful pomps and properties. Supposing the trustee
business is sound, and the investments are all good, the
co. ought to make a present of it to some larger concern
in the same line of business. Then it should write off its
losses —on the face of things it looks as if the £6Bll
remaining out of the reserve would cover them all—and
hand back its capital to the shareholders. They could
get 3 per cent, for it in State securities, which is a great
deal more than they have averaged in the last five years.
Unless things are a lot worse than they look in the
balance-sheet the shareholders could close up and recover
20s. in the £ of their capital, and seeing that their shares
(£1 paid up) are selling at 3s. (they touched 58s. 6d. in
1891) they would gain 17s. in the £ by closing up. This
is always assuming* that things are not much worse than
they look. The P. E. and T. was managed with little
foresight in its boom days ; it never accumulated a strong
reserve, or a contingency fund, and its last two dividends
—the second one paid against an actual loss—were a
ghastly satire on the alleged brains of the management.
The National Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
(M.L.) finished a very moderate year on 30th Sept., 1898.
The insurance business, owing to the Melb. fire and other
shocks, shows a loss of about £lOOO, but, including the
receipts from investments, the year’s profit is £7921.
And as the National pays 12J per cent, dividend (£12,255)
in spite of these unfortunate circumstances, the funds are
reduced by £4334. The last seven years’ progress of the
National has been as follows :
Profits. Dividends.
1892 £16,508 12J per cent. = £12,255
1893 18,359 15 „ 14,706
1894 13,994 15 „ 14,706
1895 14,858 15 „ 14,706
1896 14,492 15 ~ 14,706
1897 15,229 15 „ 14,706
1898 7,921 12J „ 12,255
£101,361 £98,040
On the seven years the position of the co. has improved
by £3321, but taking the last six years -the comparatively
lean ones—the National has sailed so close to the wind
that its divs. have exceeded its earnings by about £lOOO.
It is a strong concern, with £98,037 paid-up capital and
£107,908 reserve, re-insurance fund and profit balance.
Only two Australian and two M.L. cos. can show bigger
reserves than these. Its assets, judging by the returns
they yield, are apparently all sound, and its business has
increased a little in the last seven years. At the same
time it isn’t quite so big a concern as it once was ; and
the drop in the rates of interest has reduced its revenue
from this source from 611,229 in ’92 to £8990. Consider-
ing the results of the last six years the National might
seriously consider if it isn’t advisable to keep its divs.
down to 12% per cent, (which is handsome enough in all
conscience) and build up the reserves a little further, on
the off-chance that the times ahead may be even a little
worse than those immediately behind.
• * * *
The Victorian Full Court decides that it has
no jurisdiction in the place (up or down) where the
late 0. H. James has gone to, and so the wraith of the
land-boom’s father must remain an uncertificated insol-
vent to the end of time. An application for a certif., says
the court, is a purely personal matter, and the deceased,
not being a person within the meaning of the Act, can’t
be said to apply. Moreover, a certif. is intended to dis-
charge an insolvent from his debts, and protect any pro-
perty he may subsequently acquire. C. H. James took
nothing out of the world, not even his debts, neither can
he acquire property in the hereafter. As a subject for
financial whitewashing, he is dead at all points.
* * * «
At Melb. Criminal Court, last week, a trustee
in insolvency was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment
for appropriating to his own use money due to creditors
of the estates which he trusteed. The prisoner was de-
fended on strictly Melbournian principles. Defendant’s
counsel said his client was 54 years of age, and had not
been addicted to any vice. He was broken down in
health, and had taken this money to live upon." In short,
he wanted the money. There was no evidence as to the
health of the bankrupts whose assets had fallen into his
grip, or the ages of the creditors who were waiting for
their little “ divvy.” Probably the hunger for the cash
in hand was about equally keen all round, but the trustee,
having it in hand, was naturally tempted to keep it, and
temptation is a reasonable excuse for embezzlement in a
general Melbourne way of arguing. Deliver ’em from
temptation !
* * * *
Queensland railway authorities now refund the
difference between the single and return fare on unused
halves of tickets between Brisbane and Sydney. Why not
extend the principle to all tickets ?
Dear Bulletin.— Staggering par from Melb.
Argus mining intelligence : “ The Cabinet is to consider
the question of constructing a railway or tramway to Mt.
Deddick silver-lead field at an early date.” When Turner
and Isaacs next sit down with Mines Minister Foster (mem-
ber for Deddick region) and Peacock (legal manager for
Deddick “mines”) to consider the question aforesaid,
they may as well get at the reason why Mt. Deddick shares
have fallen from 616 to £2 since this time last year as the
result of “ splendid developments.”—Snorter.
Berry Consols, Ballarat, for the half-year :
Gold, 10,3980 z. ; value, £43,464; divs., £16,000. Total
yield to date, 186,0720 z. ; value, £772,134 ; divs.,
£l4 16s. 6d. a share or £296,500. Directors’ fees for the
half-year £32 10s.—£2 more than was given to charities
and £4 more than spent in charcoal. With their neigh-
bors, the North Berry co., they are in treaty with Vic.
Mines Department to bore with a diamond drill along the
western boundary to settle beyond doubt the outlet of
the Madame Berry West gutter.
» * » *
The once-glorious Star of the East, Ballarat: A
grim reminder is printed that all shares on which the
112th call of a shilling has not been paid are liable to for-
feiture.
Those “ who ought to know ” say that the New
Loch Fyne, Vic., is about to come again. Questionable,
however, whether the English buyers will ever come
again with anything like the price the shareholders re-
fused some time back.
* * * *
Cohallan Brothers and party, of Ournie, Upper
Murray, seem to have picked up the celebrated Peep-o -
Day reef, from which £30,000 worth of gold was taken.
Q. Mining Bill is principally the embodiment of
the principle of increased mining areas—as recommended
by the late Mining Commission. How did the Commission
arrive at this result? Only one witness, a Brisbane share-
broker, recommended the increase. Minister proposes to
give himself the right of saying whether a lease shall be
12, 25, or 50 acres—which means in plain English that the
applicant with influence will always be able to show
good and sufficient reason why the 50 acres should be
his portion. Against the 50 acres, experience, the voice
of practical men, the opinion of departmental officers,
are all opposed ; but, then, capital must be attracted lest
Westralia should have a monopoly of booms.
• * » •
Ch. Towers is fond of a brag. T’other day a
cake of gold—two months’ produce of the famous Bril-
liant —was weighed on the scales at the mill. Scales
broke. Experiment repeated at Union Bank with same
result. Weight was finally tested on a butcher’s scale
and turned out to be 59130 z. 10dwt.—product of 16,4500 z.
amalgam. Value, £21,000. Cake to be shown in London
and Paris.
* » * *
New South Wales had better prepare to be
pegged out some more. W. S. Dowell, who has been for
some months giving Chillagoe a turn, and heaving heavy,
two-column hunks of information and opinion at the
Herberton people through the local paper, has come
south again.
* * * *
Cobar notes: Cobar Gold Mines (old Fort
Bourke) struck copper last week. There is now not a
mine on the main Cobar lode in which copper has not
been reached. Hoped that the Chesney people have
made sure that concentration by water will suit their ore.
Many competent to judge think the contrary, and it is
quite certain that most of their gold will be carried away
by the water. More than likely plenty iron will soon be
found on their own land. Manager about to look in the
right place. The fuel question has become serious at
Cobar. Wood scarce and poor in quality, and freight on
coal enormous as it is on everything else. Time some-
thing was done to move the railway people, who act as
though their main object was to wipe out the district.
The place must have coal at lower railway rates. At pre-
sent it costs about 20s. per ton landed at station !
* * * •
The Overflow (writes a very experienced cyanide
man to The Bulletin) reports extraction by cyanide from
slimes 87 per cent., and is looking forward to “ regular
and handsome returns.” Same talk last February, just
before its big smash. 87 p.c. from slimes is a startler, and
writer would like to see it done. what
has never been accomplished before by cyanidation should
come off at the Overflow, which is anything but a cyamd-
ing proposition. , p »
The Bulletin hears from Broken Hill that the
Grasmere copper-mine (Wilcannia district) people have
called tenders for sinking a 200 ft. shaft, and are getting
out a parcel of ore for treatment at Wallaroo. The dis-
trict warden’s report on the show to the Mines Dept, is
said to be enthusiastic—rich and unlimited ore, &e.
* * * *
B.H. Block 10’s half-yearly report is out. Half-
year’s divs., £20,000 ; and the surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities has been increased by £19,212 in the half. That
would be a result far better than any other lately realised
if it were not for the fact that, as the directors say, “a
considerable amount has been received for tailings, and
satisfactory sales have also been made of middlings and of
slimes.” Those tailings and probably some of the other
things were produced long before this half-year opened.
What profit has been made from this last six months’
work is, therefore, not clear, because what the “consider-
able amount” referred to is the report doesn’t say..
That increasing hardness of Broken Hill ores
as thev are hauled from greater depths, of which one or
two things have been said hitherto, is further illustrated
by Block 10’s half-yearly report. Mine-manager Warren,
a first-rate plodder, says that rhodonite and garnet
material are the trouble. Rhodonite—people interested in
Broken Hill are recommended to look at the word well,
they will see it many times hereafter. It is a pinkish
rock, hard and tough, containing more or less manganese.
Then the harder the rock gets the closer is the associa-
tion of the lead and the zinc ; and to get them apart
crushing has to be finer than usual. Thus more of the
metal gets away ; though Block 10 this last half-year
milled 10,346 tons more ore than in the preceding six
months, only 526 tons more concentrates were saved.
Five tons of ore are ordinarily milled to one ton of
concentrates. In this case, to keep up the grade of the
concentrates, the eliminating process had to be continued
rather longer than hitherto. But what is eliminated the
first time is not wholly lost ; much of it is re-treated, and
arrangements are being made for re-treating still more—a
process that doesn’t cost much because already the stuff is
crushed as fine as it need be.
• * • *
Editor BuLLETiN.-“Wild Cat” (8., 19/10/’9B)
makes unfair and misleading reference to my co.’s works.
Re ventilation, we have machinery of the most modern
type, much more powerful than anything else of its kind
in the Southern Hemisphere, and this will be used for
ventilating the shafts during sinking, as well as for pro-
ducing the enormous current of air which will eventually
be circulated through the mine workings. The shafts are
“ bratticed ” as they go down, so as to form an “ upcast ”
as well as a “ downcast ” in each, the “ upcast ” compart-
ment in each being connected with drifts of ventilating-
fan. At present, however, there is sufficient natural ven-
tilation for all purposes, but should this become sluggish
it can readily be assisted by a steam jet, arranged to play
into the “upcast” near top of shafts. As our works, in
any case, are carried out subject to the Coal Mines Regu-
lation Act, 1898 ; if we did not provide adequate ventila-
tion and proper appliances generally, proceedings would
soon be taken under the Act against me as manager. As
to statements made by the men on strike as to bad air,
unsafe work, &c., the Chief Inspector of Collieries has
visited the works and is perfectly satisfied that the state-
ments were quite unjustifiable. Next, as to alleged
docking of pay for delays, &c.. let me point out that the
engagement and payment of all labor employed in shaft-
sinking is in the hands of the contractor for this work, so
that the management has absolutely nothing to do with
any deductions he may make from his men’s pay ; and,
in any case, the contractor absolutely denies having
treated his men in the way mentioned.—J. L. C. Rae,
Manager, Sydney Harbour Collieries.
Westralia exported 115,3760 z. gold in October,
1898—the first month when the export has got into six
figures. The next best records were 93,3950 z. last
January, and 89,3950 z. last August.
* * « *
Golden Horseshoe heads Kalgoorlie crushings
for Oct. with 83190 z. 12dwt. 12gr. gold. Battery treated
2707 tons for 66500 z. 3dwt. 12gr. Cyanide treated 1060
tons for 16690 z. 9dwt. Gross average per ton 3oz. 17gr. ;
last month’s average was 3oz. 19gr. By the Oct. crushes
Kalgoorlie establishes another record. July return was
29,1580 z.; Aug., 36,0400 z. ; Sept., 46,5980 z. Figures for
Oct. : Golden Horshoe, 83190 z. ; Lake View, 80370 z. ;
Brown Hill, 70120 z. ; G. Boulder, 67340 z. ; Ivanhoe,
64820 z. ; Associated, 63980 z. ; Boulder Perseverance.
14310 z. ; Boulder Main Reef, 12610 z. ; N. Boulder, 9970z.1
Oroya, 7870 z. ; Hannan’s Reward, 5510 z. ; M. Charlotte.
2320 z. ; Brookman’s Boulder, 2160 z.; Croesus, 1350 z. ;
Golden Ridge, 1270 z. ; Star of West, 750 z.; Maritana,
17oz. ; Hannan’s Reward N., 320 z. Total, 48,8470 z. from
28,527 tons, an average of loz. 14dwt. sgr. per ton.
* * * *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Oollins-st., Melbourne.*
* * * *
Three days were lately put in at the Warden's
Court, Kanowna, W.A., hearing a case in which two men
allege they were induced to buy a claim after it was
salted. Salt an alluvial claim and there’s generally some
trouble ; salt a quartz mine and sell it, and that’s the last
heard about it. If the Courts went into cases of the latter
kind three years would not suffice to collect evidence of
salting Westralian mines during the boom. Sometimes it
was made easy by putting a little salt on the tail of the
expert. Questionable whether any man living will ever
see again such a boom in “ salt ” mines.
* * * *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * * *
Goldfields papers in Westralia are mostly up a
tree. Both Coolgardie dailies are in the hands of the
receiver; two Murchison papers have been sold by order
of the mortgagee ; the two Menzies rags have been merged
into one—a branch of the great Forrest suppress ; the gilt
has suddenly disappeared from Kanowna Herald’s ginger-
bread ; one of the Esperance sheets is dead, and the other
moribund ; also one Norseman paper has ceased publica-
tion. Bung is the glory of the boom journalist.
* * » *
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
* * * *
Waihi, M.L. : 7750 tons ore for .£24,123 bullion.
Total output for year to date, £215,118, as against £144,040
for all 1897. A great mine.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell shares are likely to go a lot lower, in
consequence of the depressing character of the half-yearly
report, which more or less clearly cautions holders to
expect smaller (or no) dividends until reserves have been
built up. Nothing new has been found ; as things stand
the life of the mine is measurable. People who go for
safety will buy Mt. Morgans at £5 rather than Lyells at
even less.
* * * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
• • * •
A new note from Dawson City, Klondyke—
sounded by George Hartung, one of a party who rushed
thither from Menzies, Westralia : “ I believe, from what
I can see and hear, the place is nearly every bit as good as
it is cracked up to be. . . . Country very little prospected
except about Klondyke. . . . Have just as good an opinion
of the place now as when I started from Australia.
Miners’ wages are 15 dols. a day. ... We can get a 501 b.
bag of flour here in Dawson for £1 Bs., and there has only
been one boat up the river this year yet (that is, since
winter). . . . There are men at the rapids charging 25 dols.
to pilot a boat through ; we ran ours through ourselves
without accident. There are several men getting drowned
there. . . . Writing this with a nib tied to a stick. . . .
Took us 10 days to come from Lake Bennet to Dawson,
550 miles.” The letter is dated June 10.
* * * *
From the Afambare, Papua, 10/10/’9B : —“Dear
Bulletin. —Sincb last writing another 30 miners have
arrived here and 80 are expected in a few days by steamer.
Carriers are very scarce, and the natives are giving a lot
of trouble. There were 16 deaths last month from fever
and dysentery. Dysentery is becoming very prevalent—
there were three deaths to-day from it. A movement is
on foot to build a hospital and secure the services of a
medical man. At a meeting held on Bth £25 was col-
lected and about £5O promised. It’s almost a certainty
they’ll get another £lOO when they go to the field. A
committee was appointed and the secretary is writing to
Govt, asking for a subsidy on voluntary subscriptions.
At present there is no hospital in British Papua, and one
is wanted badly. The wet season has set in, we are having
thunderstorms nearly every day. No startling finds are
reported.—Flabby Paul.”
r * » * * 1
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Mel-
bourne, and patentee of the new Rivetless or Locking bar
type of steel pipes, has started for London in the S.S.
Oceana to arrange for the supply of materials required in
connection with the large contract entered into with the
West Australian Government, where the new pipe has
been adopted for the Coolgardie water scheme. The
pipes, pumps, &c., for this scheme when completed are
estimated to cost about two-and-a-half million pounds
sterling, and occupy over two years in construction.*
* * * »
Cabled to the dailies that Claude Vautin is
charged in London with defrauding stockbrokers to the ex-
£20,000, and that he has been made bankrupt
with about £70,000 liabilities. Vautin, a Sydneyite,
is well - known in Australia as a clever metallurgist.
Was associated with Cosmo Newbery in a chlori-
nation process, put in a lot of new plant for
concentrating ore at Cobar, went to England _ some
years ago, and was regarded there as a big man in the
testing of new metallurgical methods. He became a
director of a number of Westralian companies during the
boom. He has many friends in Queensland, where he
long practised as an assayer, and a wide circle will be glad
to hear that he has succeeded in clearing his character.
* * * *
Street, an English importation, has taken over
the management of the Broken Hill Consols mine from
George Smith, who goes to manage at Chillagoe. A great,
deep gulf is fixed between most Barrier managers and
their work-people; but Smith had bridged it so success-
fully that, while every other B.H. mine has witnessed at
least three strikes, the Consols has escaped with a very
brief one—and that was long ago. The Consols is entirely
English-owned. , , *
The tin-market is moving up sharply. In a
month the advance has been from £7B to £B4. The rise
has been for.some months predicted; and yet it is not
very certain what is behind it. The American output has
kept fairly steady, but Straits production will, it is said,
be reduced by the operation of a new mining code la tely
promulgated by the Sultan of Perak. There has lately, it
is claimed, been much unfair working of alluvial ; this is
one of the things aimed at in the new code. Also, there
have been a couple of extensive strikes of Chinese and
Malay workmen, and there has been a little “ combine”
among English holders.


C~-
ORIENT
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
( Opposite j
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A Word Witb YoO
AboGt Photography.
This Fascinating and Fashionable Art is no longer
a toil. Science and Mechanical Skill have corn-
md rERF P ECTKiN? f tll6 U, '” St S ™PI-ICITY
CAMERAS, from ss. to £5O.
The LATEST and BEST are Sold by
Harrington i Jo., [td.
Photographic
• • . Merchants,
THE PREMO.
Sole Manufacturer’s Agents :
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
Queensland Branch— 64 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
66* King Street, Sydney.
NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of all Photographic
Materials MAILED EREE. ‘ °
Melbourne Agents —CRAVEN & CO., 179 COLLINS ST
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
Lock washday
Upstairs in Sydney Parliament House
on the night of the want-of-confidence divi-
sion, pandemonium was let loose a-while
It was in the gallery outside the refresh-
ment-room, and Premier Reid was on the prowl
• V ? t j S ‘ Champagne was set going; Sleath
officiated as sergeant-at-arms, Crick was in the
chair, and the fun was fast and furious. Terry
both S reCl u at , g f at , len Z th > and he called on
f f Cnck to keep their promises and
mg in their turn. Reid wanted a lot of pressing
him fal Tn iV g r e - d i provided Crick would vote for
him. To this Crick assented, and the only George
then stood up, crossed his hands on his-er-
threw his head back, and warbled “A
Rather s Love. Time, about midnight; nearly 40
members present; and the applause was deafenmg
t! d T^m ,ted The Charge °f the Light Brigade >
and Edden gave “A Parmer’s Boy.” Reid
len claimed Crick’s vote according to promise
mad^, P °b n WeSt Mac [l uarie admitted that he had
“nt nof te°? e ’ h f P leaded that it was for a
sound?”* Tt* dlSCOrdant of weird
■ r vvas P u t to the meeting, and
carried in Reid s favor. Crick then explained that
wise he P w 7 , Pal , red With W hi dd on, other-
wise he would only have been too happy. So
George sang, and didn’t get a vote after ailf
RekPs] 6 V ° iCe ° f tho Mighty Dee P ’’-Premier
THE RETORT DISCOURTEOUS.
BOY : “ Telegraph or the YERRAL, sir; two fer a penny each.”
OLD GENT. : "H'm! two for a penny each, ey? You’re a smart boy, aren’t you? Has your
mother got any more like you?”
BOY : “None like me, sir—she had some like you, sir, but she drownded ’em.”
The Yic. judicial vendetta against Chief
Justice Madden has by no means ended; and,
judging by the number of appeals from his de-
cisions, the profession is fully aware of the
fact. As it would hardly be decent to upset his
decision in every case, and as even litigants
deserve a httle consideration,
the present fashionable method is to occasionally
uphold the decisions of the “ learned Chief Jus-
tice, but with mucii regret to “ entirely dissent
from the reasons” given by the “learned Chief
Justrae ’’ for his decisions. The regularity with
which the phrase, the learned Chief Justice,”
occurs in the judgments of two of the over-ruling
Judges is quite amusing. Judge Madden, how-
ever, doesn’t seem to mind much, and continues to
orate at large on the law not applicable to the
particular case, and manages latterly to dispense
very fair justice, embellished with execrable
reasons that really don’t matter so very much
after all.
A Bulletin correspondent on the Meagher-
Norton assault case :
Norton had a contused wound behind the ear, which
two doctors swore could only have been caused by the
butt-end of the whip and could only have been inflicted
from behind or beside. Six witnesses swore they saw the
butt-end used, several others swore the thin end was
used, and several more swore they didn’t know which end
was used. One witness swore he caused the injury with
his fist, and three doctors promptly swore the wound
couldn’t have been so caused. But the fact was indis-
putable that a young and robust man had violently
assaulted a smaller, older, and weaker one. . . . And yet
there could be found in Sydney 12 men to recommend the
assailant to mercy, and assure him of their warmest sym-
pathy, with result that he was merely mulct in a trifling'
monetary penalty. If this is to be taken as a precedent,
every Sydneyite will have to carry a maxim-gun in his
pocket and a torpedo behind his ear, and generally fix
himself up so that when struck from behind he will go ofif
with a loud bang, and utterly destrov anybody who is
willing to pay £5 for the pleasure of trying to kill him.
* * * *
There is no end to the drollery of titular
distinction. A cranky King of Bavaria crawling
around his padded State apartment on hands and
knees is_“ Your Majesty; ” a diminutive, scrofulous
prince is a “Royal Highness;” the stupidest
mayor is ‘Worshipped,” and Rord Hampden
t 0 Bord Brasse y as his “noble friend.”
Which, of course, he is—from the titular point of
view. Yet if a beastly radical were to inter-
rupt Brassey, in the middle of a dreary speech,
vvith the question : “ Are you a noble lord ? ” the
effect would be ridiculous. No humorist has ever
dreamed of striving for a title, unless he had the
idea of retiring to a desert island to laugh at him-
self.
* * * •
Baron Brassey set Naicest Melb. endways
by forgetting all about the toast of the host at the
Mayoral inaugural dinner. It has always been
customary for the Governor to propose the Mayor’s
health, but the overpowering hospitality of the
chief magistrate or something caused a lapse of
Uncle Tom’s memory, and he folded up his over-
coat and stole silently from the gaping assem-
blage, which was anxiously awaiting one of his
very best “ Urn ! Um! Um ! Yah ! Yah ! Yah ! ”
speeches.
* * * *
“Love laughs at laws.”—Chief Justice
Madden.
A wife ac-
oused in a
Melb. subur -
ban case of
t h r o wing a
saucepan at
her husband,
replied inno -
cently that it
was only a
little one.
Complicated point of law
from Maoriland. A shining
light of a small sect was
hauled up for maintenance
of a married woman’s
child. On behalf of the
enraged husband it was
alleged that he mar-
ried mainly because
the shining light per-
petually pointed out
to him that the girl
was the best in the
world practically
the only one of her
kind and if he
missed the chance of
rushing into matri-
mony with her he
would never again
get a show to marrv
such a girl. He rushed, in
a dazed sort of way, on the
strength of these representations,
and three months after marriage
a child was born. He claimed
that the shining light was the
father of the unexpected infant,
and had hustled him into matri-
mony to dodge the responsibility.
Apparently he had a good case
against somebody—the shining
light for preference—but the law
interposed. It said that the child
was legitimate at present, having
been born in wedlock, and that
it was against the infant’s future
interests and against public policy
to let anyone gi ve evidence which
would make it illegitimate. There-
fore, the only witness who could
clear up the matter—the mother
herself—was ordered out of the
box before she com
menced her evi-
dence, and the case
was dismissed. It
seems very decent
justice, too, when
one thinks hard
oyer it. Figura-
tively speaking,
the enraged hus-
band wanted to
take the infant up
by the legs and hit
his enemy with it,
which might have de-
servedly wrecked the
enemy, but it would also
be very rough on the infant.
It really is about time that the Sydney
public organised its charity. Its friends, the
beggars, are well organised, and have been, time
out of mind. Ihe life of the man who, when
bailed up in the street for alms, puts his hand
into his pocket, whether from good nature, or
merely because he is too tired to say “ No ! ” soon
lecomes a little hell-upon-earth. There are in
Sydney companies, regiments, brigades of cadgers
and bummers—sturdy rascals who loathe work
and travel on the game” from Jan. Ito Dec. 31
of every year. The present writer personally
knoiws at least 100 of them, and he has at last
made up his mind to pay toll to them no more—
he is going to help the rest of the community to
see that the man who, not being sick or old, sets
out to make a living by bailing up others for
backsheesh, gets the alternative of work or gaol.
* * * *
The name chosen for the new Sydney art,
journalistic and musical brotherhood is “The
Bohemian Club ” —not very original, but the best
submitted. A lot of individuals who esteem
themselves among the most original people in
Sydney had a try, but no one managed to
suggest anything that didn’t already exist in a
scoie of places, and it was only when some-
one pointed out that an obscure “Savage” Club
aheady met in Sydney that the idea of adopting
that hackneyed title was dropped.
• * * *
Memo. In forming a club, the very first
thing to do is to register yourselves as a limited
liability co. Then you know the exact amount of
your monetary responsibility. In an ordinary
club, as _ shown by recent legal decisions, every
man is in the last resort liable for the entire
coterie s debts.
* * * *
“N.” : Bulletin publishes a graphic ac-
count of the rapture of a Salvarmy officer on being
promoted from adjutant to staff-captain. Explana-
: eans his being transferred from field to
office. No longer will he endure the precarious
pick-up of subsistence the starvation racket.
Henceforth, his regular screw is secure. “ The
schwindle’s schmall, but it’s safe.’’
* * • *
Compared to the Blood and Blazes people,
what a wretched mess the other two sects make of
the open-air services which they attempt in emu-
lation ! Programme as follows :—Bob up on some
corner with unlighted torches when no one is look-
in®l , ymn Ho. 1, 10 verses or so, with a re-
peated chorus put through ; interval of two
minutes to find next hymn, during which the
audience has a drink. Same after' No. 2 ; and
so it goes. No one says anything ; no testimonies
as to how the Devil got left; no “praise the
Bord s or ‘ Allelujah’s ”; no fantasia on the big
drum. No nothing, till at last, after a faint invi-
tation to the bystanders to attend the indoor-ser-
vice, the holy crowd gathers up its skirts, song-
NASTY.
STOUT HOBART LEGISLATOR (with asperity, to con-
ductor of squeaky perambulator) : “ Why
don’t you take that thing away and grease
the wheels?”
“ Please, sir, we ain’t got no fat at home, and mother
said to let the pram stand in your shaddcr a
bit.”
books, and unlit torches, and sadly departs, fondly
convinced that it has put a very thick spoke in
the balvarmy’s wheel.
* * * •
In his excellent lecture on Municipal Re-
form, at Sydney School of Arts, J. D. Fitz-
gerald referred to the al-fresco lunches in the
great park of Vienna, and inquired why the
Sydneyites don’t do likewise, instead of sweltering
in restaurants. But, then, the great British
nation always has had the notion that open-air
eating savours of indecency—its one-time hero,
the morbid Byron, maintained that this duty
should be performed in the strictest privacy.
Perhaps, if we imported to Sydney a few hundred
Parisians, we might sooner or later grow a popu-
lation that could consume its buttered scone in
Hyde Park without a blush.
* * * *
The Sydney P.M. who turned women out
of his court, the other clay, afraid something in-
decent would transpire in evidence, is a right-
thinking person of a judicially wrong-thinking
sort. Women who go to courts often have friends
or acquaintances concerned in the case tried ; the
case may develop in a way which will enable them
i?£?T ene ’ anc l other good results may ensue.
A. P.M. s goddess is Justice, not Modesty.
A Benalla (Vic.) widow is making things
warm for a local married man who took
upon himself to kiss her recently. First
of all he was fined <£s for the assault, and
now the aggrieved relict has issued a County
Court writ for -8200 damages to her feelings.
Considering the number of widows willing to be
saluted on the lips gratis The Bulletin has no
sympathy with the plaintiff in this case.
* » * *
The Argus, commenting on the attempt
of Hancock, M. P., to have the sentence of the
condamne Archer reviewed, talks smugly of “the
indecent practice of harassing Ministers in Parlia-
ment on the eve of an execution.” Indecency!
As if anything, bar the hanging itself, could be
more grossly indecent than the cold-blooded com-
placency with which the respectable press regards
the disgusting butchery euphemistically called an
execution.”
* * * *
Sydney might, with great advantage to
brain-workers, imitate the new London municipal-
DREAMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the perfumed, dainty breezes kissed the tips of
grassy fingers,
And the sunlight and the shadows pla3ed on leaves where
autumn lingers ;
With the sunlight and the breezes and the shadows round
me falling-,
I could hear the flow of rivers and I heard your sweet
voice calling— J
Softly calling.
But the trembling whisper woke me, and no more I find
you bending
With your pale, sad face above me. Ah, that Dreams
should have an ending !
But I know, Sweet, that the breezes and the leaves of
autumn falling
Are a message from the vanished Past that sends your
low voice calling, J
Softly calling.
CARINI.


mw
a
as
You
_PorCOT teal
If you want Quality
ask for
Sydney [a§®r per
and take no other.
Recent analysis prove the superiority of SYDNEY LAGER to all others.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
EI.AGANT AND
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CUKE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout. Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. EAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For btation and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33,- pev Half-dozen, free by post throur/hout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Soft Ca O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30j- per 14 -dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirhane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
11 Pibt-strrefc, Sydney;
68 Ourrie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambtor
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
regulation which enables persons annoyed by yap-
uing dogs, crowing cocks, &0., to have the nuisance
summarily suppressed by the police, without re-
course to summons, lhe nocturnal cur and the
daybreak rooster have slain their thousands.
At the Baptist Union meeting in Mel-
bourne, last week, a missionary reported that he
asked a Vic. backblock selector’s wife : Arethere
many Baptists in this part of the country ? ’ i
rather think not,” said she. My husband basn t
shot anv latelv.” And the missionary put it down
to the worn.in’s benighted ignorance. Now, ™
happens that this yarn appeared as an illustrated
item in last Bulletin Xmas number, bo Baptist
missionaries read The Bulletin !
* * * •
AFTERWARDS.
Suggested by A. Leo Watts’ “ One Way of Love.”
[Foe Tiie Bulletin.J
Well have we chosen ! ’Tis the better part
To stifle down sweet “ Love's ” complaining moan !
To run Life’s course together—yet alone
Feigning contentment; while the famished heart
Glamors for Love to ease its bitter smart.
Well have we chosen ! We have weary grown
With mourning for our Paradise, o’erthrown,
When we defied soft Cupid’s fatal dart.
Well have we chosen ! Surely, it is best
To pen the anguish of our souls within ;
To act, by day, the part of seeming blest,
To weep, by night, for bliss we would not win ;
And toss ivide-e.ved in feverish unrest,
Sinnitw in thought, we two who conquered “ Sin.”
M.L. ° C.H.
* * * *
Consider the frantic haste with which
things are done in W.A. Two years ago Jim son
got a Govt, billet. Three months later he asked
by letter tor a rise in screw. Got no reply. Left
tiie service for a better billet at end of fourth
month. Three months later got notice his resig-
nation was accepted. After 21 months from date
of resignation gets letter to say that his “ applica-
tion for an increase in salary dated Feb., ’97,
could not be entertained.”
* * * *
Humors of the barrack-ground. Recently-
imported sergeant-instructor to squad of recruits :
“ Move smartly, men ; move smartly, and don’t
be lioppin’ about like a lot of kangaroo-bears ! ”
Allotner : “ Hould up yer heads—yer boots ain’t
so clean yer can see yer face in thim.”
* * * *
“ T.D.” : The time to cultivate a positive
distaste for provisions is in the
early mornings before the city is
astir. It is quite usual for
butchers to keep dogs in then-
shops a:l night, but they
don t charge anything ex-
tra for the hydatids. Also,
I have seen three cats play-
ing in the window of a pro-
vision-shop, among corned
beef, polonies, ham and
other delicacies. And then
there is the unclean Chow
who sleeps on top of his
vegetables as he jogs into
town.
“ Melb.”: A ludi-
crous appeal has just
been put forth by the
Wesleyan authorities,
per circular j for the
circuits to take
married clergy.
They are dead
stock, frightfully
unsaleable, stale
fish as it were.
The “ cirkits,”
bossed, of course,
by the women,
will insist on
stumping up a
trifle short of the
married parson’s
requirements.
* *
“ Alchermga”:
“For whom was
Sappho waiting?”
Constance Clyde
answers the ques-
tion very well, on
the assumption
that the iEolian
passion - flower
was a common
garden woman, or
even bardess. But Sap-
pho was Sap ho, and accord-
ingly her lover can hardly be referred to in
such a respectable family journal as The Bulle-
tin. The subject is hardly discussable except in
a medical paper. The conventional mutilation of
the “ Ode to Aphrodite ” should sufficiently prove
this.
* * * V
Major-Glen. Gunter, of Q. Defence Force :
There is never any difficulty in raising Mounted Infantry
corps, or in keeping them full.
The Australian must have a horse even when he
goes out to kill anybody.
* * * *
The daring way-back mother occasionally
steps out of the rut and puts native names upon
her olive branches. Thus a young Port Lincoln
(8. A.) matron chose Katanya (“ Firstborn ”) as a
beginning ; and the delighted aborigines there-
about, onetime a great fighting crowd, lately pre-
sented the lictle girl with a complete set of their
weapons.
A subscriber to a M.L. public-li n.uy
suggested the withdravval of a certain book from
the shelves because of its indecency.
This wasagreed to in committee
meeting, immediately after
which round came one bald-
headed committee-man to
the librarian to ask for the
book in question. “ You’re
too late, sir. Mr. X. has
been after it, and so has
Mr. Y., but Mr. Z. came
before any of you, and I
gave it to him.”
• *
Not long back
a young man in
Melbourne sought
legal advice. He
wished to know if
there were any re-
dress for an inno-
cent youth who
was persecuted al-
most to death by a
fierce female who
wanted to marry
him. She would
not take no for
an answer, he
said, and haunted
his home, dogged
his footsteps, and
informed every -
body she came
across that their
wedding-day was
fixed and all pre-
liminaries ar-
ranged. The law-
yer could offer no
■ comfort, and the
young man de -
parted in a limp
condition. Re-
cently the wed-
ding took place.
N.B. —This story
does not come
from the lawyer.
Where there’s a
will there’s a wedding.
The C.E. diocese of Sydney is reft with
theologic discords. Ritualism, having sneaked in,
is waxing strong and confident, and accusations
and recriminations abound. Secessions are daily
spoken of. Canon Bartlett, late of Burwood, has
deserted the diocese and gone west. He
offered his services to Bishop Camidge,
of Bathurst, declaring peace impossible
in Sydney. And others threaten to
follow.
THE BEAUTIFUL TEREWTH.
REV. VISITOR : “ W ell, sonny, what are you goin
to be when you grow up?”
TOMMY : “Ma says I’m going to be just such
another lazy loafer as Pa is! ”
MA: “ Oh, Tommy!”—(Sits down on the cat.)
At a recent meeting of the Habitual-
Drunks Commission in Melb. a witness said to
chairman Zox—“ Insanity may be caused by a
very large dose of alcohol, but we don’t often see
such cases. The majority are cases where the
patient has been drinking quietly for years, and
has always been regarded as sober.” Whereupon
one rubicund potentate gave a pensive little cough.
At a Sydney - district police-court, the
other day, three youths were charged with
stea'ing fruit, with the result that while one
was severely fined and lectured, the other two,
being sons' of “ influential ” personages, were
•let off with mild admon-
ition about the dangers
o f bad coinp a n y.
And this, too, though
all three had pleaded
guilty and the one
who was fined had
a previously unblem-
ished character.
SUITABLY DECORATED.
ADMIRER : “ And those roses are? ”
ADMIREE : “ Blush roses.”
ADMIRER : “ Ah! how very appropriate! ”
Newspaper (Argus advfc.) romance :
WILL the Lady with the dove-like eyes post address
to Kismet, G.P.O.
T/"ISMET. —You are a silly boy. I’m years older
than you are.
I Care not if thou wert 60; I adore thee, Sweetest
Eyes : do grant me an interview. —Kismet.
tF you will not grant me an interview, I shall get
desperate.—Kismet.
TT'ISMET.—Why desperate? You are able to call
or write.
Yes, she was ready, from the very first. When a
woman calls a man a “ silly ” she is always ready.
* * • *
The passionate cry of the disappointed
lover, as per Friday’s Argus :
TjlAIRY,—Did you get letter ? I was walking about
T Fitzro.v and Coilingwood Wednesday to try and
see you. Letter for you, Fitzrov office. —Ted.
And the decisive reply of the fickle fairy in the
same issue—
IJIED.— I don’t want to see you any more.—F.
* • » *
James W. Tuckfield, Wesleyan chaplain
to Yic. Benevolent Asylums, writes to the Age
suggesting that the public should provide coin to
pay for a monument over the grave of old woman
Agnes Smith, lately demised at the alleged age of
116 years. Mr. T. says that deceased belonged to
the Wesleyan Church, on whose behalf he bought
the lot in which the poor old dame was planted,
and paid for hearse and coach. James W. T. also
says that three ministers took part in the service
at the grave. So that, altogether, the final dispo-
sition of Agnes was a brilliant affair, a sight more
picturesque than her life days in the Benevolent
Asylum, where the dominant note and color is
drab apathy. All that is now wanted is a
memorial-stone, and, of course, the public is
appealed to for the coin. As a general thing the
Melb. dailies fall into these beggars’ traps. But
on this occasion it is pointed out that James W.
Tuckfield has a large cheek when he asks, on be-
half of his church, for subscriptions to pay for a
memorial-stone on which to commemorate the age
and virtues of a Wesleyan old woman, who was
allowed by the Wesleyan Church, despite her
many acknowledged good qualities, to live and
die a pauper in ‘‘the Benevolent.”
A RURAL RONDEAU.
“ Yer got no show ! ” the cookie’s daughter said,
And shook a frowsy mane of tangled red,
Then sniffed, and scratching with a stubby toe,
“ Dashed off impressions ” in the dust below.
And while I sang how love for her had fed
Upon a heart that all in silence bled,
But now came trembling to be comforted
To her dear breast, she spat, and murmured low :
“ Yer got no show ! ”
Beneath her freckles roses pulsed and sped,
Her swelling bodice strained each creaking thread :
“ If Bill was ’ere, by gosh, ’e’d let yer know
This pinchin’ ladies’ legs is not the go.
Gerrout, yer prawn ! ” (I heard her as I fled)
“ Yer got no show 1 ”
MACHETE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and add) ess must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Bill Bolting : You say the money-lender is only
entitled to the balance of his debt and his costs. Not much.
Have known agreement to read: you receive £10; give your
P.N. for (say) £2O, payable 10s. per week; if one instal-
ment falls behind, the whole P.N. to fall due. So you
may have paid £l9 10s. of the £2O, and, being late with
the last 10s,, the whole £2O falls due again right away
W.H.G. : Large, dull tract on the Evils of Der-rink
j.r. : Plain domestic row with blanky in it W.J.D.
(Roma) : A square mile is 640 acres in any shape ; a mile
square is a square piece of ground containing 040 acres.
On the other hand, four square miles are—well, they are
four square miles ; but four miles square (i.e. a square
four miles each way) are 16 square miles T.H.T. : Not
strange enough Mollie Worris : Mostly “blanky.
We are tired to death of “blanky.” W.H.E. : Some-
body happened to be there when Mr. and Mrs. Blank
were bathing. That’s all Bushrat : Plain penny death
and funeral Ula : Bell topper jumped upon and
rejected J.J. : Will print “ Esther E. : Yes
A H.T. : Uninteresting Col. O’N. : One may serve as
illustration-idea P.T.F. : Will as soon as possible
A.M‘L. : Thanks .... Cecil P. : This paper bears them no
personal malice, but it absolutely loathes such cheeky
self-advertisers and title-hunters, and blocks them every
time it has a chance .... W.H.H. (Cooree) : An old yarn,
already done into verse by W. T. Goodge Prospect
Good : Both sets will be printed S.R.S. : One, anyhow,
is a hopeless chestnut, and it makes us suspect them all.
J.H. : In Sydney, fruiterers who hold native-wine
licenses keep open on Sundays, under the eyes of the
police, but they, of course, do not sell wine on that day.
This being so, ‘keeping open is presumably legal D. :
Australian zoology will yet thank Vic. Government for
its wisdom in making Wilson’s Promontory into a
National Park Arbela : Yours will never appear, on
any terms Ellmudilla: His full name is Edmund
Barton, and he is married Robert M. (Q.): Sorry we
have no such work H.M.O'D. : We evidently aren’t
strong on R.C.. ritual. But it was a good lie, wasn t it?
One good point about Father O’Dooley ; he can
take a joke—doesn’t go out of his way to construe it
as an insult C.L. (Uralla): Rather unsavory Peter
M‘Enok: Thanks E.A. :No room in Bulletin for
“ fine writing ’’—unless it’s very fine indeed C.S.B. :
Only great attractiveness of style can justify the beating-
out'of a five-line incident into a ten-page one... C.A.W.:
The newspaper said that deceased had been ailing. The
fact was, of course, that he had been beering .... A.O.K. :
Prima-facie, no book by a parson is of any value. Its
doom is the 3d. box outside the booksellers
door Mind : Don’t know T.H.N. : Miser-
able enough. Jack R. : No, thanks J. St. A.
(Lond.): Not up A.A.A. : None good enough
Rex : Yes, the proof of the Bobadil was in the
beating—after the-Derby ...E. R. Ralph: Why didn’t
you back Grafter and Cocos for places ? The bard backed
Amberite and Grafter to win, anyhow .... C. Kates: Bul-
letin has no use for long, slipshod, clumsily-written
yarns. For very legibly-written, well-condensed original
things there is always a show ; but if you think that
because you once managed to get in half-a-column of
forceful, carefully-done matter, you can now expect pub-
lication of 5.( cols, dreary hogwash, you make a dreadful
error. This paper wouldn’t publish 5.t cols, on any sub-
ject by even W. Shakespeare . 7x7 : Bush bards declined
R.O. : Too uneven W.P. : Verse declined
E.W. (Toow.): Any Australasian stamps will do ... Gay
R. : For Australia’s sake, DON’T! Fryingpan : Weak
and flabby T.Q.R. : Dull W.A.H. : What is it?
R.C.T. : Everything there—bar the humor R.T.J. :
Can’t use Starlight: Over the edge of melodrama
into the gulf of bosh W.K.S. : Not enough skill
or novelty J.G.D. : Declined John L. : Not up
Hollow Bullet: No more ’roo-tail .. J.E.P. : Interest too
technical and limited A.G.F. : Bought by Imperial
Government for that purpose a dozen years ago W. 11.
Dawson : Don’t know what you refer to Amicus : No-
thing in alleged coincidence Quater : Fastest to date
is Turbinia, knots (about 42 miles) .... Frisky : Can t
gambol after that fashion in B ... Suath : No harm in
trying. Strictly on merits, though Yarrum : Mere
silly mendacity Gordon 15. : “ Something New, ’ will
consider. Others conventional in motive. No use for
extract Geo. lI.S. : Formal, stilted, conventionally-
phrased R.T.R. (M.L.): Work rough and interest
slight Frank K. : “Days that are Old” is Lawson
and water. “ Respectable ” too slender. “Courtship”
will consider F.R. : Some pathos, but treatment
feeble A.C. : Both some merit, but lack dramatic
touch Oavalu : Interesting, but would need too much
re-casting Kate G. : Flavor too “gamey.” Malle :
“Flanagan” mildly funny H. Bos: Your “actual
occurrence " given away by fact that none of the cells
are near the outer-wall Oonia : Corpse item too wildly
exhilarating Yokel: Starts out for nowhere and gels
there with great success ..Alone: One verse of
“ Spoonewooney ” hereby tried on the dorg :
Oh ! Rose-yposey—
Sweetymeaty—
Won’t it be delicious fun
When in holy
Matrimony
You and I are joined as One ?
Dog died just here. Please forward fresh dog with next
poem The Wail of the Walloped: Bad verse about
nothing on greasy paper .... Dodd M. : “ Optical Illusion ”
doesn’t improve on further acquaintance. Climax very-
tiny indeed J.8.C.1L (Sydney) : Good enough, but
only one person in 1000 reads essays with scientific
hypothesis in them A.E.R. (Marrickville): Plain,
ordinary moral yarn with no spark of interest anywhere.
W.P.B. : Heat and dust and perspiration and im-
morality and a parson who swears through his false
teeth G.A. (Sydney): Declined Rock: Article on
“ Damn ” declined with the same thing that said article
is about .. Conobolas : Vague Jeremiahism A.
Neville : Pars of no special value A.B. (Kalgoorlie) :
The church that was blown away and blown back again
seems familiar somehow. When was it blown ?..
Native Bard : Have we indeed fallen so low? Mi.vah :
Apparently' the lady honored both papers, or both papers
honored her C.B.W. : Very dangerous; did you try
boiling it? J. Pen : Worthless Carini : Poor lot—
Franklin B. (W.A.) : Dragglesome kind of yarn with wet
skirts and drooping feather in its hat J.F.: Abject
Lynceus : Toss-up which is worse Jewsharp : De-
clined F.C. : “Plague” bit too local .M.E.L. :
Considering “Puppet.” H.J. : Ingenious; but too
detached. Can’t have motherless cockroaches running-
over the paper. Ida J. : Four pages of rumty-umty
verse, in very pale ink. Need we say more? .... E.A.B. :
The no-joke of it is simply amazing. Mrs. 11. : Some
interest; unsuitable for B ILF. : None usable.
R.R.J. (Lond.) : Thanks D.C. : (1) Probably. (2)
Good style is the style which most fitly expresses good
thoughts. (4) Certainly. B.L.H. : Machine-made coin-
cidence. Dal. C. : “The stream of life” is dry, and
the “ voices” dumb F.W.K.: Tedious verse H. 8.:
Remarkably bald and unconvincing narrative Kati :
Not bright enough. C.S. : “Sab.” unsuitable. Jack
Shay : Too heavy. The tired Australian is especially
tired of being preached at. Onlooker: Can’t use.
R.T.N. : Not half warm enough Spinnie : Either the
Munchausen in you killed the poet and suicided over the
corpse, or vice versa. Anyway, both of you are dead


The Ideas
of many minds are
concentrated in the
manufacture of
395
George-street,
Sydney .
—CALLAGHAN BOOK
We have made such good use of
what we have learned from Boot
Wearers during the past 46 years
that the result is a
PERFECTION IN EVERY DETAIL
Ladies’ Summer Tan Boots, 15/6, 17/6,19/6 25/-
Ladies’ Summer Kid Boots, 15/6, 17/6, 20/-,’ 25/-
Add 9d. postage.
Gentlemen’s Summer Tan Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/- 28/6
Gentlemen’s Summer Calf Lace Boots, 15/6, 17/6, 20/-,
25/—, 28/6 * *
Add Is. postage.
which helps to make
Callaghan Boots and
Shoes give such
general satisfaction.
&
All Drapers Everywhere.
GEOIE TEIS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Myee- 8rd ™ y ' N ° Vmber26 ’ «9a
The reason why Mrs. Pearson didn’t go to the
Oup has been agitating Potts Point awfully. And
now it transpires that that quiet and reclusive lady,
who is well liked by the few who know her intim-
miho’ P£ eferre< J to miss the whole gaudy carnival
nvlr T ! h , an if° thr ? ugh a scrimmage for precedence
er Lady Hampden. In Victoria, you see, Mrs.
Pearson would have been entitled to pass before
aJ • il a ?r orders from England have enjoined
fafry House to stickle furiously for its rights,
ine difficulty of the situation was too appalling to
a peaceable lady with an admirable weakness for
getting into the background.
There are to be three weddings in what may per-
naps be regarded as Sydney’s richest family. The
eldest son and heir is engaged to marry the
daughter of a gilded ex-Treasurer; and the two
daughters are also, in mining parlance, “bonded ”
one of them to a much-liked young barrister
scion of one of the oldest and Nicest families, and
son of a popular Judge not long deceased.
A Sydney man published the notice of his second
marriage in S.M. Herald one day this week (or
anyhow, it was published on that day), and in same
issue the relatives of his first wife rose up and in-
serted eight obituary-notices of that lamented
•lady. Apparently there was no premeditation or
malice about it. The second marriage took place
11 months and 12 days after the bereavement, but,
presumably out of regard to the conventionalities,
the bridegroom didn’t publish the fact till his first
wife ha,d been dead exactly a year. So naturally
his gladsome orange-blossom bumped up against
the in memonams ”of the first wife’s family,
which were due on that lugubrious anniversary.
Hut some of them rubbed it in rather by speaking
of her as the “beloved wife” of the gentleman
whose new beloved wife was advertised in the
same column. Talk about an awkward coinci-
uenee !
A lady who was buying some wedding-presents
for the bride of a well-known Sydney mining man
ordered at the same time an 800-gallon tank to be
sent to her house in Manly. The tank didn’t turn
?P> a tetter from the bride-elect ended thusly :
~ A , nd 800 tanks for * he other, it will be so useful
that 1 mean to keep it. Au reservoir. 99
The little bit of chocolate cream the ladies all
admire just now is a well-to-do Victorian youth
who sucks his cane by day and attends balls and
such functions by night in a perfectly original
fashion. Of course he travels in a cab each way,
and while m it is completely wrapped up in an
eider-down quilt. An overcoat, you see, would be
sure to crush his dress-suit, or his collar, or his
button-hole, perhaps all three; but a quilt keeps
him warm and does not spoil his toilet in any way.
After all, a loose cape of some sort would be more
suitable for men’s evening wear than an overcoat,
tmd before long some sort of compromise will be
effected between a counterpane and a tight-fitting
coat—say a poncho.
~ ,Thf kirk o’ Sydney has just acquired a real live
little meemster” in the shape of one Rev.
Heane, newly arrived from the auld countree. St.
Heorges, m Castlereagh-street, is a thoroughly
orthodox Presbyterian kirk, where the worshippers
stand to pray and sit to sing, and the elders will
undoubtedly keep strict watch and ward over the
meemster who is a little taller and older than Rev.
Havin Dishart, but just as fresh-faced and unso-
phisticated-looking. If Rev. Mr. Deane should
by any chance give out as a hymn “ Her boy am
1, there will not be wanting a Snecky Hobart to
pounce down on him at once.
A toney young Englishman who journeyed
hither per P. and O. Victoria was grabbed by
the waiting detectives, acting under cabled instruc-
tions, and is now cooling his heels under remand
until an officer arrives from England with the
a na rr arrest for forging close on
x/OJu. Ine Victoria saloonites were overwhelmed
with surprise at this charge against their innocent-
looking and boyish fellow-passenger, as he was one
of the very best on board-played the organ on
Sundays, read his Bible, and never took a lady
fellow-voyager to look at the phosphorescence
in a stilly tropic night.
At “ Sheloote, ” Neutral Bay, there is to be a
fancy-fair, on the. 25th and 26th inst., run on an
elaborate and high-toned scale, and called a
Federal Garden Fete. Govt. House has promised
to countenance the opening, and attractions will
include all the usual joys of a bazaar, with prizes
for cake and lollie competitions. Julius Knight
is set down to speak a piece ; other celebrities will
wi r 'v te fuol: eraS Vr and proceeds will mainly go
to the North Shore Hospital.
The Teachers’ Institute deputationised Minister
Hogue lately to ask him what chance they had of
getting funds to raise a club meeting-house for
™V nd coun ,fry dominies. They suggested
that the accumulated interest on school-children’s
penny accounts might come in very handv for
their purpose. To grab the kids’ money to found
a touchers club seemed rather a cool proposal, and
tH’ Hogue, having mildly remarked that he
didn t think Parliament would sanction any such,
bowed his visitors out. ’
A sailing ship, at present in an Australian port,
had a rather trying experience during its voyage.
The person who was entrusted with the money to
provide the ship’s stores at Vancouver bolted with
it to Klondyke, sending dummy stores on board.
When the boxes came to be unpacked—the ship
was then 30 days’ sail from anywhere—and were
found to contain nothing but bricks, the dilemma
of the ship’s company was truly awful. The mid-
dies who were on board give graphic accounts of
how they sat on the jibboom fishing. Having no
bait, they tore up their shirts for rags, and tying
these on to the end of a line jerked them from
wave to wave to imitate flying-fish. Other fish
then leapt from the sea and became hooked.
J-he captain, whose wife’s health became
seriously affected through want of proper
food swore upon the Bible to shoot that
thief should he ever meet him again.
I paid a visit to the Alba studios the other day
ml" ,-it • a J je ®P at , man y beautiful photographs.
A“ e Air lll • ® tran d Arcade takes you up towards
th ® A Jb a regions, where a sort of piazza with seats
and afternoon tea will soon be thrown open to the
studio s clientele. The naturalness of these photos
strikes one hard after the public’s long wild fancy
for looking like somebody else in another some-
body else s pose.
Everybody who reads Miss Braddon knows the
mischief-making lady’s maid, but local gossip gives
a certain boutnern dressmaker first prize in this line
of fancy work. Two old titled ladies in their
petticoats and camisoles were being “tried on ” in
a -j-r °ther day. The head dressmaker,
with her mouth full of pins, superintended. In
the pauses of stay-squeezing, one title remarked
that she had dined at Government House the
night before, and, really, what were things comin o,
to? “Mrs. Commono and Mr. and Mrs. Utterly°-
Unknown ; I told Sir he ought to speak to the
Governor. And they spent a comfortable
quarter-of-an-hour stripping all their friends and
acquaintances bare.
Shortly after, strange things happened. Mrs.
Commono met Lady on the vice-regal
fawns, and saved her the trouble of looking the
T-rTf' 7 ', Those bourgeois Outrages, and all
the U tterly-Unknowns, simply sniffed as they
passed and more important people didn’t pass at
all. Ihe poor old wheezy gossips felt an arctic
current agitating wherever they moved. Finally
it leaked out that that wicked dressmaker, with
her mouth full of pins, had swallowed their infor-
mation also, and saved it up for every customer
whose name was mentioned.
Why does anybody trouble to give parties ?
An at-home ” lately wound up the description of
itself with these words, “ The following were the
invited guests.” Then came a list of big guns
medium guns and little guns, all correctly
arranged to a hair. And some of the big guns
were in Melbourne, _ and some were giving bond-
Jiae at-homes in their own houses, and the party
proper consisted of a few little pea-shooters who
couldn t afford to miss any game going.
“ Gouli ” paid a business visit to another skeleton
party the other day, and was scarcely inside the
door when the hostess handed a long list of guests
beginning, Mrs. Burdekin, Mrs. Prendergast-all
the well-known names. And not one of them was
there.
So the Sham Party ought to be the next social
fancy. People will cease to buy flowers and re-
freshments. The list will do the trick. Then you
YrJ ead Mlss Gouli gave such a delightful
At Home in her Sydney mansion while she was
away catching crabs at Manly, and how the invited
guests mduded royalty and vice-royalty, and all
the list, now too well-known to need repetition.
In every sense the Liedertafel’s Centenary Con-
cert was a flourishing one. Little Alfred Hill
emerging boyish again from the cloud of a tem-
porary beard, waved the wild baton with much
exuberance, and Signor de Beaupuis, who took a
hand at the stick when his own composition was
performed, was a different kind of study in strokes.
Ihe Governors of three provinces shed their Ex-
rays on the scene, and a large, smiling house sat in
its best clothes and showed its appreciation of the
Centenary by letting five numbers go unencored.
Ihe vice-regal parties filled the front row. Lady
Lammgton in tired blue, with a tired pose and a
Bred smile, sat languidly alongside of Lady
Hampden right away from the men of the party
I noticed, though, that some society matrons!
sitting among the lower row of male importances,
were quite alive to the situation, and cast an un-
broken giggle over the lords around them. Lady
Hampden forsook her usual peaceful hairdressing
for an abnormal sky-blue feather, and as two other
ladies of the party wore blue, purple was not as
much in evidence as one might have expected.
Miss Hetty Holroyd in fragile pink sent her
sweet tones roaming round the Jewel Song and
Caro Lome. A youthful coldness still marks this
otherwise beautiful voice. By the way, the Duke
of Manchester’s wild enthusiasm over Miss Hol-
royd s singing led to an invitation from Lady
Hampden toGovt. House, “just among ourselves. ”
there the Duke s second hearing added to his
admiration, and I heard he vows to move London
managers on Hetty’s behalf. The other lady
vocalist was Miss Donnelly, from the country
whose singing has caused much flutter at the New-
bury Pops. Her fine organ, however, hasn’t had
fair treatment yet, and the rawly-amateurish
breaks and breathings slew all one’s artistic
pleasure. And why does every girlish amateur
worry “the Banks of Allan Water” so persist-
ently ? It isn’t an easy song to sing. Witness
how every amateur sets the funeral going in the
first verse, gets slower and slower as the song
winds on, and has the audience in Hades long
before the climax is reached. Yet you can’t kill
the popular impression that a slow ballad is the
easiest thing to sing.
The rest of the concert was mainly orchestral,
with rather more brass than usual. Signor de
Beaupuis’s delicate ethereal Apotheosis had a hot
encore, and his caressing style of piano playing
was a treat one would like to have oftener. Then
there was little Amadio with the flute, playing
compositions of Lemmone’s with highly promising
fluency.
That energetic musician, Madame Charbonnet-
Kellermann, gave a concert last week. How this
vivacious little woman manages to make innumer-
able pupils, composition, practice, and a bevy of
mercurial children, all flourish together, is some-
what of a problem. These recitals have been
happening at intervals all through the winter,
which implies a lot of hard work on Madame’s
part. Yet she skipped about as girlishly as ever
the other night, and twined roses in and out of her
hair, which she now wears in a little pig-tail. Two
sopranos, Millie Wynn in white, and Florence
Mack in blue, helped the songful part of the pro-
gramme along, and one male voice, belonging to
Mr. Burns Walker, was rapturously applauded by
an almost entirely feminine audience.
-v t^ T r - ®y^ lie .y Hoben’s concert comes off at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall on Thursday, the 24th. The
peculiarity of this entertainment lies in the fact
that all its music comes from Mr. Hoben’s pen.
Saturday night’s scorch played havoc with
theatrical houses. At “ Bob, ” where Maggie
Moore rejuvenated as a schoolgirl in ankle-frocks
—no, really, it wasn’t as'bad as it sounds—a hand-
ful of shrivelled enthusiasts drank boiled air and
iced “ leuionhides ” at intervals, and the actors
were not in it with the squarsh and horange boys.
One doesn’t usually hanker after the sight of fat
women in such a temperature, but this night I was
genuinely sorry to see so few about. For the
bounteous Maggie offered up three object lessons
which every fat woman who can’t run should read.
Number one, a neat blue gown, dark and plain,
moralised on what a fat woman should wear •
number two showed what should be strictly for-
bidden her by order of the law; number three
deeply accentuated number two. The second
frock was really a very pretty idea in peach pink
velvet and chiffon, a pink velvet polonnaise coming’
to a point in front over wide chiffon frills. The
beautiful JVliss Ada with her hair rather
ratically hanging round her shoulders, made the
gods look over their glasses for several moments.
A sweet voice is one of this young actress’s posses-
sions, but the trail of Maud Jeffnes is on her very
T noticed that she even imitated
Maud s awful one-sided lob.
It seems that ‘ ‘ The Lady of Lyons ” is as well-
beloved of the public as ever. Romantic Claude
Melnotte, in the hands of Julius Knight, is just
the sort of Nero to go straight to the heart of any-
one who ever had a young man, or read a Family
Herald, and the curtain does a lot of wild
bobbing up and down this week. In his
blue blouse and brown-velvet knickers, Julius
might realise any maidenly dream. The
public, you know, doesn’t like him with a
moustache, and when a sturdy, clean-shaved
Claude steps before the footlights the feeble clap-
ping of suede gloves is heard from all parts of the
house. There’s reason for the flutter, too, for the
adored one plays with more go and sincerity than
m any other of his parts, except perhaps the
Prisoner of Zenda. The fact is, this young man
isn’t intended for a salvation offering such as the
Superior Martyr, nor for an obnoxious villain-
hero such as Gil de Berault. He needs a boyish,
daring sort of role, where he can look as beautiful
as he likes ; where his historic legs aren’t cloaked
with draperies, nor his popular chin with a beard.
He gets this part as Claude Melnotte, and oh, the
damage !
Ada Ferrar does her very best with Pauline, but
is too fond of drawing herself up, and shooting a
head above her lover. Her white satin empire
gown is stiff with newness, and rustles delight-
fully, and the bunch of curls has a real look, as if
it might unroll at any minute. The green and
white robe of the last act suits her pale
make-up admirably. This is a garment that
might be easily imitated by a tea-gown.
A sea-green princess robe falls in strayed
lines at the back, or opens in front over a
flow of creamy net, striped with emerald trim-
mings. As for the gowns employed by Pauline’s
mountainous mamma, they simply put Maggie
Moore’s confections into outer darkness. One of
these was a cabbage-and-cauliflower brocade
looped away from a petticoat of boycotting green’
and topped with a big white wig and pink roses
and green things, and other floral decorations of
the tea-meeting order.
The Firm in London had to engineer a benefit
for the destitute widow of poor Charlie Ryley at
the Shaftesbury Theatre. No doubt there are
many matrons and maids among a certain set in
Australia who would, or should, gladly have
thrown m their mite to swell the fund. The
adored Charlie had his day-out while here, but he
isn t the only Adonis whose head has been turned
by the frisky crowd aforesaid. They usually have
some newly-arrived fashionable barnstormer in
tow, and pull caps vigorously for his coveted at-
tentions. Only this year the set had a susceptible
youngster as attache, from one of the imported
theatre co’s. He was a beauteous johnny; like-
W!se he was vain and of the age which kisses
and tells. _ The flatteries of a fascinating beauty
gave him inflated head, and he used to flash about
a wealthy-looking diamond ring which she bade
him wear as her best boy. One day at rehearsal
he appeared minus any sparkle and confided to
each lady member of the co. in turn that his heart
was captured _by another matron, and he had
returned the ring. He darkly hinted that charmer
the first would die of a broken heart, but she
didn t. This actor-petting is a popular amuse-
ment it s fun for the lady and a good old advt.
for the mummer.
Fashion’s two most frisky outbursts this season
are the neck-ruff and the turn-up hat. The ruff
is made of gauzy material and decorates its
victim s neck like the largest ham-frill on record.
It is warm, but has the happy knack of hiding the
scraggy scruff-of-the-neck which most women
possess. I saw a charming creature at a concert
t’other evening with a vast growing ruche of rose-
pink silk gauze encircling her throat, and when
she removed ruff and wrap together she took off
most of her style likewise. The ruff deserves
popularity because it frankly owns up to being
merely pretty, and isn’t one of those horrible utili-
tarian garments which claim to be useful as well as
ornamental. The new chapeau, whose brim turns
straight up from the forehead and is usually topped
off with a nodding feather, has a mission which it
seldom fulfills. Its aim in life is to heighten a
bright piquante face and assist the devilment of
a sparkling pair of eyes. Consequently, it is in-
variably chosen by a long-solemn-horse-faced
woman with nose-pinchers and it perches on her
brow like a moke’s sun-shade over its blinkers.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“There is no end of a flutter in Melbourne about
the great precedence question. Among the men,
it is all the Admiral’s insistence on his precedence
over visiting Governors. Among the women, it is
Mrs. Premier Turner’s insistence on her right, as
the wife of a P.C., to take precedence of all other
females except the Governor’s wife. Of course
Mrs. T. is technically quite right—as right as the
Admiral is, anyhow. Who it was that whispered
into the little pink ear of the Premier’s substantial
spouse that she should insist on her ‘rights ’ is not
known, but certainly it was not George—he is far
too sensible a man. But she got to know somehow
that a Privy Councillor’s wife takes precedence
over the wives of the Speaker, the Chief Justice,
and all the other lydies who think themselves no
small beer but bottled Burton. And so she in-
isted and shook her skirts at Sassiety with a
‘take it out of that.’ Mrs. T. is a large and
bitter pill for the toney ones to gulp down, but she
is a Mrs. Right Honorable, and so uas to be taken,
gilt and all.
“Mayor M'Eacharn’s departure tor Colombo on
a six-months’ jaunt is only preliminary to a much
more protracted absence at some future time not
very far distant. If he gets the knighthood which
his mayoral soul yearns for, he will go to England
to reside, and will seek a seat in the Commons—
on the Tory side, of course. He may even, in
time, by liberally subscribing to the party funds,
attain a peerage—say as Lord Chillagoe. Any-
way, it is well-known to Mr. M'Eacharn’s per-
sonal friends that he will go ’Ome to live altogether
in due course, so the title had better be hurried up.
“ On 9th inst. peachy-cheeked Prof. Harrison
Moore was quietly joined in one with Judge
A’Beckett’s daughter. The bridegroom was
appointed to the Melb. Chair of Law at the
tender age of 26, and was locally nick-named ‘ the
Mighty Atom ’ because, through bristling with
academic legal distinctions, he looked 19 at the
most. Not that he really resembled Marie
Corelli’s juvenile monstrosity. With his gentle,
demure expression and clear-cut English accent he
was own brother to ‘Sweet Alice with hair so
brown.’ The lady-like legal luminosity in ques-
tion never could bear noise and fuss. lie fell out
with the ‘ Princess Ida ’ girls, remember, on the
score of their rough Tomboy ways; and, rather
than put up with the riot of fellow-boarders, chose
to dwell all by his lone in solitary chambers
atop of a city building. ‘ Like seeks like, ’soit is
not surprising that the peace-loving Prof, has
married into a clan one of whose members, an im-
portant, well-salaried educational official, house-
keeps in quarters (most people call it a cellar)
below Melb, ’Varsity.
“ Since attention was drawn to the snameful
congestion of unappropriated male blessings on
the staff of local Alma Mater and affiliated insti-
tutions, there has been a blessed rattling of dry
bones thereabouts. Thanks to that disclosure, the
flowers of said marriageable forest are mostly
wede awa’, by this time, and even the grass-
widowers of Parnassus are kept in healthy circu-
lation.
Brassey left London he took a town-
house for his daughter, Lady Delaware, for the
season. The lady was at first coming to Mel-
bourne with papa, but ‘ circumstances ’ delayed
the visit, which will be paid later on—‘when the
clouds roll by.’_ Meanwhile, the cable shows that
not only the immediate Brassey clan, but also
Lord Richard Neville’s papa, is tarred with the
Hooley brush. It was Brassey’s son-in-la, w who
proposed, and Brassey’s wife’s father who seconded,
the bung millionaire’s nomination to the Carlton
Club.
‘ Apropos of ‘La Poupee’ and its assorted dolls,
the baby doll, to be up-to-date, should be provided
with its own little handkerchief and pocket to
put it in. Outfits imported for naicest infants in-
clude six-dozen small soft hankies and half as
many detachable, washing pockets to be tied
round ‘ Pitty Sing’s ’ waist by hemmed nainsook
strings. Dribbling innocents have lost half their
horrors for daddy’s unmarried chums now that
the latter haven’t to choose between coming to
the rescue with their own cambric, or being called
‘ fussy, disagreeable old bachelor ’ by fond mamma.
“Of the ‘Liars,’Mrs. Brough, as naughty Lady
Jessica, wears the prettiest plumage when she
arrives at the ‘ Star and Garter ’ to ask her adorer
for ‘ the merest mouthful of dinner.’ Short, smart,
tureuoise jacket of Eton type strewn thickly with
white embossings, blue Tudor toque and white
skirt. Without white skirts, life is a burden now-
adays. _ Lady Jess’s white dinner-frock, its gauzy
over-skirt shimmering with sparklers, is also be-
coming : but later on, in pink transparency over
silk and lilac-laden hat, worry begins to tell on
the culprit’s complexion.
\ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


smoke
three castles
CSfties Cigar,
a
am
rc®
CIGARETTES.
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS.
4.—Mothers and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust, and healthy should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate should fortify thomselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, and they can then brave the fury of the ele-
ments with equanimity. The writer speaks from
personal experience and from observation of bene-
ficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores and
temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the action of
the heart, whilst Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa gives
strength, stamina and builds up and strengthens
the lung tissues. It is indeed a wonderful food
beverage. Nothing has ever been discovered that
can approach it in giving lightness of heart, joy of
life, fleetness of foot, and that general feeling of
comfort which only comes from a full capacity to
enjoy every pleasure, moral, intellectual and
physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers, and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim
for Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
send to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa.
Tlie Famoxis French
Cliocolate.
CHDCfIEBT BIEiIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
IV. M. Cameron & Co.,
240 George-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
J. Medway Day, old-time Adelaide jour-
nalist, now regularly fills the Unitarian pulpit in
Sydney on Sundays.
Ed. Bulletin. — You place me amongst
the lawyers in N.S.W. Assembly. My business
certainly does compel me to bleed bullocks and
sheep, but I don’t bleed the public.— R. Donald-
son.
Rumored that Majah Neild carries inside
his shirt the detailed plan for the conquest of New
Caledonia immediately the “ war ” begins. Also,
draft proclamation by the first British Governor —•
Neild.
In old William-street (Melb.) cemetery is
a gravestone inscribed, “Sacred to the memory of
John Jones,” &c.—and, by wayof postscript, “ A
victim to a faithless and ungrateful wife.”
Whether his own or somebody else’s wife is not
stated.
News filters through England of the death
in the Straits Settlements of mine-manager Bibby,
who at different times worked, for Australian
syndicates, two or three mueh-talked-of, but
generally unfortunate, mining claims in the jungle
country.
It is not generally known that Age pro-
prietor David Syme
was at one time a
Californianminer, He
is the son of a Scot-
tish school teacher
and joined in the
Californian rush, but
was not amongst the
lucky. He now feels
the weight of years,
having just topped
the scriptural three
score and ten, and
meditates retirement
from some of his most
important responsi-
bilities.
Mr. DAVID MITCHELL, who promises to endow
the N.S.W. public with his unique library of
30,000 vols.
The M.L. Parliamentarian, W. J. M.
Larnach, who suicided lately, was horn in 1838 at
Oastle Forbes, near Singleton, N.S.W., the estate
of his grandfather, Major Mudie, who with his
family arrived in the province in 1821. His
father, John Larnach, of Rosemont, Hunter River,
arrived in 1822, and entered into partnership with
the “Major,” who, by the way, never got higher
in the service than lieutenant of marines.
Dr. Evans, the thin young Vic. barrister
who succeeded in getting an order for a grand
jury in the “ detective’s-trap ” case, is one of the
few locally-made Doctorsof Laws of that province.
Hr. M‘lnerney(Warden of the University Senate),
Hr. (Chief Justice) Madden, Dr. Sprigg, and one
or two more are the others. But we mustn’t
forget the Duke of Edinburgh, who was duly
created Doctor of Laws during his visit here.
Old woman Agnes Smith, who died at
Melb. Benevolent Asylum, the other week, was
not quite such an outrageous liar as the average
ancient. When her brother, a Hobart man, was
appealed to on the subject some 11 years ago, he
gave the opinion that sister Agnes had then
touched her 90th birthday. She' claimed to be 116
at the time of her death. It is almost certain
that she didn’t “ stretch it ” more than 14 years.
J. W. Ward's resignation of Brisbane
Coukier editorship for a place on Melb.
Argus came as a surprise to his friends
in the North. It was generally believed that
Ward had political aspirations, and, had Byrnes
survived, it is not improbable that Ward would
have soon found his way into the Cabinet. He
will be succeeded by a young Queenslander, C. B.
I' letcher, who has been leader-writing for some
years.
Not to revive your Briton’s-bath contro-
versy, it is significant (writes an ex-naval officer
to The Bulletin) that, when Capt. Prince Louis
of Battenberg (whose men in H.M.S. Majestic
have been kicking against his made-in Germany
snobbery, fostered by British flunkeyism) was a
midshipman, not even his German priggishness
made him so much disliked by his comrades, as his
addiction to the awful crime known in the sister-
service as “ frowstiness ” —esehewment of the bath,
to wit.
R. H. D. White, M.L .0., now in a par-
ticularly sad and hopeless state of health, used to
be a crack pigeon-shot. Once, at Mudgee, when
he had performed brilliantly and was congratu-
lated, he said : “ I always shoot at a pigeon as if
it were an overdrawn account I am determined to
reduce.” At Rockhampton, in ’63, White, gold-
laden, fought single-handed three rascals who
sought to stick him up. White plugged one fellow
m the thigh and they hauled off, carrying their
wounded with them.
With R. E. O’Connor, Q.C., on the bench,
J. E. Salomons, C. E. Pilcher and Jack Want,
Q.C’s, going, it, is said, on the usual long holiday,
Barton, Q.C., immersed in politics, and B. R.
Wise now in “silk,” the N.S.W. junior bar looks
forward to full bags and big fees.
Melb. Dr. Neild, who has post-mortemed
more bodies than anybody else in Australia, asserts
—lst, that the average woman’s skull is thicker
than the average man’s; 2nd, that the nigger’s skull
is no thicker than the Caucasian’s ; and 3rd, that
the thickest skull of all is that of the idiot, who
generally dies at 1(5 or so.
Marshall Hall is in trouble again. This
time, it is the English owner of the copyright of
the other “Hymns Ancient and Modern,” who
has come down on him with a demand for the
withdrawal from circulation of the whole of Hall’s
“ H. A. and M.,” and an undertaking not to pirate
the title again. The Nemesis of bad taste !
The duplicating of professions is becoming
fashionable. The new Resident Magistrate of
British Papua (Dr. Latouche Brough) is both
barrister and M.D. Almost every Australian
province has now one or more men who are
doctors and barristers. Several add a clerical quali-
fication, thus furnishing themselves with three
chances.
Under the regime of editor Ward, Brisbane
Courier did manage now and again to say a few
wholesome truths on the Q.N.B. question. Im-
mediately on Ward’s departure, however, that
journal distinguished itself by printing an article
giving the public to understand that the
acquitted directors were almost in the position of
martyrs snatched from the faggots just as the
flames were about to devour them. Whispered
here and there that Ward wasn’t quite flexible
enough on that question.
N.S.W. Treasurer should be asked, did
the Government of the day direct Agent-General
Samuel, to credit A. G. Taylor, on his obtaining
the Privy Council reversal of Speaker Barton’s
ruling, with ,£lOOO to enable him to return com-
fortably to Sydney, and is it true that Taylor re-
fused to touch the money then, and has not since
collected it ? If the answers be as held by many,
then the State still fairly owes the money, and the
present is a fitting time for some member to luge
that the cash be paid over for the benefit of the
distressed Taylor’s afflicted family.
A certain Australian Premier was knocked
up in a.m. hours recently by a discordant and
brutal stranger in evening-dress, who, having
awakened the whole household, insisted clamor-
ously upon seeing the master thereof. He raised
such a disturbance that, out of a natural love of
peace and respect for his reputation, the great
iittle man arose and went down to meet the in-
vader. The stranger regarded him for a moment
with an ensanguined eye, steadying himself for
the time by hanging on to the bell-pull. “Sir,”
he said, “ I have been extremely anxious to see
you.” “Well?” queried the distressed states-
man. “Well,” echoed the disturber of the peace,
“now I have seen you. Good (hie!) mornin.”
And he departed with great gravity.
Tommy Bent, Vic. ex-Speaker, is now lord
of a Warrnambool potato-patch. On the rare
occasions when Tommy visits Melb. he wanders
into the Opera House, as fat as ever, and sits down
to enjoy the high-kicking and meditate over old
times. Bent, by the way, is the only Vic. legis-
lator who ever had his election-addresses printed
in Chinese and circulated among his yellow con-
stituents. This he did when he first got into Par-
liament for Brighton, ousting George Higin-
botham. The electorate included most of the
market-gardens of Melb., many run by Chows,
and these were so touched by Bent’s compliment
that they voted solidly for him and cast Higin-
botham into the oblivion which led to a Chief
Justiceship.
Purves, Q.C., knows men. Appearing
for “mother” Brussels, and other dealers in dam-
nation, in a case sent back on appeal by Vic.
Supreme Court to the police-court, he said that,
with the exception of “ one or two,” the Supreme
Court Judges were innocent creatures. Didn’t
know' as much about such matters as the lowercourt
by a whole heap of special experience ; at which
the bench looked flattered, and one magistrate
coughed with sheer pride and pulled up his collar.
And then the highly-scented defendants were let
off with imprisonment until the court rose. Some-
body asked Purves in private who the one or two
were on the S.C. Bench who knew more about
Totties than their fellows. But he was not to fie
drawn. And then everybody guessed himself into
the pub. over the way.
From the Tasmanian Federalist :
Mr. and Mrs Sidney Webb, of London, are walking up
and down the cities of Australia just now, asking ques-
tions and making notes. They are Socialists, like Mr. Ben
Tillett, but, unlike Ben, they hear much and say little.
They waited on Minister Peacock, of Victoria, the other
day, to ask questions about the Factories Act. Among
other things, Mrs. Webb said : “ How is it that you, in
Victoria, with no Labor-party, have an advanced Fac-
tories Act, and New South Wales, with a Labor-party
holding the balance of power, has not?” The Chief-Sec-
retary was thinking of his own troubles just at the time,
and, for a moment, forgot that a lady was the questioner.
“Oh,” said he, offhandedly, “ that crowd over in Sydney
is no d good, that's why.” The questioner dropped
her eyes, and considered ; while Mr. Peacock quickly and
laboriously explained what he meant. “ Yes,” said the
visitor at last; “we saw a good deal of them, and that is
what we thought. Only,” and here she smiled sweetly,
“of course, we could hardly express it so vividly.” Arid
then the Chief-Secretary blushed.
Southern Cross residents, who knew mur-
derer Deeming, can never be got to believe that
the Villain of Windsor intended forKatießoun.se-
vell the cement he had on hand when arrested.
Deeming was on friendly terms with the local
bank-manager, and his contemporaries contend
that he designed to “hearthstone” that official,
clear out the bank, and then sit down and let the
public surmise that the manager had bolted with
the till.
Papuan Gov. Macgregor says the preva-
lence of fever up that way is much exaggerated.
Avers that in 10 years he didn’t lose more than
10 days through illness, and attributes his im-
munity chiefly to abstinence from spirits and never
sleeping without a mosquito-net ! [Why ? Ed. B.]
Tallies with what a Bulletin scribe once heard a
veteran Anglo-Indian say: “ Indian liver ? Rub-
bish ! The only Indian liver is brandy-pegs and
bottled beer ! ”
“Wales’s” youngest daughter, Victoria,
it is printed, has kicked over the traces by insist-
ing on marrying Lord Revelstoke, who has only
■£looo a year, the rest of his income going to pay
off his father’s debts. Revelstoke means really
Baring, of Baring Bros., who “ broke ” so badly
t’other day. Her Gracious is savage over the
business, but as the lady is 30 and ugly and no
royal wooer is forthcoming, Vic. the younger bids
fair to have her own way.
Dr. Cockburn, if offered a knighthood at
new year, will probably accept. Premier Kingston
tried to persuade Playford to take the bauble at
Jubilee time, but that bluff and plain-spoken per-
son expressed the opinion that Imperial honors
and market-gardening would not go well together,
and he could not afford to give up the latter.
Cockburn, however, has no such excuse to offer,
and though his views are Democratic his tastes are
on the side of the aristocracy.
Henry Heuzenroder, another of that valu-
able contingent of mostly studious Germans who
found the Fatherland unpleasant just over 50
years ago, and left hurriedly per circuitous route
for Australia, died in Adelaide a few days back.
Heuzenroder was the friend of Von Mueller (who
was another member of the contingent), and, like
him, was devoted to botany. But his hobby was
coin-gathering; his collection is said to be the
finest in the Southern Hemisphere.
The late Joseph Bosisto, apothecary and
C.M.G., also ex-M.L.A. (Vic.), was chiefly
notable for two things: he was the first man to
enthusiastically push the eucalyptus-oil business,
and he was the patron of the magnificent Jemmy
Thomson, promoter of Melb. Standard. It was
when secretary to Bosisto, during the latter’s
Indian and Colonial Exhibition conunissionership,
that J. Thomson dined with Albert Edward of
Wales, and at once swelled into a potentate of 28
carats. J. Thomson’s boss returned the same
kind, simple, good-looking pill-maker that he had
gone forth ; ready, if need were, to go behind the
counter and dispense boluses and black-draughts
to the Richmond public, as of yore. Jemmy
Thomson spoke of Her Gracious as a “ homely
old lady.” Bosisto had no words to record his im-
pressions That was the difference.
THE LILY-WHITE AMATEUR.—AT OUR
SUNDAY-SCHOOL PICNIC.
THE MINISTER : “ Well, my boy, you have won the
race. Will you take this little book for a
prize, or threepence?”
BOY : “ Well, I suppose I’ll ’ave to take the book —
I don't want to be classed as a professional! ’
“ Dem. ” : Talking recently to a law-official
about S.A. Judges Way, Boucaut, and Bundey,
he said : “ Look here, I would rather be tried by
Boucaut than by Way or Bundey ; but Heaven
forbid that I should ever be sentenced by him.”
More cases break down before Boucaut than before
any other Australian Judge. In the criminal
court he is unsurpassed. In a moment he sees the
weakness of a case, and his index-finger is set
wagging at the Crown-Solicitor what time lie pro-
pounds the poser. An undefended and undemon-
strative prisoner may rely on Boucaut to a'ln'tmt
defend him, but woe to the flash criminal ! ”
Died suddenly in Townsville Alderman
Lowry, about the most famous man in Northern
Queensland, John Hoolan not excepted. Lowry
was a man of curious antecedents ; had a terrific
voice of his own, unbounded audacity, and a com-
bativeness seldom equalled. Aspired once to get
into Parliament and ran along with Anthony
Ogden for Townsville, but was damned and de-
feated mainly by antecedents aforesaid. Lowry’s
death was worthy of his life. He broke a blood-
vessel while speaking at a public meeting and
trying to upset a certain gentleman’s chance of
election to office. Townsvillians, who dearly loved
Lowry’s weekly sensations, will miss the hero and
his leather lungs.
While Louis Becke has been putting nasty
questions to Rougemont, “ Mick ” Cosgrove,
another Australian who can hold his own in such
discussions, has been lying low, coming for-
ward only occasionally with the suggestion that
Newnes should help in the equipment of a party
to bring home some of the metal that the Grien-
landers’ pots and pans are made of—party, of
course, to be led by Mick Cosgrove. Since
quitting Sydney lfi years ago Cosgrove has done
a fair amount of “ rushing ” : he was among the
first on Broken Hill, was the contemporary of
Bayley and Pord in Westralia, rushed inland to
the Eastern fields, then tried the Papuan gullies
two years ago, next tripped to Klondyke, and at
latest was in London.
IN “ PUSH ” SOCIETY.
PIPPO : “ Lumme, Sis, I would track with a
blue-ban!”
SIS: “ Gerrout! I can squeeze something out of
'im, anyway.”
According to law, no man can be adjudged
father of an illegitimate child on the uncorrobo-
rated word of the mother alone. Therefore, had
Suffield been sued for 7s. 6d. a week by Ann
Chambers, for the support of a child born as the
result of their alleged intercourse, he could not
have been made responsible. Nevertheless, she has
had him gaoled for 7h years on evidence which the
law, in its common-sense moments, regards as not
good enough to support a claim for 7s. 6d. a week.
A Yic. country resident's 11 children are
named—Hezekiab Theosophilus Erasmus Thomas
Stewart; Uriah Melancthon Wycliffe Gabriel
Wesley ; Isaiah Claude Tyndall Luther William ;
Amos Coverdale Latimer James Whitfield ; Ida
Clara Ruth Jane Harriet Ann ; Ross Cranmer
Ridley Gideon Waldo ; Paul Cawsey Joshua John
Huss ; Hill Knott Gordon Moses Havelock ; Rod-
ney Howard Nelson Swingle Blake; Watt Booth
Wolseley Browning Drake ; Vine Victoria Myrtle
Mary Edith. 56 front-names in all. And such
names !
In a temperate article on the Q.N.B. trial
Brisbane Worker has a deep and telling thrust at
Chief Justice Griffith. As is well-known in Q.
the journalistic crusade against Q.N.B. mis-
management was started by John Willard —the
man unseated for Burke in ’96—and kept hot for
years, under a pen-name, in the Worker. When
Willard was threatened with the loss of his seat
inN.S.W. Parliament he went to Queensland to
examine certain papers in Brisbane Post-office.
Some of the documents examined afterwards
mysteriously disappeared, and Willard was haled
before the Chief Justice for alleged theft. The
jury found “not guilty in face of a strong
summing-up against defendant. Griffith then
perpetrated his first notable indiscretion on the
bench by spitefully telling accused that “ he was
a very lucky man.” Had Willard been equal to
the occasion, and to his undoubted rights, he
would have, told the Judge to reserve his irrelevant
and gratuitous insults for his dog. Anyhow, the
Worker unearths the incident and contrasts
Griffith’s parting shot at Willard with his grace-
ful discharge of the Q.N.B. ex-directors. A
merited reminder.
The late P. A. C. O’Farrell’s poverty in
his old age (writes a Bulletin correspondent) was,
perhaps, the more bitter to him because he had
pretty richly deserved it. For all his Bible-quot-
ing and religious mania, O’Farrell owed his down-
fall, in the first instance, to an act of un-Christian
cowardice. He was a prosperous Melb. solicitor,
earning up to =£12,000 a year, when one night his
carriage collided with another vehicle, throwing
the occupant (a man) into the roadway and killing
him. O’Farrell drove away, and would never
have been identified with the tragedy but for the
evidence of a small piece of wood splintered from
his carriage in the collision. Some time after-
wards, when the guilty vehicle came along to a
coachbuilder’s to be “done up,” it was found
wanting in the aforesaid piece, particulars of
which had been given to the trade by the police.
The discovery resulted in O’Farrell’s trial for
manslaughter. Then the relatives of deceased
sued the arrogant solicitor for damages, and got a
verdict. O’Farrell appealed, and was east in yet
heavier damages at the second trial. The loss of
money, reputation, and practice which the scan-
dal involved was the beginning of his ruin.
“Anarchist ” to The Bulletin :
The hand of fate has pressed heavily upon Australia’s
three anarchist editors. David A. Andrade conducted
the first Australian anarchist paper, Tlonesty, an organ of
the Boston individualist school, published ten years ago
in Melbourne. He had severe troubles, was plunged into
destitution by a business failure, went “ on the land ” at
South Sassafras village settlement, and, after a long
struggle, embittered by domestic afflictions, lost every-
thing, health included, by the great bush fires of last sum-
mer. J. A. Andrews started Anarchy, The Revolt,
Reason, and The Radical, organs of anarchist commun-
ism, in Sydney and Melbourne ; at Sydney was twice im-
prisoned for his publications; after failing at Melbourne
was offered a post on The Firebrand, an American
anarchist paper, and while on the way (wholly by the
help of friends) to reach it, learned that the paper had
been prosecuted and suppressed ; made just a guinea per
week the past year in Sydney hy literary work, and
couldn’t look out for anything additional because he was
so occupied with enjoying the most luxuriously prosper-
ous twelvemonth he ever had for ten years ; ancient ex-
periences include about 90 days in 9 months totally with-
out food, or with less than one ordinary “ snack ’’—four
fasts were of four days each—and 1000 miles of aimless
wandering. W. R. Winspear ran the Australian Radical
as an individualist-anarchist paper at Hamilton, N.S.W.,
for a year after the demise of Honesty. He got into diffi-
culties, and in the carelessness of desperation laid himself
open to a police-court charge in connection with some
petty business transaction out Newt.own-St. Peter’s way.
He received a sentence, and a fortnight later his wife
committed suicide in the agony of hopelessness, leaving
his five children totally unprovided for. Thus culminates
the long-drawn tragedy.


“ THREE G-OOD THINGS ”
. . . Made in England . . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Pure Malt V inegar
- ; ; “68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook's Sauce has been AWARDED MORE Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar 18
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
AND
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSEMER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY
Aboriginalities.
“ W.JEI.F.” : The fact that Australian
aboriginals oannot count above a certain number
is amply shown in their want of knowledge of the
relative value of money. I have frequently tested
blackfellows in this respect, and have invariably
found that their ideas are extremely vague. You
will not persuade the average nigger that a half-
crown piece is equal to two shillings and sixpence,
or that half-a-sovereign is as good as 10s., and, if
you put down 15s. and a pound-note, and ask him
which he will have, the odds are 100 to 1 that he
selects the silver. A squatter friend of mine was
busy mustering, and wished to obtain the services
of a blackfellow who was very intelligent and a
first-class rider, so, one day, meeting him on the
run, this colloquy took place—Squatter: “ Tommy,
me want’em you help muster, and, s’pose’em you
come work one month, me pay’em you 15s. a
week.” To which Tommy: “Baal! Alway
mine bin have 10 bob ter week when me work
along altogether ’nother station. You gib it 10
bob ? ” And the bargain was made to Tommy’s
satisfaction.
* * * *
“L.”: Knew a mean white try to take
advantage of a black’s counting disabilities. On
completion of bark-stripping contract (12 sheets
at Is. each) Jacky asked for his money in single
shillings, spread sheets out in a row, and pro-
ceeded to place a shilling on each piece. Coin ran
short at ninth piece. “ Too much plurry bark !
Not nuff plurry chillin’,” said Jacky, and taking
his tomahawk prepared to demolish the unsilvered
sheets. Then he got his shortage and departed
smiling, while the white tried hard to look
pleased.
* * • *
“ K.K.” : Re wage-cutting. “ Ben Sun ”
says it is the steady, saving, servile individual,
mostly married, who does the trick, and he seems
to impute blame. Why ? The married man
must have work, and it pays him better to
take it low than to go out of the district
for it, and keep two homes going.
There is no blame in this competi-
tion ; it is inevitable. Even if all
wages were uniform by law, it
would not abolish undercut-
ting. One man would give
civility and interest in his
work, along with his labor,
as an inducement to the em-
ployer. The steady married
man sticks out for the high-
est price ; that shuts out the
single improvident man, who
onlv needs to work, half the
week to pay his way,
and for whom local work
has not the same ad-
vantage over any other
that it has to the mar-
ried man.
• *
“ Verax ” : Travel-
ling in West Tasmania,
struck out-of-the-way
pub. Asked for some-
thing to eat. Would
corned beef do ? There
was nothing else. All
right; and landlord
sends dogs up hill at
back of pub. Shortly
after dogs dr-ive down
what appears to becloud
of flies. Landlord:
“Beg pardon, mister, bun i n- corned-beef cleared
out of the back-door and up the hill, and the dogs
is just chasin’ it home 1 ”
* * * *
N.Q. aborigines are going fast. Mapoon
mission-station reports four births and 15 deaths
for the past 12 months. (Probably, also, the
births were half-castes.) Be the Bloomfield mis-
sion, Dr. Roth reports that the nigs, learn “ hus-
bandry and fundamental truths of Christianity by
day,” and then go away and learn, in other quar-
ters, “every conceivable vice by night.” The
young men are utterly demoralised by being re-
cruited for pearling and bdche-de-mer boats.
Three gins on a pearling-boat murdered their
three infants. No room for babies on that kind of
craft.
* * » *
“ Neoro ” on Westralian slavery :
The Bulletin’s recent par. on Rev. Gribble’s mission to
N.W. Westralia blacks only half states the case. The
true history of that country has yet to be written and
will have to be recorded in letters of blood by a man out-
side the influence of the magnates of the West. The few
’tothersiders who work their way up to the inhospitable
country north of Geraldton, where only Sandgropers and
Japs, nan exist, have learnt the wisdom of a close mouth,
but if only half that is hinted at is true, there is still
enough to make the old-time African slaver blush. Writer
can testify to recent case of well-known family raiding
blacks’ camp for a boy as station-drudge. Captured one
and carried him off over 20(1 miles. Parents lingered for
months round camp mourning the kidnapped lad. 1 have
seen boy often, and can assert that he is no better treated
than the squatter’s dogs.
* * * *
From Emerald (Q.) :
At the close of the court the P.M. was waited on by a
deputation from a great gathering of aborigines assembled
outside the courthouse. The deputation asked what
Gov.t. meant by preventing the blackfellows from getting
opium—did the Govt, wish the blackfellows to be wiped
out? “Chinaman no sell ’im opium; publican no sell
’in) beer, blaekfellow get sick and die.’’ The unhappy
P.M. assured the deputation he had no notion why they
were to be prevented,from getting opium.
Here is the Australian State responsibility settling
itself without trouble. The nigger has got to go,
and the quickest way of finishing him is to
give him civilisation without civilisation’s dis
tractions—beer and opium. But, under the cir-
cumstances, the Govt, protectorate over aborigines
is merely marketable rot.
♦ * * *
“ V.K.” : Be F. J. Gillen’s remarks about
Centralian aboriginal custom as to the relation of
sexes, it is strange that exactly the same institu-
tion exists in New Britain. The division is here
into two groups, the Mara-Mara and the Pika-
baba, with the same restrictions as to inter-
marriage as appear to prevail on this continent.
Dr. Roth found this curious law among the Q.
aboriginals he studied, and Gov. Macgregor talks
about its existence in N.E. Papua. In the Solo-
mons I believe the different but ever-recurring
tattoo-marks of an evidently conventional pa,t-
tern, a grotesque fish and an albatross being the
most frequent, prove that the custom has been
prevalent there also. But should like to see the
aboriginal custom that could withstand the appli-
cation of a dose of Q. labor traffic ! The ethno-
logical and genealogical history of the Pacific is
the most puzzling problem on the face of the
globe ; and in another 20 years the last chance of
solving even fragments of it will have gone to
well, where the good niggers go !
* * * *
“Kelm Scott”; Be “Steele Rudd’s”
assertion (8., 8/10/’9B) that jackasses will only kill
young snakes. Lived near Murray once in a very
snaky locality, and have often seen Jack kill a
4ft. snake. Once saw three of them killing a
6ft. 4in. black snake. Put an average snake and
Jack in a ring, as “ S.R.” suggests, and my money
will go on the bird every time. Also, if Jack
comes across a snake that he can’t manage, he has
only to give the office and reinforcements are
soon on hand. One blow of Jack’s
bill will disable almost any
snake, and it would be a prettv
THE END OF THE 'BOO-TAIL
CONTROVERSY .
most patient model) clearly proving
that the kan 9 aroo does sometimes strike the
ground with his tail when jumping. Just
imagine the sudden stop the old man would
experience when he lit on that wire fence /
tough subject that a brace or so of Jacks could not
account for.
* * * *
“ Dareel ” : A country trooper used to
throw mice from the forage-bin out into the yard,
an d as they ran back towards the stable a kooka-
burra would pounce on them. Exhibited Jack’s
expertness to a visiting constable, and latter tied
a silk-twist to a mouse, threw it out, and as the
bird darted, jerked the mouse aside. Jack
n i ml „hpd hh ’ "j h :„ hil] th „ n flpvv
P ,° -, sancl > thcn ” acR . ,
ridge-pole, and sat there for a long tune with
head askew, having apparently lost confidence in
his ability to shoot flying. At all events, he took
care after that always to make his dart well-ahead
0 f his nrev
F * »
~ TT . „ i • n- i > ’ ..
Via : Re bunyip. Huxleys matured
opinion was that there are thousands of marine
aT)( j sub-marine monsters existing but as yet un-
-1 i .i , -n j , .■ , . ,
known, and, therefore, unclassified by biologists.
Also, a £ rench scientist reports the discovery of
a tremendous fresh-water eel (anguilla giganticus)
in New Caledonia, measuring 6ft. in length, head
as big as a man’s, enormous eyes, green skin, and
a camoious e-ullet Put him into an Australian
a capacious guuer. iuc nim into an Australian
cree k or billabong, let an aboriginal get a startled
glance in the gloaming, and your bunyip is
created.
* * * *
A Big Scrub (NSW) bill * “ YVvrallall
(now called ‘ Hindooyillo ’)/ Johnie Pumpkin dr
to Mister james cookie £2 0 0 wile it was raning
for Drawing a ded cow 1 mile and ten chane two
WORK WHILE YOU WORK.
RUMPUS : “ Wotto, Diddums! You is lookin
porky an’prosperous. Are yer ‘in collar’?"
DIDDUMS: “ Yairs! Got a job banana-ripenin'
for the Chores. Three ‘deeners’ a week an’
me keep. All yer got ter do is ter lie on a
bed stuffed with bananas till yer ripens
’em. Bit o’ alright, I promise yer. ”
draw lode of wood and the burning of the cow
wich tuck a grate deal of trubble in the rane and
them roods was bad an erly settlemount will
oblidge.”
* • * *
“DoddM.”: For solid cheek the Mur-
rumbidgee Whaler “ain’t in it” with the Big
Scrub Swaggie. Last Queen’s Birthday I filled
up one gentleman tourist at Possum Shout (on the
Richmond) with roast pork, vegetables, pudding,
cake, fruit, and much beer, and though he actually
thanked me as I gave him a plug of baccy, he
added: “I’mdanged if I like ya pickles or ya
sauce. Them pickles tastes like the headsa wet
wax matches. Y’oughter try ernother brand ; but
p’r’aps y’ain’t no judge a pickles. I am.”
* * » *
“A.M.L.”: Swagging.in the M.L. bush
settlements last winter, I called at a cocky’s
whare to try him for a shakedown. A 12-year
boy came to the door and told me that “as the
swaggers had put Seddon into office, he was the
proper person to apply to. Squatters were not
going to run free boarding-houses for the future.”
Next day found out that the “ squatter ” and his
family had been Christchurch unemployed until
the Seddon Government brought them up hei - e
and put them on a perpetual lease. How soon a
gutter-rat turns Tory !
“Dallas”: Halting, to
let a Chinkie’s cart pass me,
heard the Chow jabber to his
Caucasian driver —a big, burly,
colonial - marked chap—some
thing like “Hi ya—chang a
wong— muckern ti-ya ! ” To
which Jehu replied in the same
croak,apparently without diffi-
culty or hesitation. Next
Saturday morning saw the
same Jehu come into the bank,
cash the Chinkie’s cheque, and
make lodgment to his (the
Chow’s) credit. Solution of
unemployed difficulty learn
Chinese, and become private
secretary to some slant-eyed
son of Heaven.
“H. Knight Wilford ” :
Was travelling with a swag in
Tasmania a few years ago, and
happened to spend several days
on the shores of Great Lake.
The shepherds thereabouts re-
port that the bunyip has often
been seen swimming in the
lake, appearing suddenly oil
the surface and diving before
anybody can reach it. It is
said that it once popped up
close to a boat in which Gov.
Hamilton was sitting. One
man told me that he and his
brother, when boys, had seen
it sunning itself on one of the
big flat beaches which extend
far into the lake; they ran to-
wards it, but it waddled has-
tily to the edge of the sand
and dived into deep water.
They said it was like a large,
black dog—“as big as a swan ”
one fellow said —but with short
legs or flappers. Some kind
of a fresh-water seal, perhaps.
A later story was that one had
been shot, and the skin sent
to Green Ponds.
“W.H.S.” : Re women working. Knew
a Tas. cocky’s wife and 18-year daughter who
scrub-cleared, fenced, and cultivated 150 acres in-
most workmanlike style. The father and two
strapping lads mostly worked on the adjacent
mining claims. Once saw mother and daughter
sinking a prospect-hole ; the old girl threw the
dirt up a good 9ft. with a short-handled shovel in
a style that made me feel small. They deserved
to strike it in that hole, but it was a duffer. The
mother was Scotch.
Some back-block registry items :
DearMaddom.—Please will you reagester the birth of
Ecktor Brow'n, born and you oblige his
parints. Borne at Boomer Creek.
To Registrar of Births, etc.
I beg to report the death of Mrs. widow, of
who died this 2nd day of August from Dr. ———’s advice
and general weakness.
* • * •
An ecclesiastical aboriginally :
Many years ago, when an Irish-American priest was
conducting a mission in (Queensland, the then Bishop
Quinn (or O’Quinn, as he was pleased to call himself after
the O’Connell centenary) travelled through the country
with him, accompanied by a Bananaland priest. First
Friday out dugong (which might readily be mistaken for
fat pork by the uninitiated) was served with cabbage, and
after the bishop had served both priests he fell to work
himself, for he relished this fish. “My lord,” said the
1.-A., “ this is Friday.” The bishop took no notice. “My
lord,” repeated the priest, “ this is Friday!” His lord-
ship looked up. “ Well, mv good man, nobody’s dis-
puting it.” “But, your grace, you’re eating pork!”
“Goon with your dinner, my good man,” said his lord-
ship, with a suppressed twinkle. “We are outside the
pale of civilisation, and who’s to know what we’re eat-
ing?” “ No, my lord, 1 will not,” said the other. “And,
what’s more, in all my experience it’s the first time I
have seen a bishop and his priest eating meat on Friday.”
(To the housekeeper): “ Bring me some eggs or fish,
please.”
[But the dugong-, although of aquatic habitat, is
no more a fish than a pig is.—Ed. B.]
• * • *
“Steele Rudd” : “J. Jingle ” notwith-
standing, the bushman’s leather is mostly
“shrivelled” and his reins “brittle.” Also
broken and hard and old and worn and worthless.
And his gear isn’t looked after. He can’t be
bothei’ed with grease, and nice things only annoy
him and make him unhappy. He doesn’t care a
blanky, anyway. His troubles 1 If he’s got a
rough horse to ride, or anything that way, he’ll
borrow the other fellow’s reins and girth if they’ve
buckles on and aren’t rotten—he’ll borrow them
anyway and put them on with his own. And
he’ll wake up suddenly in the night when it’s rain-
ing hard and say he’s damned if his saddle ain’t
out on the fence—and cheerfully go to sleep again.
And he’ll use his gear till it crumbles to bits —till
the dust of it gradually drifts with the wind, and
he wakes in the morning to find he hasn’t any
left. Then he goes to town for a new lot and—
well, if lie’s from the “ dry countree,” his’ll be “ a
long beer for a start.”
* * * •
“ Haj ” : Killed a large “gohanna” on
our selection last week ; cut him open, hoping,
from outward appearances, to get a lot of oil ;
when out rolled two china “ nest-eggs,” which
had doubtless been swallowed in mistake for the
genuine article.
• * 4 *
“C.T.M.”: Be platypus (B. 15/10/’9B),
the marsupial or pouch bones probably disappear
during the “ off ” season as in case of the echidna
(porcupine ant-eater). Before echidna’s egg is
laid the marsupial bones develop and form pouch,
in which egg is deposited, covered with a glutin-
ous substance which adheres to hairs of pouch
until incubation is completed, when the youngster
appears in a slate-colored vestment from which
protrude a few bristles like a Chow’s beard. From
this time until able to follow parent the creature
d wells in a hollow tree or log.
“TIME WAS."
OLD BILL (with contempt) : “You blokes talk about stock-’orses.
Tell yer they don’t breed ’em now. Five-and-twenty year ago
my old gray mare 'ud turn on a quart pot, cut out a
beast on her own , and—s'elp me —blow her bloomin’ nose as if
she ’adn't done nothin’ oncommon."
“ Quartzite ” : Be bush deaths from
thirst. 95 per cent, of writers have hitherto pic-
tured a thirst-dying maniac tearing his clothes off
when the end came near, and, in most instances I
have known such was the case. Two Norseman
prospectors sold their claim, and started to walk
from Norseman to Coolgardie, via Widgeemoola,
in Dec., ’95. They tried to make Sunday Soak,
and were found dead of thirst and stark naked.
I know of many other instances in which reduction
to nudity preceded the last struggle.


PMfQEfIT
does not protect Jewellery Buyers
Solid
18-carat
Gold.
Exquisite
Fine
Oriental
Pearls.
Finish.
Any jeweller ean stamp 9-carat Gold 16-carat in New South Wales.
To be sure of quality, therefore, you must buy of a House with a known reputation.
BROOCHES in all the NEWEST DESIGNS at LONDON ARMY & NAVY STORES PRICES.
It affords us pleasure
to send approval parcels
to the country.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney)
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
j-OoK •
Yo(j n^r
s
r*.
tL
9
(r
V'
WoITE.S
>s< HNAPPS
is extensively imitaJecUnd
it is necessary to loon foi the nwne
when buying.
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
The fierce JOHN NORTON—in his paternal capacity.
Photo., The Alba Studios.
The diminished flow from some Far Wes-
tern N.S. W. bores is causing anxiety. Already it is
suggested that these may not be true artesian sup-
plies ; and the American Shaler’s theory of gaseous
pressure to account for the occasional but uncer-
tain delivery of water to a great height above the
surface through bore-holes is added to the few
topics of discussion out-back.
• * • •
“ Yarrum ” : One morning, Mrs. Crowley
told “ Dinny ” she’d feel obliged if he’d keep his
big arrum to himself at night, and not be layin’ it
accross her mout’. Next night the lady woke up,
and finding, as she thought, the arrum again
across her mouth, flung it off violently. Just
then something fell upon the floor, and, simul-
taneously, the rat-trap (which was always set)
snapped. In the morning, a big diamond snake
was found fast in the trap. It was the snake she
had had across her mouth. “I always slapes wid
me mout’ open,” she said, ‘ an’, if it hadn’t bin for
the cha-arm aroun’ me neck, the baste would have
been clane down me troat, for shure.”
Strong-man SAMPSON breaks a chain by expand-
ing his biceps.
‘ Von Kotze ” : Among other sights of
an objectionable character there abounds in the
Queensland bush a species of poplar gum, a huge
tree encased in smooth bark of a pink color, look -
ing for all the world like fleshings. Trunk and
branches are well-rounded, glistening, and twisted
into all sorts of highly-suggestive shapes, while
the very scantiest of foliage accentuates rather
than hides the unblushing nakedness of the limbs.
This exhibition in puris naturalibus has often
angered and shocked my chaste soul, and I here-
by call upon my brethren and sisters of the
Social Purity League to take immediate steps for
the abolition of the evil. A society for the pur-
pose of providing a sufficient quantity of—er—
pants might meet the urgent necessity.
* * * *
“J.A.G.”: Invited recently to private
party. Rode 15 miles through thick scrub, and
found I had to pay 2s. for admission. After
dancing we sat round table to salt mutton and
damper; jam in herring-tin, and sugar in pepper
do. Only one spoon available —passed round.
Real object of gathering apparently to pay for
ancient ewe, which would certainly have died of
starvation had they not slain it.
“ Nigrophile ” : Re
Mr. Meston’s apology
for the late sending of
blankets to the Boulia
blacks. It is perfectly
true Queensland is a
country of “ magnificent
distances,” magnificent
droughts and magnifi-
cent apologists. It is
also true that Q. Govt,
is perfectly aware of the
distance, probable
drought, and other hin-
drances to rapid transit.
Couldn’t the trouble be
easily obviated by send-
ing out the shoddy a
few months earlier to
some local official and
distributing it to the
nigs as the cold weather
comes on ?
* *
“ Long-Un ” : En-
gaged teamster once to
shift camp. He (a Sal-
vationist) objected to
Sunday travelling on
principle, but was agree-
able to extra work on
week days to makeup,
and knocked spots off
his horses accordingly.
Paid off. Left no ad-
dress. One hundred
empty bags missing.
Few months later met
him at d iggings. ‘ ‘ What
about those empty bags
you helped yourself to
when moving my camp ?”
“ Ah, yes. I’ve been
looking for you. Was
in the ‘Army’ then, and
they took every cent I
earned, so el shook the
bags. Now I’ve left’em
I’ll pay for what I stole. ”
And he handed over 100
five-pences. Poor devii!
He had yielded to temptation, but was at bottom
good grit.
“ A. H. Reed ” to The Bulletin :
As Oapt. John Mackenzie’s statements (B. 5/l]/’9B) re
Sydney Marine Board’s exams, are quite erroneous, and
liable to mislead intending candidates, I feel bound
publicly to contradict them, as having myself recently
passed said Board’s highest-grade examination. Certainly
the examiner does, as it is his duty to do, compute some
of the problems set, but the problems in question are
given in a clear, practical form like those worked in ordi-
nary course of navigation, and are entirely conformable
with the Board of Trade regulations. Also, the boohs of
tables, &c., are the same as supplied for Board of Trade
exams, at London. The deviation card, given in degrees,
is as used by all leading s.s. lines, and is, in fact, easier
to manipulate than if given in points. The use of the
compass-card is unnecessary, as the angles due to each
point are given in the traverse-table. Again, the Nautical
Almanac is not dissected —the edition used is one pub-
lished by the Admiralty for the use of the R.N., and only
differs from the larger edition by omission of the data for
working some abstruse astronomical problems that have
no bearing whatever on navigation. Surprising that
Capt. Mackenzie should not be aware that by the use of
this edition a problem can be worked to any degree of
accuracy required. I may add that many candidates
come from the other provinces to be examined in Sydney
(because the Sydney certificate is more coveted than that
of any r other port in the Australias), whereas very few
candidates (if any) go elsewhere from Sydney, as Capt. M.
states is the case.
Strong man Sampson came out triumph-
antly in his exhibition last Thursday at Sydney
Her Majesty’s. A man as strong could have
earned <£loo in five seconds, by accepting Samp,
son’s challenge to lift the top weight. After the
show the strong man retired to his dressing-room,
put a towel around his loins, and set patiently to
work to get his breath back. Seven weeks on a
steamer and three or four days ashore is the train-
ing proper for dinners and after-dinner speeches,
not the preparation for Herculean calls upon the
muscles. Sampson at last got it out that he had
worked too soon. The perspiration ran down his
body in rivulets. “ Too severe a strain,” he said
between the efforts to catch his breath; “ too
severe on heart, lungs, and liver ; I am too fat
inside ; and the fat is all on fire. When lam in
proper working trim Ido not perspire at all. ” He
had accumulated a little “ bingey ” on the voyage
—just that little roll of fat that the athlete takes
hold of with both hands and laments over.
That night he took five iced baths to cool
himself. “ I had to do it,” he said next morning;
I was in a fever.” And he had not slept a wink.
His nerves had received a terrible shock in the
chain-breaking feat. In this Sampson suspends
two chains from two uprights ; then with a down-
ward punch he breaks both chains. This time one
chain did not break, and Sampson staggered back
with a fearful shock to brain and heart, while his
eyes saw fireworks of every hue. Once before, he
says, it happened that neither chain broke. “So
I got all that blow myself, and fell down before
the audience, and was carried off, and was laid up
for a fortnight.” His explanation is that he con-
centrates his whole being—his will, his brain and
his heart—upon punching the chain through,
and if the chain does not break Sampson
does. He says that in performing his feats
his concentration is so intense that an exclama-
tion from a bystander annoys him unendurably.
This concentration earns him “ £lO,OOO a year.”
He has been in negotiation with J. C. Williamson
concerning an engagement, but, so far, no terms
have been decided. Since he has been in Aus-
tralia, he has “ not slept more than two hours a
night.” The climate does not agree with him.
Since arriving, he has been worried to death by
soap-people, tonic-people, pill-people, and others
wanting him to try their wares and to give them
testimonials. Many, too, have called who want
to become “strong.” Concerning medicine, he
“ believes in the morning air.”
Vic. Artists’ Exhibition.
Vro. Artists’ Society is exhibiting its handiwork
this year in one of the large rooms of Melb.
National Gallery, where there is a fair chance to
capture accidental patronage. A lady doorkeeper
sits in ambush, so to speak, at a tabie within the
room, waiting for the unwary to enter. To them
she explains that they have strayed into a part of
the Nat. Gallery where the charge is one shilling,
and, in some cases, the unnerved strangers pay
their footing. As a rule, they retire hastily, being
Philistines with no financial feeling for Art. The
present V. A.S. show is not altogether unworthy
of the shilling. It is, perhaps, the Society’s best
achievement up to date ; the proportion of utter
rubbish is smaller than usual, and one finds no
foolishly pretentious efforts to depict the incom-
prehensible on impressionist principles. Victorian
art grows sane in its struggle for the means of
subsistence. Here and there a good picture is
catalogued at a reasonable price, and the painter’s
commonsense has all the charm of novelty.
* * * »
“Eventide,” by John Eorde Paterson, is a case
in point. This charming little bit of Australian
scenery, offered for 15 guineas, deserves to be
studied by men and women who set higher values
on their soulless misrepresentations of nature. It
is more satisfying, at the price, than the same
artist’s "The Dawn of Night” (£75), which is a
fine thing, nevertheless, or “The Bush ” (£200),
fine only m its top lighting, and disfigured by the
bad drawing of some very green fern-trees. E. P.
Fox misses the mark with “One Summer’s
Night, ” a love - story lighted by an unlovely
blob. The blob of paint is said to be intended
for a Chinese lantern. In his “Portrait of My
Cousin, ” a dark girl dressed in pink, Fox is very
successful, except that the cousin’s right hand' is
“off” in an artistic sense. The melodramatic
force of Longstaff’s “ Bush Fire ” (lent by the Nat.
Gallery trustees) has been already extolled by The
Bulletin. An honorable example of talent and
hard graft is Bernard Hall’s “A Studio Nymph.”
The model, white and plump, reclines on a glossy
black bear-skin reading a book. Every detail in
the furniture of the studio is carefully realised on
the canvas, and the Trilby seems as genuine as her
surroundings. Looking at her feet you can almost
wonder whether the rug tickles them. Unhappily,
she is posed with her back to the spectator, not
because she is either rude or shy, but out of
deference to public modesty as represented by the
Argus. Bernard Hall had to consider what
happened to Marshall Hall, the musician.
* * * *
Several clever pictures by Mr. and Mrs. Boyd
hang around the room, or against the screens in
the centre, and Walter Withers is convincing
with “The Last of Summer,’’and other breezy
subjects. Tom Humphrey’s “ Afterglow ” is
good (though hardly good enough for £B4), like
wise his “ Sandringham ” and “ Long Summer
Days.” Fred M‘Cubbin shows a strong por-
trait of an Anarchistical-looking gentleman,
and sundry ambitious landscapes and land-
and - seascapes of the kind which some
people admire. The writer is one who doesn’t see
things out of doors with the eye of a M‘Cubbin,
or, for that matter, of a Miss Jane Sutherland.
Tudor Tucker puts in a striking portrait of Mis;
The late WHITTINGDALE' JOHNSON, S.M.
Photo., .Freeman & Co.
Esther Moses. The handsome brunette’s ruby
plush bodice suits the picture admirably. Some
more good Tucker is the “Study of a Head,”
pretty in sentiment and fact, but ‘ ‘ By the Stream, ”
which is the same head supported by a body and
a background, makes but a poor picture.
* * * *
Theo. Hansen ranks as a scholarship winner. The
result of his three years’ studying in foreign parts
is “Queen of the Poppies.” It seems probable
that Her Nibs was originally a nude figure sunning
herself on a bare hillside, and that the artist,
having doubts as to the decency of the damsel,
obscured her defects with a crop of artificial
flowers. Eighty per cent, of her outline is hidden
behind peacock-blue foliage and dabs of red, but
her two eyes stare through the vegetation. Such
eyes ! They might have been stuck into her face
by Hilarius, the doll-maker. Nearly all the other
ridiculous oil-paintings emanated from artists of
the gender feminine, who doubtless beamed upon
the hanging-committee until their works were duly
hung. It will be a blessed day for the country
when they renounce Art to get married, but this
reflection doesn’t apply to all the girls. “Even-
ing, ” a fetching little picture by Clara Southern,
appears to have found a wise purchaser at nine
guineas. Some forty odd water-color paintings
are mostly passable, and here J. Mather comes
well to the fore with his “ Winter Evening,
Heales villa.”
FULLNESS OF BODY
is a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics of “D.C.L./’a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland whiskies—ask for the “ D.C.L.” (Black
Bottle).
The Nerrum or Narrarm :—Hardly any-
thing is known of this remarkable instrument
beyond the fact that it was strongly in evidence
amongst the natives of the Upper Murray not
more than half a century ago. It consists of a fine
bone needle 6in. to Bin. long (made from the fibula
of the kangaroo or of the emu) to which is attached
a loosely-twisted cord about as thick as a clothes-
line. This cord, slightly elastic and very strong,
is composed of 7 strands a little over sft. in length,
which are then doubled, so that the nerrum when
ready for use is composed of 14 strands of a
brownish material well-twisted and not unlike
THE NERRUM OR NARRARM.
whipcord, though not nearly so stiff. The 14
strands (vide illustration) have a spiral turn but
are not tightly twisted and are usually heavily
ochred and greased. The connection of this cord
with the bone needle is securely bound with kan-
garoo-tail sinews, and the loop, being similarly
bound, remains stiff enough to admit of ready
passage through it of the bone-needle attached to
other end of rope. This spike is deftly pushed
under the neck of a sleeping man, threaded
through the loop, and instantly violently tightened
so that, despite the struggles of the victim,
(which only assist to tighten the cord) he cannot
cry out. The all but unconscious man is then
carried to some place where the operator can,
without fear of interruption, extract from the
body of his helpless enemy the much-coveted kid-
ney-fat, called “Pap 00l ee mark,” and believed
by the whole of the Australian races to confer
upon the taster thereof, and self-anointer there-
with, the additional strength and valor of the man
from whom it is taken. Human fat in general,
indeed, is credited with beneficial effects by the
Australians, and some tribes smear themselves
with the grease that drops from the bodies of dead
relatives during the process of drying preparatory
to burial. All blacks living within the radius of
the use of the nerrum are in perpetual fear that
sooner or later some enemy will use it upon them
in the hope of despoiling them at once of life,
valor, and strength, and their vigilance is there-
fore extreme. Occasionally the bone-spike is used
to settle the victim by being thrust into neck,
lungs, or heart, and sometimes, after the fat-
extraction, the nerrum is removed, and the man
allowed to regain consciousness, when in some
instances he will linger for days before death
finishes his sufferings. The nerrum, shown in the
illustration was given to me many years ago by a
bank inspector (who got it at Tyntynder some 40
or 50 years ago), and is valuable in proportion to
its extreme rarity.— Harry Stockdale. ,
The World’s Greatest Hypnotist.
PROFESSOR T. A. KENNEDY RECOM-
MENDS WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Sydney, N.S.W., Sept. 24, 1898.
“ Being one of the great number that has bene-
fited through that marvellous remedy, * Warner’s
Safe Cure,’ I conscientiously think it my duty, on
behalf of those who are ignorant of this great
remedy, to testify to the benefit derived from its
use. I have only used it for liver troubles (symp-
toms, pains in the back of shoulders, etc.), com-
plaints which it soon rid me of, and which I have
never been troubled with since using same. In
conclusion, I can honestly recommend this medi-
cine to anyone troubled with complaints of the
liver.”— Prof. T. A. Kennedy, Hypnotist, King
Laugh Maker.


THE SWEETS OF OFFICE.


yd\ V? Y
? ov/
if?e e 5 G S
°f Sca^oi^
tfO » * a c.\" v *<!»' tt o' C
«**>*, „O.'V" o cS c '
<V C >\® f
■s<*#&»* 7
&».#••*-'■'
.o» cV *
\. °t>e 3 Of ,,
'
Vs
Vd\{JrH <•
vVI&J
S'
*rf** Gil »«.. •
sce wkV’ 4 2j|
> #l
-It
know tie efEeetso werg than that
physical anfl 'Mental P in learn-
thetr time; *^ lio ns of verbs
Ing lons lists of j . wars , lhe
and reading of baMl sbo uia be
subjects fit them to become
those that Press, at
good Christian cozens.
WX3.T.U. meeting-
shL
<1
k^A
°H e *
?fyj vfere you, zbseyt'froy \
yesferfay ?"
re you. faSety
iQyes} ft'cj -npyayful
<{rrjes yotp (J/icj 2><rff/eesc}epjcfe<L
oz 7 sls cXlozrdsJ).
s
le<\rpe<J ft^fessoj':- Bufj^y
'feri Jjyov&yjes sc,e ? ce
Jofoie
> ‘fi/Aripf.-fcjpe, rfere
r y\ yo&rp
A r, w)e» z x
t s^S"'^^'°t\)C
_ «- nt> ’Kfwtt»
cafTjW 6
,ota' lftaX
I fsf PRECEDENCE.
reference to the table of precedence
sj/iublished yesterday, .we have been re-
quested bv L'ord Richard Nev.ll, a.de-d?-
' camp to His Excellency the Governor, to
say that the order up to and including the
Premier as below is observed at Govern-1
ment-house
The Governor
The Admiral. j
Visitring Governors. /
The Chief Justice. /
The Bishop of Melbourne l / j
The Archbishop of Melbourne * / <
The President of me Legislative /
Council.
The Speaker of ‘the Legislative As-/
sembly. /
The Premier. /
off -tije
J^ullei^ s
y y •" /
& V eaj 4a? "•«?
*j£?s* <B*!?
/ yW* OJ i ~oW ,^fesC '
I/\joSfb\): ' vjy 4e&s?’lboy T e -
-Ike i?
l\ Gevtii tyepberit- fjow Vj**
t\\ of Prayer is losi fs, Tpe
I seVereyd So'peY' 5'uJJ> 0 5 e S-
MELBOURNIANA.


A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Br oocb, 20s
Plain Birds, 18s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
t6o. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£8 6s ; 6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, 6 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
£4 4s, very strong.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
16a Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2lss.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
A. Saunders.
8 Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
16c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 16c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Long Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires ov
Kubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Send for Price hist.
18c. Solid Gold Diamond,
2 Kubies and Sapphires,
£2 ; 15c. Gold, 20s & 30s.
Pure Diamond Band Kings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Out
Diamond, £6 ss; Larger,
£6 os, £7los, £Blos, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
00. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 80s, 355, £2.
oc. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gpld-mounted Boar’s Tusk, Chain,
and Bell, 15s 0a; without Bell and Chain, 12s 6d.
Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Gold ~ ~ 458.
CTO
Of
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 15c., *2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
16c. Gold, 16s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
m
A. Saunders.
tfSßHttVus&Eu
A. Saunders.
New Name Bracelet, 255. Any Name or Initials Free.
0
AfAG**
CD
20s.
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper ; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,5, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
A. Saunders’
15c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Heart Brooch, £4 4s ; Rubies
and Diamonds, £3 ss.
: ' \
EF
15c. Gold, Pure White Pearls £8 Ba.
A beautiful, choice brooch.
Gold Bird and 2 Heart Amethyst, 15s,
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 ids,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A, SAUNDEBS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call ana
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney
FISHER & COMPANY’S
nvciGrUTir ‘ ALOK ’
a>ud
<“***» FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC
(Bitter)
Freshly prepared from the celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata). Gold Medal at the Royal Agricultural Show,
. Sydney, jFirst Prise Medals at all other Exhibitions. uunurai anow,
IN THE MORNlNG—
before taking
Fisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Madame ALB AN 1,
THE QUEEN OF SONG, AND
THE FRIEND OF HER
MAJESTY THE QUEEN
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
WRITES UNSOLICITED
THE FOLLOWING TESTI-
MONY :
The ‘ ‘ Australia ” (Hotel),
Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs.—l shall be much obliged
if you will send me two bottles of
your preparation “ALOK.” I am
very glad to tell you that this Tonic
was of great service to me on the
sea, and in helping me to recover
from the effects of my long voyage.
IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT
IN STOPPING SEASICKNESS,
AND OF GREAT ASSISTANCE
TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATI-
GUING WORK TO DO.
I am, yours very truly,
E. ALBANI GYE.
There is no greater believer in
Mighty “ALOK” than Madame
Albani. It is her constant com-
panion.
m
ytv
vritf
'Cn*
*£gf
MIGHTY “ ALOK”
Leaves a Good Impression.
Scientific
Examination of
Mighty “Alote.”
By the most Eminent Authority in
Australia, and for many years of
Sydney University, Dr. HELMS,
M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and
Analytical Chemist.
6 Bridge-street, Sydney,
February 1, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Gentlemen. I have examined
your preparation, Mighty “ALOE,”
and find that it contains, besides
Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs,
having well-known Tonic properties.
—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
GUARANTEED NOT TO CON-
TAIN QUININE OR IRON,
OR ANY INJURIOUS IN-
GREDIENT.
i-K.
*
IN THE AFXERNOON-
aftcr taking
Fisher and Go’s
MIGHTY “ ALOK. ”
SPECIAL WARNING TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS
,^*Si^^^
To be obtained at all Hotels throughout Australia, with Sodawater, 6d per glass. 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle. All Chemists.
When the bottle is placed before you, be sure that the name FISHER & CO. is on the same. ABSOLUTELY REFUSE any other, for they are base imitations of the article.
Pharmacy: 337 George-street
(nearly opposite \
G.P.O. )
Sydney.


“Pestle,” to The Bulletin
Drug-adulteration begins at the very fountain-head—in
the plaeeSj all over the world, where the crude article is
first obtained, but, when brought to London (chief drug-
market of the we-ld), the adulterated drug is frequently
detected at the sales, and is rejected by at least the first-
class wholesalers. Also, even when passed into circula-
tion retail chemists soon find it out. Nevertheless, much
adulterated stuff finds its way to club-dispensaries. I
sent once to a large Sydney cutting retail firm of chemists
for podophyllum, and, though “we guarantee absolute
purity of our drugs,” I shouldn’t have liked to try the
rubbish sent me on my dog. I’ve been 30 years in the
drug trade, too.
Not long back, a Gippsland (Vic.) miner
fell, when hurrying from the face, after lighting a
fuse over a dynamite charge, and broke his leg.
His mate, who had gone out to the plat a little
ahead, suspected something, and, rushing back,
succeeded in dragging him round a slight curve
before the charge exploded. “ What did he say
when you caught hold of him, Bill ? ” queried a
miner on top. “ Oh, nothink much,” was the
hero’s reply. “He jus’ said : “ Don’t tear me
flannel, you clumsy fool 1 *
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address—QQ KING STREET, SYDNEY*
OUR NEW WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCH,
With Chain & Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, 6s 6d.
Gold-mounted, I4s.
Our GOLD NOVELTY BROOCH, 18s 6d.
With Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
GOLD AMETHYST HEART BROOCH,
13s 6d.
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
90., 10s 6d ; 160., 17s 6d.
16a, 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 26s J
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
ALL GOODS FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
16c.,'37s 6d.
Silver, 6s pair.
SOLID PLAIN FLAT.
9-carat, 17s 6d. 20s, 265.
16-carat, 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
90., 23s 6d ; Plain, 225.
15c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 6s pair.
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OP VERY LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Any NAME or MOTTO,
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 265, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
6 fine Diamonds, HI 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 465, 60s, 60s.
18c. TABLET.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
8 fine Diamonds, 50s.
18c. TWO-HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 fine Diamonds, 465.
15c. LITTLE GEM.
Ruby, Qpal, or Sapphire,
21s.
BEAL AMETHYST BUTTON HOOKS, 2s 6d EACH.
BEAL AMETHYST HEABT PENDANT, 2s 6d EACH.
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hopa, and
Charity
PENDANT, 5s ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8/6.
OUR NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7b 6d pair.
With two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NEW GOLD HORSE
AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s 6d.
The Australian UJidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 187 L
SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
tV R f'l' iss ‘ on of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,200,006 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
domß
3NOH
JUST THE THING FOR-%.
A CHRISTMAS BOX
The GrRAPHOPHONE
A marvellous instrument, reproducing the music of
great military bands, the voices of famous opera
singers, and celebrated comedians in laughter-making
monologues, on the stages of the world’s chief cities.
It is simple to operate, and will not get out of order.
Unequalled for home amusement or exhibition pur-
poses. If you have no agent in your town or district,
write us at once. The trade supplied.
United Importing Co.,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS:
KTICHOLSOKT &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKIN6 DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cus'ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-8).
WOOL.
* Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under!
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
. Tuesday
. Tuesday
. Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Go., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Bad ire ry, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyiy, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young-and Co.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
Dr. TARRANT,
P.K.C.S.E., L.K.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., L.M.U.C.P.E.,
•/
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely f-ree from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is. unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
INTo Man. or W oman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stahd your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth daring sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &o. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 3XTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by earefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either o&ll or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and Impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.F.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea j
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures carle and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather” Blend.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agents for 44 White Heather ” Whisky,
Grahuma and Fodah Porridge Meals.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itoorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What Reid really 1 wants—free breakfast-
tfm 6 -' • Free multiplication-table ? Yairs !
Twice Yes = No; twice Freetrader Protection.”
And so on.
“ I prefer the word National. The word
Federal, sounds like debility and picnics ! ” said a
pastor in Melb. Presbyterian Assembly. The
1891 Australian Convention was termed National.
Warwick is the R.C. constituency of Leper-
land. Exactly two-thirds of the voters are R.C.’s,
hence Byrnes’s certainty. The popular Arthur
Morgan (present member) boasts that he can beat
any man in Queensland for Warwick seat.
Q. Public Service Board, which costs nearly
“21000 a year, was created to do away with poli-
tical patronage in civil service appointments ; bub
Q. Ministers now admit that matters are practi-
cally as before. Two recent big appointments
were engineered in the bad old way.
South Australia’s new State Labor-bureau
has already nearly 1500 names on its register.
Many men have enrolled who are in irregular
employment, but hope for the Govt, billets
which are now filled only through this channel.
So far the Govt, drafts have been very meagre.
The amenities of Queensland politics. In
the Assembly, lately, Mr. Hoolan compared him-
self to a working bullock attacked by the ticks
and lice of the Labor-party, and said if he had to
succumb to the poisonous interjections of the
vermin it would be as a brave old bullock, scrub-
bing and rubbing to the last. •
Cross, Clermont (Q.) Labor member, has
been passed over by the local organisation in favor
of Joe Lesina, of Charters Towers Eagle, as candi-
date at next election. And the central executive
has no choice but to approve. Cross started the
organisation, but as soon as he got into Parliament
ignored it; now it ignores him.
Affleck, M.P., pledges his reputation to
wipe off the forthcoming N.S.W. estimates the
.±‘3170 set down as payment to the chaplains who
visit lunatic asyluinns. “What’s the good of
sending a parson to a madman?” Only C.E. and
R. chaplains are paid, however, and if Affleck’s
first assault is repelled he will try to put chaplains
of other creeds on the paid list.
At the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor-mem-
h rs’ caucus held to define the attitude to be
in lopted by the party on the recent vote of cen-
sure, seven members upheld the proposed duties,
but the majority was distinctly unfavorable.
Alleged that if Lyne were still leading, the
Labor men would have cast their lot in with the
Opposition, as they are getting tired of Reid, but
they will never follow Barton. Reason—Broken
Hill.
Premier Reid of N.S.W. : “From 1887,
in spite of those large.duties which were not taken
off, as we know, till 1895, there was a deficiency
in that year, and in every succeeding year down-
wards until 1894, and in my half year of 1895.”
Hansard, paye 2153,_ 15th Nov., 1898. Note-
worthy, as being the first time Premier Reid ever
told the solemn truth about any of his deficits.
He and his press barrackers have hitherto always
denied the whole lot of them.
Grotesque to see little Perry, N.S.W.
Opposition whip, voting against his own party on
last week’s censure motion. Perry, with other
representatives of the districts concerned, found it
impossible to oppose the protection of the sugar
industry; whereas avowed Freetraders kicked
their leader, but voted with him. The practical
irony involved in the temporary support of the
Protectionist whip must have appealed even to the
pachydermatous Cobdenite Reid.
The Melb. correspondent of the Times
alleges, in a confidential whisper, that the Vic.
Government will shortly scatter in favor of A If.
Deakin. The truthful journalist disposes of four
Ministers in half-a-dozen lines. Turner is to go
Ome to the Agent-Generalship, accompanied by
Taverner as a Paris Exhibition commissioner,
and Foster, as Govt, mining expert (with Mt.
Deddick specimens in his portmanteau ?), whilst
Isaac Isaacs drops into the abandoned wig and
gown of Judge Williams.
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works,
which it is proposed to reform by making it a body
directly elected by the ratepayers, has solemnly
petitioned the House of 48 Rich Landlords not to
interfere with its rapid progress into insolvency.
In its petition it pointed out, as an unanswerable
argument, that it had never asked Parliament to
reform it, and the humorless House of Property
didn’t laugh once as it read this statement. Yet,
if the late Deeming had petitioned on the ground
that he never asked to be hanged, even Sargood
might perhaps have noticed the point.
Golden Silence ! Last month S.A. Leg.
Council, which holds a strongly Tory majority,
passed without amendment a Bill to prevent the
Attachment of Wages. The Chief Secretary
simply stated that it was based on English legisla-
tion, and none of its supporters laid emphasis
on the great benefit it will confer on the working
classes, so the Tory suspicions were not aroused.
Strange to say, two years ago, when the Council
was apparently more liberal in its constitution, a
less sweeping reform in the same direction was
shot out. But on that occasion it was proposed
by a Labor member.
Labor journalism in Leper-
land is apparently not all beer and
skittles. At least five Labor editors
have already announced their in-
tention of renouncing the ink-pot for
the lighter and more profitable w ork
of law-making : Higgs (Worker),
Wallace Nelson (People’s News-
paper), Wilkinson (Standard), Le-
sina (Eagle), and Maguire (Mar-
anoa Advocate). The one man
worth mentioning who sticks to his
post is Boote, of Gym pie Truth.
Ed. Bulletin. —N.S. W. mem-
bers of Assembly are, in public, all
Eederationists. There was a time
when they didn’t all pose as Fede-
rationists, but that time has gone.
However, it may return again. I
am in a far better position to judge
members’ real sentiments than
most people. I see and hear them
in public and in private, when they
are sober and after they have
supped ; also, I am able to note the
company they keep when no one
is supposed to be looking. I have
deeply interested myself in the
subject of Federation, and have
gone to no end of trouble these
last three years to ascertain the real
opinions of individual members. I
more or less know every man Jack
in the Assembly, and, putting
together his public and private, his
morning and midnight expressions
of opinion, I conclude that there
are in N.S.W. Lower House just
44 members (out of 125) who are
sincere and honest Federationists.
By “sincere and honest Federa-
tionist ” 1 mean a riian really desir-
ous of placing the destiny of Aus-
tralia in the hands of the Aus-
tralian people without impossible
conditions.— Refreshment Room.
“ Civil Servant ”to The Bulletin -
In answer to an inquisitive M.L.A. the other night,
N.S. Wales P.M.G. Parkes had to admit that his Postal
Inspectors were behind ihe times as regards the working
of up-to-date telegraphic instruments. As a matter of
fact, the majority of said Postal Inspectors know actually
nothing of telegraphy, and yet the Public Service Board
states on the merit certificate that a postmaster’s report
upon a subordinate’s efficiency may in all cases be
amended by the visiting inspector, if that personage
thinks fit!
A Far Northern correspondent :
The Australian Labor Federation —or the triumvirate
who control it—apparently mean business at the next Q.
elections. Already Organiser M. Reid is tonring the elec-
torates of recalcitrant Laborists, creating hostile demon-
strations and encouraging “ straight”— i.e., hide-bound—
Socialists to enter the lists. When he reached Burke, he
was surprised to find the only Hoolan, member for the
district, ready to receive him. At Reid's meeting, the
band played in grand form, and fluid howling was kept
up until past midnight. It is understood that the
organiser is booked for. similar work in the strongholds of
Jackson, Sim, Cross, King, Keogh, Maughan, and other
“ marked ” Laborists. Do the members of the industrial
unions—who maintain the A.L.F. and pay the organisers
—approve of their salaried devoting his time to
political organisations, and the creation of dissension in
the Labor ranks’? Reid knows that if two Labor-men—
fettered and unfettered run for Burke, the seat will
assuredly fall into the ban Isof pure Hoodie, and the same
applies to the seats of the others mentioned. It is not
Labor-members that are wanted, apparently, but A.L.F.
puppets.
ANOTHER CASE OF TEMPORARY INSANITY.
Bailes’ Mutilation Bill, Hume Cook’s In-
decent Advts. Bill, Deakin’s Scripture Education
motion. Jack Murray’s Tote Bill, and a score of
other similar assorted specimens of Vic. private
legislatorial hash, wisdom and flapdoodle have
been slaughtered to make a—Parliamentary re-
cess. Turner has promised, however, that they
shall have a fortnight all to themselves early next
session.
The oft-adjourned One-man-one-vote Bill
turned up in Vic. House of Landlords last week,
and after a desultory conversation about nothing
in particular it was adjourned again. The Bill in
question has been passed by the Assembly, and it
refers to the Assembly only—in fact, it is simply
expressive of the Assembly’s desire to reform
itself. But Vic. Assembly has been vainly trying
to reform itself for many years.
A PERMANENCY.
ALGY: “I desire a berth, don'tyerknow, in some Govern-
ment department—say the Lands.”
MEMBER FOR GULWONGA: “ Shall see what I can do for
you. Got a friend into the lunatic-asylum the
other day. ”
A Queenslander, who is reputedly some-
thing of a political prophet, hazards this as pro-
bable result of forthcoming Q. general elections :
Ministerialists, 28 ; Indep. Ministerialists, 7 —35.
Laborites, 22; Drakeites, 12; Indep. Opposi-
tionists, 3—37. Result: Democratic Ministry.
Premier, Drake; Home Sec., Powers ; Mines,
Dawson; Lands, Cross; Education, Groom ;
Agriculture, Leahy ; Att.-General, Lilley ; Minis-
ter of Labor, Glassey ; Speaker, Bell; Chairman
of Committees, M‘Donald ; Postmaster, Jackson;
Works and Railways, Turley. A combination
that completely overshadows the Boodlewraith
Govt, in progressiveness, honesty, capacity and
representativeness. If !
Whenever the fiscal policy of N.S.W. is
altered the Foreign-trade press sends men round to
find out the feelings of the importers on the sub-
ject. The susceptibilities of the sensitive importer
must, under such circumstances, be observed and
recorded. When Treas. Reid produced his pie-
bald Protectionist estimates, the importer was
waited upon, as usual, for his symptoms. What
the man on the farm, down the shaft, in the fac-
tory, in the timber field, or toiling laboriously
anywhere else, or seeking for slavery, had to say
on the situation didn’t matter to the Foreign-
trade press. The supreme question is : How does
the importer feel ? And he is interviewed till he
becomes a weariness.
Barton might well pray to be saved from
his friends. During the whole of last N.S.W.
Parliament Ewing was always protesting that
Barton’s leadership was the one thing needful to
ensure victory for Protection. Yet directly Bar-
ton moves, as leader, a censure-motion
on Govt. Ewing is found voting against
him—sugar ! Pyers, who “almost” va-
cated his seat for Barton, did ditto.
John See, another professed Bartonian,
couldn’t see his way to vote at all. Cohen
and Dugald Thomson, staunch Barton-
ians as candidates, have now fallen into
line behind Reid. Truly, Reid established
an awful “funk” among the sugar mem-
bers. On Wednesday afternoon, Perry,
the Opposition whip, essayed as a sort of
forlorn hope to win back Meagher to the
fold. Meagher must have won him over,
judging by the division-list. Yes, the
Opposition-whip voted with the Govern-
ment !
Q. Democratic Drake will have to
hustle for his seat at next general elec-
tion! Barrister Rutledge, who led for
the Crown in the Q.N.B. cases, and is
understood to have the offer of the At-
torney-Generalship in his pocket, is men-
tioned as a probable candidate for Enog-
gera. Rutledge is a fair talker, and
would be strenuously supported by the
Brisbane Telegraph gang, who intend
running him for the Premiership. Drake’s
consistent opposition to Boodlewraith
has left him without effective press sup-
port in the metropolis ; but his ability,
popularity, and high character will pro-
bably see him through again. Should
the Democratic party conquer at the
polls, Drake is a sure thing for a port-
folio, if not leadership.
Brisbane Courier pleaded that
Premier Dickson should be given a trial.
Queensland is a country where it is
pretty safe to say of almost any leading
politician that he ought to be given a trial.
Vale, Maloney, and Sangster were the
only Victorian members who voted for confining
the right of land-selection to natural-born and
naturalised British subjects. By the way, a late
speech of Sangster’s anent foreigners being em-
ployed on coasting and other ships is being malig-
nantly discussed by the numerous naturalised sea-
faring population of his constituency, Port
Melbourne. A pity, for we haven’t too many
of the Plimsoll stamp in Australian parliaments.
It is persistently reported in Maoriland
that Jock M'Kenzie —the man who aimed the
bottle at the late Fish—will retire from the Minis-
try during the present recess, and that Thomas
Thompson and Hall-Jones will be gently thrown
overboard. M’Kenzie’s illness and increasing bad
temper make many enemies, and Thompson and
Jones are wooden and ordinary, just like their
names. With three new able men who wouldn’t
aim bottles, the Seddon Ministry might last an-
other six years.
The senior member of the S.A. Leg.
Council is President Chaffey Baker, who has seen
21 years continuous service, the next oldest coun-
cillor, now Dr. Campbell is dead, being James
Martin, elected in 1885. None of the other occu-
pants of the chamber have sat there for more than
ten years.
Whatever the merits of the perpetual
lease, it is fatuous to think that it is the last word
in land reform. A fair indication of its prospects
of a long existence as a system of land-tenure was
given in Vic. Assembly (Victoria has partially
adopted the system) a week or two ago. A motion
giving the holder of such a lease the right to sur-
render it and get a selector’s lease, and thus ulti-
mately a freehold, was only beaten in a full House
by two votes. And this in the heyday of enthu-
siasm about the new tenure !
An indignant pietist is writing letters in
the Maoriland papers to the effect that the Old
Age Pension idea is contrary to Scripture, because
children ought to support their aged parents.
Well, when the children agree to tax themselves
to the extent of =£loo,ooo a year, not only to sup-
port their own aged parents but also to help the
aged parent who has no children to support him,
isn’t that about the most unanimous case of sup-
porting the aged parent on record ? These pious
gentlemen are painfully obtuse.
Q. Labor and Democratic candidates
already sharpen their weapons for suicide. In
about a dozen electorates the Govt, nominees will
be confronted by both Glasseyites and Indepen-
dent Oppositionists. In Bulimba, Premier Dick-
son—who slipped in last time by the grease on his
bald head—will meet the cleverest son of late
Chief-Justice Lilley and a Trades Hall man. Vic-
tory is certain for Dickson. Also, while saving
Dickson his election expenses, these two Oppo-
sitionists will try and rob one another of their
deposit-money.
When S. M. Herald sent its minions
round to get the opinions of the Sydney importers
on the new tariff, it evoked this gem from one of
them :
There is not a large consumption of rice, excepting by
Chinese. A fluty of £3 per ton is rather stiff, but still it
is not a Protective duty, and should not meet with much
objection. In the case of cocoa, the duty is purely Pro-
tective, and I think it is a pity it was imposed.
Beautiful logic. The rice-duty, while providing
revenue, won’t help along any new industry or
supply anybody with work and wages and a home
for his family ; it will merely raise prices— there-
fore there is no objection to it. The duty on
cocoa, while providing revenue, will incidentally
help along a local industry, and supply work and
wages to people who want both badly— therefore it
is utterly objectionable. Why? Well, because,
if the local man gets work and wages, the goods
he produces reduce the demand for imports, and
that reduces the importer’s profits.
At recent Q. election meeting. Candi-
date : “ Mr. Blank (opponent) and I are the best
of friends. I remember coming home with him
one night through the park and we had a foot-
race. I beat Mr. Blank, and I hope to do the
same next week. (Cheers.) After the foot-race
we had a match to climb a lamp-post and .”
Interjector : “Was you dhrunk ? ” Candidate:
“No, we were not drunk.” Interjector: “ Well,
yous must have been mad.”
The politicians of the Reid-Want crowd
have such profound confidence in the shortness of
the people’s memory that they now talk quite
confidently about how the people of N.S.W.
“ rejected ” the old Federal Bill on June 3, and
describe their new scheme as the one which the
people “demanded” on that occasion. It is a
dreadfully thin and threadbare lie, but the popu-
lar memory is just about as short as is commonly
supposed. How many people remember now
that N.S.W. gave a majority of 5307 for the old
Bill, only the Iscariots of the Reid-Want Minis-
try overruled the popular vote ; and that even the
minority never had any chance to explain whether
it demanded a single one of Reid’s amendments,
or anything dimly resembling them ? Reid never
polled the country on his amendments ; he simply
got re-elected on the old Foreign-trade and
Council Reform and road-and-bridge swindle
ticket.
Interesting curiosity from recent Sydney
Telegraph leader on the censure debate in
N.S.W. Assembly:—
Mr. Barton implies that, were the Opposition to coine
into power, one of two courses would be decided upon as
the alternative to the present Budget proposals. They
would either write off the deficit as a mere figment of Mr.
Reid’s sinister imagination, or they would draw a bill
against the surplus proposed to be returned under the
Braddon’s blot clause of the Federal Constitution, and
pay it .vith that. It is extremely difficult to regard this
in the light of a serious utterance made by a responsible
politician bidding for the Premiership of the colony, but,
in the absence of anything more definite, it is presumably
intended that he will make an effort to do so. The first
question that arises out of it is whether, in treating
the deficit as a myth, Mr. Barton would have the
support of his colleagues in any new Govern-
ment that, under present conditions, he might suc-
ceed in forming. This would, as a matter of
course, include Mr. Lyne, and possibly Mr. See, both of
whom have spent the past four years in wearisomely re-
iterating the charge that the finances of the country were
going to the bad at an alarming rate, and that Mr. Reid
was resorting to all sorts of devices for concealing that
fact. Instead of there being no deficit requiring to be met
by new taxation, according to the printed speeches of
both of these gentlemen, there is one of over a million
sterling. During all the time of their weary exile from
office they have hugged this deficit to their political souls
as their one hope and solace. They were then leading
the party of which Mr. Barton is now the new-made
chief, and their followers were cheered with the hope that
some day or other the deficit would drag the Government
down, and bring the Opposition its opportunity.
For four years the Telegraph has been declaring
that there is no deficit—that G. Reid never had
such a thing—and that it was all a malicious in-
vention of Lyne and other bad characters. And
now when Reid says there is a deficit it is quite
mad about the alleged sinfulness of the Lyne
crowd in not seeing Reid’s deficit at the first
glance.


“The Lover’s Encyclopaedia,” elsewhere
advertised, tells how to behave in all phases of
amorous lunacy, also what he should do, and what
she should say when he says it, and gives so much
general information that anyone who doubts his
capacity to woo by the unassisted light of nature
can hardly fail to be put on the broad path which
leadeth to the honeymoon.*
GAS COOKERS.
fbe “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
pBT" Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Publishers’ Notices.
Just Published. Price, 5/-; posted, 5/6.
With Babbit Map of Queensland and
Numerous Plates.
—THE—
RABBIT QUESTION
I N
QUEENSLAND
By C. L. MORGAN, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board.
Watson, Ferguson & Go., Brisbane,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia wiil supplvthe art.
To love'is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for baslitulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Keproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDKED tit-bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo- American Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention thia
paper when writing
ILLUSTRATED AUSTRALIAN THEATRICAL
-L ANNUAL and GALLERY OF CELEBRITIES.
Price, One Shilling;; postage, 4d. extra. Contents: 86
pictures by Falk, Talma, Newman, Johnstone O’Shannesy
and Co., etc. Three New Theatrical Stories; “An Aus-
tralian Flirt,” by Emily Soldene ; “ Quiet Lodgings," by
Bert Royle ; “The Prompter’s Revenge,” E. Lewis Scott;
and a New Song, full music size, “She Was True,” by
A. W. Juncker, the celebrated composer of “ I Was
Dreaming.” Wholesale Agents: ROBT. A. THOMPSON
and CO., 180 Pitt-street, Sydney; and Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Capetown, and London.
A Northern paper draws attention to the
fact that Dr. Kent, late surgeon at Clermont,
commenced school with Premier Byrnes, ran necl<:
and neck with him for honors at Brisbane Gram
mar School, went to Melb. University with him,
and was, like Byrnes, one of the most successful
students there. To crown all, they died within a
few weeks of each other of the same trouble —
heart-failure—at the same age, 38,
The wooden ship Republic, aged 29 years,
which arrived here in trouble some time ago, and
was sold for .£4OO or ,£5OO, and then went out
with a coal cargo, and had to put back, and was
“ repaired,” and went out again, and had to put
back once more almost immediately because she
was taking in one foot of water per hour (eight
yards of water per day) in comparatively moderate
weather, is advertised for sale with her cargo “ as
she lies.” The Bulletin only mentions this by
way of expressing a hope that the Republic will
have better luck with its “repairs” next time.
The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people ol
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the othe
hand there is only an intense vagueness and tota
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydne;.
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex
tremes, and people in the country who desire t<
have the newest and best drink going should com
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon thu
market.*
There has been great excitement among
the natives of the Bay of Plenty (M.L.). A
tohunga named Te Rere had gained much mana
for his skill in the black art, which he practised
on a girl named Marata, whom he “ makutu'd.”
But this sort of thing did not suit the king's
tohunga, Ehau. That great medicine-man came
and expostulated with his rival, Te Rere, who, no
doubt, was consumed with joy by reason of tin
consternation he was causing. But the king’s to-
hunga said he’d be bedevilled if his rival should
have things all his own way ; he’d soon show Te
Rere that a greater than Te Rere was there. Sc
he went to Marata’s kainga, where all was weep-
ing and wailing and gnashing of teeth. The tangi
was in full swing. Ehau went into the middle of
the mourners and stood beside the corpse. He
told the people to cease wailing and to listen to
what he had to say. No doubt, he said, Te Rere
was a big tohunga, but they must not think that
there was no deliverance from his powers. “ Oh,
no,” he said, “ I will show you there is a greater
tohunga than Te Rere.” Placing his hand on the
dead girl’s face, the old heathen pronounced cer-
tain karakia, and said to the corpse “ E ko, e ara,”
or words to that effect, and, lo and behold, Marata
got up and walked. You may call it what you
please—catalepsy, hypnotic trance, anything
uncanny and devilish, but the Maoris say it is
resurrection from the dead. And they are sub-
stantiated in this opinion by Marata herself, who
says she has visited Te Reinga, the place of de-
parted spirits. Or, rather, she said so, for she is
dead again now, and presumably gone back there.
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there 1”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns ?”
Second Bear : “ No ! Kodaks 1 ”
Australian Depots
—FOB—
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BRKER # ROUS€
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE I
THE KTo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ T have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, andl can strongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled,”
m
yv^-
<3
■
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA :
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY;
or to 864 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
,'J W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
pARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
v AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
FOREUMRIIED IS FOREARMED
Dunlop Tyres
ARE THE BEST.
First in 1888. Foremost Ever Since.
P Every CYCLIST
Knows what an important bearing the
tyres have on the running of a cycle,
and it should be every cyclist’s first
care to see that the machine he intends
purchasing is properly equipped with
Dunlop Tyres !
No other tyres will give you
the same satisfaction and
wear as “ Danlops ” . . .
Nor are they covered by a liberal
guarantee on all (English and Aus-
tralian made) Roadster Tyres for
12 months.
Guard against Deception
by examining the cover
and tube for this
Registered Trade Mark.
None Genuine without it
• • •
The Dunlop pneumaii Tyre Co. [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH, N,Z,


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
D.S.UI. m<">t de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbrofcinc/ Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
F*BR MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
\U4\ssmm
k€
H e.AD office
Intersection Hunter, Buck and
Casjureach Streets -
• SYDNEY •-
Established -1079. .at
f «»P*o
Office in j
/Innual Income and In vested
Funds Exceed £2oo.ooofieri in*.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
TaEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
P years from date of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
rpHIS ASSOCIATION is noted for its PROMPT and
* LIBERAL SETTLEMENTS, having paid away upwards
of £200,000 in Losses in Victoria and N.S. Wales.
The United Australian (|)utual
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Established 1879.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP 38,000
RESERVE LIABILITY 213,260
HEAD OFFICES
79 PITT STREET
SYDNEY;
and 405 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
The Capital of this Company is £38,000 Paid-up, with a
Reserve Liability of £213,260, which, in regard to its
liabilities to the public, is equal to that of the principal
Insurance Companies transacting business in Australia.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
He&d Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total .. ... _. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
■or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TV TrGstccs, Cxc^GtorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ... ... ... £150,000
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,5»0,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,069,662
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Co. lie, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thomley, M.L.C.
General Manager ; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. O. O. Howard.
London Office: IJi ishop s<jate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
THE-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to-Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiaii. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
II ■ the
United losoraiKt co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Mates very how .
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—Riemsuil. Telephone No. <i!F>.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Gey
j (A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
K ALfIOORLTE.
Agents in London and throughout the u Aonies „
I Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE" invaluable to Investors*
free on application.
| mALKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
J_ Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 26,
Tues., Nov. 29 ;
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 3
12 Noon.
, 5 p. m.
,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 29, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong-, Tues., Nov. 29, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Nov. 29, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Deo. 3, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST Clllt IS EXT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SE It VICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND j a
—via—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVES PATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
-Lr STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports ,
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY; '
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
sfkin Wi4ea4e4.
9leu) Wideoderj/
tf
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness. •
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Mal y ox, —
I have used your ointment Ligriiolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater As an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“ Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
DoVetori-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Ahderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say mj r enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. and 7s. 6d. per hox.
AGENTS
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping. ______
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland l orts.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Cintra, Friday, December 2.
S.S. Pilbarra (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, November 29.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
December 2.
S.S. Pilbarra (from Melb.)
Tuesday, November 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Saturday,
November 26.
Best & Cheapest It out e to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUiLL and CO., r/t'D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to c-all at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 1. 65 to 1111).
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker g go’s [me
—TO —
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HO HART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZIS ALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
messagerTes_ maritiwies-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H)‘|luiraith, ||)‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn 8s Co. Proprieta”y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can he prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
• MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
r
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15-ct., £llss;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
No. 201.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss;
15-ct. , £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 139.
9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d :
16-ct., £llos ;
Silver, 4s.
Xo. E864.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Xew Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 111. —New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 999. —9c. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, 15a 6d.
No. E 550. —9-ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6d.
No. E1765.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s Cd.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
No. 162.
3 line Diamonds,
18-ct. Gold, £4 17s 6d.
No. 141.
ct. Gold Bracelet, set Kubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock—9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d
15-ct.,
set Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 sa.
No. 398.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork
7in. long, 9s 6d.
No 245.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
y : * if
|
Bilk
£32
£*tc
Ko. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s 6d.
No. 361. —Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Oruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3iin. lone-
10s 6d. K ’
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £1 10s ; 15-ct., £2 15a,
Silver, ss.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
No. 386.—Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
No. 402.—Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to £1 Is.
414. Elegant Clock
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, B£in. high, £1 Is.
W/AW
No. 369.
Elegant “ Queen Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon lea
Service, 3 pieces, JB2 10s.
DIVV!!!I BEb
Bng|sl/f. lEEE
■Bm
BnaB!!
i imm
mmi
rail
U
SSbi
yra
S|M|
\Uti
No. 364. —Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, J 63.
No. 84721
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2
NOTE. The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will b#
torwarded (carnage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Fkee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each..
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufaetmers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND!.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depbt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Felton, Grimwade and Co., the well-known
wholesale’chemists and chemical manufacturers,
of Melbourne, issue a priced and illustrated cata-
logue of assay material, chemical and scientific
apparatus, and pure chemicals, which will be of
the greatest service to all engaged in business de-
manding such supplies.*
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion &c., &c„ all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.
Premier Reid has started on the Old-Age
Pension scheme. The Bill is to be drafted by
W. M. Hughes, the Labor-member, and already
the statistics are being prepared in the various
departments. Suggestion : Impose postage on
newspapers—that would give another (say)
,£65,000 a year revenue.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to theN.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very" palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies l/s’, 2/8, 3/8, 5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address’: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
Apropos the proposed insurance of Sydney
Market buildings, “some of the aldermen failed
to see what there was in the building to burn.”
How about the aldermen’s heads ?
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A nicely printed and decorated eighteen-
penny Xmas book is “ Tales for Young Australia,”
published by Empson and Co., of Sydney. The
tales are supplied by Ernest Favenc, “ Mab.,” and
Josephine and James Fotheringhame—the latter
being the hero of the Ly-ee-moon wreck, of a few
years ago. Mr. Fotheringhame, by the way, has
"just quitted the monotonous pilot-service at
Sydney, and started for Vancouver in search of
some kind of occupation, at which “ the Board ”
ceases from troubling, and the grind of the official
mill grinds no more. He leaves a rather pleasant
little sea-story behind him in “Tales for Young
Australia ” ; and the other contributors have done
good work. Also, Percy Spence, Souter, and
other artists, have put some excellent art into the
book, and the cheap and plodding German has
printed it beautifully in Bavaria, with a lovely
colored picture of a small boy, and a whip, and a
post, and a lot of green sea on the cover. The
small boy isn’t especially Australian in his aspect,
but that doesn’t matter.*
The prospectus of the Acetylene Gas Com-
pany of Australasia, Limited, appears in this
issue. The directors are Sir G. R. Dibbs,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. F. B. Suttor, M.L.A. ; Col.
G. W. Bell; Mr. A. E. Jaques, and Mr. W.
Tyree. The company takes over the whole of the
Australasian patents for the manufacture of car-
bide of calcium, as well as sundry patents for
generators and burners. The subject is one of
special interest to country residents, who are
offered by this system opportunity to light up
single country residences at least as brilliantly as
town residences are now lighted by coal gas. It
is to be noted with commendation that the pro-
moters of the company ask for no money down,
but are content to wait for their profits until they
have been earned.*
“Mighty Alok ” is prepared from African
Kola nuts and analyses have shown that it con-
tains, besides Kola, only pure vegetable drugs of
tonic properties. To those who require an occa-
sional stimulant, it is n commended by scores of
professional people that have proved its efficacy.
The great Madame Albani has testified to the
benefits derived from its use. Mighty Alok may
be procured at all leading hotels. Fisher and Co.,
chemists, of 337 George-street, Sydney, are the
introducers of this really good pick-me-up and
appetiser. See advt. on page 18.*
W'' W'' W'"
“RED BIRD” Riders
arp tl)€ Satisfied Cyclists-
“ I have owned and tried one of your ‘RED BIRD’ Cycles for the past two years, and, after“tauttJnfJ
to the most severe tests, can conscientiously say it is the best and strongest Cycle I have ever ndde ,
cost me nothing for repairs.” This is what
Charles R. Wood, late of the Cycle Firm of
BENNETT A WOOD, SYDNEY,
has to say of the “ RED BIRD ” Quality. It is needless to say that MR. WOOD was one of our best Amateur
Champions, and has tested all prominent makes of English and other cycles. p . o,i a litv and
As we have said before, there is a BEST in everything. Those cyclists vvho understand Bicycle
are not paid to ride other machines, most invariably choose the RED BIRD as their mount. T P
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,”
“RED BIRD No. 1,” and
“BLACK BIRD” Cycles
are to hand. Our CATALOGUE for the asking.
The Goold Bicycle Go. limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
Factories — BRANTFORD, Canada,
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS Everywhere.
A
A;tents in Town and Country.
USB THE'
,(
sunlism in Yonr Homes.
Sun%ht ” Incandescent Burner i
AUSTRALIAN CYcTTTTmOTOR CO., 4 5 ToRK STREET, SYDNEY.
AND OBTAIN
T, SOFT LIGHT,
per of Ordinary Barriers
lete, 6s. 6d.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The A. J.C. holds one of its single-day meetings
at Randwick to-day (Saturday), when some fair racing
should be seen. Her Highness should about win the
Hurdles, whilst the evergreen Whakavvatea may annex
the Course Handicap if capable of beating Flower King.
Cornquist and Lauri read best amongst the youngsters
for the Nursery Stakes, and the Club Handieap should
fall to Feu-de-joie or Bona Fide. Astronomer has been
running badly of late, but he may be on his best be-
havior and win the High Weight Handicap, his most dan-
gerous opponent appearing to be Pharamond^
It is not often that such a chance as that which
occurred the other day at a Sydney suburban meeting is
allowed to slip by the clever section of the noble army of
punters. A well-known owner and trainer laid a fellow-
trainer £2OO to nothing about his nag in a certain race
and took the “ market.” He backed the “ good thing
freely and stood to win a big stake, but saw his fancy just
pipped by a speedy one from the pony ranks. Beyond
deploring*his luck, which has not been too good lately,
the backer did nothing. Mark the opportunity he missed
through his forgetfulness 1 The winner was trained by
an unregistered trainer—a pony-owner, in fact—and if
protested against the odds were a million to one against
him getting the prize. And yet the man who let this
chance slip is noted for his readiness to protest.
* * * *
For the first time in the history of the cable the
name of Lord Derby is wired as the w’inner of a big Eng-
lish horse-race. It was off the turf for 30 years or more.
The late kleptomaniacal Lord Derby was a very non-
sporting person, and his father, the “Rupert of Debate,”
had sold his racing-stud longtime before his death, piqued
by many failures to win the Epsom classic event which
bears the family title. The original Derby race took its
style from the turfy lord of the period, the Oaks being
christened after one of his sundry freehold residences.
Property sticks to the unemployed in a few family cases.
The old earldom of Derby is even more gilded to-day than
when it first became associated with gee-gees, also some
descendants of the original St. Leger appear to be knock-
ing around England’s hupper suckles. Talking of titles,
there is, or was, a Baron Suffield, and the Suffleld motto,
“ With equanimity,” seems quite up-to-date.
• • • •
Ed. Bulletin. —Re “K.’s” letter on the Col-
lingwood tote. I defy anybody' unknown to the tyler to
pass through the tea-shop in front, and, as to getting in
with a frequenter, that frequenter must be personally
known to those in the shop. “ K.” asks what there is to
prevent half-a-dozen plain-clothes police getting in and
capturing all the inmates. A whole lot, I say. 'Half-a-
dozen burly strangers would be deemed “too strong a
joint” for one day, anyhow, and even if they passed the
gates they could capture nobody but the “ frequenters,”
who would be fined 2s. 6d. or so, and whom the police
don’t want to be troubled with. The “ conductors” are
safely protected by iron bars, and at most only one could
be snatched at and held as he was handing out the
ticket. And unless the snatcher had a “ push ” to back
him up, I pity him. Under the present law of trespass
the Oollingwood tote people are uncapturable, and their
patrons, from a police point of view, are not worth the
trouble of arrest.—M‘G. [Now, here's a pretty challenge
to the Melb. police ! —Ed. B.]
» • * *
“Man in the Lalang ” : “Where is Partheno-
paeus?” lI.H. Sultan Ibrahim of Johore has, or had, a
horse of that name which is supposed to be “the real
Mackay,” it having been sold to H.H. after it was dis-
qualified in Australia. Parthenopaeus ran in Singapore
in May last, and later in Penang; but, I think, did no
good in either place. I believe disqualified horses or
jockeys, whilst doing their time, cannot run or ride in
India or Ceylon, but they can do so in the Straits Settle-
ment, where there is nearly always to be found one or
other (especially other) of the breed working off time. I
have never heard any doubts as to the Sultan’s horse
being the real Parthenopaeus, but am now writing of
May and June last, since when the horse may have re-
turned to Australia.
* * * *
Latest news of Parthenopaeus, from India, states
that the horse is suffering from a doubtful leg, and has
not been put into hard training as yet.
• * * *
“P.A.”: Patrons of the “sport of kings’’and
Maoris, not to mention coons and Chinamen, did not
show much of their boasted generosity when they allowed
the two boy stowaways to be sent to gaol. These boys
stowed away on a steamer for the purpose of seeing
Melb. Cup. They had neither money nor friends, but
were quite willing to starve and sleep out to realise the
dream of their lives. On the ship they were made to
work their passages and on arrival were arrested and fined
with option. Their imprisonment began on Cup day, and
not a bookmaker or horse-sharp was found to pay the 20s.
fine on behalf of these enthusiastic sports.
• * * *
If the anti-tote-ites in S. A. weren’t particularly
active just now in view of a coming general election
there would be a movement to legalise the working of the
machine on Melb. Cup and one or two other days like
that. The newspaper office crowds that waited for news
of The Grafter’s victory badly wanted the machine set up
handy ; as it was they had to dive down back lanes,to —
where V Well, ask any policeman.
* * * *
“C.”: Doesn’t follow, as mentioned in B.
22!0/’9B, that Fairfield and Strathmore’s jumps of 6ft.
6in., at Echuca, equal Spondulix’s 6ft. 9in., in Queens-
land. Careful measurement of the Queensland ground
would probablv show that the take-off there is also 3in. or
4in. below the ground-level of the posts. It is so at
nearly all show-grounds.
* * * •
Age sporting item : “Mr. Pearson’s mare Mis-
chief, who won a large number of races, has definitely re-
tired from the turf, and will next season do stud duty at
Kilmany Park, Gippsland, where she will be mated with
several well-bred stallions.”
* * * *
The next shipment of thoroughbreds for Eng-
land will consist of The Grafter, Battalion, Manazona,
Sverla and Sailor Boy, accompanied by J. E. Brewer, and
jockey W. Redfearn. The English critics are bound to
think the Cup-winner a good cab-horse spoilt.
**■ * *
They stick to the old traditions with a ven-
geance in Groperland. At a recent Metropolitan race-
meeting a couple of jockeys were fined £1 a-piece for not
taking their horses past the judge’s box before going to
the starting-post.
* * * •
If a decision of Judge Hodges is to hold good,
it is a grand thing not to he a horse in Victoria. The
trouble related to a Sunday picnic-party of six which
started from Ballarat to drive to Skipton—33 miles—and
back—66 miles in all—with the one team of three horses.
Returning, however, they took the wrong road, and after
driving for six hours—in which time they probably did an
extra 30 miles—they found themselves still close to Skip-
ton. Then they made a fresh start for the 33 miles, and
after dropping'a nearly-dead horse by the way, the rest
of the team crawled into Ballarat at 6 a.m. Roughly
speaking, it seems that the miserable animals had been
on their hoofs for at least 15 hours out of about 19, and
covered close on 100 miles. The boss inciter of the pro-
ceedings was fined 40s. for cruelty, but on appeal Judge
Hodges felt so doubtful about the case that he sent it
back for re-hearing. His Honor held that the circumstances
of the case— i.e., the fact that somebody was fool enough
to drive in a circle for six hours or so—made the cruelty
accidental. But why didn’t that person, when he found
himself back at Skipton, rouse up the local hotel and have
a drink like any reasonable Australian, and hire a fresh
team? If Judge Hodges’ idea of what doesn’t constitute
cruelty to a horse is to hold good, that noble animal may
as well send in his resignation.
* • • *
Big scores galore about Sydney on Saturday
last. Coningham, Glebe, pulled his side out of the fire
by scoring 133, bringing his team’s score to 235, and
tying Paddington ; playing for N. Sydney against Red-
fern, R. A. Duff made 136 and W. S. Duff 123 ; and for
Central Cumberland, playing against Leichhardt, Pye
brought his score to 244, Wilson compiling an even cen-
tury. In the second grade, playing for N. Svdney,
Amphlett ran up 117, Redgrave 128; and A. Martin,
playing for Balmain, scored 158, nob out. No less than
four teams scored over 400 runs in an innings. N. Syd-
ney, 422; Central Cumberland, 6 wickets for 464 ; and
second grade—N. Sydney, 574; and Balmain, 9 wickets
for 413. 1873 runs for the loss of 35 wickets takes a deal
of beating for a Saturday afternoon’s play.
* * * *
A little dog caused quite a happy interlude in
the dulness of the S.A. v. Vic. cricket-match. The
animal was dancing up and down the Oval in a dazed
state as whistles and calls came from all parts of the
circle. Ultimately, it made a bee-line for the pitch, but,
being headed off by one of the players, was leisurely
trotting away when Stuckey made a mighty leg-hit, the
ball striking the dog just over the rump. Then, as if
suddenly Acted with an electric-motor, the frightened
quadruped raced up and down, and Anally shot- away
amid loud cheers, and was seen no more. Stuckey was
allowed four for the stroke, because of the distraction in
the Aeld, though Clem. Hill would have stopped the ball
had the pup missed it.
* * * •
Victoria’s easy defeat of S.A. by 296 runs was
mainly due to wretched second-innings batting by S.A.
and the splendid Aelding of the victors. At no time was
the bowling dangerous, the wicket was perfect, and yet
S.A. went down for 98 in the second innings ! Giller, who
took seven wickets for 51, was only bowling good-length
stuff, and the quality of the trundling may be gauged by
the fact that M'Kenzie, S.A.’s weakest batsman, made
top score with 25 (not out).
Victoria has now won 15 games to S.A.’s 13 in
interprovincial matches. Each province has been most
successful in its own city.
Victoria’s main strength this year is in batting.
The writer, who saw every ball of the match with S.A.,
ventures the prophecy that N.S.W. batsmen will severely
pound the Vic. bowling. Trumble is the only bowler who
looks at all dangerous. In 12 months Vic. has lost trund-
lers Harry Trott, Roche, and O’Halloran ; and Albert
Trott’s place was never Ailed. In batting, the Vies, are
strong, but as an all-round team writer plumps for N.S.
Wales as this year’s possessor of the Sheffield Shield.
• * • •
Hugh Trumble was an unlikely starter for Vic.
against S.A., before the team left Melb., but he was pre-
vailed upon to make the trip at the last moment, luckily
for Vic. He was the only bowler with any length, and
collared eight S.A. wickets for 120. Trumble has been un-
well all the winter, but he bowled in Adelaide in his old
form.
* • * *
Victoria’s first innings of 507 against S.A., in
Adelaide, would have panned out at about 300 had it not
been for w'retched fielding; Reedman, Lyons, and Hill
dropped easy catches. The best Vic. innings was Stuckey s,
who showed clean cricket. Worrall also batted well, but
Reedman dropped him when he was at 37. Jones was
S.A.’s best bowler, and Giffen again proved that he has
lost his bowling powers. For S.A., Clem. Hill was in
great form, and has apparently emerged from the winter
a sounder artist than ever. Chinner, a new player, is an
acquisition to S.A. On the S.A. batting side, the gap left
by Darling’s absence was very noticeable.
* * * *
Giller, the “ Sowth ” Melb. crack, will yet be a
strong claimant for All-Australian honors. His 104 against
S.A. was a sound innings, and, as he is young and a good
change bowler, his performances may put him in uhe
team next March.
m * * *
Geo. Giffen has at last been deposed from the
S.A. cricket captaincy. Lyons, who took his place, only
did so to meet with a storm of local criticism, alongside
which the anathemas hurled at Giffen in the past were as
nothing. „ * •
“ The richest humor of the bowling-green,’’
writes an envious Philistine, “is in the audacity with
which ‘ captains ’ attribute machiavellian artfulness to
the most fiukey ‘ strokes.’ The average jovial bowl-roller
couldn’t be depended on to hit a log of wood at 15 paces,
but if he happens to cannon off half-a-dozen intervening
bowls and then hit the marble his captain cries Splen-
did ! I didn’t think you were going to play it that way.
Whereupon the ‘striker’ dissembles his astonishment
into an appearance of modest pride at the success of a
deep-laid scheme. Bowls is a ‘ great game, as they truly
observe, the greatest game on earth, but it is thrown
away on the men who play it. They obstinately refuse to
see the jokes.
“ The champion bowlers of N.S.W. and Vic.,’
continues the Goth aforesaid, “ met in Melbourne, the
other week, when the local talent beat the visitors n ith
measured beat and slow, like sextons tolling thevillage
bell. All the same, it is understood that N.S.W. on a
keen green can surpass Victoria in this exciting line of
sport. The damp turf was against the mother province
bowlers, also they suffered from too much smoking, and
changes of climate, and anxiety on the liver. To do
battle for the honor of one’s province, at bowls, is a great
trial for the nerves. In several cases a visitors hand
shook just as he was about to set his bowl in motion, and
the awful fact that he was ‘too wide by about five
yards would depress the culprit for the rest of the after-
noon. Now, a buoyant spirit is indispensable to a bowler.
Unless he can infuse a lot of tender passion into his
stroke, he lags superfiuous on the green, and only a
severe course of whisky will put him right again. Luckily
the refreshment-bar is near, and he needn t lose any
time in getting fit.” *
Another boxing boom in Sydney. Two big
halls opened on Saturday night, and were absolutely
packed with sweltering humanity.
• * * *
Present writer said a few weeks ago that boxer
Tom Hope, on his showing with “ Chummy ’’ Brown, had
no earthly chance of beating Tweedie for the feather-
weight championship of the province. Hope indignantly
protested, but last Saturday night, at the National Club
'(Sydney), “ The Kaffir,” much below Tweedie s class, got
all over Hope, and compelled him to quit, badly beaten,
in the ninth round.
. * • *
No present-day boxer in Australia can command
more backing than Hughie Spiels who beat the clever
George Powell some years since. The whole of the Syd-
ney milk trade will support Napier in any match he
makes, and those behind the man who beats him may
clear a couple of thou, if they are plucky. Tweedie
has once more left for Vankeedom to evade the milkman s
challenge, but it is quite on the cards that Melbourne s
■champion little ’un, Tim take up the gage.
Memories of the wrestling-boom of over a
■decade back are conjured up by Harry Dunn’s presence
in Svdnev. Who among those who witnessed it will tor-
vet that contest wherein Englishman Tom Cannon got
the garotta, or strangling-hold, on Dunn, at Melbouine,
and left him as limp as a wet rag and spitting blood for
an hour afterwards! Then the second meeting, when
Donald Dinnie, Dunn’s referee, fearing a repetition of the
“French hug,” gave the Graeco-Roman fall of a five-
styles match to Cannon while the pair were on the floor.
This m-oceeding the onlookers, and Cannon himself, bit-
terly resented, demanding that the bout should be
wrestled out. A wrangle ensued, and ultimately Dunn.
agreed to go through with it, whereat the Englishman,
beside himself with rage, rushed at the Maorilander, who,
quickly seeing a chance, got in a flying-buttock and threw
his infuriated rival a fair fall amidst intense excitement.
Dunn had won the first bout (Cumberland style), and, as
Cannon refused to continue, was declared winner.
• * * •
“ Paddy ” Slavin was at latest in Dawson
city, moneyless.
* * * *
A sturdy old farmer visited Sydney last week
to see strong man Sampson, and while waiting round
town got “loaded up.” Walking Pitt-street during the
afternoon with a big display of medals (athletic prizes
won in the halcyon days of youth) covering his expansive
vest-front, somebody asked him for a match, and while
the old chap was fumbling a few vestas from his
box he felt a tug and—hey, presto! —the whole of the
trophies as well as a massive gold chain and watch had
disappeared.
* * • *
Griffo’s last little escapade must have resembled
the rough-and-tumble we used to see between the police-
man and the populace in a good old-fashioned panto-
mime. Griffo was “on the scoot ”in ’Frisco one night,
and without rhyme or reason started to run amuck down
the street, upsetting all in his road. Three policemen
tried to down him, and then the fun began. Griff dodged
the clubs in his masterly style and knocked the cops
down like ninepins. Several more policemen appeared on
the scene, but he continued knocking them down, all the
time cautioning them to “ Remember the Maine .
Numbers prevailed in the end, and our only Griffo, with
every stitch of clothing torn off, was tied doivn in the
patrol waggon. And to think that he is lost to the city
of his birth ! When Griffo was a little newsboy in Sydney
he used to turn up at Tiik Bulietin office and howl—and
be put out. Some years later on it was his pleasing habit
to visit the office with “Ha 1 You know me. I’m Griffo.
Put me out now 1 ”
* * * *
Five persons have been committed in connection
with the death of boxer Turner in a spar at London
National Sporting Club. If illegal, why are these matches
allowed by the police ? If legal, as may be presumed
from the fact that the police are usually interested on-
lookers, why should the officials be treated differently to
the promoters of a fatal steeplechase, cycle race or foot-
ball-match ?
* * * *
A weird plaint:—“Ed. Bullistin.— Re vagaries
of show judges (B. 1/10’98). Wanting to enter at a
Sydney show a valuable dog (only one of his breed within
100 miles), found I could take no prize without compe-
tition so induced a pal to show his mongrel, as it was the
nearest in color to my animal I could find. Made a
‘moral’ of the prize, and shouted numerously on the
strength of it. Judging day comes : Mongrel—first prize,
my dog—‘ Highly commended.’—J.W.H.”
In practice, Australia’s champion sprint-
swimmer, and erstwhile Sydney Grammar School boy,
“ Freddy ” Lane, has been responsible for some very fast
work. Those who know most about him aver that, ere
the season ends, he will eclipse all records up to 300yds.,
and carry off the various championships from 1000yds.
down. A big contract, but one that so brilliant a per-
former might prove equal to.
* * * ♦
Mr. Y. Horniman has rung the death-knell of
the old-fashioned string-test gig, his motion “that after
31st Dec., ’99, all four-oar races be rowed in outrigged
fours” having been carried by N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion. This much-required reform has been delayed from
time to time, owing to the difficulty in disposing of the
boats at present in use, but the post-dating of action for
12 months will give the clubs time to make their arrange-
ments for using up old and ordering new boats.
The midget Virgin, who cycled across from
Perth to Brisbane, proposes now to go from Wyndham
round via the capitals to Port Darwin, and then through
to Adelaide ; this time he will probably have a chum.
By the time he has finished—if he does finish—he reckons
he will have put up a world’s long-distance record. Like
Murif, who pioneered this sort of business, Virgin is a
Broken Hill rider ; and his mate will also probably come
from there. No time has been fixed for the start.
* * * *
Bv his riding at St. Kilda on Saturday the
steady Walne makes his Austral chance look just as rosy
as it did this time last year (then, he was knocked out by
a fall). He is a real wonder for a racing cyclist, apart
from his racing altogether, for he goes the pace nowhere
but on the track. On Saturday, Walne had a tough nut
to crack in Corbett, in the paced tournament, but easily
beat Beauchamp in the final, afterwards winning the 10
mile scratch from Barker and “ Newhaven ” Jackson
just as he liked.
Beauchamp, rapidly developing into a scratch
man, is a Tasmanian, erstwhile best known as an oars-
man. With his three brothers he represented the Tamar
Club in a four which swept Tasmania from end to end,
but when they crossed to Vic. after a while the Beau-
champs found the mainland rowers far too speedy on the
water for them.


Who and what and how is “ Mr. Shaw, the
Australian Midas,” described as a perfect double
of the Earl of Rosebery ?
history repeats.
Poor Old Diogenes
searched high and low
for an honest man, and
there are many of his
followers looking for
an honest bicycle. To
all such seekers after
Cycle truth we are
pleased to say that we
can bring their search
to a happy termination
by sending them a copy
of the Massey-Harris
Catalogue, which tells
all about our easy-run-
ing wheel. If you want
more truth, call at one
of our depots and ex-
amine the parts we
build from.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne.
Bbanches : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—N ortham.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.—In Equity.—ln the matter of THE COM-
PANIES ACT and in the Matter of THE AUSTRA-
LASIAN TIMBER COMPANY, Limited.—The Creditors
of the abovenamed Company are required, on or before
tie fifteenth day of February, one thousand eight hun-
dred and ninety-nine, to send their names and addresses
and the particulars of their debts and claims, and the
name and address of their solicitors (if any), to LANCE-
LOT TIIRELKELD LLOYD, of Philip-streefc, Sydney, the
official Liquidator of the said Company, and, if "so re-
quired, by notice in writing from the said Official Liqui-
dator, are by their Solicitors to come in and prove their
said debts or claims at the Chambers of the Master in
Equity, at Chancery-square, Sydney, at such time as
shall be specified in such notice, or in default thereof they
will be excluded from the benefit of any distribution
made before such debts are proved. Wednesday, the first
day of March, one thousand eight hundred and ninetj'-
nine, at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, at the said Cham-
bers, is appointed for the hearing and adjudicating upon
the debts and claims. Dated this fifteenth day of Novem-
ber, A. D. 1898. W. H. PIGOTT, Solicitor' for Official
Liquidator, 28 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The gank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel,
PILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS,
. . A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment * .
also,
‘ Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank Qrimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer*
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
- Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
ttttE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
S 3” Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
OON’T BUY A GUN unless you first look at the
name, or (should you happen survive the first shot)
you will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
•an he obtained from all principal dealers in Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to Vic. Rep.,
0 W BUCKLAND, 16 Ourral-road, Elsternwick, Melb.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
tT. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
rw-ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
FOit the person Who is hot a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,’’ situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell-s’ King-street Coffee Palace,’* situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - • - GEO. W. ELLIS.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
BICYCLES
‘Garden City
. . FOK . .
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
(Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
“ DOWKTOGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY.-HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices: 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
HAWES WILLIAM STIBBS, write at once
to Alfred, 79 Leadenhall-street, London.
Call on Robert B. Parry Esq., Solicitor, 177 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Important.
QUIBELL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Business Announcementa
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 109.
WINDMILLS
The First. Cost the Only Oost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is a friend Indeed
My Mills are Imitated by many*
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
GRAPHOPHONE.
50A
eAkSS?
HE
QW
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OB MUSIC,
Price (including Repred ’cer,
Horn, and Record l. £7 1C
2 to 5000 CHOICE RECORDS
always on hand. Send for
Record List and Grapho-
phone Catalogues.
ALBERT & SON', 118 Kina-street, Sydney.
Agents for the Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets. Trade
supplied cheaper than any other house. Largest importers
of Music, Violins, Accordeons, Strings, Mouth Organs,
Anglos, and Portable Turkish Bath Cabinets. Forwarded
to any part of Australia.
ST
PAULI
TRADE Wl/W MARK
BRAID
GIRL
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
MACDONALDS OPINION.
“HONEST WORTH”
Bill
...
: . -•
• :
BS
1
. , l
“ Grand Hotel
Melbourne, September 26, 1898.
K. E. EDGE, Esq.,
Austral Cycle Agency, Melbourne.
Dear Sir. —It affords me genuine pleasure to say voluntarily that the
11 SWIFT" No. 1 Light Roadster, fitted with Dunlop Tyres, ridden by
me from PORT DARWIN, N.T., to MELBOURNE, via Alice Springs
and Adelaide, has given me complete satisfaction.
To the honest worth of the bicycle is due, in a very large measure,
the success of the trip, and I am confident that only a machine of the
best material and workmanship could stand the severe test of such a hurried
journey over the rough roads of the interior.
The excellent order in which the machine arrived in Melbourne is a
more eloquent testimony in its favor than anything I can pen.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) A. MA CDONA LD,
Operator, S.A. Telegraph Dept.
A souvenir booklet of Macdonald' 1 s overland ride, entitled “ Albert
Macdonald, of Orroroo," will be issued this week, and may be obtained
on application to any of our Depots or Agents. This book contains forty-
eight pages descriptive of Macdonald's journey, as well as numerous illu-
strations of various points of interest on his route.
THE AUSTEAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch, Wellington, Dunedin, Bendigo, Warrnambool, Hamilton,
Charters Towers, etc., etc.
' . \ ' . . . . .


Are You
Poisoning
Yourself ?
You might make a single meal of rich pies
and cakes, and not mind it. But you could
not live on these all the time without ruining
your digestion.
Yet, week after week and month after
month, you allow your brain and nerves to be
fed with impure blood.
The general debility, thin blood, pale
cheeks, nervousness, loss of appetite and
depression of spirits, are loud warnings from
nature. Your nervous system is weakening.
Before the ruin comes take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
It removes the poisons from the blood, and
thus removes the cause of all your trouble.
It aids the digestion, strengthens the nerves
and supplies the body with rich, red blood.
For constipation take Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly and surely cure. Take them with
Ayers Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
tfdtural Curly, from 3/3 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t»in. long, fi/C. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted tip, per oz.
'Ve are the cneapestin Au».
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzgll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List*.
Prompt attention'giyeo to Country Order*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wig-makers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Kequisites
for SALOONS and
Hair working.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASS ISTA A TS Engaged for the Country.
“Murder will out.” Yet, though 163
persons were more-or-less clearly murdered in
England and Wales in 1896, only 58 were tried
for murder, and of these 17 were acquitted. And,
in addition to the 163, there were probably scores
whose murdered bodies have not been discovered.
Sydney Transit Commissioners have lately
enforced the rule that vehicles passing places of
worship on Sundays shall, during service, only do
so at a walk : but on the Socialist body asking to
have its place of worship brought under the
rule the Commissioners replied—No ; the ground
they gave' being that they did not think Socialistic
services worship—or worship deserving protection.
A fine opportunity here for official firmness and
fiery declamation ; oppression, tyranny, the rights
of man, Galileo and what not; only that neither
party to the dispute can keep from looking
farcical.
Touching a recent Bulletin par. concern-
ing a Tas. charitable institution and a couple of
deaf-and-dumb girls' unauthorised increase in the
number of inmates. It now transpires that the
friends of the girls paid the Govt, some hundreds
of pounds to take charge of the unmarried
mothers and their inconveniently numerous off-
spring. Possibly the best thing that could have
been done under all the shameful circumstances ;
but the spectacle of Braddon-Fysh offishally run-
ning a baby-farm is very fine indeed. An official
enquiry into the management of aforesaid baby-
farm is shortly to be held.
In Glasgow, the world’s model munici-
pality, they have municipally-owned gas and water
I works, tramways, baths, wash-houses, model
lodging-houses, tenements of working-men’s
houses, a people’s palace where free musical en-
tertainments are given ; also municipal bands,
concerts, golfing grounds, and churches—the cor-
poration owns 10 of them. And now the corpora-
tion is planning a municipal bank, free libraries, a
system by which all the public houses in Glasgow
shall be owned by the city authorities, the profits
going to the people ; homes for the aged, munici-
pal telephones, and other things. And so far all
these schemes have been made to yield a profit at
I less than private-enterprise rates. If there was
only a little more of the Caledonian grit and
| business capacity in the weary Australian soul!
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
A Novelty for a Christinas Present.
The Calendar |J|atch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address—THE MANAGER.
THE GLOBE WATCH CO-. LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLORODYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chloeodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ICE SIMMONS.
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
4>
All Sportipg Materials at Lowest CGt Pri«s-
CRTCKET T AWN TENNIS BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN; &C. &c The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS
t NEW SHIPMENT
I JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4b
„F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle ... ... 41s bu
„ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) ...
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) ... •••
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
„ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS—Youths’ ..
~ Men’s
~ Men's Skeleton, best gold cape
BA LI,S. —Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET M ATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
~ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
5s 6d
7s, 7s 6d
... 9s 6d, 12s 6d
l2s 6d
4s 6d
ss, 6s 6d
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
los 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
„ Feltliam’s ditto 6s
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6, 9/6,10/6, 12s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s
~ Red Ruhber. ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
~ Surrey Shields 6s
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s
SCORING BOOKS ... ... 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s
~ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s
~ Match, 5J40z.,15; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
„ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 8/3, 10/6,12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
0000>05000)«OQO©000>00)050)0)a
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES wM CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY
5,
BOOK OF NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, poet free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is ; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Xs 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor A 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology por Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY ROYA.L WA.RRA.3STT OF APFOUSrTMEKTT TO “ THE QTJEEBT.
Ask for
WfciSky aod
‘Scb^cppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
BraQdy afyd
‘ScbW€pp€
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sc
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarrtfl,),
near SYDKTEY,
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
1§5..................... j
*3
km
MAKERS OF
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD ana COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.,
LEAD BULLION
DAPTO, N.S.W.


N £rr ßaSSn)(jSs€i)’S Alfaliije Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
,A. Few of Them.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Aifaiine Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think,it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Aifaiine Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Aifaiine Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Aifaiine Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Aifaiine Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Aifaiine
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Aifaiine Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Aifaiine Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now', with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
. ‘ JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Oootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Aifaiine Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform j'ou that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Aifaiine Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved vvonderfuily. I will never cease
to recommend your Aifaiine Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Aifaiine Blood
Pius completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Aifaiine Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Aifaiine Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. N ERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
. Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Aifaiine Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A. —“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.—" Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
1 suffered from “ piles/’ I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal |||orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons.of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
sereral unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
I
gf : .
■m
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Daie Herbanst.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered.).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE EOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HanS RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus —“ H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability
no matter how caused or of how long- standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d. . .
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, i onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6*.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,.
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, ana
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking- Herr Rassmussen’s A.L^ALIRTte VITALITY Fn.T.S (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Eassmnssen’s Head Office: - 54*7 Creorg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BS.ISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADEIiAfDE 154. Handle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z ■ WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
E ALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
EANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


Mephan Ferguson, the Melbourne en-
gineer; appears to have a gold-mine m his patent
rivetless pipe, which lately captured a Westrali an
GoVt. order to the tune of one million sterling.
Ferguson himself didn’t realise the possibilities of
his invention until he had produced the first
sample He carried the idea in his head for some
time before he put it into practice. Now he is olf
to England to purchase material for the afore-
said order (320 miles of pipe), and submit his
patent to the big manufacturers there and else-
where. G. and G. Hoskin, of Sydney, who
bought the N.S.W. rights in Mephan Fergusons
“ rivetless or bar lock ” pipe, divide the big—the
biggest on record —contract with this firm.*
ALBA
It
m
m
JS
ne
Au-
ra
KKkl tUwvroß
-P.TT StrbSt^
6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“ Burmese ” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
‘Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention BcLiiKTiN.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith t Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The last of six.
Price Is; per Post Is 3d.
QUIBELL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
jr* THE MOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORI.D.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d„ I/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors: GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO,, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIL,L,OCK & CO., KENT and WVEKPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
VENETIAN BOAT CONCERT •
BY the
SY ° " ‘i. S? ° “ No.'l W
Circular Quay, on
MONDAY NEXT, NOV.
at 8 p.m., on a
MOONLIGHT CONCERT TRIP •
to MIDDLE HARBOR.
Tickets Is., at the Wharf.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
SYDNEY-
' Sole Lessees? Messrs. Williamson and M us^ rove -
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas Voutr .
LAST 2 NIGHTS! LAST 2 NIGHTS.
The Lady of X-yoxxs.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as CLAUDE
Miss ADA FERRAR as PAULINE.
Saturday, Nov. 26, Grand Revival of the Nautical Drama,
TN€ HARBOR LIGHTS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. ST PRIOES-Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction M. B. Curtis.
EVERT EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE The Great Juggling Genius.
THE GREAT DANTE BOOM.
OVER 50 PERFORMANCES IN SYDNEY !
PHENOMENAL! UNPRECEDENTED!
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. ... Box Plan at Palings.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
ALFRED ZD-A. ZMZ IP HEIR*.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING !
Grand Revival of
ROBBERY UNPER ARMS.
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, £1 Is ;Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
The Coolest Theatre in Sydney.
jnAtuuiiii- - _ - ..
Sole Lessees, Percy St. John and W. J. Wilson.
Every Evening, at 8!
Alhambra Minstrel & Burlesque 00.
PAT MELTON in His Coster Specialities.
WILL WALLACE and His Negro Budget.
MASTER HARRY ORME (My Lad).
THE LINGARD SISTERS (the Vivacious Duettists), and
Our MAMMOTH MINSTREL and BURLESQUE
COMPANY. , „ ,
pg- Popular Prices—2s, Is, 6d. Plan at Elvy s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessees :
Miss MAGGIE MOORE and Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Last Nights of Present Season.
TO-NIGHT and Two Following Evenings, “BOB.”
Maggie Moore and Mr- H- R- Roberts-
Saturday Next, Nov. 26, “ ARRAH-NA-POGUE —for
Three Nights Only. Wednesday, Nov. 30, Last Three
Nights of Season. The ever-green drama, STRUCK OIL
(by special request). Prices —3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
IJIOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- THE “ POPS.” 1/
... A MAGNETIC PROGRAMME
MADAME SPADA, Miss Maud Dalrymple, Miss Mabel
Hastings, Miss Daisy Davies, Miss Ciss Donelly, Signor
Antonio Pali, Mr. Rodda Perry, Mr. E. Sykes,
Mons. AUG. WIEGAND, and PHILIP NEWBURY.
Plan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
■ ■ ■
Drunkenness Cured
DR. M ALIN G’S REMEDY
la Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Aiuiisemen ts.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-DAY (Saturday, November 26) First Appearance in
Australia of The
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
Miss CORA CASELLI, POPE and SAYLES,
The BOVIS BROTHERS, FOREMAN and FANNAN,
SISTERS TERRY, DELROY and LYNNE, FANINQ
and DEVOE, ALICE SIMMONS,
AND OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
LAST NIGHTS Miss Psggy Pryds.
NELLIE WILSON. CHAS. W. COGILL. Mons. AJAX.
Miss ETHEL YORKE. Mr. SYD DEANE.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsgrovb.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS i
| LA POU P € €.” |
Interpreted by the Full Strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT, 26th November—THE MIKADO.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tbc BroGgb Con>€dy Coy.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
“THE LXA.RS.”
SATURDAY, November 26—LORD AND LADY ALGY.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING !
'%'SPORTXKTGr LIFE^
sth WEEK sth
And continued Cyclonic Enthusiasm of this newest narra-
tive of Sport and Sensation, illumined by Scenic Splendor.
Interpreted by Mr. and Mrs. MOLT and their
Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. 0. SIMONSENS.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
A.BRID&JE3D PROSPECTUS
OP THE
ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITEP.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
Capital - £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
(with power to increase).
Divided into 45,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each. 55,000 Cumulative Deferred Shares of £1 each, to be issued Fully Paid-up.
The Preference Shares rank for dividend up to 5 per cent, before the Fully Paid-up Shares, and are cumulative.
45,000 PREFERENTIAL SHARES are offered to the Public at One Pound each, payable as follows: 2s. 6d. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment, balance in calls of 2s. 6d. each at intervals
of not less than One Month. —w
THE 55 000 Fully Paid Up Shares are to be allotted to William Tyree, William Chilton Clark, and
Edmund Frank Green, for the sale by them to the Company of seven Australasian Patents
granted to T. L. Willson; one N.S.W. Patent granted to W. R. Kenan and seven Australasian
Patents granted, and one other in course of issue, to W. Tyree. The sale also includes 4000 Fully
Paid-up Shares of 2s. 6d. each in the Canterbury Acetylene Gas Co., Ltd., being the shares issued by
that Company for certain rights granted to it under the said Patents in certain Electoral .Districts m
the Colony of New Zealand, as well as all royalties, benefits, and advantages under the Agreements
made with that Company. And in addition to the above the sale includes the goodwill of the business
carried on in Nelson, N.Z., by the above-named Vendors, under the name of The N.Z. Acetylene Gas
Co with the machinery, stock-in-trade, effects, and book debts of that business; but such machinery,
stock-in-trade, and effects are to be paid for in cash by the Company at cost price (about £3000), and
the book debts in cash at par (about .£500). The sale to the Company is also to include three Austra-
lasian Patents granted, and one other in course of issue, to E. F. Green, one of the said vendors, tor tbe
sum of .£5OO to be paid to him by the Company. Further particulars of all the above-mentioned
Patents are given on the Prospectus. The full amount derived from the sale of the Preference bhares,
less the cost of flotation and registration, and the moneys which have as aforesaid to be paid by the
Company to the Vendors, will be placed to the credit of the Company, and this will be available for
the erection of a Factory for the manufacture of Carbide of Calcium and other purposes of the Com-
pany The services of Mr. W. Tyree have been secured as Managing Director for a peried of ten
years’ at a remuneration of £5OO per annum, plus £lO per cent, per annum on the profits of the busi-
ness of the Company up to (inclusive of such £5OO per annum) £lOOO per annum.
It is proposed to erect electrical works at a cost of about £25,000, for the manufacture of carbide
of calcuim (from which Acetylene gas is generated), with a capacity of 10 tons per day, which the
Vendors estimate can be manufactured at a cost not exceeding £8 per ton. (In the United otates the
cost of manufacture has already been brought down to a still smaller figure.)
If with a view to rapidly bring about a large consumption, the Company s carbide were retailed
at the’low price of 2Jd. per lb. (which would mean cheap gas), it is evident the profit would be very
large. In addition to the profits on carbide, handsome profits will accrue on the sale of the Company s
patent generators, patent burners, &c. . ~ ~, ~ ~
Remembering the almost unlimited scope that exists for the operations of the Company, quite
apart from competition with coal gas, it seems only reasonable to say that fair dividends may be looked
upon as assured, whilst there also exists a prospect of the investment proving profitable to an extent
not MnTyree'shows his faith in the future of the Company by applying for two thousand preferential
shares. . ....
Directors:
Sir GEORGE R. DIBBS, K.C.M.G., Sydney.
Hon. FRANCIS B. SUTTOR, M.L.A., Bathubst.
Col. GEO. W. BELL, Sydney.
A E. JAQUES, Esq. (Messrs. Stephen, Jaques and Stephen), Sydney.
W. TYREE, Esq. (New Zealand Acetylene Gas Co.), Sydney, Managing Director.
Ssjiiksrs ■
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitors for the Company;
Messrs. STEPHEN, JAQUES and STEPHEN, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Registered Office:
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, where complete installations can be seen in operation from 9 to 5.
Application for Shares can be made to the various branches of the Bank of New South Wales, or
to the Secretary of the Company, 36 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. .
The Vendors have agreed between themselves that the 55,000 fully paid-up shares to be issued to
them shall be pooled and deposited for 5 years with the Bankers of the Company, and that none of
these shares shall be sold or withdrawn from such pool without the consent of all of them ; except that
.n case of the death or disability of William Tyree, or his withdrawal from the active conduct of the
management of the Company, the other Vendors should have the right to withdraw their 40,000 shares
from the pool and dispose of them.
Investors are requested to notice that the preference shares have a first charge against profits.
No dividend can be paid on the fully paid-up shares taken by the Vendors until a dividend at the rate
of 5 per cent, per annum has been first paid to the preference shareholders. But whenever «£5 per
cent, per annum has been paid to the preference shareholders for dividends, or arrears of dividends up
to any date, any balance of profits remaining up to that date are to be distributed in payment of any
dividend up to 5 per cent, per annum for dividends, or arrears of dividends, on the fully paid up shares
taken by the Vendors. . ... .
The preference shares are, however, not restricted to a 5 per cent, dividend —this is the minimum.
As soon as the Company earn larger profits and a 5 per cent, per annum dividend has, as above stated,
been paid on the fully paid up shares taken by the vendors, then the balance of the profits are to be
distributed equally over the whole of the capital. The preference shares will also confer a right to
priority in the return of capital upon a winding up or otherwise.
It will be seen from the foregoing paragraphs that the Vendors are dependent on the success of the
Company for every penny of their own profits; a signal proof of their faith both in the future of
Acetylene gas and in that of the Company. .
The validity of the Master patent has already been tested in these colonies ; a Supreme Court
decree having been obtained in New Zealand granting a permanent injunction against W. Tame, the
defendant restraining him from the importation, sale, or use of Carbide of Caleihm and Acetylene
Gas made therefrom. .... .
The whole of the Insurance Companies doing business in Sydney write that they _make_ no extra
charge for the use of Acetylene, provided their rules, which are very simple, are complied with.
Installations have now been fitted up in the following districts : —Christchurch, Oamaru, Nelson,
Waimate, Temuka, Renwiektown, Wakefield. Richmond, Otaki, Woodville, Palmerston, North, Bulls,
Invercargill, Dunedin, Hutt, Patea, Westport, Cambridge, Taranaki, Picton,_ Dunedin, Alexander,
Bullen, Te Aroha, Wairarapa, Sydney, Mosman’s Bay, North Sydney, Tenterfield, Bourke, Windsor,
Wellington, Brisbane, Willoughby, Woollahra, Cobar, Hunter’s Hill, Tamworth. . ,
Universal satisfaction has been given, as the testimonials will show. These can be obtained,
together with complete prospectus, and all other information, by application to the Secretary, 36 ritfi-
street, Sydney. _ , . , , .
Agents for the Company’s business are now being appointed for the various centres throughout
Australasia.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PREFERENCE SHARES.
* *
The Acetylene Gas Company of Australasia, Limited*
TO THE DIRECTORS OF THE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
Gentlemen. — Having'paid to your Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales, the sum of M •
deposit of 2s. 6d. per Share on Preference Shares of the above
request you to allot me that number of Shares upon the terms of the Prospectus and the Memorandum ana Articles
of Association of the Company, and I hereby agree to accept such Shares, or any less number that may be to
and to pay the sum of 2s. 6d. per Share on allotment, and the further instalments thereon as provided by the
spectus of the Company, and I authorise you to place my name on the Register of Members as holder of the said
me,
Prospectus
Shares.
Name in full.
Description-
Address
Signature
Date
The Acetylene Gas Company of Australasia, Limited.
RECEIVED this
,day of,.
, 1898, from
_the sum of
Preference Shares in the abovenamed Company.
.being a Deposit of 2s. 6d. per Share upon.
Bank of New South Wale*.


TEfiniS
A. H. MOORE & CO
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYD NEV
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/-ei
The Oil AMP O.J Racquet 15/- „
The I’KIM'UT Racquet .. 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUE L’.S H. K ST R U NO,
The UNI Tdnnis Ball,
l‘2s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable
and lasts longer than any other
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
AH INSECT
Not Poisonous! Will not Stain!
EXTERMO KILLS
All INSECTS, WHITE
ANTS, COCKROACHES,
BED-BUGS, MOTHS, and
their EGGS instantly.
BEING IN A LIQUID FORM,
EXTERMO will penetrate any infested place
which cannot be reached in any other way.
All Grocers. Brice, Is. Bottle, with Squirt.
Direct from the Depot, Wynyard Building, Car-
rington-street, SYDNEY, by enclosing Is. 3d.,
which includes postage.
Hotels.
jy Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
TNT orth Queensland.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
O of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Publications, etc.
Mrs. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
P rice 3 s 6<fL.
To he obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
K
-Ballet fiirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Barmaid.
SydneyHjß
Confes-!
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
TTAVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
First, Second and Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2/6; Ransome’s History 3/6 for 2/6;
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/-; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2/- ; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3 - ;' Abbott’s How to Parse, 3 6 for
2/-; Todhunter’s Algebra, 2/6 for 1/6 ; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3 -; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4 6 for 3 - ;
Todhunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/-; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/- ; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3- ; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
Physios, 4/6 for 3 ; -; Otto’s German Grammar, 5'- for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7,6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
RW HTTTMATPT? Second-hand Book Arcade,
• VV . OJVJ.IM IN Lilli) 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone, 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2* Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
aarSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Although John Norton has “ open-let-
tered ” most of the top-notch N.S.W. humbugs,
not one of his marks has been able to fire-cff in
return such a letter as that of Hagey-Institute
Caulfield, put in recently in connection with appli-
cation re pending Caulfield-Norton libel-action :
My dear Norton, -The ample notices you honor me
with to-day certainly serve to advertise me in a way, but
you could give me a much better advt. by accepting- the
offer I made to you personally when I had a drink at your
kind invitation and expense in the Australia some weeks
back, and which offer I have since told two of your best
friends to urge you to embrace. You will remember that
I urged you to become a patient at the Caulfield Institute,
and that we would cure you of your unfortunate malady,
free of charge. Had you done as I wished, you would
have given the institute a magnificent advertisement,
proved the efficacy of our treatment, effectually silenced
all carpers, critics, and cynics, and given me the proud
satisfaction of being able to tell the world that I had cured
and saved one of its greatest men. As them are countless
thousands who feel that you can do nothing wrong,
there would soon he a great many alcoholists ready to
follow your good example and submit to the treatment.
The most obtuse and sceptical would be prepared to
admit that, if we cured such a distinguished dipsomaniac
as John Norton, we could cure anybody, and them would
be a boom in Caulfield stock straightaway. I again urge
you to accept this offer, made in all friendliness of spirit,
and, if you do so, you shall be provided with the best
suit of rooms in the establishment —the bedroom being-
next to the bathroom—and a boy will also be in constant
attendance on vou.—Yours in the holy bonds of the
Gospel, J. P. T. Caulfield.
“P S.—When you become a patient at our institution,
you will not be in any way immured or inhibited, and
you will be supplied with the best of liquor as often as
you care to ask for it. Our storeroom contains a large
assortment of good things, poculent and cibarious. —
J.P.T.C.”
“Poculent and cibarious ! ” What a beautiful
vocabulary has the Boy Politician ! “ Dorm on
the herb, with none to supervise, and bibe the flux
of longicaudate kine.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
“7 x 7 ” on a bucolic matter :
Editor Bulletin. — Be N.S.W. Govt, organ’s enthusiasm
over Minister Carruthers’ Lands-adininistration, let me
tell you that there is one long, steadily-increasing howl
against such administration amongst those who have
practical experience thereof. I have just been touring
one drought-stricken region, and the bitter shriek all
along the line of all-but-ruined selectors was, “ Why does
the Lands Minister lease the reserves to adjoining big
landholders, in direct contravention of the Land Act?”
The squatters’ sheep eat the ground hare, ng
nothing for anything else that comas along, so
that, if the small man has any sheep left when he
gets to market, he doesn't get one. fourth of his
price. This has been going on wholesale for years,
in spite of continual protests, and it’s high time the self-
satisfied Carruthers was made explain himself a bit over
it, especially as his ’95 Land Act is, in any case, a mill-
stone round the selectors neck, embodying, as it does, a
mass of legal intricacies incomprehensible even by the
geniuses who concocted it.
Handsome NioVel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
r
<s>
f
ft
$ If
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil paintings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber; 6 Ball-pointed Pens;
12 Self-threacling Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian. Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lt i m Ittujo,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc .
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lkar-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 5s. —per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
THE
OF SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
The Qatest Insect pouider.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF EISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES,
WHY HE COMES.
■
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
co n scious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, b e -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overt akes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture be -
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic—something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the. world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes : —“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes :—“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes : —“lt is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate.”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Feldheirn, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
M oust ache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (ill.
Sole Agents :
V
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
uZH
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
! Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NASTj 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been'
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Propi’ietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tvveerls, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 0. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Wa terpr o o f,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 «. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia, of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed,
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included,-.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIESis
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man —Ele tricity.
Our Electric Bells will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all -tages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WE A K 1> A RTS. REM EM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. It it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free) <dvm>' illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC AN r E AGETT Y,
68 'EHwvb'ffh 'fleet, Svdnev.
ourSPECIALSUSRENSORY BELTfor
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
Drunkenness
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form'. Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso.quie.tly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere lie is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. - Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HAVE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
the: eugrasy go.,
(32 1-lUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
□"ROBERTS’
!SWS@
S/Ort MSEASEf
AND Wo VA/VS
or £ VER Y
DESCR/PT/orP
D?ROBERTS
PILLS
for skin diseases.
AND ALL D/SOPDEPS OF THE
STOMA C// <£ L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS /f/i X 2/^EACH
BEACH & BAR NIC OTT L°- BR ID PORT.
MELBOURNE.
00 YOU
MTV POST FREE
watciles- Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
WtDDirJc i CHRiSTErJiNc Presents
1755177-EUZAEETH ST*
OPPQPSTE C-.PO
MELBOURNE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioo
for Guts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU. GET
Row’S Crobrocatiofy.


A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
150 0 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
wf TTFREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
nmf FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
OUR FAMOUS o r MAN WOMAN, or
CHILD us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZL)E^-^^^^_____
’'The onlv condilion is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase on • of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
in wear with the Watch.
t 0 SEND NO MONEY. .
sinmlv forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
ha We'a°re Snaking this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co. —Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Solid Silver Watch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
W*A * S
T *
E
T *
M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : —That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may.
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London' Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney,
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER GENT.
£ 1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
SECOND-HAND
AND
[EW FURNITURE
I (Best Quality).
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully fiO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Cramps A
i Colic, '
\ Colds,
Cats.
l Burns,
V Bruises.
\
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
ThinKttteY
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. NIOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
1
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, (id ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
‘BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
ON€ NON€ST MRN.
rxEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
-L' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address —
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
D r - Clavhson’s
He-Invig orator,
«Ve still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect It has -been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A Mother and
Her Daughter.
Considers it a Public Duty
To make the Facts known
To Every Sufferer.
The Case of
Mrs. MARY WILLIAMS.
( From the “ Newtoivn Chronicle .”)
(by a special report hr. )
In obe,lienee to orders, a Chronicle re-
pot ter called on Mrs. Williams, of 208
Abercrombie Street, Sydney. 'I bis lady
some time ago made a recovery which co»-
siderably
Astonished the Doctors
who had told her that she would never be
better, and that
Her Days Were Numbered.
It was our object to learn exactly how such
recovery took place, and wdiat was the
nature of the disease. Mrs. Williams
welcomed the reporter enthusiastically.
“ The fact is,” she said, “ for years
I have Reproached SViyself
for not making my wonderful recovery
public. I have felt it a duty I owed
to every sufferer. lam so glad you called,
for you can assist me to lay my case before
the afflicted.
I Should have Died,”
pursued Mrs. Williams, “ if it had not been
for Clements Tonic. My complaint crept
upon me so slowly and imperceptibly that I
never knew there was anything the matter
till the disease had obtained a firm grip
on my system. A heavy, sluggish feeling
took possession of me. I had to cease all
work. My mouth and breath grew foul. I
began to suffer from intense headache. After
eating I had a feeling of lightness and
sullocation in the breast, and my food
repeated continually, and nothing would
stay long on my stomach. Frightful pains
in the back and round underneath the ribs
distressed me. My nights were fearful.
Fains in my back racked me continually.
I Could Get No Sleep,
and terrible cold sweats broke out all over
me.”
“ A complication of bad symptoms, Mrs.
Williams ? ”
“Yes, but I grew much worse. I was of
such a shocking sallow colour that it dis-
tressed my friends to look upon me. I was
obliged to take to my bed Doctors were
called in. They said it was liver complaint.
They prescribed for me. I took the medi-
cine, but got no better. I sank lower and
lower. I couldn’t lift my head off the
pillow, and my stomach was in such a feeble
state that I couldn’t even take milk and
water. I lost four stone in weight in eleven
months. It looked like a final breaking up.
I thought I was done for. I was a mere
skeleton, with the skin stretched over
my bones. The doctors gave me up. It
seemed as though it was only a matter of
days. I was in despair when someone,
without the doctor’s knowledge,
Suggested a Bottle
ot Clements Tonic.”
“ Did it do you good ? ”
“ Not for some time, but I persevered,
as it
Seemed My Last Hope.
All at once I began to feel a change. I
asked for some meat. My people were
astonished, but they gave it to me. I ate
it, and digested it. I felt stronger. I
knew then that I w 7 as a saved woman. I
continued with that remedy, and was
delighted to find a
steady improvement every day.
I troubled the doctors no longer. I got on
wonderfully. The agonising pains in my
back and sides melted away. My head
felt clear and free from pain. Every day
saw me eat better meals, and I had no
return of the indigestion and vomiting,
and how thankful I was to get some sleep
once more. I was soon out of bed, and by
keeping steadily at Clements Tonic I
Increased My Weight Daily.
My appetite continually improved, and my
spirits were revived, and I was soon able to
take exercise. My skin took on its proper
colour again, and after several bottles of
Clements Tonic I got rid of every symptom
of disease. I was merely thin and weak,
and to get fat and strong was only a matter
of time, and this result was happily per-
formed for me by Clements Tonic, for it was
not long before I was as stout and strong as
you see me' now.”
“Yo u lo ok excellently well now, ” remarked
our reporter.”
“ Yes, I have always enjoyed good health
since my recovery from what all my neigh-
bours and fiiends thought was a fatal illness,
and you may guess the faith they all
have in Clements Tonic now.”
“ They have had proof of its merit, you
know.”
“ Yes. That remedy also cured my
daughter Ethel. She was very ill indeed.
Her Blood was Impoverished.
It seemed as though it was turning to
water, and she was entirely destitute of
colour. I see lots of young girls about in the
same delicate state. I didn’t know what
to do with her. She wouldn’t eat, and was
always complaining of headaches. She
suffered irom a sort of lassitude, which
made all exertion a pain and a trouble to
her. She grew whiter, weaker, and thinner
every week.
She Was Fading Away
under my very eyes, and was in a very
dangerous condition. At last fainting fits
began to come on; we were then quite
alarmed. The doctor did not seem able to
do anything for her, so I secretly deter-
mined to give her Clements Tonic. At first
I was doubtful as to whether it would suit
her complaint or not, but I soon found Out
that it was the proper remedy. It had
A Very Speedy Restorative
effect upon her system. In the course of
a few days it brightened her up consider-
ably. She no longer moped about the house
in that dull, listless way, but started to take
an interest in her housework, and I was
able to get her to go out in the open air. I
made her keep to Clements Tonic, and
It Pulled Her Right Round.
She ate heartily, and got quite fat and
robust, and you could see by the sparkle in.
her eye, and by her rosy cheeks, that she wag
quite recovered. I have absolute faith in
Clements Tonic, and no wonder, and I only
wish doubting ones would call here and
I Will Soon Convince Them
as to the value of dements Tonic.”
“You will see this in the Chronicle and
other papers.”
“ Thank you very much.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Mary Williams, of 208 Abercrombie-st., Sydney,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of four folios and consecutively
numbered from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and that
of my daughter, and cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way, and I make this solemn dec-
laration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of Kew South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppres-
sion of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and
Affidavits.”
Declared at Sydney this first day of September,
one thousand eight' hundred and ninety-eight,
before me,
J. G. CLEGG, J.P.
BEWARE OF IMPOSITION.
The Retailer who wants to put you off with a substitute for Clements Tonic or any other
article of acknowledged repute only has one aim in view, that is the increase of his own
profits. If he increases his profit, you get so much less value for your money, consequently
you are the person who is robbed and swindled, not the proprietor of Clements Tonic. You
can’t be too particular. The very moment a retailer begins to argue about his “ cheap and
nasty imitation ” being “ just as good,” skip out as if you had met the plague. Never trust
that man; shun him always. Why? Because next time you visit his shop you may want
something he knows you can’t cheek, then he sees no necessity to argue with you about
the article being “ just as good,” because he knows you can’t detect the fraud, and he can
have you how he likeg, and you bet your last red cent he will. If a retailer will attempt to
rob you when your eyes are open, you must know he will have no scruples when they are
shut, and you are blind to his tricks. Never deal there at all again. There are more swindlers
with cheap medicines than in any other trade, and you only rob your pocket and sacrifice
your health by permitting any substitution.
West Australian
International Mining
and Industrial
To be OPEIiED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS, SO Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Exhibition
David graham *t C®-,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - - AT eef p°kioes
AT REl j^q ES j TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
SICKER Him FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.'
Established Over 52 Years.
Try G! A T TO • ALL ARTICLES OF
Jo UJtt fcJLJjH/ • GOOD QUALITY.
Yd ALVANISED Barbed Wire, 10s 6d cwt. ; Roofing Felt,
vJ covers 200 ft., 9s roll; American Axes, 4Jib. to 61b.,
35s doz.; Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz. packages; Hay Knives,
3s ea. ; damaged Black Fencing Wire, 6s 6d cwt. ; damaged
Galvd. Fencing Wire, 8s cwt. ; Black Barbed Fencing
Wire, 8s cwt. ; slightly damaged Galvanised Plain Iron,
14s per cwt. ; Flemming’s Boiler Composition, 20s cask;
Dynamite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; good Fuse, from
6d per coil; Flax Engine-packing, 6d lb. by coil; f, J, f rd.
India-rubber Packing, 6d lb. ; Muzzle-loader, Single-barrel
Guns, 15s ea. ; Double-barrel Breech-loaders, 30s ea. ; iron
Hay Collectors, 30s ea. ; Chaff Knives, Is ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, Is 3d ea. ; wooden Hay Rakes ; Bullock Bows,
Id per lb. ; Axle-arms, 2,3 J, 3J, Id per lb.; Crosscut Saws,
Is ft. ; Pit Saws, Is 3d ft. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id lb. ;
Leather Girths and Hobbles, 9d; Globe Horse Nails,
slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Blue, Black, Green, Lead-color,
White Paint in 281 b. kegs, 15s cwt.; other paint, from 10s
cwt. ; over 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long, and
one of the largest stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember it's
Bishob's
Magnesia
Which means ,
It'S the pure article
Ifs the best mild
laxative JCnov/n
fa recommended by
yourfSmily Doctor.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
THE
TalkiOS MacbiO* Depot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, J EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely Packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes: “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapbii Street, Prahran, Memoubnb.


X
m
m
'SS
msmim
Soak your Clothes
WITH
’S SOAP
A FINE POWDER. QUARTER-POUND PACKETS.
And the Dirt will slip out with about half
the usual labour.
jpg- One tablespoonful of HUDSON’S Soap put into the
Washing-up Bowl makes China, Knives, Forks, and
Spoons, scrupulously Clean and Sweet. Absolute
cleanliness in Pots, Saucepans, and all Cooking
Utensils, secured by the daily use of HUDSONS.
Makes Grease Fly! Leaves No Taint or Smell!
HUDSON’S SOAP IS MARVELLOUS FOR SOAKING AND WASHING CLOTHES
Nuvelu’s Necklet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" What do you think, Dawson ? ” said Captain
Hare as he dropped from the shoulders of the
native who had carried him ashore. “ You re-
member the pretty Tongan girl you left to die at
the missionary’s up north ? ”
“ Yes ! yes ! ” answered Dawson.
“ Well, she’s right again, and wants to come
back to you.”
“ Bring her along, Hare, for Heaven’s sake ! ”
“ You forget Nuvelu, mate,” replied Hare.
“ Your constancy spoilt that fiery little Tongan,
and she will not share your affections now.”
“I must get rid of Nuvelu then, for I’m deter-
mined to have Uhila back again.”
“ How do you propose to manage it? If all I
hear is correct it will be a rather tough job. Any-
way, if you do clear her out of your house she’ll
upset your domestic happiness when the Tongan
arrives.”
“ That’s so,” said Dawson, despondingly. Then
brightening up : “ Can’t you recruit her—take her
to Fiji, Queensland, New Caledonia, or some-
where out of the island ? ”
The “recruiter” shook his head. “No go,
Dawson. Why, with the accursed Government
Agent I have this trip it’s almost a case of waiting
until the natives threaten to blow my brains out
if I refuse to take them before he will enter their
names. Her death is your only chance.”
“Don’t be a fool!” cried Dawson angrily.
“ That game might do in the Louisiades —but
this sea stinks of missionaries and men-of-war.”
“I didn’t say murder her yourself,” answered
Hare. “ Listen to me.”
* » * •
The next morning the news flew through the
village that the trader was dying—he had eaten
poisonous fish. The natives hurried up to the
house, but Hare stood at the entrance, and would
not permit them to enter. Nuvelu was inside,
lying at the side of Dawson’s couch. She had
been told that a noise would prove fatal to her
husband, but an occasional half-stifled sob showed
how real was her grief.
By-and-by, Hare left the doorway. Nuvelu
moved, and raised her eyes expectantly. The
captain saw she was wearing the cord around her
neck— the cord worn by all these women from, the
day of their marriage. He walked to the bed,
and, taking up his friend’s hand, held it for a
moment, then, as he loosed his hold, it fell life-
lessly upon the body.
“ He is dead.”
In an instant Nuvelu was upon her feet, and
would have thrown herself across the corpse, but
Hare was too quick he caught her. She
struggled, but assistance came, for they had heard
and interpreted the screams of the girl outside.
It was Nigo—her brother. She knew what he
came for ; so did Hare.
“Good God ! they will do it here,” he muttered.
Then throwing a sheet over his friend’s head, he
stood so as to screen him.
In a few seconds it was over, for the man, twist-
ing the cord about Nuvelu’s neck, had sent her to
accompany the spirit of her husband, the journey
which all the widows of Tanna must make.
* * * *
When the house had been cleared of the natives,
Dawson sat up. “ Poor girl,” he said ; “ but now
for Uhila. When will you bring her down,
Hare ? ”
“ Never mind Uhila just now, man,” answered
the recruiter. “ You haven’t finished the per-
formance yet. You had better break the news of
your resurrection very gently to that howling
mob outside. They might be slightly angry at
having sacrificed their relative unnecessarily.
Anyway, I’m going to leave.”
Hare was right, and Dawson had to lie in bed
for days pretending to be making a slow recovery.
Not that the death of a woman mattered much,
but the natives dreaded the malevolence of rest-
less spirits, and Nuvelu must roam about their
village and plantations until joined by her hus-
band.
At length they seemed pacified. To-morrow he
might venture out again. Meanwhile he could
dream of the happy days before he had been
parted from Uhila, and the happier times in store
for him now she was to be returned !
Sleep overtook him before he had finished his
catalogue of prospective pleasures.
Nigi had waited for this, and now crept up to
the dreamer’s head. He carried in his hand the
cord by which his sister had been strangled.
Bending forward he spread the noose wide out
upon the pillow, and, kneeling down, kept watch.
Taking advantage of every movement made by
the sleeper, he gently pushed the loop lower and
lower. A careless twist—and Dawson was awake !
But too late, for Nigi, pulling the cord quickly
forward, tightened the noose about his victim s
neck —and the spirit of Nuvelu was soon at rest.
WINDA.
Thomas Henry Neale, ex-P.M., of Lithgow
(N.S.W.), who died lately at Albany when return-
ing from England, was a brother of Potts Point
Neale, the Sydney millionaire, who predeceased
him by a year or two, and who, by scattering
round his colossal fortune in a multitude of
hunks, gave joy to a larger number of deserving
and undeserving people than were ever before sub-
stantially benefited by any single Australian
testator. The P.M. dispensed justice in Hartley
district for over 20 years, and was one of the best-
known figures on the Blue Mountains. He was
an inveterate smoker, and often would adjourn
the Court for a few minutes during the hearing of
lengthy evidence —apparently for the sake of
“ having a draw.” Writer was in Lithgow Court
one day when a particularly disreputable
“ swaggie ” was hauled before the P.M. to answer
for stealing a pair of boots which had been hang-
ing in front of the window of a local shoe-shop.
He had no defence ; pleaded guilty, telling the
Bench that his own boots were falling off his feet
bit by bit, and—well, he took the new ones
because he couldn’t buy them and couldn’t go
barefoot. Then he probably expected a couple of
months. Instead the P.M. rated prosecutor for
hanging half his stock outside his shop, thus
tempting the moneyless and bootless ; then he
imposed “a shilling or the rising,” and afterwards
handed the police the money to buy the unfortu-
nate a pair of boots. Very bad law, of course;
but that was the sort of man the P.M. was both
publicly and privately.
Hanging in Papua.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S.S. Aramac—Cooktown wharf. Cargo all out.
and I happy in a chair on quarter-deck, when the
first mate asked me if I’d come round with him to
the New Guinea yacht to visit her mate.
The Merrie England was lying at the next
wharf. We got on board, and, while we were
drinking tea with the mate, my companion said :
“About these niggers you’ve been hanging—
who is sheriff? You?”
“No; the skipper’s name is on the death-
warrant. He is responsible, and conducts the
proceedings. A ship’s-officer or shore-official reads
the warrant.”
“ Do you get a nigger to act Nosey ? ”
“Not much ! The seaman you saw cleaning the
Nordenfeldt on the bridge is the man.”
“ Does he like it ? ”
“He likes getting .£5 a time and sundry nips
of rum. I didn’t attend the first two hangings—
second mate took the crew—but when we took
two more fellows out of Samarai gaol—one to
hang at Woodlark and one at Sudest for killing
an old Queensland miner called Greasy Bill—the
skipper said : ‘You’d better sound Nameless.' He
seemed funky over the last job, and we mustn’t
have any hitch.’ So, later on, I put it to Name-
less : ‘Are you ready to swing these two fellows
off ? ’ ‘ Ready, sir ! I’d get up in the middle o’
the night to ’ang ’em—any quantity of ’em.’
And whether he really liked it or not, he took a
professional pride in it, and went to the trouble of
sewing bags to put over their (the subjects’) heads.
Got ink to dye his bags black.”
“ Had you gallows? ”
“ Yes, for the first two, but we had to carry the
timber five miles inland for the second man at a
place called Kapa Kapa, and, besides, it was
beastly carrying a lot of gallows material about on
the deck of a pretty little ship like this. So I
suggested to the skipper that he might use our
own yard-arm or a tree. He said a tree might do,
and decided to select a horizontal limb 20ft. or
more from the ground, lash a single block on limb
close to trunk (as something for hangman to
steady himself by as he sits astride limb), lash
another 18in. further out and reeve a line through
each. End from first block made fast to broad
leather belt round man’s waist; end from second
block round man’s neck ; iron pin through rope
Bft. from neck, so that when hauled tight there’s
Bft. left for drop ; grave at foot of tree. \V hen
■ ready, hoist by waist-line and make fast; take in
slack of neck-rope and make fast. When warrant
is read and at nod from the skipper, the hangman
.drops a sharp tomahawk on lashing of first block,
and the man dies.”
“ How do you make a hangman’s kriot ? ”
“We used a small brass thimble —it’s on a nail
in the skipper’s cabin. Rope greased, and tight
leather washer above thimble.”
“ What rope do you use ? ”
“ Two-inch Manilla. See the boat-falls through
the window behind you? That rope has been
used three times.”
“ What ! you unreeve your running-gear for the
hangman ? ”
“No; ’twas new then. We were very short of
small rope. There were three men to hang, and
dingey - falls needed. Bo’s’n measured off the
falls, and we found they’d do, so he was free to
use up the rest of the two-inch. Going ashore at
the Woodlarks we were taking a lot of men, and
had spades for grave-digging. We knew there
was white sand on the beach, good for deck-scrub-
bing, so we put bags in one boat and got a boat-
load. Coming off to the ship the bo’s’n chuckled.
He said we were combining business with pleasure.
I suppose you’d call that cold-blooded, eh ! ”
“ Did the niggers funk ? ”
“ They didn’t show it, if they funked ; perhaps
they didn’t know what to expect? One fellow
did, at all events, because the Fijian sergeant of
police went to some trouble to show him exactly
how it would be done. He’d a piece of wood and
two bits of string and hanged the wood on the
awning ridge chain.”
Our mate got up. “And the Merrie England,
too ! ” lie said. “ Well lam d ! ”
My sentiments, too!
TRUE BILL.
When Premier Byrnes died a score of
ideas were promulgated for perpetuating his
memory. But enthusiasm quickly waned. 600
loaded vehicles followed him to the grave, but the
meeting held recently in Brisbane to discuss the
various schemes only mustered some fifty with
about that number of ideas. Nothing definite was
decided upon.. R.C. Archbishop Dunne was con-
spicuous—by his absence. The average young
Australian will always be able to locate the date of
the late Q. Premier’s demise—by remembering
that it was in the year of Grafter’s Cup.
What is left of S.A. militia had a sham-
fight t’other day, and there were deeds of valor
enough for a whole campaign instead of a mere
afternoon. A troop of cavalry—a solid mass of
horsemen to the number of twenty boldly
assaulted Glanville Fort and captured the whole
turn-out, the captain leading the way by climbing
a water-pipe right under the muzzles of the guns
Asked afterwards why he suddenly ceased fire
when the fatal moment arrived, the battery-
commander explained that had he not done so
several of the bold cavalrymen would have been
severely scorched. The Gianville Fort man now
suggests that on next occasion both sides should
be supplied with “ the real thing,” and he guaran-
tees to blow the mounted heroes into chaos inside
ten minutes.
Editor F. W. Ward, of Brisbane Courier,
and formerly of Syd ney Daily Te legrapii, an enthu-
siastic pressman who ever earns the affection of his
colleagues, has joined the Akgus as leader-writer.
At one time Ward ran Sydney Echo, which ultim-
ately died of indigestion caused by the daily
rehash of Herald news and opinions. It was he,
with Messrs. Gullett and Brient, and the tireless
manager Wynne—a well-matched quartette —who
put life into the Sydney D.T., and sent it far on
the road to fortune. Mr. Ward, whose departure
from Sydney was due to the fact that he had some
sort of a journalistic conscience, must be glad to
get away from his one-horse Brisbane surround-
ings, where a crooked Govt, does its own sweet
will and where the Opposition troubleth not, and
the whole duty of the newspaper man is to shut
his eyes and say nothing. The new Argus man
is a Maorilander by birth, and saw service with
the Forest Rangers during the Maori war.


Gentlemen ! ! —You can walk into any tailor-
ing- establishment in Sydney, and you will not find a
better or more wisely assorted stoek of summer suitings
than at Hordern’s in Pitt-street. The superior style and
excellent fit supplied by our first-class cutters have given
universal satisfaction, and although the price of a suit to
order is only 455., gentlemen need have no doubt as to
the value being equal to similar suits quoted elsewhere at
three guineas. (Complete samples free to any address in
city or country in N.S.VV.) HORDERN BROTHERS,
Economical Tailors, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st. (only),
Sydney. Early attention to your orders for Xmas
Suits is respectfully solicited.*
STRAIGHT
. ■JJWHWIM.iMU'iwi _-»i'TOP—iw-m jli „ ■—___-
TO TH€ POINT.
Medicine is to make people strong and well.
Let it go straight to the point then. To make oneself
sick first—to weaken and purge the poor, ill body, ex-
pecting to have it strong in consequence—is not going straight; it is aiming round the
corner, and that is not the sort of aim that generally hits the mark.
Br> Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
act directly and act straight. They build up and tone up the system at once ftheir
beneficial effect is recognised at once. They strengthen, and only strengthen. But, obtain
—Williams—look for the name “Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People”; don’t
accept anything that does not have that name printed on it in this shape—
9
9
MK
ILLS
FOR
ALE*
Take care that
there shall be no
MISSING WORDS.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills cure Ancemia, all Ladies' Complaints, Nervous Prostration, Chronic Biliousness, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Heart Weakness, Measles, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Partial Paralysis, Locomotor-ataxia, St. Vitus' Dance, Nervous
Headache, and the after-effects of Influenza, Dengue, Typhoid, and Scarlet Fevers, Severe Colds, Scrofula, Chronic Erysipelas, &c.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers, or the Dr. Williams' Medicine Company, Sydney, N.S.W , will forward, on receipt of stamps
or post order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-a-dozen for 15s. 3d. Beware of poisonous imitations.
The Parting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were trailing roses behind her
And roses tall on the lawn;
And Love for a gift had twined her
A crown of the crimson dawn.
She pondered on Life’s swift changes,
Looked westward and wondered why,
And fluttered a scarf to the ranges,
And this was the girl’s good-bye.
He rode with his burden of sorrow
To the crest of the Big Divide,
And he thought of the long lone morrow
And bent to the reins and sighed,
But turned, with a great grief laden,
And looked back once to the dell,
And waved a hand to the maiden—
And this was the man’s farewell.
Her heart was untouched as the snow’s is,
And cold as the white young year’s,
She could not see for her roses,
And he—for his blinding tears ;
But no worlds wait for a woven spell,
Y Though Hope in the heart should die,
While brave men part with a fond farewell,
And girls with a light good-bye !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Ihe Bulletin’s brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on December Bth, and
agents who wish to make sure of their orders
being filled should send in early. Single copies
Will be mailed from The Bulletin office to any
Australian address (except in Queensland) for 7d.
in stamps; to any Queensland address, Bd. in
stamps. To any English address eightpence in
stamps.
English newspapers lately suggested that
the gorgeous gold Communion-service presented
by bounder Hooley to the Chapter of St. Paul’s
Cathedral should be given up for the benefit of
Hooley’s creditors. Irony or innocence? Of
course, tlie Dean of St. Paul’s stated promptly
that the Hooley-Communion plate (having been
consecrated) would not be surrendered. But how
about compensating the creditors to the extent of
its value ?
There are two grips that never lose
Their hold on things at all—
The grip Grim Death has and the grip
Ecclesiastical.
[( Professor Mills, in his recent work on
“ All mal Intelligence,” argues that whereas cats
are superior to dogs in will-power and ability to
execute highly complex co-ordinated movements,
yet in the ‘higher grades of intelligence” dogs
show much more wisdom than cats. A cominen-
tatoi wants to know what urc the higher grades of
intelligence ? A cat shows its reasoning force by
crouching m silence near a rat hole, but a terrier
barks for the rodent to appear, which is idiotic.
Jn the other hand the dog seems to have by far
the keener understanding of human signs and
language.
An Officer—and a Gentleman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yes, it is pretty monotonous, on a trip like
this,” said my fellow-passenger—the only one—as
he knocked the ashes out of his pipe on the lower
ratlines of the mizzen rigging. “ A month of the
same society anywhere is apt to be tiresome, but
a month in a ‘ lime-juicer,’ on this run, beats every
experience I ever had, bar one.”
“ It must have been an experience, indeed, if it
makes this tolerable by comparison,” said I, fret-
fully ; “ this is simply too deadly for words.”
It was. We were “ running down the easting,”
as the sailors say. We had left South Africa for
Maoriland, and had been a month at sea without
sighting anything but the playful porpoise, and
the occasional “ blow ” of a distant whale. The
society of the barque was made up of the captain,
the mate, the second officer, my fellow-passenger,
and myself. The crew did not count. Foreigners,
for the most part, and as little like the
British sailor of fiction as need be. The
apprentices were a little better, but too young
to be interesting, and too inexperienced to
be worth talking to. The captain and the mate
hailed from a great shipbuilding port, whose in-
habitants show most of the objectionable traits of
two races, without the shrewd dry wit of the one
or the rollicking humor of the other. Add to
this that the captain got unsociably drunk in his
cabin half the time, and still more unsociably
sober in the saloon during the remainder. The
mate and the second mate did not agree very well
together. When the latter told me (in confidence)
his opinion of the mate I began to realise what
the English language was capable of in efficient
hands; but I only grasped its full possibilities
when the mate (in confidence) mentioned what he
thought of the second mate. Personally, I did
not think much of either of them, and was there-
by thrown all the more on the resources of my
companion in misfortune.
He was a lean, wirily-built man with the unmis-
takeable accent of a gentleman, which even the
slang of three continents could not disguise. He
certainly had not the build of a powerful man,
and save for the occasional reluctant exhibition of
a quite unexpected reserve of strength, he did
not look _ like the rough life he must have
led. It is saying something for his powers
as a story-teller that, after two months of no
other society, he was able to tell me a new and
apposite yarn the day he bade me good-bye in
Port Chalmers.
“I had a worse experience than this in the way
of monotony, once,” he said. “No, not in gaol.
The question is not only rude, but the repartee is
too obvious to be funny.”
. ”1 didn’t mean it. Let yourself go. I won’t
interrupt again,” I returned apologetically.
Did you ever hear of the Kalahari Desert ? ”
he asked. “There, of course, you have not. The
Germans own some of it, called Damaraland. The
rest of it leaks over into British South Africa. I
s P en 3 months on the border of it, just before
the Jamieson raid. I don’t know what the rest
thought, but I found Pretoria Gaol quite endur-
able after it.”
You were in that shindy, too, were you? You
never mentioned it before.”
■ii am P rou d of it, I assure you; but you
will recollect that I was talking about the Kala-
hari Desert,” he replied severely. “Besides, you
may have noticed that I am telling this yarn.”
“ There, don’t get your rag out. Tell me about
the raid another time, and fire away. I won’t
cut in any more. ”
“ Oh, that’s all right. It is not much of a
tale. There were eight of us in the detachment,
A lieutenant of sorts, a corporal, five police-
froopers, and myself. What was I? Hospital
sergeant-major, if you know what that is. The
nearest outpost of civilisation was 200 miles away
—Palapye, in British Bechuanaland. A waggon-
load of stores used to get through once in three
months, with any luck. Newspapers ? The
post-office clerks used to snavel those. We
never got them. Lucky if you got your letters. I
messed with the officer commanding. No, I know
it isn’t in the Queen’s Regulations, but it would
have amounted to solitary confinement for him if
he had stuck strictly to professional etiquette.
Besides, military rank was comparatively inci-
dental in the Bechuanaland Border Police. The
discipline was as good as they make it, but there
was not any difference, socially, between the
trooper and his officer. Some of us had been quite
respectable—once. ”
He lit his pipe again, and took a meditative look
at the grey clouds crossing the face of the moon,
and then resumed.
“We were stationed near what the Dutch call a
Vlei. That is a sort of fresh-water lake, which
hides itself, coyly, under 20ft. of sand in dry
weather—and it’s mostly dry in those parts. Had
not been any rain for two years when I saw the
place last. The buck on the borders of the Kala-
hari never drink anything not even water. Don’t
believe that? Well, they say it takes an experi-
enced liar to make the truth credible.”
“Who say? That sounds like one of your
own.”
“It isn’t. I saw it somewhere. Anyway, I
shall be all night over this yarn, if you go on at
this rate. They called the place Potgieter’s Vlei.
No, I really cannot say who Potgieter was, but I
am pretty sure his ghost does not haunt the spot.
He is having the roughest kind of luck if he finds
his present climate any hotter than that was.
Anyhow, everybody quarrelled with everybody
else before we had been in camp a month. And,
as the officer commanding had notoriously shown
the white feather in action, the men hated him
worse than they did themselves and their fellow-
sufferers. Dull ! Think of it, man ! Not even a
native kraal within 20 miles. We shot away what
little game there was in three weeks ; and then lay
in our tents all day, cursing our luck and each other.
What were we doing in such a place? On the look-out
for a big Boer ‘ Trek ’ which never came off. Did
you ever go to sleep praying you might wake up
in Kingdom Come ? I have. I did it then. I
nearly killed myself for lack of something to do,
experimenting with the hospital drugs. It was a
positive relief when a man fell sick. We buried
the corporal and another, and actually enjoyed the
funeral-parades.
“ We had been four solid months in that awful
hole when the accident happened that brought us
out of it.’ The lieutenant’s revolver went off
when he was ‘ cleaning ’ it. Poor devil ! I knew
the wound was mortal as soon as I cut his clothes
off. People don’t generally ‘ clean ’ loaded re-
volvers ? Oh, yes they do—in some parts of
Africa. It’s one of the peculiar effects of the
climate.
“ Then he told me (as well as a bullet in the left
lung would let him) quite a curious little story
about himself. He had passed out of Sandhurst .
with great credit. High enough for the engineers,
but he chose the line. He became the joy of his
Colonel’s heart. Keen on his drill, you know,
and took a pride in his work. Had a career
before him, everybody said. Seconded for service
with the Bechuanaland Border Police, with the
highest testimonials. There was lots of chance of
seeing service. We always had a little border
scuffle on somewhere. He got his opportunity in
the first Matabele war. Then he found out what
he had dreaded all his life. He was a rank
coward, without even the nerve to conceal it.
Oh, yes, I feel nervous when the bn lets are
whistling near ; but I find it just as safe to go on
as go back—and it doesn't look so bad.”
His own cool daring never cropped up in his
yarns, except by implication, but he would have
lit his pipe in the flames of Gehenna, after storm-
ing the gates thereof, if needs- were, and he knew
it.
“Realise what such an exhibition meant to
him. lie utterly lost his head and his nerve—and
showed it. He was covering himself yards deep
with the blackest shame the world can give.'
Can’t you see what he must have had to endure -
afterwards? The open scorn of the men he was
sent to lead (for he lacked the only virtue some of
them possessed) ; the neatly-balanced sarcasms or
blunt taunts of his brother officers ; the scarce-
veiled contempt of his subordinates ; the no 1 ss
painful polite irony of his equals. Think of the
hell life had been to him for 12 awful month !
He told me he had jumped at the chance of
obliterating himself—and his record—in the desert.
It had taken him fourof those months to makeup
his mind to‘clean’ that revolver. I daresay he
could not help it. I suppose he was the victim of
a hereditary tendency to get behind a tree.
“He implored me, for the love of God, not to
save his life, if by any chance the wound left room
for hope. He died in the night, and we buried
him next day ‘resting on our arms reversed.’
Then I did a thing I suppose I ought to feel
sorry for, although 1 don’t. I invented an attack
of sDamaras, and killed him, at the head of his
men, fighting against heavy odds with the greatest
gallaniry. I recommended the four other sur-
vivors for promotion and swore them to seoresy.
The chance of being recalled to civilisation soothed
their consciences and kept their mouths shut.
Why did ldo it ? Oh, he cried a bit as he was
dying, and told me the fairy tales he had written
home to the girl he was engaged to. Her letters
of appreciation showed that he must have had
quite a talent for fiction.”
“ Who was she ? Did you know her ? ”
“ Yes, I knew her- once. Better than ever he
could have done.” A long look at the drifting
clouds this time, and then the tag of the story in
a voice vainly trying to sound indifferent.
“ She wrote me a very nice letter (not recognis-
ing me under a new name) in acknowledgement of
his things when I sent them to her—with a type-
written note. She said that the memory of the
dead (him) and of the living (me) formed her
ideal of what brave men should be. No moral
excuse for it ? That’s two bells, isn’t it ? Good
night.”
W. P. H.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
« H IFS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUIH33A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full diiect'ens with each Pox.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
USEFUL, AS WELL AS ORNAMENTAL.
Mm
S_<: c, '..yc, jj c. r^
\
I —/
Jr/ ✓
iftvi
7—7
/
J
'mgi
YEARS DYEING
FOK THE LADIES.
w. o. ZEILIDZR-UDGi-lE] & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y’OJtK ST RE Kl’, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout, irum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
|3r A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments 1 of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., Loud >n. s**" Pur-
chasers should look to tiie Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If tlie address is not 523 Oxford street, London, they are
spurious.
OBSERVE THAT
SIGNATURE
PERRINS’
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, i
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ; [
and Export Oilmen generally. 1
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. ]
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
OWBHIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
' a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
■Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. If d., 2s. 9 d., is. 6 d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
he Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAAIPH ] ET, giving full evidence in this notorious
ease, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Mbton s
Cures
IRISH moss
TB STIMOIiTI.A.r..
~ Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, — Being a sufte er for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, T de-
sire to add my. testimony in favor of your Hush Moss. As a soother of irritating
con*h, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the, most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified'.
I rimiin, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
IT
1
CHI
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Lung Complaints
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BOMMINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, ELATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


RIHF^ENTs
UNDER
The BßiT|
flag
Established
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto , Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address S
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue Free, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
58 Margaret Street, Sydney;
33 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broo'iman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’^
George and UfITETi
Market-Sts. HUY tL
LIJXCfIRON, 12,30; IHNWKK, 0.30.
Superior I econnnodution. Moderate Churpes
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
X&fll 3t!o. JtO. Stt' t 9 S
SPOONS Sc FORKS
AT
SHOW-ROOMS,
m
<©HE j^BBOT
: ' in
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
•ofll*
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TECH BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELB
WortbiQgtoj) PCin>piQg Ei>gii>€ Con)paoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll JSSHTO'fctLOirSS- (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
lydney, KS.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. v
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARES & CO., EREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Jolins-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury -Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
in Stoclt.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
*
What is Health?
J*hcurnatism, Sciatic,a,
I.iiin'ra// o, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. V.
VAHKF.It, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free-
Six penny stamps.
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L S,. Botanist to
%
ECZEMA
Jars (coneentd.), 4/6, post 4/10 < i
OLEAC”
DEPOTS
Sydney—M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 Rundle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J E. Phillips, 317 Collins St,
Self Applied.
s.
FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
I? the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of .Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery S\ stem of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Pioneers
The Company Sells onlv the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
2POTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.-— Arrangements may be made at either of
AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE
-
AGENTS EVERY WU ERE.
.
25 HARBOUR STREET,
ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
'.mu
Clarence St., Sydney.
B-opp Straight Line Furnace.
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Boot Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
Batho’s
Baking p ow j erii
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadou, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gumnakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading- Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
iS, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 110 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders,'or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
'•
W
•>.«a '
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers(9(l gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Ounlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over Perrv’s
8 3 gross. SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, ' 8, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOI S
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SHUTTLE.
KOBTING’S INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors
Mason’s Steam and Water Reducing 1
Yalves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
“ Midget ” Steam Traps
“Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Yalves
Richards and other Steam Indicators
Revolution Counters, Jenkins Valves
t description of
■
le and Boiler Fittings, Mountings and Supplies
