

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
(i The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS «££ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
_ . —FOK—
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.DETSDALE—-
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
BRISCOE
*4nrMH
: . sli
111
Over 2200 Hydro-Extract rs bold and at
A
K A «
.sSTfc
R. A- HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney,
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° a, m street, SYDNEY,
sole i s TO r BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
made Wire Netting*.
tliat you get i-t.
*7
PROOF
Pn eY3
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
liysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
*DE
m
$
m
PROOF
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CI6METTES.
and Nobility.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . „
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY I
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & D. OimRA.Kr,
TAILORS,
112 King-st,, Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient [jotel.
After all, is the Best.
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart., Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
tTISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
V should note that the
Impena.l Taotei
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Red rooms and Sample Rooms.
uuuuuMio pox, Proprietor.
Interesting to Brandy and Whisky Drinkers.
rpHE imports of case Whisky during the year 1897 amounted to 115,357 cases,
those of case Brandy to 43,723 cases. These figures exhibit a marked increase
in the consumption of Brandy, and show a strong tendency of the public to revert
to that spirit as their favorite drink. It was thought by many that the consumption
of Whisky was fully eight cases to every one of Brandy, whereas the proportion is
only about to 1.
. . . The wholesomeness of
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
BOOMERANG BRANDY,
attested by the highest authorities, and its adoption by the House of Commons, the
War Office, leading hospitals and clubs, etc., has tended to bring about the above
result. In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp,
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
A 1 LIQUEUR.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 958. J
fSaturday, June 25, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


T)Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
JD GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. PENINSULAR.
Durand’s Resistance of Ships, 245; post 255. Poole’s
Fuels, 14s; post 15s. Wilson’s Hydraulics and Placer
Mining, 8s 6d ; post 9s. Malden’s Arable Land, 3s 6d ;
post 4s. Wilson’s Leaders in Literature, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Bright’s Submarine Telegraphs, 425; post 445; Suther-
land’s Moral Instinct, 28s; post 30s. Gunther’s Billy
Hamilton, 2s ; post 2s 4d. Crawfords (Marion) Corleone,
2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Wheat in the Ear, by
“ Alien,” 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Marsh’s
Datchet Diamonds, 2s 6d and 3s 6d; post 3s and 4s.
Cameron’s A Difficult Matter, 2s 6d and 3s 6d; post 3s
and 4s. Carey’s Dr. Luttrell’s Patient, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ;
post 3s and 4s. Phillips’s Man of the Family, 2s 6d and
3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Bodkin’s Paul Beck, 2s 6d and 3s
6d ; post 3s and 4s. Patton’s Bijli the Dancer, 2s 6d and
3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
Just Received. PICTURES OF 1898. With Numerous
Illustrations. This popular annual, illustrating the
pictures of the London art season. Every English artist
of note contributes to its pages, and its popularity in-
creases year by year. There will be upwards of 250
reproductions of pictures of the Royal Academy, New
Gallery, etc. Is 3d ; post Is 7d.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, A Story
of the Australian Desert, etc. Picture Boards, 2s ;
post 2s 4d.
To Arrive Shortly, Cheap Edition of Lord Roberts’s
Book, FORTY-ONE' YEARS IN INDIA : From Subaltern
to Commander-in Chief. By Field-Marshal Lord Roberts
of Kandahar. The New Edition will contain, in readable
type, the whole of the Text and Appendices which are
comprised in the two-volume edition, and will likewise
include all the maps and illustrations. The volume,
which extends to unwards of 600 pages, with a full index,
will be handsomely bound in scarlet cloth, and gilt-
lettered on the back. 8s 6d ; post 9s 6d.
ORDERS BEING REGISTERED.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Ask
for
Cameos !
k'lu'kwuv )>M
wmw
The flag under which reigns supreme —
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
Literature is the year-old literary review issued
from Lond. Times office, and edited by H. D.
Traill, a leading Eng. journalist and man-of-
lettersof the old school, capable, Conservative,
and—-in his 56th year—pretty ponderous and dull.
Some of his “ Saturday Songs ” and “ Recaptured
Rhymes ” are readable, and his “ New Lucian ”is
bright ; but he has always been rather solid than
fi er y__and j n Australia, without depreciating
solidity, we appreciate fire. Traill has said a lot
of good things, and few well. And the man
whom he keeps to discuss Australian literature in
Literature doesn’t know the rudiments of his sub-
ject : ’tis small compensation that his ignorance is
out-of-date. In issue May 14 there is the ridicu-
lousest sermon ! The writer even takes Lala
Fisher seriously ! And he comments on Lala’s
God’s-feet book—-
It illustrates the tendency, so conspicuous in all collec-
tions of Australian verse, to run off smooth stanzas on
love and death and clouds and woodlands without dis-
tinction of style or originality of thought.
Well! This does apply to some of the minor
milk-and-water people whom the Australasian
wickedly fosters ; but it doesn’t app to the best
of the milk-and-water school, and, as for the red-
corpuscle school, Boake and Lawson, Paterson
and Dyson, laugh at the idea. There ain’t no
sich a tendency—in characteristic Australian
verse. Maybe we can’t claim much original-
ity of thought ; but for distinction of style
(taken as including lyrical quality) no better
minor poetry is being written in England than
Daley and Quinn are writing in Australia; and
nobody writes in England with a truer, tenderer
sentiment than Ogilvie. And a score of other
names will occur to The Bulletin reader—whose
work is occasionally as good or almost as good
as the work of these.
■--* 4c * *
Here, for example, are two first-rate stanzas by
Arthur Adams (the Maoriland poet who has lately
come to Sydney as secretary to J. 0. Williamson)
which for “distinction of style” and pith of
matter would have attracted attention in Stephen
Phillips’s book—and England can do no better
than that.
4c
And was there no “distinction of style ” about
Daley’s issue-before-last-reprinted “Sunset Fan-
tasy ” ? And if there is any present-day English
writer who puts more of the feeling, the imagina-
tion, the rare mystery of poetry into his verse
than Quinn has put into tins charming piece, he
certainly takes a lot of pains to hide his light that
never was.
And, though Ogilvie have fewer claims to “ dis-
tinction of style, ’ how many English present-day
poets can evoke the warm poetical impression
which he evokes in “Bowmont Water ”?
These three seta of verses (now first published
are taken casually from the matter waiting publi-
cation. Now compare the piece of verse to which
the same issue of Literature gives honorable
place—
SIC TRANSIT.
Dreamy sound of rain at dying summer eve,
Dewy sight of grass at living summer morn,
Drowsy scent of rose at sleeping summer noon.
Ye to me are sweet as life, as death forlorn.
Through your tears I feel your loveliness divine,
For your freshness or your sweetness seems to
blend
With diviner dawns and sunsets soul-create,
Unalloyed with our inevitable end.
I. Zangivill.
* * * «
This is good ; but it certainly is not better.
It has not the emotional thrill of Ogilvie,
or the lyrical thrill of Quinn, or the in-
tellectual thrill of Adams. It is an agree-
able variation on an old theme; but it is
rather cultured verse than poetry, though it ca,n
claim to be poetry. But it is sweet and placid
rather than forceful : it has not the individuality
or vitality of any of the pieces quoted : it is less
arresting, less memorable. Of course, Zangwill
has not the poetical temperament : he is not a fair
Bample of the English minor person. But, any-
how, there is the kind of English verse which
I/iterature prints, and there is the kind of Aus-
tralian—or Australian-bred —verse The
Bulletin prints ; and the comparison isn’t too
poetically favorable to Literature.
» * * *
And the cheerless Literature reviewer says
Australia does not seem to be aiming high so far as
poetry is concerned, or to have found or created any high
standard of literary taste. For it must be confessed that
the Australians are not interested in literature. They
read a good deal for their own enjoyment, and their daily
newspapers are as good as can be found in any quarter of
the globe. Much has been done by the Governments to
OUltivate intellectual activity, and to encourage schools
and Universities. Yet there is an almost entire absence
of literary ideals, of appreciative study devoted to the
English classics, of independent literary judgment. The
colonists accept the verdict of the mother country as
authoritative, and even Australian writers of high merit,
such as Rolf Boldrewood and “Ada Cambridge,” are
without honor in their own country until they have the
caohet of English approval. There are few literary
societies, few successful literary magazines, and an author
who can make his living by writing Australian books is
at present unknown.
! ! ! 11 !
* * * *
Here’s a "Van Winkle for us ! —and the traits of
the breed seem to have strengthened since
Irving’s time. This might have been true twenty
years ago; it wasn’t true ten years ago; it is
ludicrously untrue to-day—when Australians buy
13,000 of Paterson’s verses at 5s. before he sells
500 in England, and Victor Daley gets for a dozen
or so of lus poema a still wider audience in
15,000 “ Golden Shanties.” And they are still
buying the degenerated novels of “ Rolf Boldre-
wood ” in England while we’ve dropped them here
like cold potatoes. More, if Literature will
take the trouble to enquire of any leading
London publisher, it will find that Aus-
tralia is 30 little “interested in literature”
that it buys more books in proportion to
population than any country in the world ; while
English authors continually complain that their
books are not bought by English readers, but bor-
rowed from a library. The Australian’s cash-
justification of his interest in literature ends all
argument. To be sure, we have lower-priced
editions of many books; but this plea does not.
by any means cover the vast disproportion
between Australian and English book-purchases.
To be sure, a lot of what Australians read isn’t
literature —and what do the English masses read
but sporting novels and Family Herald novelettes?
A little of the writer’s charge is true, toned and
modified. We have “literary ideals,” but we
have not enough ; we have less than we might
have of “ appreciative study devoted to the Eng-
lish classics ’’—and other classics as good as
English ; we might have more “ independent
literary judgment.” Literary societies and maga-
zines are wanting ; and only small demur or
qualification can b' made to the statement that
nobody makes a living by writing Australian
books. And the conditions of Australian life,
and brevity of Australian history, though they
help to explain these things, do not altogether
justify them.
• •
Through all the stupid or misleading state-
ments in° Literature's article it isn’t worth while
wading ; but it is permitted to admire the beauti-
ful example of smug English arrogance with
which the article closes. The writer quotes
Brunton Stephens’s “ Australian Anthem in
which he urges God to bless the mother-land and
let Australia be
One in all noble fame,
Still be our path the same,
Onward in Freedom’s name,
Upward in Thine.
And he comments —
It is to the growth of such sentiments as these, not
only in politios, but in literature, that lovers of Australia
must hopefully look forward to the [sic] development of an
intellectual independence, to a fuller appreciation of our
common intellectual heritage, to a wider and deeper
culture.
Reads like the holy peroration to the ser-
mons of our youth—the beautiful “ to’’-mixture
included —and the calm assumption that Eng-
lish literature is to be our chief or only source,
of inspiration is something to stare at. Neces-
sarily, sprung as we are from the. English stock,
our literature must be an offshoot of English
literature. But that it should be a devout imita-
tion on a Jingo basis is neither necessary nor
desirable. The best prose models are in
French. The strongest artistic stimuli are
French. Much of the best history and philo-
sophy is German. A little of the best poetry is
Italian. To filter Australian ideas throug >
modes alone would be the depth of o y> •
have the right and the duty—if we are de '1
a literature—to found it on the widest t
world-widest basis. We are heirs n< > '
English literature, but to every other 1 e
as well. And to march solemnly in the.ruts
which Mr. English Jingo Traill politely P
out to us —with God, in the, guise of a
English Jingo, hovering approvingly overtieaa
is not in the least, so far as this scribe ’
Australian literature’s intention or tendency.
♦
J. A. Andrews writes :
Ee your criticism of Junor’s book and verse, Agueira s
Bride.” You call it “ rattling good.” I admit that it is
“ rattling”—like a disordered machine,with screws loose,
cranks misfitted, and cogs out of gear. The story ta en
to versify is melodramatic, savors of Murder and us i,
and therefore, as a story, must l>e “ rat! ling good in
your estimation ; but since “ Aguerra’s Bride ” has to be
judged not only as a story, but as verse, perhaps you will
concede on second thoughts that even Murder and Lust
do not supersede the canons of versification. As v erse,
“Aguerra’s Bride” is nothing better than clumsy dog-
gerel. I indicate some of the blemishes in the 39 lines
you have quoted.
1. The extracts swarm with artificial inversions, such
as “ Plains Argentine,” “ Turned she her head,” “Drew
back Aguerra,” “Stood he then by its edge close,
“ Shivers a moment, Aguerra.” The foregoing phrases,
though awkward, are not ambiguous ; hut another has
misled the compositor into inserting, and you into pass-
ing, two commas which destroy the intended meaning
and substitute one quite irrelevant. “No straigbter word
he (,) Aguerra (,) could send.” The context shows that
this is an intususcepted paraphrase of “He (the ally)
could not have stated it to Aguerra more explicitly.”
[lt’s so in the book.]
2. The word “straighter,” above mentioned, is used in
“ slang ” sense.
3. In “ Lit cigarillo,” for “he lit his (or a) cigarillo,”
the use of a common noun without an article or qualifica-
tion is against the genius of the English language.
4. “ Back returned ” is a tautology.
6. Jos6 seems to have taken an oath to perform a mira-
cle—“ Sworn his past misdeeds to mend.”
6. The rhythm forces a strong accent upon words and
syllables not requiring it —for instance, upon the first
syllable of “ misdeeds ” in the line just cited.
7. Four times in the extracts printed are nouns severed
from their preceding adjectives by the division into lines.
This severance, always a blemish, is fatal in association
with a rhythm which accentuates the line-periods. In
one instance it happens at the end of a two-line period,
where the separation is yet further emphasised.
So wrote an ally. No straighter
Word he Aguerra could send.
Worse:
Darkfaced the man spurring weary
Horses. Beside him, in haste,"
And worst:
Plaintive the plover’s call, warning
Mustang and w ild deer, the keen
Puma prowls. So breaks the morning
-Light, on the plains Argentine.
These specimens might have been versified with eighteen
“ mutton ” quads and a lead-cutter.
“Kittling” good, isn’t it !
IN KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
A morn, a sallow lamp-lit morn,
A dawn that never breaks to day :
Old, old the faces and forlorn ;
The hearts look out, so seared, so grey !
It is as if some upturned stone
Had flung to light a vermin rout —
For things misfeatured, souls unknown,
Stagger in blind amaze about.
Along their gleaming lines of light
The charging trams go, head to ground ;
Out from the drifting pathways, white
The faces flash—like faces drowned !
And there, with painted features drear,
And eyes whose pathos still is sweet,
The hunted hunters prowl and peer—
Their lair the long, slow-surging street.
Arthur H. Adams.
THE HIDDEN TIDE.
Within the world a second world
That circles ceaselessly :
Stars in the sky and sister stars —
Turn in your eyes and see !
Tides of the sea that rise and fall,
Aheave from Pole to Pole —
And kindred swayings veiled but felb
That noise along the soul.
Yon moon, noon-rich, high-throned, remote,
And pale with pride extreme,
Draws up the sea, but what white moon
Exalts the tide of Dream ?
The Fisher-Folk who cast their nets
In Vision’s golden tide
Oft bring to light misshapen shells,
And nothing worth beside.
And so their worn hands droop adown,
Their singing throats are dumb ;
The Inner Deep withholds its pearls
Till turn of tide be come.
But patience ! wait—the good tide turns,
The waters inward set;
And 10, behold ! aleap, alive
With glowing fish the net !
O Toilers of the Hidden Seas !
Ye have strange gain and loss,
Dragging the Deeps of Soul for pearls,
And oft-times netting dross.
Flushed to the lips with golden light,
And dark with sable gloom ;
Thrilled by a thousand melodies,
And silent like a tomb.
Fieroe are the winds across your realm,
As though some Demon veiled
Had loosed the gales of Spirit-land
To ravage ways unsailed.
But still sweet hours befall at timea.
Rich lit and full of ease ;
The aftermath is like the light
Of sunset on tired seas.
And worse, perhaps, may be the lob
Of those whose fate is sleep ;
The sodden souls without a tide,
Dense as a rotten deep.
Pain paves the way for keener joy,
And wondrous thoughts uproll
When the large moon of Peace looks down
On high tide in the Soul.
Rodtrie
BOWMONT WATER.
O, we think we’re happy roving,
But the stars that crown the night
They are only ours for loving
When the moon is lost to sight 1
And my hopes are fleeting forward
With the ships that sail the sea,
And my eyes are to the Nor’ward
As an exile’s well may be,
And my heart a shrine has sought hei
Where the lights and shadows play,
At the foot of Bowmont Water,
Bowmont Water —far away.
O, it’s fair in summer weather
When the red sun dropping low
Sets a lustre on the heather
And the Cheviot peaks aglow;
When the hares oome down the meadows
In the gloaming clear and still,
And the flirting lights and shadows
Play at hidies on the hill;
When the wild duck’s mate has sought hi •,
And the speckled hill-trout play
At the foot of Bowmont Water,
Bowmont Water—far away.
O, it’s grand when Winter’s creeping,
And the rime is on the trees,
And the giant hills are sleeping
With the gray clouds on their knees
When the Autumn days are ended,
And the glens are deep with snow,
And the grips are dark and splendid
Where the mountain eagles go :
Then the strath is a king’s daughter,
In her purple robes and gray,
At the foot of Bowmont Water,
Bowmont Water—far away.
We have wandered down the valley
In the days of buried time,
Seen the foxgloves dip and dally,
Heard the fairy blue-bells chime ;
Seen the brier-roses quiver
When the West-wind crossed the dell,
Heard the music of the river
And the tale it had to tell,
Where the melody Love taught her
Is the laverock’s only lay,
At the foot of Bowmont Water,
Bowmont Water—far away.
I have tried the spots, in order,
Where the brightest sunbeams fall,
But the land upeu the Border
Is my own land after all,
And I would not take the glory
Of the whole world’s golden sheen
For the white mists down the corrie
And the naked scaurs between ;
And my heart a shrine has sought her
That will last her little day—
At the foot of Bowmont water,
Bowmont Water—far away.
Will H. Ogilvie.


K
..
a rfil" HPI
AND
Sydney’s teadiny Specialists,
—WARN
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN
. /
m
I
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
•when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.—A ™{J U nfit him for nearly all the walks oi
committing' himself to those habits of dissipation or a- Now# the experience of 20,000 men
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent. &P . h ave openly endorsed the treatment of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an exten
a
which has restored then, to a perfect manly state,
but it is
This is not the mere verbiage «>t a single man.
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men "'ho have been “ Rescued at Last
‘sofyou should^take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
bead the symptoms,
a? ,r is r«h of fir ss =
WALLACE.
In the juahoiuLoru
,\t U' 1
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch »
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do j ou have hot flushes?
Is y< ur memory impaired?
Havi you no manly vigor l
Have you no vital energy:
Do you have sick headaches?-
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat
Has' the brightness left your eyes?
[ Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
.All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument lhe Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’. Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who 1 through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
m
<3.
fe? 7Ypt.WRfTVI!
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of GuaUfication and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulti g •
a
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48
taining to the above sent Post Iree on
pages, per-
appli cation.
Reseed at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates is now
readv. Every Miner, Mariner, Parmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men-should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
►i
£
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, an
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe, He has made a Jite-iong
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
Ho has, by diligent research, investigated their oriftin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. Ihevai « ‘ ‘
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suitering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young; Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the followin'? symptoms, namely t—Frequent headaches, gull -
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ottuu
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade,tender
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the month on o
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy han . al \ j
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of scmeting dread fid
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c„ should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Ia sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Net
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbous will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBkONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescri'x s Mercury in anv form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by tire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor ” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULIAI IOW IKiklli.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. WG. H EARN E.-Dear Sir,-I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
I day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
1 sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
I that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
-1 nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
i of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
1 reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure, I got a
1 bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
5 After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
? roe , my appetite returned, and 1 was able to get up ; and
‘ am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.
“After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—AREA. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.” .
“We the undersigned, have had occasion, to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents. ......
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor IV. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rNLORODyNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, Ac., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Dr. J.COLLIS DROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 23, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Pavorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Ligh-t andL Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy EjY TI HEE Y
EItEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
• TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulated
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.
Please investigate “Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at
what vou will learn. This Truss positively/
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any /
ruptured man or woman. If y T ou want the/
BEST, call or send 2d. jn stamps for free '
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
r ATROPHY in Men N
Wa'ted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel,know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps. Address-
. J. HINTON-WILUS, A
V cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. A
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €fi)brocatioo.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Grand National Hurdle. July 9.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me_ Shares in the above.
Name. : __
Address
Australian Waterloo 0. July 12,14,15.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _ Shares in the above.
Name .
Address
Adelaide (x. X. Hurdle. August 13.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _____ Shares in the above.
Nam e .7. _ ; __
Address
For full particulars road our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Hedaeers
‘friends of the Family’
—AND-
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HOBDIRN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14. 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed flair, in a large
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquisrnolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (ail makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumety, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &e.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10 6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 »fc 682 Ci verge Street, Sydney.
By Appointment to His
the Governor,
Excellency
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNADLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
’AMOUS WHITE BREAD.
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel. Tel.,
No. 312. Head Office: No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Read Stiver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedv for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tongue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address—
H. READ, 115 Collins-st., Melbourne.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drun> -
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St„ Sydney.
CURED
KEKSnES
GrO TO HEX.X.-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 0«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratia.
Fred. Hagen.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. (id. SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£'l6 165.; Buck-hoard Bug-fries, £lO 10s. ; Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, • *
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. BARK SADDLES, 58s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. Od. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with liog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. SILLIER,
135 <C 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, ‘’ll. Ilillier,” is to he seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order safUtlesfrom
this advertisement, I will pay freight to any porL or railway station in the colony. SttlS JJ 1 1 0 H A. U
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List.
H. KILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
Bent - Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
Positively the Best
Dressing
ft;
i- M
M
f f {
l-:jr
WM\
\ w. /
FS*
G— 1 ~r,-i
'rstfß
(£T^O
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet L ee.
“HAIiLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Olf and Turning Gray.
Unequalled fnr Promoting tlie Growth of the
Be aid and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to lie devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
Ihe hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2 6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/8 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
.95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.q.
LOOK AT OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct I hey will save dealers' profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, t 0 lf>s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, A 7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
Amtnrr Tit»v m'ftniES trimmed iii real leather, in-
iJUUnbrj J3Uuuir<o, iik'uiuiijj; uivhr
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, <26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from 121. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices. _ .
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our illustrated Catalogue.
Our special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards. Silver Bash
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND PACE LOTION.
ex 11 cn!vr I v per fu in e (1. ON E Sllll-LINO I'ER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each'rake, cer| tying
to its hrirmles&iiess purity, and beautifyihg qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAMS
ADELINA PATTI writes :“I find Dr. Mackenzie's Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent. Ihis
CU J)R lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By Ughlening the skin it quickly removes".!! wrinkles, lines, crowsfectorpulhness unde‘the eye .t
keeps the skill soft and velve.y, and in summer will entirely prevent and q\\it k 1 j rt m 0 \ e fieck 1 es,
whilst for excess!\c perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. I rice db per bottle , lar e
bonles, 5/-. This Lofion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the fa re I)el cions in hot
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Lh.'mists ana stores.
Plum
pro
THE
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell an 1 never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use fo*
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We miarantee ca-h Razor for Two Years.
•p . / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I rice |si n p] e R aZo r, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Reyistercd and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole
Agents
EOAD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery .
m
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKRS, Coi.oniag Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGI2TE.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Austral Curse.
One Sisyphus (as punishment for wrong),
Condemned a huge round stone up-hill to roll,
Each day his weary burden heaved along
In vain endeavor to an abstract goal.
Another tale (from Mauritanian-lore)
Relates how Atlas, from his dubious birth,
Upon his broad, herculean shoulders bore
The weighty microcosm called The Earth.
But now, in later days, the harrowed soul
Of Austral swagmen feels the double goad :
Each morn, like Sisyphus, their curse they roll,
And then, like Atlas, stagger ’neath the load.
N.S.W.
GEORGE POWICK BROWN.
Emily’s Friend from Town.
Emily’s friend has come :
Emily’s friend from town.
I’ve got my seedin’ all put through
So I thought I’d just run down.
Monday I rode across :
Over to Em.’s, you know,
They’d fixed a moonlight picnic up
An’ they asked me if I’d go.
There was the tilted van :
Emily went in that.
I fancied she’d a little scheme
Eor to ride with Sandy Pat.
Any’ow we was left:
Emily’s friend an’ me.
I drove her in the old spring carb . . .
Me an’ Em.’s engaged, you see.
Down in the lignum bend
(You know the place I mean) —
I don't know ’ow we lost the track . . •
An’ she told me she’s eighteen.
Emily’s eyes are blue
(Sometimes I wish they weren’t ),
Her friend’s are brown, with such hi flash
That it feels as if they burnt 1
Emily’s tall an’ slim :
Laces ’er stays up small.
It looks as if this friend of ! ers
Didn’t ’ave no stays at all.
Wonder if Sandy Pat
Thinks ’e can cut me out ?
I like ’im better than I did ;
There’s a plenty worse about!
Down in the lignum bend . . .
Told me ’er name was Siss.
Em ’as a mouth that’s small an’ sweet,
But ’er friend’s seems made to kiss 1
Emily’s friend from town,
Emily, Pat, an’ me !
There’s something, some’ow, don’t seem right
An’ the way it oughter be !
NIL.
Do a Growl.
If things are going right or wrong—
Do a growl !
This, the burden of my song—
Do a growl !
If shares are up, or going down ;
If you are “ flush,” or been “ done brown,”
Ever wear your blackest frown,
And—do a growl !
If the wife is extra sweet —
Be sure to growl !
Curse the biscuits 1 damn the meat! —
Do a growl !
Don’t admit her dress is pretty ;
Swear the chop is tough and gritty—
So she'll love you—more’s the pity—
Do a growl !
Have the kids been having fun ?
Do a growl !
When you’ve got ’em meek and glum—
Don’t fail to growl !
Say they’ll drive you off your head ;
Pack the little brats to bed ;
Never heed the tears they’ll shed,
But—do a growl!
Has Jones, your neighbor, pushed along?—
Do a growl!
Drop a hint there’s something wrong—
Do a growl !
Split about his brother Bill;
How he eased his boss’s till;
Say nothing good and all that’s ill—
Do a growl.
When your time has come to dit—
Do a growl !
If you mount beyond the sky—
Do a growl!
Grumble at the golden throne ;
Say the choir can only moan;
Sneer the ivory gates are bone—
Do a growl!
When you twang the golden harp—
Do a growl!
Howl it’s either flat or sharp—
Do a growl !
Then, when out of Heav’n you’re turned,
And in Hell have grilled and burned
Ages, you’ll have maybe learned
Not to growl.
S.A.
WAKE.


7l(istraliao p j t c ■ .
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ** ■ %%r t ■ tty
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors : —The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I. A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
A nual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £415,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,090.
Head. Office : 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Established 1849.
florae
l?/6 /Mrdw/& uprnt
I/'t CLUITV EOF ALL MEALS AMD ATTEMDAMCE
Aowraua
%4yt'\ Mpore,
Afawytr
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
P&B Ruberoid
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE,
VvV
h:
ffBR
Him
When purchasing P&B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeths., Melb.
A. W. Pandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HUM DON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
ok PIANOS
IN
Tbc Fii)«St ai)d Largest WareSjoGS*
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEIINE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
&s"3r.Q r-.v ey
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
Toogouf
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
. Tatter sail’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in'Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
T'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teetn Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
If itJiout Flutes, by means RWdj'/eirorfc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-st., S 7 tlixey
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Ladies. - can and
see our (!l-| KAP
.’i A( !H I N ES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
RnvAi : S. ROWLEY & CO,,
KOVAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
ILIX
m
OIHBURG
Trade
Mark
71 W rrorHUTom '
■« Distillers CompanyKl
** EDINBURGH.
b£?‘*lr uu • r»
' ‘ <* «- #./ ///'i/ «»f*
' *'< *«® .Sfcl y 'VM/M j
; • rffj
t/W*
Brink
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L/
THE LAST_OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
CHEAPEST
■ Costs LESS than any other Lager In the market.
BIER
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager.
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour - - Try it
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Id., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler. Sec., T. H. Jackson.
Facts Respecting Dixson’s Tobaccos..
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
¥ai)ke« Doodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
_ most popular High-grade Tobacco. - -
CbaropioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CoijqOeror.
New and Old The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)t€Qi)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club KEoilopoe Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 19.—N0. 958.
SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1898.
Price, 6d.
MELBOURNE, Saturday. — A football matcb be-'
tween Footscray and Williamstown, on the ground.
‘ of the former, to-day, was a disgraceful exhibi-
tion. Soon after the start of the game it resolved
itself into a series of free fights between the op-
posing teams, and after many blows had been
struck the crowd rushed the ground and stopped
play. The WilliamstdWn team left the ground,
and their opponents remaining until time was up,
the umpire gaVe his decision in their fa.vor.
The match between Fitzroy and South Mel-
bourne was also a rough and' tumble, and the
spectators witnessed the players, squaring up to
eich other. Sparrow, of the South team, was'
Carried off the ground.
v V s
. $
SZztfauf/i'Z jf&ac/ 's&/y/zz£r -J^'t-S^
Aut J-S/ie. )-£ j //i£ '%Z£ourne sn-tifr-
t/yZE /%£. A«A 7 "
' NpiV Hvatlta joatheli Jauly £>tt to-
I tK f fluXUAiti has
‘l a-d cl particularly de-cicLltj Sfwe. por
V °J Ih-Oilr foreexy •
S%>l'4 for \>)r *c c -
LONDON, June 19.—The wallabies and kan-
garoos which were presented fo the Queen by-
the Victorians, and which were shipped by the
steamer Narrung, have arrived well. They
are to be placed on th^ 1 Prince Consort's farjn
at Windsor. One wallaby jumped overboard
during the voyage, ahd was drowned.
I have not gone back to the Ministry
tne Ministry has come back to me.
I Hp
fl>cickinq
Cunning little lricks \
Such, for ZKCLtrjplCjCys m-akirvcr W>.\V
Htfcttt Jam j? o/e-r tkat Walking- shak forts
by Q.R.TJibbs lhiy old
c£oocL_
The’ cattle straying nuisance s 'rlj the northern
suburbs was referred to at meetings of a
couple of the local-councils last week.
On?
of the aldermen, whb la also an official assignee
supplied a pathetic account of the predatory in
gennity of the cattle which’ are wont to roam at
large in the vicinity of his rtesidence.
-_T Ci.i cl he . j h ave two good dogs. But I s
was up threo times the other night driving a herd
cf cattle away from pulling down mj/ljedge over
$ six-floot fence.”
iVken cirti ordinary g/ery-4ay rafe-joaye-r ItasTo [urn oafo/a ('/arm heel cm* shoo’ f\vc~
siocK offhis premise Willi cl cloffj^s -prof he (ord I'or
fjim l*l a v
Suburb.
TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Artie’eg,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. A ny picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
tfc Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. —11 A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal:-!'. II.
Solomon and Co., 22 Eout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (ex cept Queensland) is now
£1, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland,
Orvingto the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland ■will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o ff in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— l£ct. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1898.
Jim Crotty's Will.
There are so many issues of public import-
ance concerned that The Bulletin makes
no apology for returning to the subject of
old James Crotty’s last will and testament.
Crotty was the Lyell prospector who struck
it rich in liis declining years, and died
almost as soon as his wealth had arrived,
leaving behind him between £150,000 and
£200,000. Said wealth consisted mainly of
mining interests ; if there is a slump it will
at least partially evanish, and if, instead,
another Lyell boom sets in it may largely
increase. Probably the slump is the more
likely contingency of the two. But these
are mere speculations ; the important fact is
that Crotty’s pile of scrip and other proper-
ties were worth between £150,000 and
£200,000 when he went where the prospec-
tors cease from shovelling and the windlass
is at rest. And, being a pious man after the
orthodox kind of piety, and anxious to put
an immense fire-insurance on his soul,
Crotty left his wife £lOO a year (rather less
than £2 a week) for her life, and bequeathed
about £160,000 to his church. The Church
takes the bulk of the pile now, and when
the various annuitants on the estate (Mrs.
Crotty, with her hundred a year, being
one) die off’ it also takes the fund from which
their little incomes are paid. In fact, it
takes most of the fortune now and the rest
by-and-bye. And when he had made these
arrangements Jim Crotty died happy—at
least The Bulletin is more than half in-
clined to hope he didn’t.
* » * •
It is a tolerably loathsome thing—this
kind of posthumous benevolence. Crotty
didn’t give his pile to the Church while he
was living, because he wanted it for his own
use ; he gave it when he was dead because
he didn’t care one mean and selfish curse
whether his wife wanted it or not. He didn’t
deny himself in a good cause —he doubtless
considered it a good cause, anyhow —but he
denied his widow manfully. Crotty was a
martyr by proxy ; had he been an early
Christian in the days of the Cassars he
would probably have let Mrs. Crotty be
thrown to the lions rather than abjure his
faith, and have borne up manfully against
her sufferings. His presumable object was
to buy his soul a good front seat in the Here-
after— that was certainly one of his objects,
anyhow—and he didn’t care a straw though
he left his widow nothing at all to give to
the Church when -he died, so that she might
purchase a good front seat for her soul. She
hasn’t even the privilege of making her peace
with God by leaving her miserable 395. and
some coppers a week to the Church, for it
is fixed by Crotty\s will that it goes to the
Church anyhow as soon as she dies. Crotty
wanted the, whole pile to insure his own soul
with. And his piety made him a liar, as
well as a number of other unpleasant things.
When he married Mrs. Crotty he pre-
sumably endowed that lady with “ all his
worldly goods ” according to the usual for-
mula, and then he stole practically the whole
of these worldly goods back again. Accord-
ing to all the laws of God and man Mrs.
Crotty was his full partner in life. She
had to bear her share of his troubles m their
bad, unprosperous days, and when the good
days came she had one brief gleam of afflu-
ence, and now she has to go back to the old
struggle and the old sordid poverty because
her dead husband embezzled her share of the
family pile, and gave the steal to the Church.
If the Church hangs on to the steal and acts
as receiver of the ill-gotten pile—well, so
much the worse for the Church’s conscience.
* * * *
The law relating to the disposal of pro-
perty badly wants revision on a common-
sense basis. The law wouldn’t have allowed
the rich Jim Crotty, when he was alive, to
turn his wife adrift with less than £2 a week
to live upon. It would have compelled him
to maintain her in a fashion proportioned to
his means ; yet if the dead Crotty had
chosen to leave her utterly penniless the law
gave him ah olute power to do so. And why
the dead Crotty should have so much more
power than the live one passes all knowledge.
In The Bulletin's opinion, if the old man
who is dead leaves a widow and no children,
the widow should have an absolute right to
half his estate (or of it is so small that half
of it won’t furnish her with proper main-
tenance, to the whole of it) for her
lifetime, and the Church should at least be
required to wait till she is dead. The
Church claims that it lasts for ever, so it can
afford to wait; the lady is only temporary,
so she can’t. If there are young children
as well, they should have an absolute claim to
a certain fixed proportion of the pile till
they are of age, and the widow should also
have her claim to a fixed proportion for life.
The details of such a law could be easily
worked-out if the principle is kept in view
that the old woman is, by all the laws of
God and man, the old man’s full partner ;
that it is she, and not the. Church, that he
endows with all his worldly properties when
the partnership is first entered into, and
that the old man who is dead has no more
right to throw his wife out unprovided, or
nearly unprovided, for than has the old man
who is alive. Also, the law which allows a
rich man to absolutely disinherit his old
widow and his young children is a fool of a
law on mere business grounds, and contrary
to the public interest and the well-being of
the State. For if he doesn’t provide for
them, and they are unable to provide for
themselves, they must become a charge on
the community in some form, and the com-
munity has enough responsibilities already.
Moreover, it isn’t the community’s funeral.
* * * *
In addition to this, it would be both good
law and good justice to provide that, if the
old man dies, and his estate does not pan
out sufficient provision, according to a liberal
legal definition of the term, for his widow
and his young children, every gift over £5O
in value which he may have made within the
year or two years preceding his death to any
church or any church-managed institution
shall be null and void, and be recoverable
from the recipients. Otherwise the Jim
Crottys of this illogical world will take to
giving their goods to the Church by deed of
gift when convinced that they are’ past re-
covery, and again the old woman will be left
through the old man’s desperate anxiety to
save his valuable soul. The Church is the
one institution against which it is necessary
to make special provision of this kind. For
the world still retains a lingering belief in
hell, and when the average man is dying lie
believes in hell more than at any other
time.' And the Church is the one institu-
tion which knows all about hell, and
how to get there, and how not to get
there, so it has a hold on the illogical old
man who isn’t feeling well, such as no other
institution has or is ever likely to have.
The charitable old person who is not well
may take an unbiassed view of a bequest to
the Benevolent Asylum or the Decayed
Actors’ Fund, for neither of them professes
to be of any special benefit to him in the
Hereafter. But, while man believes in hell
and is scared at it, and there is a Church that
claims the prescriptive right to keep him
out of it, and the vague impression still
lingers that it may improve the chance
of keeping out of it if the Church is pro-
pitiated with hard cash, and w bile the Church
is willing to take the money, the average old
man will go on sacrificing the old woman for
the good of his own miserable old soul. And,
if- the hell that the old man is so anxious to
keep out of is a reality, his brute selfishness
as regards the old woman ought to get him
into it for a dead certainty.
* « * *
Another reason why bequests to the Church
should be severely discouraged is that it is
contrary to the public good that- great wealth
should accumulate in the hands of any one
institution religious or otherwise. The
Bulletin has a profound disrespect for all
Churches, though it disrespects the Holy
Roman sect less than the others. This slight
lack of disrespect isn’t based on religious
grounds. The Roman Church is old, for one
thing, and Churches and ruins are two things
which should always be old. A new Church
is a gimcrack thing ; a new ruin doesn’t com-
mand respect —it merely suggests that it was
run up by a shoddy builder in the boom
days, and that he borrowed the money from
a dishonest building society. There is a
long, picturesque history of battle and siege
and slaughter and old combusted city
about the Holy Roman creed ; it is full of
beautiful architecture, and fine music, and
artistically painted window, and pleasant
incense, and unintentionally humorous
legend ; and it has made the history
of Europe for the last 1000 years
or more. All the sand-drift of all the ages
will hardly fill the big footprint which it has
left on the shores of Time, and it is about the
most interesting thing to look back upon in
all the world’s history. But, as a thing to
look forward to, it is quite another matter.
It is about the biggest charitable institution
in the world, but all its vast charities tend,
directly or indirectly, to spread and consoli-
date its pow'er, and increase its wealth. So
do those of all other churches, but none of
them have the grit and endurance of the
tough old Roman hierarchy. And it is not
good for the Commonwealth that any indi-
vidual or any sect should accumulate
enormous wealth, for such an accumulation
only means that there is so much the less
left for the masses. In all the countries
where one Church is immensely rich, the
masses are miserably poor and ignorant —■
simply because the Church has so much that
there is very little left for anybody else.
And in this respect the Church is worse than
the individual plutocrat. Except in such
isolated cases as that of the Rothschilds,
the pile which the father heaps up is dissi-
pated by the son, or the grandson, or some
other descendant. The Hooleys, and
Norths, and Barnatos come and go like
shadows. The original “ Big Clarke
makes a pile, and son Joseph promptly dis-
sipates half of it on joy, and drink, and
widows, and it melts back again into the
great common fund. But the Church, in its
corporate capacity, doesn’t drink. It doesn’t
go after widows and set them up in public-
houses. It doesn’t sit up late over joyous
poker and champagne. Instead, it spreads
its influence and power more widely as its
pile grows bigger, and that is just what is
the matter with it. Also, that is just why
its friend, Jim Crotty, wants to be rigor-
ously put down.
To be Pasted in the Nation’s Hat.
When the N.S.W. general election arrives,
which will probably be about a month from the
present date, the fact that it will be fought out
on the Federal issue may be taken for granted.
There is no possible use in worrying over the
fiscal question till it is decided whether or not
the whole fiscal difficulty won’t be removed out
of local politics altogether and handed over to
a Federal Legislature. Moreover, there is very
little use in Freetraders troubling over their
fiscal issue, in any case, because they have got
it, and nobody runs after an omnibus when he
has overtaken the vehicle and is inside. And
when Lyne invites Protectionists to drop all
other questions and fix their minds on the
parochial tariff-problem, it is a fair thing for
them to consider how little Protection he has
ever got them, and how little such a very
slow and mechanical gentleman is ever likely
to get them ; and how much more good the
cause he recommends is likely to do to Lyne
than to the people at large, seeing that Lyne
gets all his political importance out of it, and
the people get nothing —mainly because Lyne
is never likely to get them anything out
of any cause. And, as to Council reform and
Local Government and womanhood suffrage,
these have stood over for very many years,
and can hardly be in such dire haste now that
it is necessary to drop the greatest live question
of the day unfinished in order to attend to
them.
* * * *
And, when N.S.W. starts out to consider the
Federal question at the poll, the one fact that
it has to paste in its hat for constant reference
is that George Reid has been all along the
worst obstruction in the path of Federation,
and that, judging by his past record, every
Federationist who trusts him will be “ left.”
Going solely by his record, The Bulletin be-
lieves that the only Federal scheme which Reid
will really support is the one which he is dead
sure none of the other provinces can accept.
To the people who want the old Bill, and the
people who want a new Bill, and the people
who want any kind of Bill, it is equally essen-
tial to find honest leaders ; the only individual
who can fittingly vote for Reid or for any Reid
supporter is the one who wants no Bill at all.
There is no need for anyone to risk his fiscal
faith, if the matter of his fiscal faith is precious
in his eyes. If the Freetrader gives his support
to Bruce Smith and Wise he can feel that the
cause of imported shoddy is still in good hands ;
and if the Protectionist planks his support on
Barton and Dick O’Connor he can rely on
getting a good run for his money, should the
N.S.W. Parliament, unhappily, ever have to
settle down to its local tariff wrangle once more
—which heaven forbid !
* * * *
The Bulletin invites the N.S.W. public to
consider Reid’s past Federal record of shuffle
and delusion, and gather from that the value of
his present promises. Until the end of 1894 lie
was a bitter provincialist running a bitterly
provincialist Cabinet. His chief colleague uas
Attorney General Want, who described Federa-
tion as “ a hydra-headed monster basking in
its constitutional beastliness in this bright and
sunny land,” and both Want and Reid, who
are now busily engaged in ladling out grease to
each other, lived up to this attitude. There is
still on the printed record Want’s assurance
that whenever the Federal question conies up
he will meet it “with an absolute opposit i<-n
to any question of Federation at all, 'without any
regard to what this Bill may contain.” He has
always lived up to that promise, and he has been
taken back to the bosom of the Reid Ministry
with it unbroken. But a year or two ago
Parkes was still alive and hungering to get bac k
to “ hoffis.” He couldn’t oust Reid on the
Foreign-trade ticket, for Reid was as good a
Foreign-trader as himself, so he started gather-
ing round him a new Federation party, which
might have grown to be a big party and
swamped Reid and Dibbs alike. So Premier
Reid promptly changed his convictions, and
became a Federationist for the first time, and
instigated the meeting of Premiers at Hobart,
which started Lite present Federal movement.
He stated that he did this “ to draw Pakkes’s
teeth,” and he certainly drew Parkes’s last
tooth and removed the only visible excuse for
Parkes’s continuance in politics. But, when
the politically-toothless old man dropped out,
and the only reason why Reid should be a
Federationist vanished, that wily trimmer
grew cold. He spent nearly a year passing the
Enabling Act. He started at once to blight
the cause of union by inserting the 50,000
minimum. He further blighted it later on by
permitting the insertion of an 80,000 minimum.
When the first battle arose—the fight between
the Federationists and the anti-Federal Want
and Heydon crowd for the election of delegates
to the Convention — Reid was almost the only
prominent politician who conspicuously stayed
out of the shindy. And, when the Convention
Bill was drafted, it was the same Reid who pro-
posed postponing the Referendum for six
months, whereby the subject would have a fair
chance to grow cold and die of-neglect and
frost-bite.
* * * »
The Convention Bill failed in N.S.W. mainly
because of the things that Reid either insisted
on putting in it, or quietly voted for putting in
it, or allowed to go into it without any protest
at the time—he certainly grumbled about some
of them when it was too late —and which things
he and his satellites denounced afterwards
as insuperable objections to the Bill. The
arrangement that, when the two Federal Houses
of Parliament sit together to consider a question
on which a deadlock has arisen, it shall require
a vote of three-fifths of the members present to
carry the Bill, instead of a simple majority,
which is the truest democratic principle—is one
of Reid’s chief objections to the Convention
Bill. Reid voted over and over again for the
three-fifths majority and also spoke strongly
in support of it, and opposed Turner’s de-
mand for a simple majority. Another reason
why he fought hard to secure the defeat of the
Convention Bill at the poll on June 3 was that
it didn’t provide definitely for Federal railway
ownership. Reid voted against Federal rail-
way ownership. He further objects to the Bill
because it provides, in a vague sort of fashion,
that the Federal Government may take over
railways, provided the State they belong to con-
sents, and he points out as the probable result
of this arrangement that thd Federal Govern-
ment might take over Victoria’s railways and
compete with ruinously low rates for the
N.S.W. Riverina trade, and make N.S.W.
stand a share of the loss incurred in cutting
rates against her. Reid voted in the Conven-
tion for the railway arrangement he now so
bitterly objects to. He also complains in a
loud and strident wail about the absurdity of
giving Tasmania, with 170,000 population, the
same representation in the Federal Senate as
N.S.W. with 1,300,000. Yet he voted for
giving all the States equal representation in
the Senate, and called it “one of the first
principles of the Federal enterprise.” And
when he complains that the power of amend-
ment is inadequate and the Federal Constitution
“ cast-iron,” the short answer is that he allowed
the clause which prescribes the method of
amendment to pass unopposed and without
even a division.
* * * *
In addition to these matters Premier Reid
did not vote against the clause allowing the
States to grant bounties “on their own” till
30th June ; he didn’t even call for a division
on it. He voted for the clause he now so
mournfully laments about, under which the
surplus—after the first five years of Federation
—is to be divided on such basis as the Federal
Parliament considers fair, instead of according
to population. And, whereas he complains that
this is a provision under which the small pro-
vinces (especially the smallest province of all
—Tasmania) are reaching out after the N.S. W.
surplus to divide it among them according to
their necessities, the real fact is that Braddon,
Fysh, and five more —seven in all—out of the
ten Tasmanian delegates voted for dividing the
surplus according to population, by which
method Tasmania would have the smallest
share. The method which Reid objects to and
describes as a conspiracy of the small provinces
against N.S.W. was forced on the small pro-
vinces by Reid and six other N.S.W. delegates
who voted with him. In fact, every matter of
any importance which Premier Reid objects to
in the Federal Bill was a matter which he
directly or indirectly assisted to put there. As
a rule, he assisted directly.
* » * *
There is only one explanation, apart from
mere monkeyish mischief,'which seems to fully
account for Premier Reid’s attitude. That is
that his object was all along to wreck “ Bar-
ton’s Bill.” Reid was the only Premier who
was a bad second at the Federal poll, and ho


was headed by a political opponent. The same
political opponent was appointed leader of the
Convention. When the first Federal Ministry
is formed, in the ordinary course of things
Reid and Turner, as the Premiers of the two
leading provinces, would have first choiceof port-
folios. As matters stand, Barton and Turner
would probably have first choice. When four
Protectionist and one Freetrade province unite,
the probabilities are that the Federal Ministry
will be Protectionist, and Reid is the only
provincial Premier who couldn’t well take a
portfolio and a comfortable salary in a Federal
Protectionist Ministry. It would be a pitiful
fall to remain behind as leader of a mere pro-
vincial Parliament while Barton, Turner,
Kingston and others were running Australia,
and it would be highly unprofitable to be a mere
Leader, or even something less, than Leader, of
a weak Federal Opposition. Reid’s whole
course of conduct offers ground for two ugly
suspicions. One is that he deliberately aimed
at wrecking the Bill for which Barton was
largely responsible by putting things in it to
which he could afterwards take objection; that
he deliberately tried to discredit Barton, and
is now reaching out for the leadership of the
movement in N.S. W. by starting a new Federal
scheme from which Barton is shut out. His
proposal that the Premiers (including himself)
should draft an amended Bill without reference
to the other delegates (including Barton) cer-
tainly looks like that. The other suspicion is
that he was driven to become a Federationist for
fear that, otherwise, Federation would be the
stalking-horse on which Parkks would go back
to power, and that when Parkes vanished from
the scene and Barton quitted Parliament his
motive was gone, and he relapsed into the
same old provincialist as before. In other
words, that he wasn’t merely trying to wreck
“ Barton’s Bill,” but to wreck Federation in
general. His apparent unwillingness to meet
Turner, even upon his own invitation, and to
specify his own amendments, and his remark-
able conduct in the-matter of the 80,000 mini-
mum, certainly look like that. Another pos-
sible explanation is that he doesn’t know his
o.vn mind, and never did, and hasn’t
got any. At all events, his own explana-
tion that he only voted for all these
things that he objected to because they
were the best concessions he could get is
absurdly thin ; a man at least asks for what he
wants before he commences to loudly demand
what he doesn’t want. On Reid’s own show-
ing, because he is a Foreign-trader, he should
be howling his loudest for Protection lest he
should get something worse in the shape of
absolute Prohibition. Whatever view is taken
of the famous N.S.W. Wriggler, and his
reasons, and his possible reasons, the one thing
perfectly certain is that the politician who,
above all others, can’t be trusted to conduct
any kind of a Federal movement—the one
whose promise is of no value for any political
purpose beneath the sun—is George Houston
Reid.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Most Inaccurate Politician on
Record.
Premier Reid’s speech at Miltou was partly a
weak attempt to raise up the old fiscal ghost,
and a revival of the ancient yelp about how
N.S.W. is getting on as compared with Vic-
toria. Queensland and Maoriland are just as
Protectionist as Victoria, but the latter pro-
vince having been badly struck by the boom
collapse, and being only one-quarter the size of
N.S.W. and 50 years younger, is the one alw'ays
used for purposes of comparison. A few samples
of Reid :
Now, in shipping’, the increase in 10 years in New South
Wales is 2,400,000 tons a year. It has increased from
4,300,000 to 6,700,000 tons a year, or 1,500,000 tons more
than it increased in Victoria during the same period, and
it would be 2,000,000 tons more if Victoria did not enter
the big mail steamers four times on each voyage. Now
for the effect on agriculture. ... In the two years 1895-6
against 1897-8 there has been an increase in the area
under crop in New South Wales of 473,000 acres. In two
years there has been an increase of 35 per cent, of culti-
vation over all the cultivation of the previous 110 years.
. . . During the period that the area under crop in-
creased by 35 per cent., the Victorian cultivation area,
under their enormous duties, did not increase 10 per
cent, even in their wheat area, in the same two years
that there was an increase in the area under wheat
in New South Wales of no less than 66 per cent. . . .
Another portion of the community to be blighted was the
artisans. Well, in 1896, after the repeal of the advalorem
duties on January 1, there were 49,055 hands in New
South Wales manufactories. These figures, by an
arrangement between Mr. Fknton and Mr. Cogiilan, are
given on the Victorian basis. This number was 5500
more than in 1887, 10 years before. Now, let us look at
Victoria in the same 10 years. They had only increased
the number of their hands by 964. ... In 1897, instead
of 49,084, there were 50,448, or double the increase in
Victoria in 10 years. ,Of course, in mining production,
our resources account for our great production; but it
will be interesting to know that the increase of miners in
New South Wales during the past 10 years has been no
less than 22,909. In 1887 there were 18,329, and in 1897
41,208. Then, in 1896, we had 7900 more than Victoria.
Now, let us look at the savings-banks. I find that in the
two years 1894 to 1896 that our deposits increased by
£1,305,000—a greater increase than all the savings-banks
of Victoria, Queensland and South Australia. In Victoria
in 1896 the increase was £542,009, Queensland £334,000,
South Australia £380,000—-or a total of £1,256,000 for the
three colonies.
Ib all reads very beautiful when it is set down in
that way, but then so much depends on how
figures are put. The inter-provincial boats which
run from Melbourne to the Queensland ports
are counted at Sydney four times just as the
Sydney mail-boats are reckoned at Melbourne
—when they arrive and depart going up, and
when they arrive and depart coming down.
The whole of N.S.W.’s shipping superiority
depends on its coal export trade ; if it stood
on the same level as Victoria, which never
had any coal to export, it would be much
below its small neighbour. N.S.W. has
now, despite all the boasted increase, only
992,000 acres under wheat as compared with
Victoria’s 1,638,000 acres. The alleged increase
of 5500 in the number of artisans employed in
N.S.W. (if Reid did put it in that form) is
pure Ananias ; the increase was from 43,527
to 45,222, an advance of 1695. Then by the
new method of computation, which reckons a
place employing four hands only as a factory,
the number was raised to 49,055, but if the
same new method had been applied in 1887 the
figures might then have been 50,000 for all G.
Reid knows to the contrary. Exactly what
the N. S. W. Statistician says is that the number
of factory employes was 43,527 under the old
mode of calculation in 1887, and in 1896 it was
45,222 under the same old mode of calculation,
or 49,055 under a new mode then employed for
the first time. The same year, the Victorian
factories employed over 50,000 people. By
taking six years instead of ten, it can be shown
quite as truly that N.S.W. industries are
decreasing—lB9l, 46,135 hands employed ;
1896,■ 45,222 only. As for the savings-bank
yarn, it is simply the usual impudent fake
of the most brassy politician that Australia has
ever possessed. The increase in N.S.W. de-
posits was £1 ,305,000, and, in the other three
provinces, it was .£1,966,000. Reid takes two
years’ figures for N.S.W. and compares them
with one year’s figures for Victoria and Queens-
land, and with some figures for S.A., which
seem to be pure muddle, for they are utterly
unlike the published statistics. The fact that
G. Reid’s figures are always wrong might be
set down to mere stupidity but for the lament-
able fact that they are always wrong in his own
favor and so as to boost up his own argument.
That is the reason why this paper has given up
all hope of meeting him in another and a
brighter world.
♦
Legal By-Paths.
“ S.C.C.” on Judicial Creations versus Legisla-
lative Creations
Ed. Bulletin. —Since the hanging-up of the laws of the
Twelve Tables the exclusiveness of the legal profession
has been as a thorn in the side of the laymen, and various
are the attempts which, from time to time, have been
made to open its portals to the ordinary plebeian who
has had the necessary experience, and who happens to
possess enough brains to pass the examinations.
This exclusiveness is perhaps not without a certain
amount of reason and common-sense—its main redeem-
ing feature, no doubt, being the prevention of too great
an overcrowding of a profession which may be said to
have followers enough.
The rules of N.S.W. Supreme Court of Tuesday the
18th day of December, 1877, provide (sub-clause 5 of
section 3) that persons who at the time of the passing of
those rules had completed, or who had commenced and
should complete the term of five years of clerkship in the
office of the Supreme Court or that of the Crown Solici-
tor, and who should pass the final examination required
by the said rules, should be deemed to be “ articled ”
clerks within the said rules.
Now, that was sufficiently invidious, considering that
the only other way to enter the profession was to pay a
high price for “ articles,’' in addition to passing three or
four examinations and paying the fees incidental thereto.
But it is admitted that at that time the profession was
not so overcrowded that the few who could have entered
it under that fifth sub-clause would be likely to make any
material difference in over-running the profession,
because, it will be observed, that only those who, at the
time of the passing of those rules, had then commenced or
completed the five years, could so enter this glorified
ring of lawyers.
Having in view, doubtless, the privilege thus extended
to this branch of the civil-service, some few years ago a
considerable effort was made to pass a law througirthe
"Leg. Assembly enabling those who had been managing-
clerks in a law-office for ten years and upwards to qualify
by passing the examinations. The measure was smothered,
however, by the weight of “ vested interest” brought to
bear upon or rather against it. The result was that
many an efficient and capable man was compelled to re-
main satisfiv i with the position of “ managing-clerk ”
because of the jealousy of the legal profession (including
their honors on the bench) which arrayed itself against
him.
The Judges, however, appear lately to have waxed
kindly towards that oppressed branch of the civil-service
engaged in the Supreme Court and Crown-Solicitor’s
offices, for, on the 7th day of June instant, they repealed
sub-clause five of section three of the aforesaid rules, sub-
stituting in its stead the following :
“ Any person who has, or who hereafter shall havecom-
pleted the term of five years of clerkship in the offices of
the Supreme Court or the office of the Crown Solicitor,
and who shall produce a certificate from the head of his
office that he has for at least two of such five years been
chief clerk or a clerk in charge of any. branch of any one
of such offices —provided that such person must pass the
final examination required by the rules relating to the
admission of attorneys, for the purposes of which exami-
nation such person shall be deemed to be an articled clerk
within the meaning of the said rules relating to the ad-
mission of attorneys.”
What is the effect of this substituted sub-clause ?
That from this out every clerk who has completed five
years in the offices of the Supreme Court or Crown Solici-
tor (two of such years as “ chief ” clerk) may qualify by
passing the “final” examination.
But what of the “ managing law clerk?” He remains
in statu quo and also retains the blessed privilege of con-
tributing to the fat salary of the favored civil-servant
employed in Crown Solicitor’s or Supreme Court offices.
Meanwhile, the private “ articled ” person goes on pay-
ing his premium and toiling without a fat salary. He also
is privileged to contribute to the salaries of those favored
civil-servants who may one day, by an easy bv-path, enter
his coterie and wrest the bread from his mouth.
Talk of vested interests! If this invidious sub-clause
does not preserve the vested interests of that privileged
few, then, in conscience, commend me to something that
does !
A peculiarity in this connection is this. Although the
law part of the Civil Service is thus provided with a near
cut to the sacred legal profession, should a member of
the latter aspire to fill a position in the “professional”
grade of the C.S., the C.S. Board requires him (though
duly qualified) to undergo a further examination !
I venture to think that from the foregoing I have made
it abundantly clear that there is room for a little more of
both equity and common sense in some of these matters.
«
An Outlying Railway.
In all that half of N.S.W. west of Hay, Cobar,
and Bourke there are just about 74 miles of
railroad, all of it privately owned. Of this, 36
miles belong to the gorgeous Silverton co.’s
monopoly, which grinds 50 per cent, dividends
out of the Broken Hill public by its enormous
fares and freight charges ; the other 38 miles
is the property of the Tarrawingee Flux co.
The latter co. is going out of business. Its
quarries have closed up, because the re-
moval of the smelting industry from the
Barrier to the S.A. sea-board has re-
duced the demand for flux to about
nil, and, as it can’t keep up its big
Melbourne office and management and board
of directors, merely for the sake of being
a small railway co. humping goods and wool
for the scattered pastoralists north of the
Barrier, its line is for sale. It is offered to the
N.S.W. Government for £ls,ooo—less than
£4OO a mile, a mere fraction of its original
cost, about one-tenth the cost per mfle of the
cheap line which runs over the plains to Cobar,
and about one-fifteenth of the cost per mile
of the other cheap line which runs to
Bourke. If the State doesn’t buy, the
line will be torn up and the materials sold,
and more than half of N.S.W.’s far-west rail-
way system will have vanished. Apparently
the main objections to the purchase are no"t
based on the unprofitable nature of the deal.
The interest bill would be only £450 a yearj
and even a very poor railway couldn’t lose
much on these terms. When the private
Silverton line falls into the hands of the State
through the company’s concession running out,
and the Cobar railway is extended to the
Barrier, and the two form a through line to
Adelaide, the little Tarrawingee road would
be the beginning of a much-needed western
branch system. It couldn’t involve the loss of
much money in the interim, and it affords an
outlet for a district which has, otherwise, no
railways, and which has few roads and no
reliable water-carriage. The great trouble
seems to be that it allows an outlet for the
local trade to Adelaide, instead of directing it to
far-off Sydney, and, if the line is torn up, a few
more pastoralists will haul their wool at great
expense over the immeasurable plains to the
N.S. W. lines and send it to swell the trade of
Sydneyand the profits of the Sydney middlemen.
It is the same policy which led the present
N.S. W. Government to break the agreement
which Dibbs entered into to join Victoria in
constructing the much-needed Murray bridge
at Cobram, and even to refuse Victoria the
right to build the bridge wholly at its own
expense. The Cobram bridge would give
adjacent settlers a short road to the Melbourne
market only 155 miles distant, whereas they
now have to laboriously haul their pro-
duce to Finley and then send it by
train 450 miles to Sydney, so they have to
be sacrificed to the interests of the bloated
metropolis. And apparently the desire of the
N.S. W. Government to get rid of the Tarra-
wingee railroad is based on similar considera-
tions. In N.S.W. practical politics the Federal
spirit is so weak that it needs to lean up
against the Sydney Telegraph’s anti-Billious
statistics for support. They are strong enough
to support anything.
Premier Reid’s intimation that he will support
the N.S.W. Cold Water brigade in legislating
to prevent the issue of new publicans’ licenses
is a tricky election cry that yields not a whisper
of consolation to intelligent temperance work-
ers. Such legislation will leave the drinking
habits of the people exactly as they are. The
pubs now in existence will be protected from
the risks of fresh competitors. In fact, the
Reid scheme is an application of drastic Pro-
tectionism to the existing community of whisky-
mills, and is now obviously expounded to win
the voting influence of pub-owners, their brew-
ers and distillers. The temperance party should
scout such support. If Reid wishes to honestly
help the public and the temperance party let
him force the Licensing Magistrates to refuse
licenses to all tied houses in the trade. Brew-
ers and distillers now hold numbers of publi-
cans by the throat and make square dealing
on their part impossible. No publiean who is
simply a servant or agent should receive a
license. That is a beneficial and easily-under-
stood reform. But then it would lose Reid the
votes and influence of brewers and dist.llers.
Tiie N.S.W. Labor League has decided that its
attitude Federation at the coming general
election shall consist mainly of this one pro-
position : “ That the Federal Constitution
should be amendable by a simple majority of
the citizens of the Commonwealth.” This is
cood democratic theory, but if it is adhered to
it ends Federation for the present in practice.
For if all the six provinces federated on this
basis, the fact remains that a good-sized majority
in N.S.W. and Victoria could alter the Cousti-
tution any way it pleased, and if any question
arose on which the interests of these two
provinces were identical, the other pro-
vinces would have no voice at all. And the
small provinces, logically or illogically, are
not likely to take the risk ; it would be too
much like practical re-annexation to N.S.W.
In such a case it wouldn’t matter how
liberal were the concessions which the large
States made to the small ones when the bar-
gain was struck, because the large States could
take them all back immediately afterwards.
The large States would probably not do any-
thing that their people didn’t consider just,
but the trouble with the small States would be
that everybody’s idea of justice is so liable to
be biassed by his interests. If the Constitution
can be altered in any and every particular by
the two large States, and an entirely new Con-
stitution created within the first year or two
after the Commonwealth is established, then
the four small States will probably decide that
it would be just the same thing for them if they
federated without any Constitution at all.
Melb. Age— i.e., David Syme —couldn’t find
courage to enthuse for Federation until a big
Victorian majority looked a sure thing. A
character for tremendous political influence is
a terrible possession in plebiscite times, when
the country is thinking a lot, but not saying
much. David Syme’s early fears of becoming
a shattered oracle could be seen in the Age’s
leading article, the morning after the vote :
During the recent Convention, no indication was given
by the majority of the people that they looked upon the
question as more than an academic exercise in dialectics.
There was no outward evidence that they felt much, if
any, of the significance of the movement of which they
were constantly told by their delegates and by the press.
No one could have anticipated, even so recently as three
months ago, that Federation would become, as it did, a
warmly discussed question in the province.
During those three months the oracle sat
with his weather-eye turned in half-a-dozen
directions, watching for signs. Meanwhile,
the other morning paper rushed in and
barked for Federation so vehemently that
David’s only chance of creating a stir would
have been in barking for the Anti-Feds. So
he waited and waited, and when there was no
visible hope of a majority for Higgins he cried
“ Yes ” in a sulky tone, and nobody remarked
that the oracle had spoken. The Voice of the
People went “on its own,” and poor David
felt like one crying “ Hallelujah ! ” when no-
body can be heard above the drum. Next time
Victoria has a movement on hand the Oracle
will probably make a rash guess at the result
and cast his influence into the wrong box. He
has lost his nerve. The knowledge that he is
expected to foresee the future makes everything
seem misty before his eyes, and at the present
moment Oracle David is positively incapable of
shouting directions to the country.
Judging by the Commonwealth Bill voting, the
day will yet arrive when the average Austra-
lian will have to be taken “ by the scruff” and
violently dragged to the poll and there com-
pelled to vote. The sooner that day arrives
the better. Taking the city and suburban con-
stituencies only, where the voter cannot plead
distance or bad roads as a reason for his neglect
of duty, in Sydney and suburbs, out of 108,717
electors, only 52,587 voted ; in Melbourne, out
of 91,807 —which, however, includes the plural
voters —only 47,680 thought it worth while to
walk across the road; while in Adelaide—the
most fearsome example of the Jot—out of 54,648
electors, but 21,964 roused themselves suffi-
ciently to overcome “that tired feeling ” and
go and mark a piece of paper. Quite a number
of respectable citizens having duly considered
the matter, arrived at the booths only to find
their names missing from the roll. Then there
was much “ langwidge”— but that didn’t alter
the vote. Ballance’s plan seems to be the
best—put every man (or adult) on the roll, and
as long as he votes at every election let his
name remain ; but should he, without sufficient
reason, omit to vote, remove his name forth-
with. Then it would be open for him either
to get his name replaced—at some little trouble
—or to join the “ society for being too tired to
do anything.”
♦
“ Pedagogue ” tells some home-truths :
Ed. Bulletin.— The public, represented by the news-
paper correspondents, are up in arms because the N.S.W.
railway people are running special excursion trains for
the convenience of school-teachers. Whenever increased
traffic is expected, whether on account of public holi-
days, races, cricket-matches, shows, or whatnot, the
Commissioners run “ Special Excursion.” There’s’ one
this week for the Sheep Show. Then why not for
teachers when they number thousands, and the reduced
fares will result in increased traffic? Strange that
teachers —as a class—are so unpopular with the public. Is
it because they unconsciously assume in general life the
superior, authoritative demeanor of the school-room?
Are they too dogmatic? Too supercilious ? Whatever
it is they rank next to bailiffs in unpopularity. They are
considered to be overpaid and underworked—they have
Saturday “ off,” and have more holidays than any other
class. As far as the pay goes, just look at it A pupil-
teacher starts at £4O a year, and if he qualifies himself
by exams, and results, his salary rises successively to
£46, ±57 and £6B. Then he spends a year, or perhaps
two in “ training.” When he comes out he gets £96
next year £lO4, and finally £ll3. In other words, after
eight years’ service and a course of study that would have
fitted him for any of the professions he gets £2 5s a
week. For this he is buried in the bush among people
whose ideas, as a rule, never rise above sheep. The pub-
lic doesn’t realise the loneliness, the monotony the
physical discomfort, and the humiliations an educated
miserably-paid man must suffer in such dreary isolation’
The man would go mad if he did not have an occasionai
glimpse of civilisation. And to get it he frequently pav3
a month’s salary in travelling expenses. Head teachers
of big schools get fair salaries and have good times ap-
parent.ly, but how many years’ experience has qualified
them for the position ? Teachers are moulding the future
of Australia, and the public want it done at starvation
rates.
The N.S.W. Police Superannuation Fund
has gone utterly broke. Every man who joins the
force has to sign an agreement by which 21 per
cent. (Gd. in the £) of Ins pay is deducted and goes
into the Superannuation Fund. In return, when
he retires aged GO, after 30 years’ .service, he is en-
titled to a pension equal to the salary he was re-
ceiving at the time of his retirement. And about
100 officers who have paid the compulsory levy
for 30 years and more, and whose pensions are
now due, are informed that they can’t get a cent
in their old age because the money has disap-
peared, and there is no fund, and the whole thing
is a myth. The only thing left for them to do
is to run each other in for vagrancy. A monstrous
tate of things. Repudiation with a big R,
Tasmania to New South. Wales,
4th June, 1898.
You, who proudly claim the title “Mother State”
—is this well done ?
You, who raised the cry of “Union!” —prayed
the warring States be one !
They have answered ; rings their answer strong,
reverberant and true !
Answered “ Yes ! ” in rolling thunder,
Mother State —and you ?
You, who led the van, to falter ! you, who cheered
us on, to fail !
You, who summoned us to enter, you to stand
aside and pale !
We have followed, fought, and conquered ; burst
the barriers through and through ;
Sprung towards you glad, exultant,
Mother State ! —and you ?
You, the rich, the strong, the mighty, shamed by
us, the poor, the weak !
We had trust in you, our Mother ; dared ye not
our trust to seek ?
Prophets prophesied disaster ; yet we ventured :
“ Dare and Do ! ”
Was our watchword ; and we kept it,
Mother State ! —but you
Few in number, heavy burdened, we found heart
to face the cost;
Fearful, timid, stunned with warnings, to the
winds our fears we tossed !
Dared to face the hidden future, dared believe
where no man knew,
Dared be worthy of our lineage,
Mother State !—and you?
Have we proved ourselves unworthy? Read our
record ! let it tell
How we bare what came upon us bravely, silently
and well ;
How we faced our adverse fortune, cleared the
ground, commenced anew.
Strangers praised us ; strangers trusted,
Mother State ! —but you ?
Did you doubt our self-reliance ? fear we might
unfairly lean
On your strength ? O fear unworthy ! we shall be
what we have been.
None who trusted us have ever yet had cause their
trust to rue;
In our honor we are equal,
Mother State ! with you.
Not in anger! not in anger ! speak we thus, but
sad of heart;
Ye were blinded ! ye were blinded ! saw us through
a mist apart;
Fooled by jealous, vain self-seekers, not to you let
blame accrue,
’Gainst them are our hearts hot; never,
Mother State ! ’gainst you.
Ming away the base suspicions ! You can trust
us, we are leal;
Though our hands be few and feeble, yet our
hearts are true as steel.
One in blood, in speech, in fortune; one in faith
and freedom, who
Dares to part us ? Strangers cannot—
Mother State ! will you ?
Hobart.
W. H. DAWSON.


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
A FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in preference
any other :
to
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
l S V- TJiE . LY MUTUAL - All Profits go to the Policy-holders.
In its 1< lfty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
It is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
Assets, December 31, 1897
* -£52,112,204.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after-
payment of all expenses of management, about 14 £ millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable fo
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices
. wuvmouu illOUlfl
or Authorised Agencies.
Telephone 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
[ifelike and Artistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
■fr° YAL • “ Straight from the Heart.
Her Majesty's “ A Royal Divorce.”
Lyceum “Indiana.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess “ The Little Minister.”
Royal. “ Silver King.”
“ La Perichole.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Alva-Verne Concerts.
Athenaeum Hall F. M. Alexander.
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) the last lion
ate the last Christian on Friday night, and on
Saturday, the stately pageant of the “Royal
Divorce, ’ made a very popular re-appearance.
Ihe new “Divorce” has—or else through some
cunning re-arrangement of the lights it seems to
have one distinct advantage over the previous
one. The retreat from Moscow appears to be
shifted further to the front, and the frozen
legion plodding along through the snow with its
frozen Bonaparte in the front rank looks less
misty than it did. That fleeting view of the van-
guard of the 500,000 men who had an appalling
cold in the head in a strange land was always the
least magnificent of the four great pictures, partly
because it is a small gloomy legion buried in its
overcoat, and partly because the city doesn’t burn
naturally in the back-ground. The improvement
J ®> therefore, all the more welcome. Otherwise,
the “Divorce’’ is the same fine upstanding out-
rage on all historical accuracy as it was aforetime,
and the two huge Waterloo tableaux blaze forth
with a pomp and glitter, and a shriek of red
uniforms, and a wild rush of painted horse at the
back and real horse in front, and a boom of
cannon, that are good for the soul. After the
average man has seen it he feels so full of martial
ardour that it is with the greatest difficulty he
restrains himself from going out and assaulting
the aged and infirm pea-nut vendor on the spot.
The great cloud of battle-smoke which drifts
across the bald heads in the stalls, and the gaudy
King of Naples in the front rank of the retreat
with a splash of blood on his face, are some more
patches of realism which make him feel equal to
killing the pea-nut vendor right there. And the
last picture of all —the lone Bonaparte on his rock
looking out at a red sun which sets because the
sea climbs up in front of it —is an effect which
calls for loud admiration.
* * * *
In a literary sense, it is better not to con-
sider the “ Divorce ” too closely. Its dialogue is
only respectable, and not always so good as that.
Its historical inaccuracy rises to a pinnacle of
bosh that is above the line of perpetual snow.
The, tawdry appeal to British sentiment in Napo-
leon’s oration about the fighting qualities of the
English, the night before the great Irishman
banged him at Waterloo, is ridiculous ; and the
only big streak of mirth against the background
of woe is the last inhabitant of Jenappes trying to
drink up all the town’s abandoned stock of liquor.
But, as a pictorial effort, it is all there, and the co.
does it full justice, and wears its gaudy plumes
and its gay uniform bravely to the bitter end.
The pomp of that flight from Waterloo alone looks
as if the whole European national debt was run-
ning away simultaneously. There are no changes
of any importance in the cast, and the people
who were favorably commented on last time the
“Divorce” came this way may consider the
remarks still standing in type. A brief revival of
the “ Prisoner of Zenda ” follows.
** * *
Durward Lely, and his songs, and the sweet*
violin of Elly Fusch, are on view at. Sydney Cen-
tenary Hall, at the same remarkably low prices as
heretofore. Lely is a hard-working volcano who
erupts music every night. In this respect he is
unlike the average musical star, who is generally
an intermittent geyser and only blows off melody
twice a week or so, at high prices. Yet Lely’s
fine vocal organ seems to stand the strain without
the slightest difficulty. Very few Caledonian
songsters that Australia has met with have made
the old haggis melodies sound so beautiful as Lely
contrives to do, and many people who never
respected that kind of music before will hold it in
high esteem hereafter for his sake. As for the
plump and pleasing Elly Fusch, she and her violin
fill a void in this paper s soul, to the great surprise
of the paper itself, which wasn’t quite sure that it
had one. Till Elly Fusch came along and filled
the void it had set down the inward yearning to
indigestion.
** * *
The present Bland Holt show pegs away
prosperously at Sydney Royal. No change of
bill is mentioned, so far. The bright red hue of
“ Straight from the Heart ” has a cheering effect
these cold, damp nights, and the only matter
which anyone can really object to is the dark
mystery which enshrouds the fate of Albert Nor-
man. Just when Baker is going to be beheaded,
in the last act, the comrades of that very bad
anarchist discover that he has plaved them false,
and range up one on each side of “him, and lead
him away to have a drink. He never comes back.
Whether the drink was poisoned, or whether
Norman was brained with the bottle, or whether
he escaped while the other two anarchists are
struggling to get out the cork, there is absolutely
nothing to show. His fate, whatever it was, is
evidently some kind of a proof of the horrors of
drink, but it is a very gloomy problem, and
further information will be thankfully received at
this office any day between 10 and 4
** * *
The Lyceum has closed for four nights
while the management makes tremendous prepara-
tions inside for the production of “ Indiana, or a
Woman’s Vengeance.” Indiana, if that was the
lady’s name—possibly it was Sarah—will revenge
herself under circumstances of great pomp on
Saturday night, the fates permitting.
** * *
In the absence of any more definite re-
marks to offer it is merely chronicled, in a vague
sort of way, that Sydney Tivoli appears to be a
paying spec, as usual.
** * *
A big charity benefit is to be given at Her
Majesty's, Sydney, to-morrow (Friday) afternoon.
Half the proceeds go to various established
charities, and the other half to help the widows
and orphans of those mariners who went down
during the recent gales to dwell with the bloated
barracouta and the remains of the lost galleon
that was overdue in Acapulco Bay three centuries
ago. All the companies in Sydney will bear a
hand on this great occasion. The Firm gives its
theatre and supplies Act 111. of the “ Royal
Divorce.” For this occasion only, J. B. Athol-
wood will retreat from Moscow in place of the
star. Atholwood usually represents that last lone
drunk who is seeing snakes at Jenappes when
the French army arrives. The Bulletin, as
a paper with a large experience of liquor,
has always greatly admired that oldest and drunk-
est inhabitant, and will be pleased any day to see
Atholwood retreating from Moscow. Julius
Knight can’t retreat from Moscow personally
because he will be busy just then getting into his
most beautiful clothes to do the balcony-scene
from “Romeo and Juliet” with Miss Elliott
Page. One act of Bland Holt’s drama, “ One of
the Best,” with Cyril Keightley in Baker’s old
part as the hero, will be humped down from the
Royal and staged with Bland’s usual magnificence.
The Lyceum co. supplies the fifth act of the “Sea
of Ice ’ —the one w here the bad man wins his ill-
gotten girl, and goes slowly mad for love of her,
and then crumples up all of a sudden like a bell-
topper that an elephant has sat on. In addition
to all this, Miss Billie Howarde, of the Royal
Standard, and Rickards, Geo. Wood and Miss
Peggy Pryde, of the Tivoli, do various things on
their own. The public trusts that the loot will be
enormous, and that the souls of the dead mariners
wandering on the sands at the bottom and dodging
the sunken ships that drop on them from above,
will rest easier by reason of it.
** # *
At Melb. Royal, on Saturday, the revival
of Titheradge as Silver King brushed away any
cobwebs of doubt that may have gathered round
his reputation for absolute supremacy in this
popular character. Half-a-dozen imported Wil-
fred Denvers have arisen since Titheradge’s first
time. For the unswerving adherents of that way-
back identity there is much satisfaction in being
able to justify their faith with his present per-
formance. Titheradge to-day is so distinctly the
best Denver we have seen that he will perhaps
get credit for surpassing his original self, which
he probably doesn’t. The point is not worth dis-
cussion, . anyhow. Enough to be reminded of
his special excellence in the murder-scene, where
he wakes up to discover a moist, unpleasant
body on the other side of the table. His
numerous successors have each seemed weak
or artificial, by comparison, in their treat-
ment of the corpse episode, and it was here
again that Titheradge made his strongest effects
on Saturday night. To think of Wilson
Barrett’s recent melodramatic attempt at impress-
ing an audience in the same scene was to feel the
difference between a naturally clever, sincere
actor and a laborious mummer. The live, per-
pendicular Geoffrey Ware, at the Royal, is a
lamentable young man, but his dead body comes
in particularly useful.
* * * *
The company supporting the “star” is
mostly below the average “ Silver King” stand-
ard and some of it is very poor quality. Hans
1 hillips s Corkect is a exception, likewise
little Miss Holloway, as Cissie. George Chalmers
makes an amusing Cripps, and three or four of
the little parts are neatly filled in. On the other
side of the ledger John O’Neill is a tiresome
I ather Christmas; the Spider is gaudily uncon-
vincing ; Miss Duggan plays havoc with the fine
part of Denver’s wife ; Miss Gresham isn’t a
forcible Mrs, Spider ; and Charles Holloway will
be a fairly passable Jaikes when he knows his lines
by heart, and starves in a more poverty-stricken
suit than he wore on Saturday. But the play
beautifully mounted as usual, is likely to flourish
for a week in spite of these troubles.
* • • •
Titheradge, after fifteen years’ residence
Australia, is to make a farewell appearance
this Saturday (25th) as Wilfred Denver afore-
said. For which occasion only prices will be
raised to the old original tariff, so that the de-
parting artist may take a benefit worthy of his
first-class record.
** * *
“La Perichole,” at Melb. Bijou, is a
respectable amateur struggle (by the Australian
Opera Club) with one of the dullest old opera-
bouffes. “La Perichole ” dates back to the time
when pantomime noses were humorous, and light
musical entertainment was divided into four acts
and the world laughed easily. Emelie Melville
made it attractive, but times have changed. Also
the A.O.C, performers are not Emelie Melville
and co., neither have they seen a professional co.
on this ancient job. If the Bijou show is to
benefit the local hospitals, the balance of cash in
hand will be due to Melbourne’s splendid appetite
for any sort of musical story with a short-skirted
chorus. Miss Ray Jones is La Perichole, the
young woman who gets married under the in-
fluence of mixed drinks, after admitting
her “ tightness ” in a simple French ballad.
Miss Jones scores a negative success throughout.
She isn’t a full-sized heroine, and her giddiness
doesn’t look very wicked, nevertheless she is a
cheerful antidote to the Women’s Christian Tem-
perance Union. Three female cousins are bright,
tuneful damsels, as amateurs go and the funny
dungeon-prisoner of 12 long years’ experience con-
trives to raise several harmless, necessary laughs.
Geo. Tutton, although his tenor voice begins to
creak ominously, gets through his part very well,
and, in a mild, faded kind of manner, sundry
other people hold their own. The chorus is
pleasing, like most amateur choruses ; the opera is
pretty smartly trimmed and mounted; the
orchestra, conducted by Harcourt Lee, leaves
nothing in particular to be desired. But why all
this trouble to produce a work which no modern
theatrical manager can see money in ?
** * #
“The Little Minister,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, is understood to be going off the bill before
the Pattie Browne season closes, and “ Sweet
Nancy ”is getting ready to follow. Considering
that there are only two more weeks to provide
for, and the “ Minister ” is calculated to gather
popularity as it goes along, and the date of the
other play’s arrival wasn’t advertised at time of
writing, The Bulletin would not be surprised to
find Babbie, Gavin, and the Auld Kirk elders
fighting the season to a successful finish. Mean-
while, the actor who was specially imported to
act the name part appears to have left Cecil Ward
in possession of the fat.
** * *
At the Opera House, a substantial pro-
gramme stands where it stood last week, but the
Hegelmanns are about to depart, and the re-
nowned Biondi is a revelation of the near future.
The other variety show, at the little hall under
the Bijou, was reinforced on Saturday, and is
moderately thriving. Alexandra horrors have
ceased to be. A drama full of bloodshed and
secret interments under the hearth-stone was tried
as a last resource, but a low-priced public couldn’t
see the awful humor of it, and the shutters went
up once more.
** * *
At Melb. Town Hall, last Saturday, melli-
fluous Phil Newbury wound up his concert series
with “You’ll Remember Me,” in tones not likely
to be soon forgotten. This Saturday (25th) the
Alva-Verne concert co. will take the Town Hall
floor, or if they don’t arrive in time for a first ap-
pearance on Saturday, they will certainly be there
next week. Also, the Athenaeum Hall will have a
tenant on Saturday, when F. M. Alexander is to
give, an assortment of recitations, supported by
music and song.
At Poverty Point.
At the inquest, at Adelaide, on Gomez, the circus-hand
whose neck Harroston’s tiger broke with a bite, “ Robert
Love, manager of the circus, stated that ‘The Duke,’
the tiger which killed Gomez, had had six trainers,
and had attacked three of them. At Rangoon, in
’96, a man named Streiff sustained some bites or claw
marks at the back of his neck. The tiger also attacked a
Chinaman, but did not hurt him, although he got the
Chinaman’s head in his mouth. When the Chinaman
called out ‘ What for?’the tiger let him go, and walked
to the other end of the cage.” Truth is funnier than fic-
tion ; this strikes The Bulletin as the quaintest thing it
has heard for years. After all, this paper doesn’t blame
the tiger for letting go when it heard a Chinaman talking
in its mouth.
It was curious, at Broken Hill the other Sunday, to see
a priest standing at the altar-steps thanking members of
the “French Maid” co. for singing in the choir, and
recommending his congregation to go and see the show.
But, after all, why not?
A certain actor-manager of the long-ago hated a (now
deceased) actor-singer so much that he forbade members
of his eo. to mention his name. One day, while on tour,
he caught sight of (say) Harry’s photo smiling on the
mantelshelf of a bedroom occupied by two of his ladies.
They were summoned instantly. ‘ What the ?!! ! do vou
mean by sticking ! 1 ! men-apes all over the show', eh?’
Both ladies denied ownership in fear and trembling
Manager then took a tape and measured from the photo
to the nearest bed. Proof enough it seemed, and the ladv
who slept in the most adjacent bed owned up. Sack.
Poor girl! Poor Harry !
The beauteous Maud Jeffries avowed before leaving
S.A. that Adelaide was the most charming city she had
ever visited. Maud didn’t have the bad luck to run
against some of the defects of the gospel city. She didn’t,
for instance, hit against, the numerous tribe of local
preachers still out of gaol, or become introduced to the
psalm-grinder with a large suburban harem. Further
Maud only spent two Sundays in Adelaide and did not
properly realise the unutterably pious gloom that per-
vades the snufflesome city on the Sawbath. Maud
evidently hasn’t any shares in the numerous building
societies now being liquidated at Yatala Labor prison.
The real Little Minister, Leslie Thompson, is seriously
ill of rheumatism at Menzies’ Hotel. He has had a bad
time, and deserves sympathy. Cecil Ward plays the part
like an Englishman, making the Little Minister a kind of
indiscreet young curate ; but Thompson, an Aberdeen
man, is said to have the correct refined Scotch accent
that the part requires.
Hudson’s lease of Adelaide Bijou Theatre—which is
closed nearly all the year round—expires in July next
year, and it is not unlikely Rickards will take a lease of
this pretty little place, just suited as it is for variety
show's. Hudson has lost a big sum during his lease but
Rickards might make it pay well.
Wilson Barrett’s Adelaide season of nine nights broke
all previous records. The previous average-best was
scored by Bellew and Potter, some years ago, in a longer
season. Barrett plays for a week in Perth, Westralia
prior to appearing in Perth, Scotland.
A startling spectacle at Adelaide Royal on Referendum
Night w'as that of Wilson Barrett, clad as Othello reading
out polling-results during the intervals ! The Moor of
Venice triumphantly announcing a majority for Federa-
tion at Booleroo 1
“ On Friday, April 29, Miss Ethel Haydon was married
at St. Clement Danes, Strand, London, to Mr. George
Robey, vocal comedian. A large crowd of professionals
attended the wedding. After lunch at the Hotel Cecil
Mr. and Mrs. Robey left for the Continent ” “ y oC a’l
comedian ” is obviously the high-toned way of expressing
“ burlesque singer.” Pretty Ethel’s parents were much
perturbed when their youthful daughter donned tights
and appeared in panto, in ’95 (her first engagement) If
they have not long since been reconciled to the situation
by their Ethel’s startling success, surely everything will
be condoned by the gifted one’s marriage with a “ vocal
comedian”
Wilson Barrett took no fewer than six young Austra
liennes home with him, paying all expenses, with a view
to training them for his different companies Did the
charms and brains of young Australia alone work this
miracle, or is it, after all, not a fact that W B bv hold
Ing up his little finger, can enlist all the youth and beauty
of England under his banner? ■'
It is a mistake to compare Peggy Pryde with this or
that more or less vulgar music-hall singer She is s
genuine artiste, if the word “ Art” can be applied to low
comedy, as why should it not be? Her description of I
coster wedding is too richly humorous for words while
her droll little laugh is in itself pure comedy. Her snmP
and exquisitely-shaped hands and feet seem strangely out
of place amidst the coster surroundings. y out
In their notices of “The Little Minister” play, all the
Melb. journals assumed that J. M. Barrie’s novel is
familiar to everybody. As a matter of fact not more than
one playgoer in fifty has read the story, and not one h
twenty has heard of it. When “ Trilby” came to An.
tralia, the book had been actually read by uerhins’
15 per cent, of the public that supports theatres whilst
fully 60 per cent, had heard the name mentioned ’ A few
months later the other 50 per cent, had heard of “ Trilby”
as a girl, or a cant term for the female foot divine. Hence
the otherwise inexplicable success of Maggie Moore’s
“Trilby” burlesque. It attracted swarms of outer barba-
rians, who wanted to discover what the blazes this ’ere
bloomin' “ Trilby” really was, and what her bloomin’
foot had got to do with the show. The same sort of
notoriety, though in a much milder form, might have
come to “The Little Minister” if it had been titled “The
Little Gipsy."
Tenor Rose, who was imported by the Firm, but some-
how didn’t seem to be an absolutely gorgeous success in
their touring comic operas, is expected to show to great ad-
vantage as a member of “ The American Girl ” co. Here
he will have a part suited to his somewhat finicky style,
and his singing is good in any part.
The Hegelmann acrobats secured their Californian en-
gagement (at something like $lOOO a week) through the
agency of J. J. Miller, jun., of Melb. The fact that an
Australian recommendation can fetch offers .from ’Murka
should make it easier for Rickards to import expensive
“ turns ’’ from London.
Carrie Moore is in danger of getting jaded by overwork.
She is but a youngster—not yet 17, and stili growing—
but she has already played several leading parts in comic
opera—girl or boy—when principals were “ indisposed.”
Lemmone’s new concert co. will be “ drawing it rather
fine ” at its first appearance. Expected to reach Melb.
on Wednesday or Thursday, it will have to show in the
Town Hall on Saturday.
Some of the pupils of one charming Australian teacher
of singing seem to sing with an accent which mixes the
musical blessing considerably. A certain damsel who
left for Europe, the other day, might have been mis-
taken for a foreigner wrestling with English words. It
was so with Buzz), the Italian singing-master. Buzzi has
left his pronunciation on the tongues of many Mel-
bourne pupils, who start an amorous ballad with the
announcement that they “lofe" (love) somebody or
other.
Dear B.—No fear of anyone murmuring “ Fattie
Browne ” at the Princess. I was agreeably surprised,
after so much talk about the increased proportions of our
favourite confection, to find Pattie not an apparent ounce
heavier than when she filled the t rs so completely
(and the theatre, too) in “ The Country Girl ” six years
ago.—C.M.G.
S. : Eloise Juno has been complimented on her accent
as Nanny in “The. Little Minister” at Melb. Princess,
but that is only a minor feature in a perfect bit of v'ork.
The actress’s dialect is a birthright, and not an effort of
art, but Nanny in her hands is the most cleverly-drawn
character in a play of neat caricatures. The part is com-
paratively a small one, but there is not a faulty shade or
inflection, and to me Nanny is the one reality in a crow'd
of well-worked and rather amusing Scotch eccentrics.
Veteran Gladstone emerges again from Coppin’s kindly
retreat to act Gaffer Pottle in the “Silver King,” he and
Jack Bryan, the original Melb. “Cabby," walking over
from Wiison Barrett’s cast. The once-brilliant Hoskins
was the original Melb. Pottle.
“ Haresfoot ” : Miss Pattie Browne has genuinely
advanced in her London training, instead of deteriorating
as is common. I used to think her rather superficial,
relying a little too much on the fine artillery of her ex-
pressive brown eyes and remarkably good stage face. She
is a complete embodiment of the dramatic Babbie. Yet
she trembles on the verge of being too full in the tooth.
Her figure has a pleasant aplomb, d la embonpointy
Bernhardt.
During first night of “ The Gay Parisienne,” at Broken
Hill, the performers were bombarded with dead pigeons,
which they had helped to shoot in the afternoon. Several
of the people were hard hit by the birds, and the proceed-
ings nearly ended in an attack upon the offenders by the
better-behaved part of the audience.
The jingoistic song, “ Stout, Strong Hearts of Old,"
musicked b.v Robert Horne to words by H. C. Coghlan, is
to he published shortly. It has heen sung with success at
Melb. Opera House these last few weeks.
“ Pro.” : Coppin’s last stage appearances were in Ade-
laide, where his attempt to galvanise excitement by cele-
brating his stage jubilee proved a fiasco, and he gave
it best. So dropped out of mind, a word on his act-
ing may be instructive to some. It was his habit to some-
what forget the injunction, “ Be thou familiar, but by no
means vulgar.” His best things were Paul Pry, Mould in
“Not Such a Fool as He Looks,” Putzi in the “Young
King,” and generally the unctuous line indicated by his
predecessor, Liston, on whom he is said to have moulded
his style.
Oily Deering, after a career of 10 years—to the writer’s
recollection—on the Australian stage, moves up most
decidedly by reason of recent work. For years he has
figured mainly in the broad, vulgar low comedy of the
mechanical melodrama, without fixing himself particu-
larly, but, off-and-on, he has shown himself capable of
rising to an opportunity. His small comical plug-ugly in
“ The Two Little Vagabonds” was miles ahead of the im-
ported effort, and his Snecky Hobart stands out promi-
nently amongst the canny Christians in “The Little
Minister.” Really, we have few opportunities of discover-
ing the true quality of scores of local mummers. Now
and then one gets a look in, and surprises us. Young
Lester, for instance, after gyrating practically unobserved
in Alexandrine horrors, was given a chance with Cart-
wright’s co., at the Bijou, and favored with a neat and
clever bit of gentlemanly comedy, quite an unexpected
pleasure. But they drift out again, and smugs from ’Ome
fill their places, and are patiently borne by a public that
has not yet dared to think for itself.
He Ada Crossley’s want of insight and soulfulness.
Pupils of the late Madame Simonsen relate how she used
to despair of ever making a front or even second-rank
vocalist of Ada. “ She has a grand voice, but she will
not learn.” And, to judge by her p-’esent devotion to the
inevitable “Sunshine and Rain” and like ballads, the
tuneful Australienne recognises her limitations.
H. : Sketch pictures some performing pigs in London.
They make me think of Miss Leak, the Armless Ladv,
with Cooper and Bailey’s Circus in Australia. Her pub-
lished autobiography was very naive. She detailed her
marriage with Mr. Thompson, - an engineer, but most of
her solicitude was bestowed on “ Bismarck, the Learned
Pig,” which was her property.
N. : Of course the happy married pair get on best on,
as well as off, the boards. Look at the Kendals and
Keans. They can continue Romeo-and-Julieting before
the decorous young person till they are bolsters. Nor
can a singer who lives with her husband utter a false
note.
( Cunt mu ed, on page 19.)
At the telephone. Reid and Want, with
copy of Bill in hand; Turner at the other end.
Turner: “Hello, are you there? That you,
Reid?” Reid.: “I’m here; the same old
George.” T. : “ Please define your objections to
the present Bill.” R. : “Ail right; wait a
minute, while I consult Want. (Aside to Want):
What is it we do object to ? ” Want: “ Federa-
tion ? ” Reid: “Hush! keep it dark. (To
Turner): Are you there ? Well; First, Braddon’s
blot; second, the* three-fifths-majority clause.”
Turner : “ Yes. Anything further ? ” Reid (to
Want): “I think that will do meanwhile, eh?
Better keep a bit up our sleeve. (To Turner):
That’s all at. present.” Turner : “ Can I assure
my colleagues that, with these clauses amended,
the Bill will be acceptable to yourself and the
N.S.W. minority?” Reid: “Eh? What?
Can’t hear you ; something gone wrong with the
telephone!” (Rings off.)


A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY' 4
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHZAITTS,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Kli El J LA KG E STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
Cl I EMIOA I.S.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
it
Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Elarrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
E, BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
- . . British Vestas.
Aus. j
Reps, j
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, 1
36/387.
dtharjre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markv/ald,
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb.
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
ZOLLNER’S^
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30:36’Druitfc-st.., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The London Bank of Australia issues a balance-
sheet for the complete year, 1897, instead of the half-year
as usual, and the net result is a loss of £8124 on the 12
months’ operations. The first half of last year showed a
loss of £231 and the second a loss of £4396 —total for the
year, £4627, so things are not improving much as yet. The
London Bank had special ill-luck with its reconstruction
arrangements. It applied for a reduction of the heavy 4J
per cent, deposit interest agreed on in ’93, but, being
located in England, a small, foggy isle in the North Sea,
where the ways of reconstruction are hard, it had to get it
by the ponderous and expensive process of an Act of Par-
liament. And a fool of a Legislature solemnly enacted that
the London Bank, instead of paying 4| per cent, interest
on its old fixed deposits, might pay anything not less than
3 per cent, and owe the balance —it may owe it for a long
time if necessary, but said balance is to be paid before any
dividends are declared. Therefore, beyond granting more
time, the new reconstruction left the bank very much
where it was. Last year the earnings, after paying work-
ing expenses and the cost of the extraordinary Act of Par-
liament, were £139,388. Against that were :
| year’s interest at 4J p cent. j_
Balance of j per cent, owing
for second £ year 8,151
£147,512
The earnings of the London Bank for the last
few years have been as follows :
31st December, 1891 (year) Profit ... £104,437
31st „ 1892 ( ~ ) „ ..■ 71,643
31st ~ 1893 (5 months) ~ .. 5,987
The other seven months’ profits were absorbed in the ’93
reconstruction.
30th June, 1894 (6 months) Profit .. 7,026
31st December, 1894 ( ~ ) ~ .. 8,216
30th June, 1895 ( „ ) „ .. 7,082
31st December, 1895 ( ~ ) ~ ... 6,673
30th June, 1896 ( ) Loss .. 231
31st December, 1896 ( „ ) ~ .. 4,396
31st „ 1897 (year) „ .. 8,124 .
The London Bank has now a paid-up capital of
£1,419,345 and its only visible reserves are a profit and
loss balance of £1839, but against this there is the contin-
gent liability of £Bl5l for arrears of deposit interest,
which item is not included in the balance-sheet. There-
fore, affairs can’t be said to look over-prosperous. During
the year £455,409 has been paid off the reconstructed
deposits, which now stand at £3,260,678. Four years ago
(December, 1893) they stood at £ 4,845,156, so a considerable
reduction has been effected. During 1897 the new deposits
have increased by £151,000 and cash (which now stands at
£846,560) has decreased £143,662. The new business, which
has priority over old deposits, keeps growing, and with a
diminution in the expensive 4i per cent, deposits, and no
more reconstruction expenses to pay, the London Bank
should make ends meet in 1898. But evidently the pros-
pect of dividends is very far off, and, barring a very im-
probable new boom, the only chance lies in the slow
extinction of the old deposits. The London, the National
and the Victoria are the only banks remaining which are
still liable for the full 4£ per cent., which was rashly agreed
upon in 1893. The London never was a boom bank ; its
biggest dividend was 9 per cent. ; but it became over-
weighted by a stupendous inrush of deposits in the boom-
time of 1888, which were the cause of all its after troubles.
* * * »
In regard to recent comments pn the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, the management offers
certain explanations. (1) It states that the provision
made for losses and depreciation in the value of securities
during the last six years has been, instead of £22,429 as
stated by The Bulletin, something over £116,000. This
is made up of £22,429 actually and visibly written off
(which was the sum referred to by this paper) ; £39,718
set aside as an Investment Fluctuation Fund, but not yet
written off ; and £54,746 of interest which has not been
taken into account in the six years. These figures make
the accounts look better, though, so far as the last and
largest item is concerned, it is, of course, not traceable
in the published accounts. When a society has a mort-
gaged property practically in possession, and no interest
is being paid on the mortgage, and it is doubtful
whether, if the interest was regularly charged
against it, the property would sell for enough to
pay both the principal and the interest, the only
straight course is undoubtedly not to include that doubt-
ful interest among the receipts. If £250 becomes due
and isn’t paid on a £5OOO property, it is mere inflation
to put down £250 interest among the receipts and square
the accounts by putting the security on the other side of
the balance-sheet as worth £5250, when it isn’t worth it.
Undoubtedly some institutions do this, and The Bulle-
tin is glad to have the Colonial Mutual’s assurance that it
doesn’t. At the same time, if that society would show in
its balance-sheet the amount of foreclosed property on
hand, as some other institutions do, it would throw a lot
more light on the situation. And yet the informa-
tion these other societies give doesn’t necessarily, in
all cases, throw very much light on anything. An assur-
ance society may show £lOO,OOO worth of foreclosed pro-
perty on hand, and, at the same time, £400,000 more of
its mortgages may be bringing in no interest and may
represent properties practically abandoned to the society
yet not formally foreclosed. In the absence of State
supervision, or any decent law on the subject, assurance
societies’ balance-sheets are a good deal of a mystery.
The Colonial Mutual further desires to explain
that its very low rate of interest (about £4 Is., or a little
more, per cent.) is purely net interest, after leaving all
doubtful items out of account, though some of these may
be recovered later on; and that it could, by taking in doubt-
ful items, make the apparent interest as high as £4 15s. 7d.
per cent. Also that it has an unusually large proportion
of its funds invested in liquid securities, which are safer
than mortgages and bring in less interest; and an un-
usually low proportion in loans on policies which bring in
comparatively high interest. The Bulletin is pleased to
receive these statements, though they only tend to con-
firm it in the opinion that a rigid insurance-law, and a
uniform system of accounts which will make it possible to
institute definite comparisons, is much needed. The
things which this paper wants are—(l) to have the
assumed future rate of interest fixed at a uniform low rate,
certainly not over 3.) per cent. (2) To have it legally
enacted that every balance-sheet shall show separately
the amount of foreclosed property on hand, the amount of
mortgaged property in possession even if not actually
foreclosed, the amounts of rent and interest accrued,
or due but within the days of grace, and the whole
amount of interest and rent in arrear. (3) That there
shall be a State valuation of the assets and a State audit.
These remarks are tacked on here, not as applying to the
Colonial Mutual only but to all societies. They are uni-
versal wants.
• » * *
Adelaide corporation calls for tenders for the
electric-lighting- of the S.A. capital for 21 years, the whole
of the works, plant and business to be handed over to the
corporation at the end of that term free of charge. The
idea of State or municipal ownership of great public ser-
vices steadily gains ground. The pity is that it didn’t
start earlier. Sydney’s great gas-monopoly has been in
good health for 61 years, and there are no definite signs
that municipal ownership is any nearer than it was in the
late ’3o’s.
* * * •
A new joint-stock money-lending and pawnshop
co. is being formed in Sydney out of the business of
“ Henry Tait,” money-lender. Henry Tait, by the way,
is only a business alias, the real owner of that great
discounting industry being one Philip London. The
promoters anticipate that the business will ray large divi-
dends, and, if there is a competent Solom n or Aarons at
the wheel, it almost certainly will. There is no business
which booms more continuously, in wet weather and dry,
than the pawnshop. Also, there is no industry which is
better fitted to be a State monopoly, and to help to fill up
the yawning void in the revenue, than that same pawnshop.
Every State should be its own three-ball Solomon. A State
monopoly of the grog and tobacco trade and the pawn-
shop industry, a tote where the State annexed 4 or 5 per
shent of the profits, a State note-issue, an absentee-tax,
and a State fire-insurance system should .yield enough
among them, if the proceeds were rigidly set apart to feed
a Public Works Fund, and kept out of the reach of im-
pecunious Treasurers, to make these provinces inde-
pendent of the British money-lender.
* * * *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Building,
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) again contrives to
pay 9 per cent, on its paid-up shares and 8 per cent, on
contributing shares, and have a balance of £'454 to the
good as the results of a year’s work. The society with the
long name has now existed for 24 years, and by keeping
its assets unencumbered and laying to its book it is able
to show a prosperous business and over £27,000 of re-
serves even in these times of hard frost.
* * * *
A. J.S. Bank shares (£7 10s. paid-up) have re-
cently sold at 65., which looks like a move in the right
direction after the monotonous quotation of 3s. 6d. which
prevailed so long. The A. J.S. has lately called for ten-
ders for the redemption of another batch of its “ B ”
deposits, and the profit on these transactions should do
something to strengthen its position. “B ” deposits are
now quoted at 14s. 3d., and if they can be bought up even
at 155., an investment of £50,000 leaves the bank £16,000
to the good.
* * * *
Queenscliff (Vic.) borough council has a recalci-
trant ratepayer who bucks at the payment of Is. IOJd. for
rates. Two years ago the council spent £5O in law-costs
to make this one ratepayer sit up, and this year it has
spent another £l2 on the same good work. It is now
thinking of offering him £32 6s. 2d. to move out of the
ocalitylal together,
* * * *
In Melbourne the mains of the Metropolitan
and the Brunswick Gas Co’s often lie side by side in the
same street, and the Metrop. has just discovered two
places where the Brunswick Co’s employes had fixed their
pipes to the other Co’s main, and supplied their custom-
ers from it. In one case the Brunswick Co. has collected
the price of the other concern’s gas for three years. Now
the Metropolitan Co. is hunting for other mistakes of the
same kind, and using language that is calculated to lift
the gasometer.
* * * *
Q.N.B. committee has just furnished a supple-
mentary report re the famous MTlwraith letter of some
months ago. According to the commissioners, aforesaid
letter simply bristled with mis-statements. Also MTI-
- famous assertion that the accounts in which
he was interested with Drury were “ all entered
into at a time when he was neither a Minister of the
Crown nor a member of Parliament ” turns out to be
erroneous also. According to table prepared by the clerk
of the Leg. Assembly, M‘llwraith was in office from June
13, 1888 to Nov. 30, 1888. The account known as No. 2
was opened on Nov. 27, 1888. Also, the Adelaid e-street
Land Account was opened on October 21, 1891, while M‘Jl-
- was Colonial Treasurer from August 12, 1890, to
March 27, 1893. Committee’s report adds, apologetically,
“ But, then, Sir Thomas may be speaking entirely from
memory.”
* * * *
During ’97 the imports into Westralia from S.A.
were worth £945,380, and Victoria sent goods of the value
of £1,719,791. The share of N.S.W. was only £576,521.
* * * *
That ancient land-grab association, the Van
Dieman’s Land Co., pays a div. of Bs. per share, equal to
18 per cent. In ’97, in London, the shares were £9 to
£lO ; now, £l5 to £l7. In 1825 the co. purchased
250,000 acres on the northern side of the island for 2s. 6d.
per acre, and, naturally selecting the best, has sat
heavily on the chest of settlement ever since.
* » * *
“ Employe ” . Why doesn’t Melb. Tram Com-
mission managers cause production of all time-tables,
records of reports, fines, &c., and take the evidence of a
man of each class at each shed to check the line-manager’s
evidence ? Were this done, and the cost of head-office,
detective branch, &c., arrived at, it would show that,
from the costliness of these branches, the actual workers
cannot be receiving fair treatment. Confining the in-
quiry to the men mentioned in the Act (as was done by
Parliament), is like ordering a thorough medical examina-
tion, and only submitting one limb.
» * * *
The two Vic. Customs officers convicted of a
share in the Weenan frauds were guaranteed by a
fidelity insurance co. to the amount of £5OO each.
The £lOOO recoverable on these two policies will barely
pay the costs of the Crown prosecution.
* • » *
On the west coast of Tasmania beef is selling at
9d. per lb., and an agitation for the repeal of the Stock
Tax has been begun at Hobart. The Assembly resolved
by a majority of one the other night to take the duty off
for three months, though Treas. Fysh wailed piteously re
the loss of revenue. Since ’94, despite a £2 per head tax
on cattle and a 2s. ditto on sheep, the former have de-
creased in Tasmania by 20,000 and the latter by 77,000.
Thus Tasmania is two years’ supply short, and asbacon is
scarce and badgers a lot less numerous than they were
before the prospectors got on the job, Tassies are com-
pelled to import meat or live on the codlin moth and
mussel-scale apples so unfederally returned from Sydney
of late.
* * * *
In Queen v. executors of late Jas. Austen, Vic.
Chief Justice Madden gave a common-sense and equitable
decision. Deceased had before death transferred to
trustees by deeds of gift certain large estates, and the
Master in Equity, claiming that there had been an
attempt to defraud the revenue, sought to collect from
the executors probate-duty on value of aforesaid estates.
The C. J. held, in effect, that not the estate but the per-
sons who received the spoil should have been proceeded
against. Certainly the man who eats the cake should pay
for it, not the man who was done out of it.
« * « *
Coals to Newcastle, surely ! Westralia has ar-
ranged for a shipment of Danish butter, through the
inadequate supply from the Eastern provinces.
* * • *
B.H. Junction North will have its new concen-
trating mill ready by the middle of July.
• • • •
The much-boomed little Yuba, outside Broken
Hill, is in a very bad way. Calls unresponded to, sale to
J. Bull for the present hopeless, and nothing apparently
ahead but shepherding in the hope of something turning
up. Same way all the other outside “shows” which the
comparative success of the B.H. concentrators set going 12
months or so back. This in face of the ruinous fall in metal
prices since they were previously abandoned, as The
Bulletin several times said when the booming was in pro-
gress,
Eleanora (Hillgrove, N.S.W.) battery to be in-
creased from 35 to 70 stamps. If 35 stamps working for 12
months earn nothing, how long will it take 70 stamps to
earn something ?
* • • *
The Occidental (Cobar) “ deal ” appears to be
“off.” The failure of the battery experiment at the
Cobar gold-mines hard-by must have had a damaging
effect on the Occidental’s prospects in London. A project
is now on foot to form a local co. to acquire the right to
cyanide Occidental and other tailings-heaps.
• * * *
Cobar Great Western returned 2850 z. for a
month’s run. This is understood to be about the last of
the free-milling ore in sight in the present workings. The
copper formation in the bottom of the shaft is remarkably
rich in gold, but the extent of ore is not known—outside
the Cobar “ duck ” circle, anyhow.
* • * *
The Exploration co. has had bad luck with
its speculations in N.S. Wales. The Cockle Creek sul-
phide works and the Lake George mines have been prac-
ticallj7 run by it, and the “assured dividends” have
not been forthcoming. Report has it that a gold-mine
owned by the company is also in its death throes.
* » m *
Mt Stewart mine and plant (Mudgee district,
N.S.W.) have been bought at auction by Mr. Garland for
£1750. Mr. Buckland, who wanted some of the plant,
kept the bidding going ; otherwise, in all likelihood, the
whole concern would have been knocked down for £5OO.
The Garland syndicate has hopes that the mine will
develop into a payable copper show. Not long since it
asked the public to assist in the enterprise, but the
public would have none of it on the terms offered.
* * * *
Lake George mines’ prospects look gloomy.
Returns for April and May show that 13,278 tons ore
were treated, and the products (contained in matte)-were
9090 z, gold, 27,8640 z. silver, 152£ tons copper. At £4 4s.
per oz. for gold, 2s. per oz. for silver, and £52 per ton for
copper, the value of these products would be £14,500, or
a trifle over £1 Is. 9d. per ton of ore. The deduc-
tions which are made by the refiners will bring
this down to £l. Neither by stretch of imagina-
tion nor by any arrangements of accounts can the
mining, smelting, refining, and realisation charges
be brought under £1 ss. per ton at the very lowest. So
that on the two months’ run there must have been an
actual loss on working account of nearly £4OOO. Even J.
Bull, with all his abundance of faith and his patient
suffering, could not tolerate this for long. No wonder
that on the publication of the last report a leading bank
insisted on realising on a line of 10,000 shares held as
security, with the result that the shares slumped to 3s.
Several Melb. speculators have been badly hit, but Syd-
ney men escaped without much loss. No information
seems available as to the financial position of the co. It
is not even known outside official circles whether or not
the last issue of 30,000 shares at 30s. per share was taken
up.
* * • •
The Sabbath shocker, in a frantic effort to boost
North Nymagee shares, asserted that “ the co. has now
enough money in hand to keep on working for the next
few months and shareholders need not anticipate another
call for five months.” The secretary officially states that
a call of 3d. per share will be necessary every second
month. The tipster said, “the improved prospects in the
lower levels warrant a greater rise than has yet taken
place.” The mine manager reports : “ No. 1 shaft: So far
have not struck lode previously mentioned, now doubtful
of its existence. No. 2 shaft: Am inclined to think we
have passed through the lode. Will sink No. 1 shaft
another 100 feet and crosscut west for lode which believe
will be at that depth a copper lode.” This looks like
“ improved prospects ” with a vengeance ! What delight-
ful contradictions ! Who is romancing—the tipster, the
secretary or the mine manager ?
* * « *
The famous Milburn Creek Copper-mine (N.S.
Wales) after being idle for practically 20 years, is to be re-
opened. A six months’ working option on it has been
secured on behalf of a London corporation. On its records
the mine is well worth a further test.
» * * •
Chillagoe proprietary shares have fallen nearly
£4OO in value in Melbourne within a week, and there has
been a corresponding fall in other Queensland ventures.
This does not seem to indicate that the ” boom ” is going
to catch on as hoped for.
* » * *
Dear Bulletin. —Worse luck, I have not now
any interests in Chillagoe district. Like many other
Bananalanders, I had to throw up good things in ’9O or '9l,
not because the “ shows” were not good enough, but
because of the impossibility of working them without
railway carriage and capital. Doubtless, swindles will be
worked off through Chillagoe, but the man who puts a
single note into a “ wild-cat ” has only himself to blame,
for, let it not be forgotten, the facts about any mining
property in Queensland can be obtained through the
Geological Survey Dept. If new finds, the lessees, by
paying Govt, a comparatively small lee (a tithe of what
would be paid to a “ fashionable” expert), can obtain the
(private) report of a Govt. Geological Surveyor as to the
facts concerning any deposit of mineral within the four
pegs of a lease.— Tom.
* * » *
A Chillagoe prospecting co. sent a sweet thing
in mining reports to the Melb. papers the other week—
“ Herberton 9th. Pegged 60 acres, good position ; valu-
able lodes. Writing.” Chillagoe just now is a place
where the casual travelliftg “expert” detects valuable
lodes protruding through the ground and just pegs ’em
out as he goes along.
* * * »
The man who sends this from up North has, up
to date, told The Bulletin no lies“ Bedford, the
embryo mining-field (christened by the redoubtable Ran-
dolph with the first important name that happened to
occur to him), looks like being a big thing. It lies 20
miles west of Mungana, the westerly of the two Chillagoe
townships. The Linedale Syndicate has about 200 a. This
country was taken up for copper and silver, but the
holders have quite inadvertently, via the assayer, dropped
upon gold in addition to the other valuables. A dozen
samples, taken from various points along the outcrop, ex-
tending for a mile and a-half, gave an average of loz.
21gr. of gold per ton. One £lO-share (there are 1500 of
them) in this syndicate changed hands at £75 ; later, an-
other at £lOO. Beeston, Maclelland Bros., Lewis, and
other parties have pegged in this locality, and, of course,
are all reported to have good shows.
“The ‘array of boomsters’ has not yet fully
arrived, but they are dribbling along slowly, and
beginning to peg limestone bluffs. Probably prospecting
for caves and looking for divs. from the charge of a
shilling- a-head entrance-money, when Chillagoe shall
have become a health-resort. Pine and large outcrops of
granite, suitable for building purposes or macadamising,
are also drawing some attention, especially when adjoin-
ing or adjacent to proprietary leases.
“ If you know of anyone sending good miners
from good wages to Chillagoe, under the impression that
they will get 14s. a day, kindly kick—hard—on behalf of
the itinerant miner generally. Miners’ wages here are—
surface, Bs. ; below, 9s. ; shift bosses, 10s. ; and no great
demand at present. Prospectors with money and outfit
have plenty room to walk about, and reports are coming
in daily of finds on the Walsh and Tate Rivers. The
latest is an alleged big thing between here and George-
town on the Einasleigh River, near the junction with the
Copperfield River. Said to be very rich and very large,
but as it is situated in the bed of a river, how to work it
will be a knotty problem.
“ The trial-survey of the railway from Mareeba
to Chillagoe is just completed, and the permanent work-
staff is busy cutting sleepers at various points along the
line.
“ Harper group of leases, 280 acres (Chillagoe
Proprietary), contains a copper-bearing lode with a con-
tinuous outcrop of 142 chains and a varying width of
from 3to 12 chains ! Probably the biggest metalliferous
outcrop ever mined in Australia—or anywhere else—ami
should be a giant among 1 mines by itself. Surface pro-
spects, from 4 per cent up to 20 per cent, copper.
“It is unlikely that anything startling will be
procured by outsiders in Ohillagoe District itself. The
Proprietary now holds approximately 2900 acres, having
taken up an additional 900 acres last week with the object
of having what work-sites, waterways and so on, they
may require, far from the madding crowd of pegs. More-
over, they or those assigned to them have been eight or
ten years picking the eyes out of the country, and know
every copper - bearing outcrop the size of a four-quart
billy for miles round. The big Harper Lode runs plump
into a small mountain of solid granite which is in the
hands, let us hope for good, of a big Melbourne syndicate.
“ Calcifer is an appropriate and ingenious name.
Lime, Copper, Iron—Cal., Cu., Fer. —all here allegedly in
limitless quantities. For the sake of euphony, or because
he couldn’t spell, or for some other valid reason, a post-
master in the early days altered the “u” of the copper
symbol to “ i,” and there it has stayed.
♦ • * *
Tbe rumor that Mr. Stewart had been induced
to leave the Broken Hill Proprietary to take charge of the
Chillagoe Proprietary mines did not have the expected
effeetof increasingthe value of shares in thelatter. Accord-
ding to a wire from Townsville geologist Jack denies that
his report on Chillagoe will be damnatory ; on the con-
trary, he predicts a big future for the district. Both
statements are boomster’s “ fake ” —Jack is too cautious
a Govt, official to divulge his opinion before he lias sent
in his report. Anyhow, suppose he said that Chillagoe
has a big future before it ? That does not signify that
Chillagoe extends 200 miles north and south by 100 miles
east and west, as the booming sharks would try to lead
the public to believe. Chillagoe proper may be rich
beyond the dreams of the promoters, but is there any
likelihood of history failing to repeat itself—viz., that
there will be one group of big mines and nothing more,
except scrip-shows ?
As a matter of fact, Mr. Jack—whose opinion
no man can gainsay—does think well of Chillagoe district ;
is, in fact, enthusiastic about it. Seven years ago he
wrote : —“ Considering that the Chillagoe and Koorboora
fields have only been known since the middle of 1888, and
that the work done has been purely exploratory—for
although Messrs. John Moffatt and co. and Messrs.
Delany and part}' have expended an amount roughly esti-
mated at £20.000 (on a great number of mines scattered
over at least 100 square miles of country), there has neces-
sarily, in the absence of machinery and smelting works,
been almost no return—the foregoing notes will show that
the district bids fair, in the near future, to rival or excel
the richest of our mineral fields. Some of the deposits of
silver and copper ore are on a gigantic scale. In the case
of the silver ores, which are, as is generally the case,
really ores of lead containing a proportion of silver, their
value can only be estimated by assaying from day to day
as the ore is raised, or computing by the actual output of
smelting works. In the present undeveloped state of the
mines, all that can be said is that the chances are all in
favor of the mines from which ores can be raised in large
quantities.”
« * » *
Cabled that the Great Western Railway (Tas.)
Gridiron has been under-written in London. Pending
flotation, the first section of construction—to comply with
the Act of Parliament—is being hastened with slowly.
* * * m
Mt. Lyell shares are on the down-grade in value,
investors evidently not approving of the payment of divs.
beyond actual profits. The latest move to bolster up the
co., financially, is an application to Tas. Parliament for
authority to double the freight-charges on the co.’s rail-
way. Does this mean that the co. will charge itself
double the present rates on its own traffic and credit itself
with the difference as extra profits ?
* * * «
The English co. which bought the tailings at
the Bird-in-Hand and other mines on the line of reef at
Woodside (S.A.) has already made a profit of £3OOO by
cyaniding them. It was on the Bird-in-Hand that J. C. F.
Johnson made £30,000.
* * • •
A thousand tons of the West Coast (M.L.) iron-
sand is to be sent to England to be experimented upon.
So far, no one has been able to* make a commercial suc-
cess of its treatment.
* * * •
Westralian goldfields men growl about the de-
nudation of the country close round the towns of all
timber. The unnatural barrenness helps on the dust
fiend, of course, —in fact, makes him immortal. It was
the same at Broken Hill, N.S.W.—Govt, waited till the
country was bare before it gazetted a belt reserve.
* * * *
Fosterville (Vic.) seems to have more horse-
sense than most young struggling mining fields. A deep
prospecting shaft being called for, tbe co’s are not waiting
for one another, but a local development co. is being
formed, practically to subsidise whichever owners will
get on with the work at once. Bendigo men are behind
the scheme.
* * • •
Murchison (Westralian) miners, grumbling to
the managers over the cut in wages forced upon them,
point to the ruinous cost of provisions on the field.
Managers concur, and promise that if prices don’t run
down within the three months for which the reduced
wage-rate is to operate, they will, at the end of that time,
help to introduce a complete system of workmen’s co-
operative stores.
* * * *
Norseman: “The recent rich discovery in
Kirkpatrick’s mine has caused quite a sensation in the
camp. There are 300 tons of rich rock at grass, and over
1000 tons of good ore ready for crushing. A great number
of shares have been bought at Is. 6d., buyers being
strong.” Caesar’s ghost! what will it take now to send
shares of any mine on the Norseman up to £1 ? Buyers
strong at eighteen-pence ! Boomsters are advised to keep
away from the Norseman. The aftermath of the boom.
A really well-got-up description of the As-
sociated Mines, W.A., was recently given in Adelaide by
George Brookman. He said that the work done on the
Australia was more than on any other two mines in the
camp, and that he had the assurance of both manager and
metallurgist that the big plant now being erected would
enable the mines to turn out 24,0000 z. a month. The
first div. of 2s. a share has been declared, and, having
cleared away from the Bottomley slump, shares are ad-
vancing.
» * * •
Kalgoorlie ventures are opening up splendidly.
Important discoveries have recently been made in the
Kalgoorlie, Associated and Boulder Mines.
* » * »
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*


r
d
ORIENT v —"n
—s CLOTfliNCsi
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOK
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONHS & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
rpilE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents,
and invites applications from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in JVeit,' South
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to MANAGED,
Equitable Jluildiny, Sydney.
Harrington $ C°- W-,
. . . Photographic
. . . Merchants,
ill
TON
66 King Street, SYDNEY,
AND
64 Queen Street, Brisbane
. . (Agents in all the other Colonies). .
CARRY THIS LARGEST AND MOST UP-TO-
DATE STOCK OF
Photographic Supplies and Novelties.
Send for Complete Illustrated
Catalogue
(NOW IN THE PRESS).
See our advfc. on page 28 for Latest Novelties. [1
SOCIETY
Mention of the Crotty will recalls that
King O’Malley, arch-priest of the “moon-eyed
goddess of Democracy,” last year introduced a
Testamentary Dispositions Bill into S.A. Parlia-
ment, to force a testator to leave at least a certain
large proportion (a third) of his estate to the
widow. The measure was generally commended,
but not carried to the final stage, because a general
desire was expressed that provision should also
be similarly made for the children. The Repub-
lican King has consequently amended the Bill
on those lines ; it will be brought in again this
session, and almost certainly become law before
the end of the year. Thus, as in many another
instance, S.A. will lead the way in a much-needed
Democratic reform. “The power of the dead-
hand ” is doomed in S. A
* * * *
Mrs. Crotty’s evidence of undue Church
influence upon her deceased Jim is an unknown
quantity at present, and its production in Court
is awaited with much interest. On the other side,
seemingly, there will be an attempt to show that
Crotty was a noble-minded creature, who found
his wife comparatively indifferent to the comforts
of religion, and feared she would “ bloo ” his cash
in frivolous entertainment if he gave her the
chance. But the hard fact remains—Crotty might
have secured it all to the “glory of God ” —after
his wife’s death. What troubled'him was the fear
of her achieving a second marriage on the strength
of a life-interest in the property, for his jealous
heart told him that a second husband was pretty
well bound to run rings round the memory "of
Crotty deceased.
THE DIFFICULTY OF ADOLPHUS.
“You see, Reggy, I find it most difficult to obtain a typewriter whose locks are exactly of the same
shade as my wife' s; being of a pacific disposition, doncherknow, I invariably adopt
this precaution."
Editor Bulletin. — One can’t possibly
sympathise with Murray Prior, the usurerwho took
advantage of his girl-servant under his own roof,
but with the mode of his conviction there is room
for disagreement. N.S.W. Full Court says in so
many words, “ We can’t compel this girl to return
to her mother—she is in the eyes of the law suffi-
ciently old to determine her own course of action.”
She does determine her own course of action, she
returns to Prior ; yet for this he is arrested and
convicted. Only for the immaculate character of
N.S.W. justice, the Full Court decision would
look like a trap to catch Prior. The moral of the
whole immoral proceeding is that it is much the
safer course for men of the Murray Prior stamp to
turn the girl into the street at the first approach
of trouble. —G.C.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. — Now that the Murray
Prior case has made it plain that the “ age-of-con-
sent ” gag does not mean that any miscreant can
call in two policemen to sit on the parents while
he keeps on seducing their over-16 years-daughter,
it is urgently necessary that some one should wipe
the floor of the Criminal Court with the women
who hail home-going schoolboys, send them for
liquor, and then prematurely initiate them into
“ Life.”— Hermes.
* * * *
“ At the annual meeting of the Shout-for-
Glory Association last evening, the audience was
addressed in stirring language by Mr. Jones, Mr.
Smith (Consul for Cockatoo Island), Mr. Brown,
and others ” (vide any daily paper). Why this
“ consul for ” &c., &c. ? He doesn’t attend in his
consular capacity, and the thing is meaningless
and nauseating, anyhow. It will come to this
soon : “ Amongst those present were Mr. Sauer
Kraut (made in Germany), Mr. Grabfat (£lOOO
a-year), Mr. Takemdown (5 to lon the field), Mr.
Longsleever (very drunk), and others.” If not,
why not ?
* * * *
N.: “ The bishop who transubstantiated
a kiss by first touching his own lips with his hand
and then those of a young lady, must be related
to the johnny who found a melancholy pleasure in
gently stroking a tighted leg with his cane. Also
to the clergyman who slyly cayenned his cut
orange, at Her Majesty’s garden-party, for fear of
too much joy. Does the bishop transubstantiate
with elderly ladies ? A lady-novelist enthuses on
the ‘Ghosts of Disembodied Kisses.’ What is
the value of the ghost of a disembodied transub-
stantiated episcopal kiss ? It is like those ex-
changed between the winged angel boys with no
bodies.”
♦ * * *
Mag : “ Magisterial enquiries into cause of
death may serve well enough where there are no
suspicious circumstances, but it must be remem-
bered that the sole object of inquests is to ferret
out any possible foul play. As far as the average
Jaypee’s acumen is concerned, any murder that
wasn’t actually red-handed would stand a good
chance of escaping detection. The wife-murder
at Bendigo, for which Hall was hanged last year,
was returned as an accidental death by the magis-
terial enquiry, and had it not been for the con-
sistent ]legging away of the Bendigo Independ-
ent Hall would probably have remained to this
day a shining light of the football-field.”
* » ♦ *
A landmark of Sydney is now being
demolished in Bent-street —the big house which,
for over half-a-century, was the home of the Aus-
tralian Club. Its old walls are redolent of much
Toryism, the place having had as members Alex
ander M'Leay (Colonial-Secretary), Deas Thom
son (his successor), the Duinaresqs, and many
others of the Imperial regime. Then the club
was exclusive. Sixty years ago the building was
the Pulteney Hotel, kept by the original Petty.
Pathetic S.M. Herald advts. :
VOUNG Man, strong, willing, intelligent, want any
Work, any wages, anywhere, refs. W.T., Herald.
A RESPECTABLE LAD, ago 20, willing to turn his
hand to anything, desires RE-ENGAGEMENT.
Refs., small sal. com. Willing, P. 0., Summer Hill.
Thus young men literally beg and pray for any
work and any wages ! No picking and choosing-
in these evil times. And this in Jolly and Fat
N.S.W. —the boasted “richest province” of them
all—the province which all the rest of Australia
is trying to rob !
* * » •
Every man has his mission, and every
Mission has its woman.
* * * *
“Teacher” : After repeated applications,
the N.S. W. Commissioners are running excursion-
trains for the school-holidays. It would have
been far better had the time-table been arranged
■so that the trains left Sydney for the country after
the arrival of the country trains. Sydney teachers
can go to any part of the country, but those even
a short distance from the metropolis can only
travel on the line they are on— i.e., to Sydney. It
would have meant a day’s loss of time to the Syd-
ney teachers, but it would have given the man
from Dandaloo a chance to see the Snowy River.
* » * *
Quite the most artistic thing in the way of
a tragedy that Australia has produced for many a
day is the latest from W. A. It reads almost as .if
it had been contrived and stage-managed by the
shade of Maupassant. The respectable, wealthy
resident deserts his mistress, and marries piously,
abandoning his family of illegitimates. He visits
the latter to say farewell ere departing for his
honeymoon, and the eldest son, a boy of 16, blows
out his brains before his father’s eyes ; whereupon
the father rushes from the scene, distracted with
horror, and is not seen again. That is the posi-
tion at the time of writing, and the story is com-
plete, so all “ later information ” must come in
the nature of an anti-climax, and will be studi-
ously ignored by the present scribe.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re female partiality for
mixed railway carriage; in Maoriland we always
claimed the right to eject women from smokers.
One frosty morning a party of auctioneers came
into the office at our station, and requested that
two females be removed from the smoker. Writer
hung on his most engaging smile, went to the
compartment, and gently asked the fair to shift,
as the smoker was the only one on the train. The
nearest houri promptly took out a packet of
cigarettes, lit one, and passed the case on to her
companion, who replied: “No, thanks, dear;
I’ll have a cigar.” And she did! There was
nothing for it but to pensively retire. —H.
* * * *
“Kurrajong”: Bulletin, 4/6/’9B, was
quite right: “Lovely Woman is Peculiar,” but
when her treatment of the ladies’ compartment is
under discussion, the fact should be considered
that it is usually the babies’ compartment also,
hence its careful disuse by an averagely-well-
dressed woman. Let The Bulletin travel with a
tribe of children constantly eating fruit or sweets,
who claw wildly at the nearest garment when the
carriage oscillates, and it will never again wonder
at the avoidance of the ladies’ compartment by
the feminine traveller.
* * * *
The latest Southern demi-mondaine ruse
to attract patronage and cash takes the form of
letters addressed to prominent married citizens,
requesting their attendance at specified tunes
“ for most urgent reasons ” at private residences,
which eventually turn out to be of the assignation
order. Several prominent Melb. city men have
lately had to pay smartly for their curiosity (or
“gallantry”) inasmuch as the lady always has a
blackmailer handy who wants something to
keep his discovery dark.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent :
Supervision of slaughter-houses must not stop with the
condemnation of all diseased meat. Went through Sydney
abattoirs last night —the whole system is disgusting.
The butchers have a playful habit of throwing offal at
each other, and the visitor, unaccompanied by anyone in
authority, is certain of a bad time. If he remonstrates,
so much the worse. To see refuse thrown about pro-
miscuously in the midst of meat intended for food is a
practical argument for vegetarianism. In the ideal
slaughter-house, all the butchers will have to undergo
daily medical examination —at present, a consumptive
may handle meat and spread disease for months.
9 * * *
“N.” : A Melb. paper, giving names, or a
name, which I need not do, has a timely anecdote
about a Salvation Army officer. A poor man ap-
plied to him for relief. Says the officer, “lean do
nothing, unless you get sent to gaol. Then you
will be received by our Prison Gate Brigade.”
Lovely. I was walking one night past the brigade
establishment in Melbourne, with its windows
brilliantly lighted, and an honest pauper said to
me, “ Ah, I can’t get in there : I’ve never been in
gaol.”
* * • *
The petitioner in a recent N.S.W. divorce-
case got his first “ hint ” in a curious way.
Caccethcs scribendi again. The subsequently-cited
co-respondent wanted a coat made, and, being
something of a humorist, gave the job to the
betrayed hubby, who runs a tailoring concern.
Lothario called for the completed article, and,
wishing to wear it to the races, changed then and
there, leaving the other coat to be sent to his
It was a wofully
wet day, and the
Sydney suburban
’bus was crowded —
all women except a
small, fragile man
with a cough, who,
nevertheless, upon
the further advent
of a large, red wo-
man with an ample
brolly and a hard
eye, gallantly sur-
rendered to her his
place, and climbed
to a watery perch
beside the driver.
Soon afterwards the
rain suddenly in-
creased to a drench-
ing torrent, and the
driver, at the meek
little man’s request,
called down into the
interior of the ’bus
to know “if the
lady for whom the
gen’leman had got
outside would mind
lendin’ him her um-
brella!” Unto
which the “ lady,”
withindignantsnort
■ —“No fear! Lost
too many umbrellas!
Why don’t people
carry umbrellas of
their own ! ” So the
“ ruder sex ” went
.Hi catching its
ileath.
house. By the fatality which squares these
things, it happened that the boss himself folded up
the coat in parcel-form, and while doing so a letter
tumbled out of an inside pocket. Even tailors are
but human when they recognise handwriting, and
he read it. It was a very Warm “ invitation to
the waltz ” from his oivn tvife. The sequel has
just arrived in the form of a decree nisi.
* * * *
A few days ago, in Melbourne, a house
was burgled of the entire contents of the first
floor, and, although 13—fatal number ! —people
were sleeping in the apartments overhead, the
property—chairs, piano, sofa, carpet, &c.—was
carted away successfully, and the inmates knew
nothing of the fact until morning. The detectives
admit that they see no earthly reason for the steal,
as the burglars would find it difficult to dispose of
the goods ; and, as nobody seems to have, seen a
stray cart loaded with furniture wandering around
in the early hours, the affair is wrapped in mys-
tery. Most likely the perpetrators are a deserving
newly-married couple, and very likely the husband
is a young man, one of many who get married on
a pound a week or less and are therefore unable to
plank down the necessary coin to start housekeep-
ing. Anyhow, it is hoped the Bench will let them
off with a caution. What this young country
wants is population, and population can’t come
respectably without marriage, and it is almost
essential that marriage should be accompanied by
something for the bride to sit down upon.
* * * »
A Melbourne suburban-villa landlord has
achieved a verdict of £lO and costs against a ten-
shillings-a-week tenant who—after the manner of
tenants in general—forgot to take, proper care o f
FOOTBALL RETURNS.
MISS ENTHUSIAST : “ My brother tells me that your
son took part in a game of football while be
was in Sydney.”
MOTHER : “ Yes; he did”
MISS E.: “ Half or three-quarter back?”
M.: “ Oh, he’s nearly all back—lost only an ear
and two Ungers!”
Ba[?]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY. J.S.S.
tl— 6l WTN9R. The form i; rvot quit i?iry-<=rf~ _
bvh thafiij ir\ ujrtfi tty tyroif\eT~
7! Elspeth Ann Eliza Jane
*/. r-L Was just as good as she could be :
She never gave the slightest pain
To members of her family ;
Averse from every kind of spree
That brings a maiden near a man ;
A nd dignified to a degree
Was ’Liza Jane May Elspeth Ann.
But one most melancholy day —
You must not think I’m telling lies —
Ann Elspeth Jane Eliza May
Gave room for many a shocked surmise
The facts admit of no disguise,
The sad, sad truth may not be hid —
Things quite unfit for maidens' eyes
May 'Liza Ann Jane Elspeth did.
The Bishop came with awful mien
And words of damnatory sense.
“ Poor erring sister,” said the Dean,
“ My heartfelt sympathy's immense.”
“Avaunt ! ” she cried, “ base slanderers,
hence !
On greater sinners vent your bans
A conscience void of all offence
Is 'Liza Elspeth Jane May Ann's ! ”
L'EXVOt.
Bishops and Deans, whate'er you say,
Your own most virtuous offspring may
Become, in spite of all your pains,
Ann May Eliza Elspeth Janes.
J.N.S.


Ulil.l
a
b
Ivaxloo-aoj .
nOA 3AV|ld
-DOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTIOIVT
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers -per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. (EfT” Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuf/hout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
ROSIM, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAITSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Auunonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 Williani-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
68 Currie-sfc., Adelaide; Q«een-st., Brisbane.
the garden. It was an “ ideal ” garden a year
ago, and to-day its glory is departed. A good
many landlords have the same grievance, and the
sympathy of the outside public is with them, for
the outside public loves to look over the gate or
the fence, and admire the beauties of nature.
Also the o.p. delights to express its feelings by
sneaking roses and things from the benefactor’s
garden, back and front. But nobody sympathises
with the tenant who gets his rent raised in con-
sideration of his having created an attractive
garden out of a howling wilderness. Contracts
between landlord and tenant are for the protection
of proputty. For the yearly tenant who improves
the proputty there is not even a law of common
justice.
o * » *
One Brisbane barrister is doing so well
that he recklessly refused a 300 guinea brief and
2ogs. per day refresher to go to Charters Towers
in a big mining ease. Attorney-General Byrnes
was “on” in same case, but it has since been
settled amicably, to the great discontent of the
Ch. Towers public, who anticipated spicy reve-
lations.
* * * *
The liquor forwarded by a certain Vic-
torian goods-train had so frequently been broached
in transit that two detectives were planted in a
covered truck with a consignment of grog. But
the guard and engine-men had got the tip ; they
ran the truck on a siding between two walls, which
prevented the truck doors (opening outwards)
from giving egress, and marked the vehicle in
chalk, in the regulation style : “Journals (axles)
heated.” As it was the last train through, the
stationmaster went to bed, and the unfortunate
d’s. were not discovered until noon next day,
when the truck was shunted on to the goods-
train.
«5 * * •
At Melbourne, the other day, Margaret
Jeffrey went for her hubby for disobeying a main-
tenance-order. And she gave him a bad charac-
ter. Said that he bad devoted himself to a life of
pleasure ; whereat the old man answered mourn-
fully : “ I’ve been married 40 years.” Yet no-
body in court seemed to see the joke.
* * * *
S.A. Public Service Review lost its head
over the Commonwealth Bill. Burst of Federal
enthusiasm from the patriotic editor just before
Referendum Day :
May we under it unresistingly peruse (pursue) our peace-
ful vocations, and thus in healthy competition and
rivalrj' grow on from our infant sisterhood into a great
nation—young cubs of the British Lion, with an eye like
Mars to threaten and command, to control the destinies
of the southern seas, as our mother and our cousin do
those of the north, and with a trinity of hands across all
seas to dominate the world.
* » * *
The Ballarat prisoner who returns news-
paper thanks to his gaoler makes one think of
Sydney Smith on prison philanthropy : “We are
more likely to hear of conspiracies to break into
than out of gaol. ”
ONE ON THE “GONE.”
OLD BEAU: “ We haven’t met for many a year, but, judging by your appearance, you
have led a smiling life since."
OLD MAID: “ Yes, I have —you see it by my wrinkles; as I see it on your nose !”
J.D. : Cycling through a Tas. country dis-
trict, the other day, I came across a family of eight
children all deaf and dumb. Consanguinity ? I
dunno about this particular instance, but there is
•i tremendous lot of it in this island.
One Australian lady—Mrs. Speight., a
hotel marm from Coolgardie way—has sailed for
Klondyke. The first from Australia ?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—A late number of a cer-
tain medical journal gives an analysis of one of
the most popular and largely advertsied nostrums
for removing irregularities of all kinds “ from
whatever cause arising.” Here it is :
Carbonate of potash (pearlash) 40 grs.
Myrrh (with a large percentage of dirt
and sandy matter) 80 ~
Water flavored and sweetened with nut-
meg and spirit of choloform £ a pint.
A box of pills said to be “efficacious in even the
most obstinate cases,” contained 27 four-grain
coated pills identical in composition with the
common compound rhubarb pills of the British
Pharmacopcea. These quack remedies, which
cost at the outside 4d., were sold at 15s. The
bitterness of the fraud is that the above nostrums
are utterly useless for the purposes advertised.
Poor ignoramuses driven by desperation to part
with their scant earnings in the hope of making
the irregular regular, the crooked straight, are
left at the end, worse off than ever, full up in
heart and body and absolutely empty in jjoeket.
Where is the remedy?—Medico.
» • * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph naively an-
nounces that an invention by Volunteer-Colonel
Rowe (N.S. W.)
Consists of a patent shield, which folds up, and may
be carried on the back. It is designed to afford cover for
men in action.
Recalls the mention in a recent book of an East
African chief who “received a bad spear wound
in a place which showed that he was ignomini-
ously flying from the enemy.”
* * * *
AN.S.W. resident army man who draws
his rank and title from Imperial sources is so
sorely aggrieved at the prevalence of captains,
colonels and majors of Australian manufacture
that he intends “inquiring in thepropah quartah”
whethah or not such expressions as, for instance,
“Captain Farnell ” and “Colonel Neild ” are
legally correct. The touchy martinet holds that
they should be “Colonial Captain Farnell ’’ and
“Colonial Colonel Neild”; or, if the provinces
like, doncherknow, each could prefix its own name
to the title of its warriors. In the early days the
word “Colonial” was prefixed to all titles con-
ferred for services rendered or to be rendered in
Australia—Colonial Chaplain, Colonial Secretary,
Colonial Quartermaster, and so on.
* * * *
An old man who went missing at South
Melbourne was found dead in the place he was
employed to take care of. The cat, which was
locked in with the body, had lived on the latter
for a week, and there was no face left when the
searchers entered.
* * * •
S.A. Govt, has re-engaged Drs. Napier
and Smith, the imported Adelaide Hospital
doctors, for another five years. Despite slander-
ous statements by opposition doctors and news-
papers, Smith and Napier have been a great suc-
cess, and the percentage of deaths at Adelaide
Hospital has never been so low as it is at present.
Owing to the influence of the striking doctors,
however, medical students still migrate to Mel-
bourne to finish their studies.
* * * *
If N.S. W. Govt, take no action to save the
patients in Govt.-subsidised hospitals from raids
of lady visitors of evangelising dispositions, the
various hospital-committees should pass stringent
by-laws in that direction. Almost all ladies who
visit hospitals think it their duty to console the
patients, and women’s general idea of consolation
is to convert the dying man or woman to their
own particular brand of salvation. Some try to
do it with tracts, some with a raspy wail, and
some with a wheezy whisper ; but all who try it
any way should be run-out either by a policeman
or the hospital-warder.
In Ber-
the loaf in
ve n tin g
ling and
tralians
to wrap
burdened
lin the bakers encase
a paper-bag, thus pre-
defilement in hand-
carting. And Aus-
still allow the butcher
meat in filthy, germ-
old newspapers!
VERBATIM.
INQUISITIVE PARTY:
“Do you make
much money
selling THE
BULLETIN?”
NEWSBOY : “ Oh,
middlin’! But not
so much as ’Opkins — ’e’s the bloke loot makes a
nice dry bit, you bet !”
A country damsel recently journeyed over
300 miles to Sydney to be wed, but the bridegroom
failed to come to scratch. Whereupon the lady and
her mother hied them gaily off 400 miles in
another direction, to the missing one’s place of
residence, and there discovered him upon a jam-
boree which had wiped from his remembrance all
about his little appointment in the metropolis.
He was forthwith ironed hand and foot, conveyed
to Sydney,' and duly executed.
* * * *
T.D. : In my suburb, the public-school
piano needed tuning last week. To raise the
requisite five bob, a concert was held among the
children themselves, each of whom had to pay one
penny admission. Yet the only people who use
the instrument are the teachers.
* * at *
Ed. Bulletin.—Some time ago you said
that tobacco isn’t a luxury, but a necessity.
But physiology teaches that smoking is injurious
to the nerves, and physiology (as you rightly
pointed out in a later issue) embraces the know-
ledge of all time and all nations. It seems to me,
therefore, that in saying that tobacco is a neces-
sity, and not a luxury, you are as inconsistent and
illogical as you often show others to be. —Dago.
[Physiology does not say that moderate tobacco-
use is injurious—while, as for immoderation, all
excess is hurtful. Also, the distinction of mean-
ing between “ practical necessity ” and “necessity
absolute ” ought to be visible to the naked eye of
even the Inconveniently Literal Person.—Ed. B.]
* m * «
John Forrest's marvellous perspicacity
paralysed the Esperance people during his recent
visit. “Itis 28 years since I first visited Espec.-
ance, and I can already see the great changes that
have improved the township." Esperance con-
sisted, when Forrest was there before, of a sheep-
station, a police hut, and a blacks’ camp. John
buried a faithful black tracker on the shores of the
Bay, and it may have been to the fence and slab
which now mark the spot that he referred as the
“great changes.” Esperance, now boasting more
than one two-storeyed building, a theatre, and a
post-office, has a surjace morality sadly lacking
in other Westralian towns.
* * * •
Nothing is so shortlived as the memory of
“the dead past.”
* * * •
S.S. : “The itinerant Melbourne ‘solici-
tor ’ is sometimes cold and proud, with all the in-
■solence and assurance of the ‘ gent, one ’;
and if you are not a large, bustling per-
son, with an undershot jaw and a visible
desire to batter holes in your brother
man it is really not safe to offer him
food. The other day a specimen ‘ beat ’
called upon us, and the house-mother
listened to his tale of woe. He was very
British, and belonged to a grand old
family, and had been in the army, dont-
cherknow. He was eloquent and dra-
matic, and shed tears over his ruined life.
The lady was touched when he spoke of
long days without food, and presently
proffered a liberal donation of bread
and meat. The beat was aston-
ished, not to say indignant, and
eyed the food with ineffable scorn.
‘Madam,’ he said, ‘you are gener-
ous, but I am more gener-
ous than you.’ Ashespoke
he upturned a sugar-bag
he carried in his hand, and
emptied a truck - load of
bread and meat and mis-
cellaneous cold boiled vege-
tables on to our door-mat.
Then he stalked majesti-
cally down the
garden-path, with
the air of a beat
who had vindi-
cated his honor.”
* *
The Jubilee
left one visible re-
sult behind it in
England which it
is hoped will give
the “silken
bonds ” a friendly
lift. The troops
which gathered in
from all parts of the empire
were located in and around
London. They were a mixed
lot—white Australians and
Canadians, Malays, Maoris,
Chinese, Sikhs, Bengalis,
and many other samples—
and they all went out and
mashed Mary Hann, the suscep-
tible servant-girl, in their spare time.
Mary Hann fell down and worshipped
their beautiful uniforms at first sight, and
the result is that there are twice as many
unorthodox infants as usual this year in the
localities where these troops hung out, and that
the infants are black, brown, yellow, and other
surprising colors. Also, one dark-brown infant
has been born into the British peerage, and a
great scandal has ensued.
• * * *
“ Melb.” : I hear the chief Hebrew school
here has just abolished classics, in order that full
attention may be given to commercial subjects.
Practical Israel! It is suckled on the com] mnd-
interest table.
* * * •
Said Nosenbloom to a Bulletin man :
“ Two goot places to haff der bawnshob vos ride
by der publig’onse, or ride by der deatre. Near
der publig’ouse you vas convenient for der man
vot haff spend heernseluff oop und vant to pawn
tings to keeb id goin’; und near der deatre you vos
hanty for de veemen vot vas want to pawn some-
dings to see dot play. I haff heabs of ladies vot
pawn mit me der brooch, der ring, anyting, for
one or dwo shillin’s for to go mit de theatre.
Ourley Bellew vos goot for drade—he vos ferry
goot for drade, Curley Bellew.”
* * • *
In N.S.W., recently, three brothers
Quinn, two of whom are twins, married three
sisters Hoffman, two of whom also are twins.
Another brother Quinn had previously espoused
another sister Hoffman; so that, in electric
phrase, “ the connection is complete ! ”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Your “ Woman’s Let-
ter ” says of Sydney street-sold violets that they
smell only of water —“a clean smell, certainly.”
I think, however, if Gouli-Gouli had ever wit-
nessed a vendor watering his posies, she wouldn’t
have found the odour quite so blameless. The
fellow I noted had a bottle of water, from which
he would take a swig, and then, after the manner
of a Chinese laundryman, spray the mouthful
over the bunches of violets in his basket.—D.
» * ♦ *
The recent Melb. garotting-case suggests
an idea. Let all confidential-clerks who have to
carry large sums of money from banks to places
of business be supplied with spiked or saw-edged
steel collars, to fit neatly under their shirt-collars.
One hug of these would discourage the boldest
thug in the profession.
ROSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roses, roses, roses,
Golden and white and red,
Lusciously twining and trailing
Over the balcony railing ;
Pretty, scented roses ;
When Sweetheart and I were wed
She gathered a golden, smiling bloom,
And Memory loves its sweet perfume.
Roses, roses, roses,
Honest, sunny, and true
As her pure life at the dawning
Ere the fatal words gave warning;
Faithful, clinging roses —
In the time of the deepest rue
We only remember rosebuds red,
Like drops of blood on her snowy bed.
Roses, roses, roses,
Golden and red and white—
Little one merry and winning,
Knows not she is pinning
In her bosom’s roses
The cold of that chilly night,
Where Sweetheart silent and still has lain
Like a white rose wilted under the rain.
Tas.
BARKIS.
THE BEREAVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He moves about the world again ;
His grief he never speaks ;
The wrinkles deep of pinching pain
Make channels in his cheeks,
And in his eyes a settled woe
Lies like a ghost that will not go.
No mourning wears he to proclaim
His agony, but white
His hair has grown since pale Death came,
And robbed him in the night.
On Sunday morns his hot tears lave
The flowers he scatters on her grave.
A few there are who sympathise ;
They press his wasted hand ;
And deep and true emotions rise,
For they can understand.
He’s lost the best of wives? Nay, Nay !
The best of cooks was called away.
SILAS SNELL.


Callaghan Boots
made
of
good leather
firmly stitched together .
Gentlemen’s Winter Boots,
17s. 6d., 215., 225. 6d., 255.
Ladies’ Winter Boots,
13s. 6d., 14s. 9d., 15s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
Influenza and Colds
Nothing so suddenly obstructs the perspiration
as sudden transitions from heat to cold. Heat
rarities the blood, quickens the circulation and in-
creases the perspiration, but when these are sud-
denly checked the consequences must be bad. The
most common cause of disease is obstructed pers-
piration, or what commonly goes by the name of
catching cold. Coughs, colds, sore throats, &c.,
if attended to in time are easily subdued, but if
allowed to run their own course generally prove
the forerunner of more dangerous diseases. Nine-
tenths of the consumptives date their affliction
from a neglected cold, and the diseases that are
caused by wet feet, damp clothes, or exposure are
more numerous than are generally supposed. One
of the most efficacious medicines for the preven-
tion of diseases of the throat and lungs is BILE
BEANS. Bile Beans are an undoubted Specific
for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, In-
digestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness,
Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pim-
ples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney
Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influenza, Colds, Heart
Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side, Fulness after
Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and
that Tired Feeling.*
GLOBE TEAS have wo E g“ a
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 21, 1898.
Mr Dear Myee—
Sydney Liedertafel made a big, bold innovation
by inviting women to that most sacred masculine
revel—a smoke-concert. So the thin end of the
wedge slips in and in, and women now flaunt
fearlessly where grandmas feared to tread, even on
tip-toe, in elastic-side cloth boots. Up to the
present time the Liedertafel’s lady guests are held
in check by the gallery railings, and the smoke
and the beer and the men have the body of the
hall to themselves. But, as a member of the ad van-
ning sex, I hope the time is not far distant when
little tables, and mild cigarettes of brown paper
and tea leaves, will be set apart behind screens for
those of the petticoated who think they like
them.
The concert was a joyous one, as viewed from
the gallery, through the mist of many pipes.
There seemed U be more women than men pre-
sent, but that may have been an optical illusion
arising out of several big hats growing gardens
and aviaries in one. A few evening gowns hid
themselves shamefacedly under opera-cloaks, and
the majority compromised the matter by removing
their head-gear. Up in the gallery corridors, tea
and.coffee were available, and a dearth of cups
pointed to the fact that the committee had not ex-
pected such a generous attendance. Coming out
of the hall I heard one man remark : 44 It’s not the
same thing when you know her eye’s on you.”
But as he was one of the little men who marry the
big, fat women, his remark does not count.
Specially in the lenient light of the comment made
by a matron to a spinster, 44 1 thought they all got
under the table.”
As for the musical part of the evening, the pro-
gramme was pleasing and included two local com-
positions, Alfred Hill’s orchestral 44 Slumber
Music,” and N. J. Gehde’s song, “The Voyage.”
A very German gentleman, Herr Staedtgen, with
curly hair and legs, and rich, rollicking baritone,
went 44 The Voyage ” twice over at the wish of
the audience, but the encores were not the un-
limited wickednesses of concerts where women are
allowed to clap. From a women’s point of view,
the most peculiar feature of the evening was the
unfaltering determination of the smokers not to
encore every item on the programme.
So far the Pleyel Chamber-music concerts have
not gripped the public to any large extent.
Chamber music doesn’t go straight to the heart
like 44 Home, Sweet Home’’with variations. A
little education is needed to he p it heartward, and
Saturday’s programme was admirable beyond all
hope of the public. An exquisite rendering of
Schubert’s Quintet was something to hold on to
till the next Concert.. Staell, Vollmar. Alfred
Hill, Podenzana and F. M. Carter were re-
sponsible for its interpretation. Mrs. Lance, who
always sings as if she means it, was the only
vocalist. In the middle of the concert the big
piano misbehaved itself and nearly fell off the
platform, when it was being moved aside for the
string quintet. And of course everyone stood up
and looked towards the door. Panic is still a
fashionable sensation.
Recipe for making waltzuptodate. Take a lean
piece of motif, the leaner the better, and hang it
up where the wind can blow on it. When
thoroughly dry and hard, wash and wipe it well,
and thus remove all signs of blood, melody, or
other disease common to the poor old motifs that
have been on hand for several hundred years.
Then score heavily with a butcher-knife, chop up
into, small pieces, put half your pieces up on the
octave shelf above your head, and leave them
there till needed ; lay the remainder away at the
bottom of the board. Run about a little here,
and thump the board with the handle of the
carving-knife. Then gather your motif-mince
together, scatter some real stale crumbs of ocher
people’s compositions over the top of the dish,
decorate with a picture of a lady in a Grecian cos-
tume, and serve hot some steaming summer night
when the ballroom is 100 - in the shade and
“there’s no shade.” That recipe carefully carried
out, I defy any waltz to be different from any
other of the waltzes made by similar recipes.
“ My Marjorie,” by Bertha Lord (Paling and
Co.), is a bold opponent of my recipe, and scatters
a tender melody abroad with reckless hand. I
consider this the most pleasing and tuneful com-
position of the season, and its rhythmic impulse
is bound to provoke dancing feet into the third
and fourth extra. The same publishers send a
variation on the usual provincial Muse, in the
shape of 44 Narcissus,’’ sub-titled a water-scene, by
Ethelbert Nevin. The scene is kind enough to
move on after two pages of a gentle andante
movement that leaves behind it nothing particular
to mark its brief, two-leafed existence. From
Glen and Co. comes “The Bismarck March,” by
Wilhelm A. Haas. The picture of a big frown
adorns the cover, and a notice to the effect that
Bismarck has allowed this march to be dedicated
to him, points to the fact that the frown must be
Bismarck. But, after all, with the open pedal
down, the march is a good, loud one that rather
puts the frown out of countenance, as it were.
The Dante Societa had its third conversazione
on Friday—a mild, artless festivity, variegated
with coffee and buns, and some mandolin per-
formances, and some pure Italian. But for the
ordinary English-speaking folk, who are limited
t o the word “macaroni,” there was too much of the
language of the ice-cream-shop in the entertain-
ment, The lecture on Dante, spoken in Italian,
by Signor Turolo, was appreciated by five or six
black-bearded gentlemen, with Southern eyes,
but failed to raise a thrill in other people’s breasts.
At intervals, the stage was taken by bevies of
white-robed maidens, who made as much music
out of mandolins as mandolins will allow. Elsie
Hall, in a white blouse, sat in the front row beside
her mother and listened carefully with no indica-
tion of ennui, but when you consider that Dante
was a man who had Heaven and Hell open to
him, the mild mediocrity of the Dante Society’s
musical offerings seem scarcely fitting.
Astronomer Russell entertained the N.S.W.
members of the British Astronomical Association
last week, in three relays, by showing them Saturn
through his large telescope. So well entertained
were they on one occasion that they took no ac-
count of the flight of time, and had to walk home
after midnight to their respective suburbs. As
none of them had seen the new comet, they all
gave glowing accounts of old ones, but, when Mr.
Russell had got back so far as the brilliant appari-
tion of ’43, the other yarners gave it best, and
wished their host 44 Good-night.”
Durward Lely has been drawing better houses
every night, but the entertainment would be
brisker and more effective if the little intermediate
sketches were cut out altogether. To give the
history of a song before you sing it goes against
the ethics of artistic singing.
Julius Knight, to my mind, now fits into the
part of Napoleon like a snail in an empty snake-
skin. He does not act much, does not elocute in-
spiringly, and more or less spurns facial expression.
To be branded Nap, and wear a white face, and a
black cloak, and a hunched back, is good enough ;
but to put these things on the stage without any
redbloodman inside to make the wheels go round
is not history, and is not art. But no one can be
surprised if so many consecutive performances of
the “Sign of the Cross ’’ have temporarily dulled
the gentle and accomplished Julius. Miss Ferrar
is still the Josephine of the glittering sequined
frock, fast darkening with wear and stage-dust;
and Marie Louise still clings to the reddest of red
wigs—lso-carrot, I should judge it. Public en-
thusiasm over the “Cross” co. has worn off a
little, and everyone is looking forward to Herr
Pauli and the coming opera-season.
The next few weeks are to be brisk with dances.
Woollahra Benevolent Society Ball comes off on
Tuesday, 28th June, at Paddington Town Hall.
The Artists’ Ball follows in the same hall on
Thursday, and the Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s
Ball on Friday, July Ist. The Art Society is
responsible for this Artists’ ball, with Mr Lister
Lister as president.
Rumored that Jack Want had fifteen tickets
sent him by fifteen different ladies for the last big
charity ball.
The sale of so many of the pictures, at the Aus-
tralian Artists’ Exhibition in London recalls that,
prior to the selection of the works in Australia, it
was suggested to one of the gentlemen in charge
of the exhibition-scheme that the Australian
public should be given an opportunity to view the
pictures before they were packed for London.
44 Oh, never mind,” said he, 44 we’ll exhibit them
when they come back.” And he didn’t mean it—
also, he wasn’t an Irishman. I see that, after all,
Mr. Piguenit heads the sale-list by trading off five
pictures for <£433. The careful old-fashioned
style of work, which some people deride as 44 tea-
tray ” art, still has the strongest clientele.
A popular belief that the Gibho is the very
bushiest of all the bushy baekbloek towns will be
dispelled by the following cutting from a Dark
River paper. I give it to you to let you see that
even in the very remotest bush they know how to
do the thing correctly :
On Friday night Mrs. Jones gave a splendid ball at her
residence on the Gibbo. The hostess, with admirable
taste and lavish generosity, entertained her guests
sumptuously. When the visitors, whicli comprised a large
party of ladies and gentlemen from Benambra and some
gentleman from the Dart, arrived, they found the tables
overflowing with everydeliciousedible that themost epicu-
rean palate could desire, and after the long ride, the guests,
with appetites keen from the fresh mountain air, did full
justice to the ample board. A large hall, tapestried with
many emblems of the rich variety of Gibbo evergreens,
was prepared for the ball-room, and dancing, occasionally
varied with songs, was kept up with animation. But all
too soon the early dawn heralded the approach of day,
and then the dancers reluctantly retired from the
brilliant scene of enjoyment with many a wish that night
had kept her pinions furled a little longer. After
breakfast the party, with many felicitous expressions,
bade adieu to their hospitable hostess, and returned along
the winding and picturesque valley of the Gibbo, gazing
again with admiration upon the wild and magnificent
scenery that is here so marked by contrast that monotony
is conspicuously absent. That the party enjoyed the
trip even beyond expectation was manifest from the glow-
ing cheeks and vivacious eyes of the ladies, and satisfied
demeanor of the gentlemen as they arrived at
Benambra.
And society in the back-blocks is becoming as
particular about the reports of its hats and frocks
as leaders of city fashions. Up in the Riverina a
lady is trying to work the dismissal of the editor
of the Calf Creek Times because his journal
made it appear that the daughter of the lady in
question was married in a picnic hat. It ought to
have been picture, don’t you see !
A strange feature about our Victoria Salon is
that women who are notoriously skilful hostesses
in their own homes seem to sink into a shy or
stupid awkwardness when they receive their guests
in the club precincts. Conversation freezes as you
pass the drawing-room doorways and for some
oc< ult reason those who do talk, whisper. The
most elastic imagination could not call one of the
Salon meetings a merry party. As for the Intel-
lectual element, which was promised so lavish a
development in the early days of the club, its time
has not yet come. Various grades of society hold
drawing-rooms weekly, and now and then a lonely
artist does a lightning sketch, or an unfledged
young man sings a song, but it is never
the same lonely artist or the same young man a
second time—a sad fact and full of meaning.
If I were asked to make a suggestion, I
have one ready that’s not in the least
brilliant, but is easy to carry out. Move the salon
chairs about and mix them up in the middle of
the room. Of all certain ways to ensure a
Charles Lamb party “all silent and all damned”
commend me to a room where the guests sit all
along the walls, and an empty space gapes in the
middle of the room to echo what they might say if
they talked.
A certain debt-collecting co., recently, sent a
very big sassiety dame a demand for £2B due for
corsets, and she replied by calling in person to say
that she wasn’t in a position to pay, but would
leave some old pictures, arriving by next boat
from ’Ome, with the firm as security. The offer
was accepted, and a week later the footman or
someone in mufti, carted the pictures straight from
the steamer to the co’s office, where they will re-
main pending developments in the corsets account.
Just as fashions have settled down for the
winter, spring goods—the peach-trees are already
blossoming in Sydney—begin to unfold themselves
in shop-windows, and all one’s conceit in one’s
winter clothes is smartly overthrown. Another
of the cruel little habits of our shopkeepers is
their present system of selling you a frock. In a
French drapery-house you sit down at a counter,
and remain there until you have bought every
item that goes to make a dress. But in our shops
we buy the material on the first floor, the bones
down the basement, trimming in the top storey,
lining in the warehouse across the lane at the
back, and the buttons —well, we generally have to
go to another shop to match the buttons. Conse-
quence is that jaded shoppers, whose limbs won’t
drag themselves up three flights for the right shade
of button-hole silk and the true tone of trimming,
take whatever comes first, or leave the matter of
etceteras to the shopkeeper, and presently find
themselves burdened with a gown that plays 10
different variations to one note of color.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Be the Govt. House bud-show. Debutante
Madden in white spotted chiffon over silk and
feathers in her hair was the pick of the yearlings.
All the Madden ladies were plumed, by the way.
Ma’s nodding crest was black, those of her
daughters, blue, fawn, ivory and white respec-
tively.
“The prevalent coiffure is a shade severe for
matronly or pronounced features. Not that the
topknot’s in fault. But the crimped rear and side
locks, combed up over a 44 horse-shoe ” or 44 merry-
thought ” frlzette, make a background for the face
suggestive of hard lines rather than soft fluff.
44 The engaged daughter of a high and mighty
clan isn’t the eldest of the family, you know. Ac-
cording to an old superstition, unmarried sisters,
elder than a bride, should dance at her wedding m
stocking soles. In this particular instance, the
senior spinster, ’tis said, still swears eternal con-
stancy to that briefless barrister, encountered
while studying singing at’ome. In view of the
contretemps, her juniors saw foreign parts under
watchful maternal escort, whih* her lone, lorn pa,
left in Melb. to provide grist and pine in grass-
widowerhood, was rewarded in due course by glad
tidings of one of the wanderers.
“The first performance of ‘La Pericbole’ by
the Australian Opera Clubbites drew to the Bijou
a well-dressed crowd, including the acting vice-
regal couple, three daughters and as many aides.
Mamma wrapped her glittersome black gown in
an amber-satin cape all flutes and frills of ivory
chiffon. Debutante Leslie’s blonde locks were
crowned by a filmy puff or rosette of virginal
white tulle, while sister Sylvia, who brought along
her slim, boyish-seeming fiance, smiled on her
captive from behind the steep, white-fur, storm
collar of her powder-pink pelisse.
44 The Madden baby, by-the-bye, was an ex-
emplary inmate of the Bijou vice-regal box, t’other
night. Just such a chubby innocent as the heroine
of Wordsworth’s 4 We are seven.’
“Be the performance, Ray Jones as La Peri-
chole has raven locks hanging down her back,
unlike that other gipsy at the Princess whose
Egyptian curls are coppery. Lady Babbie, per-
haps, prefers to create a color-contrast with her
dancing brown eyes. Anyway, black thatch, ’tis
said, is unpopular in stage pictures as too un-
changing, and suggestive at a distance of horse-
hair.
“Take them altogether, La Perichole clothes
are surprisingly effective. The hard-up heroine
hungers, to begin with, in a vivid gitana costume,
all reds, blues, streamers and spangles. Later, as
the favorite of a nasty old grandee, she is promoted
to amber satin, with white lace flounces, jewelled
stomacher, Medici collar, puffed sleeves and Court
plumes in her hair. Hero Tutton makes rather a
limp, down-hearted minstrel and lover. So un-
pushful, indeed, that one almost excuses his half-
starved betrothed for selling herself into shame
for sheer want of her supper. Most women in the
audience felt far angrier with the sharp-set sinner
when by her own showing she gets “ a little tight’’
in the course of the much-needed meal. There
are some weird peasant costumes amongst the lie-
choristers. It is a fine, dashing fellow, I tell you,
who stands about in a babyish jacket and short
pants, trimmed with artless black braid, without
looking like 4 Simple Simon.’
44 Little Minister Cecil Ward is drawing ancient
Scotch dames cn masse to the ungodly play house.
His love-making’s 4 real bonnie,’ say these critics,
and then they add, with a retrospective sigh, that
the same applies to most ministers. I don’t
approve of those towels and sheets on the clothes-
line in the Manse front-garden. What about his
reverence’s cambric neck- 4 bands ’ and large linen
’kerchiefs? Anyone wishing to ingratiate herself
with a little minister should not give him slippers
or cap like au 4 Episcopalian ’ curate. The proper
treatment is a set of daintily-stitched cambric
4 bands ’ in a Presbyterian-blue case (i.e.-, sachet)
of velvet and satin.
“Girls all rave over Pattie Browne’s pelisse of
green satin and ermine. Her white brocade needs
a train to redeem it from stumpiness.
44 Mr. F. M. Alexander, a somewhat beautiful
young man who recites poems and things, intends
to give another entertainment at the Athenaeum
Hall on Saturday (25th). Which sets one think-
ing of the monstrous photo, of a girl’s face —en-
larged beyond life-size—that stared at'the audi-
ence from a feai’ful confusion of platform embel-
lishments the first time the frisky elocutionist
came to the fore. If Mr. Alexander is careful in
the matter of tinting his cheek, and will make a
point of not putting any abnormal photographic
views under observation, his second venture ought
to prove more soothing. His backward-bowing
performance last time was thrilling. The enter-
tainer collided twice with chairs and thrice got en-
tangled amongst the frills and furbelows of his
improvised drawing-room. Alex, has, however, a
clear, musical voice with at least as many tunes
in it as the peripatetic street organ, and can be
humorous without being farcical—so the recitation
enthusiast might, after all, have a worse guide.
“The performance of the ‘ Alcestis of Euri-
pides ’ by the Melb. Trinity College boys and
girls has been postponed owing, it is officially
stated, to Alcestis herself (Florence Towl) having
met with a bicycle accident. This explanation is
funny, because Alcestis only has 21 lines to speak
in Dr. Leeper’s special version of the tragedy, and
any awerage young woman could have got up the
part in half-an-hour.
44 4 To the glory of God and Charles Thomas
Perks, Canon of this Cathedral, and incumbent
of St. Stephen’s, Richmond, from ’sl—’94—aged
G 9. The memory of the just is blessed.’ Thus
the brass-plate hung in Melb. Paul’s Cathedral, the
other day, when Bishop Goe and a quorum of the
elect went through a commemoration-service in
honor of their deceased brother. Yet how glory
to either God or Beelzebub could accrue from
such a combination must puzzle any candid per-
son who recalls the lachrymose Mr. Perks. Tears
were Perks’s stock-in-trade. When vestry-men
announced a falling-off in pew-rents, the woe-
begone little reverend would lift up his voice and
weep over the persistence of his parishioners in
thus wrecking their chances of Heaven. When
appealed to by the needy, Perks would turn on
the tap and protest— 4 1 cannot give you any
monetary assistance, my poor friend—but, oh !
accept freely of my tears! ’ Weepful Perks saw
nothing in the universe that wasn’t t r be depre-
cated.
44 Victorian she-politicians (red-hot Federa-
tionists to a woman) have a desperate down on the
N.S. W. Premier. Apart from policy, Puddeny-
George is no ladies’ man, and his comely Pre-
rnieress, on her flying Victorian visits, has never
done even her little sociable possible to sweeten
the mutual acerbities of the two elder and snap-
pier sister-States. In fact, the only popular
members of the clan are those innocents, Houston,
junior, and sister Thelma. The former, like his
dad, gets his name from the titled laird of the
Scottish parish which produced the future Pre-
mier. At Jubilee-time, when the eminent Aus-
tralian statesman revisited the home of his child-
hood, the villagers met him at the station, took
out the horses and dragged his 4 marine ’ in
triumph to the 4 Big Hoose.’
“Australian Governors are generally run to
earth here by expatriated poor relations. How-
ever, considering that a sweet smile and a cup of
tea break no bones, the big people really suffer
less by the encounter than their humble connec-
tions, who from thenceforward are doomed to
kick hard against the pricks of local disbelief in
their exalted pretensions.
44 One vice-regal dame (Vic.), when convicted of
a back-blocks third cousin, dutifully invited the
human treasure-trove to a never-repeated lunch.
Since then sister hayseeders in town for the bi-
yearly drapery sales generally run up against the
highly-connected one, bound on the same errand,
but handicapped, from a bargain-hunter’s stand-
point, by a blinding black veil. 4 You see, girls,’
she explains, 4 1 must lie low. My people at Govt.
House would be simply furious if they caught me
in Melbourne and not camped with them.’ Though
I says it as shouldn’t, our sex, when it wants to,
has a knack of breaking the news. A local
dowager, thirsting to identify herself with her
near relative, a prominent Australian politician,
says to every new acquaintance : 4 If there’s a
thing I detest, it’s vulgar ostentation. I always
say to my children, “Now, dears, whatever you
do, don’t go boasting and telling everyone that
your uncle’s SirSo-and-so-of-you-know-where.”’
“Extract from Victorian girl’s essay on 4 The
Cow : ’ 4 Cows are gregarious and so are men.
You can tell them from us because they have
horns, hairs and four stomachs.’
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTES.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Liverpool apd Lopdop
(Jlobe IpsCirapee Co.
FIRE, LIFE ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds .
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853;
Empowered by Act N.S.VV. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
-Walter Comming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; lion. 11. E. Iyaikk, Esq.; and
Eric 11. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head O/Jice Australasia
62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Reid, D. C.L.—I) d Crooked Legis-
lator.
Victor Daley is not Australian-born, but
came here at the age of 19.
S.A’s little Chief Justice, since he married
Mrs. Blue, is known as “ the widow’s mite.”
Passing out, at Bathui’st (N.S.W.), 86-
year-old John C. White, a pioneer of 60 years ago,
and long-proprietor of Bathurst Free Press.
King O’Malley, M.P. (S.A.), has let people
know that he is one of a family of 15 children.
Fortunately, none of the others are in Australia.
J. A. Finlayson, S. A. Register’s ex-editor,
and lately acting as the paper’s “ special ” in
London, will be back shortly. The “ home ”
climate disagrees with him.
Dr. Neild, the Melb. official corpse-carver,
classes as “ Monomanias”—Mormonism, Nihilism,
Communism, Anarchism, Blue-ribbonism, Vege-
tarianism, Spiritualism and Salvationism.
Vic. Judge Williams, the other day, inci-
dentally observed that on several occasions he had
been introduced to ladies, and the following day
had cut them dead in the street. Just so. Hum !
SAME THING.
DOSSER : “ This ’ere’s my last three stivers, en’ I
want er drink that'll do me good. ”
SHE : “I should recommend a dose of poison."
DOSSER : “ Um-gimme one o’ yer long beers! ”
Ex-Victorian C. E. Jones bobs up in
Perth with a lecture on “ The Dangers of Federa-
tion.” Which shows what the feeling is in the
Paschal-lamb-and-mint-sauce man’s neighborhood
no doubt.
“ Langdon ” Bonython recalls the fact
that the late las. Chief Justice was always known
as Willi,un Dobson, or W. L. Dobson, until knight-
hood effaced his first name and brought “Lam-
bert ’’ into prominence.
“The pince-nez killed Gladstone.” An-
other version is that the inflammation on which
cancer supervened was caused by the apple
(thrown by a woman) which at a political meeting
struck him on the bridge of the nose.
Judge Fenton, who died the other day at
Auckland, M.L., used to say that there were three
things necessary to a gentleman—“ brains, cour-
age, and a clean shirt. And the most important
of these,” he would add, “ is the shirt.”
At a recent Sydney Uuiversity examina-
tion. Question: “Tell all you know of Sir
Thomas More.” Answer: “He lived in the reign
of Henry, wrote Irish ballads, and was afterwards
killed at Corunna.” What’s in a Christian name?
Related of a certain Australian Judge that
once, in sentencing a man to death, he followed
“ And may the Lord have mercy on your soul,”
in the same breath, with “ Are there—er—any
small cases we might dispose of before—ah—
lunch?”
The impudent Papuan grabsters, Somers
Vine and Lowles, when in Australia free-passed it
over the national railways as distinguished visi-
tors. Well-introduced johnnies find it easy to
fool Australia as represented by flexible-kneed
Ministers.
Judge Williams’s remark, in evidence
before Vic. Law Commission—“ the Supreme
Court Bench required lawyers, not advocates”—
though founded on solid fact, sounded rather
paltry. Good taste should have prevented such a
slap, by him, at Chief-Justice Madden.
Goodna (Q.) people glory in the possession
of one John Byrne, a patriarch who was born in
Wicklow (Ireland) in stormy ’9B. As a baby he
was concealed in a haystack to save his life. He
now, at the century’s end, cuts up his own tobacco
and talks Irish politics to his local admirers.
Extract from a letter from a little girl
The pla.> did not begin till late, because the actiner
could not start without the Acting-Governor, and when
he came, the hand played God Save our Gracious Mad-
den. He is very bald. Father says he is bald because he
wears a wig in court; but he didn’t wear any wig this-
time. *
Cardinal Gibbons, who used to be spoken
of as a future Pope, has, though the only Cardinal
m America, erected neither palace nor house to
conserve his dignity. He owns but one room in
the ordinary clergy house. He wears no distin-
guishing dress when out of doors, and takes his
share of the sick-calls and other ordinary curates
duties.
When Lieut. Clarke, R.N. —who has just
inherited a lot of his father’s Australian property
—entered the Britannia training-ship, the old
man went on board the flagship at Sydney and
paralysed the captain with an inquiry as to
whether he thought ,£5OO a year would be allow-
ance enough for a cadet. The shabbily-paid man
of epauletes thought at first he had to deal with an
escaped lunatic.
Major-General French, at the prize distri-
bution at King’s School, Parramatta, on Thurs-
day, held up General Sir Russell Baker, of the
Imperial army, but one time a King’s School boy,
as a shining example to the pupils. But Baker, as
a boy, didn’t shine to any great extent. He was
chiefly remarkable for his close chumship with
Justice Simpson, of N.S. W. Divorce Court, then
also a King’s School boy.
Federal City Shoppee, who lately suffered
his second defeat for Vic. Leg. Assembly by six
votes, is one of the youngest old men in Victoria.
He lately issued a challenge to race any man over
50 on the bike fora mile (he is fifi himself) —but no
acceptors. Though he has worked all his life for
Ballarat, he is not too popular there, and at the
’B9 general elections only polled 413 votes against
1886 recorded by the successful Smith.
There are few records of deliberate ex-
plosive outrage in Australia. The most memor-
able is the Haunted Stream murder, in which
Cohen lost his life, although accidental explosions
have been frequent enough. The most tragic of
these occurred in Nov., 1865, when 2g tons of
gunpowder on a dray belonging to a carrier named
Gamble exploded on Bathurst Road, near Penrith,
N.S.W. Gamble and his six horses were killed
and his dray smashed to atoms.
Gov. Brassey does not give away more
than he can help giving, but Melbourne Public
Library contains one handsomely-bound volume
presented by him. Guess what it is ! A cata-
logue of the works of art and curiosities con-
tained in his London mansion in Park-lane. Poor
Us ! We are the hungry child flattening our nose
against the pie-shop window. And Brassey-he
is the bloated Pieman who has stuck in his plate-
glass window a list of his pies.
A legal disturbance between old Johnny
Wallace, M.L.C., the Victorian gold-bug, and his
son Peter promises to be interesting. Son Peter,
representing several beneficiaries under the will of
the late Tommy Monahan, alleges that his father,
as executor of the will, “ treats money belonging
to his children as his own, being apparently of
opinion that he can do what he likes with it.”
Nobody can accuse Johnny of a disposition to get
rid of any property that he handles, anyhow.
“Reg”: Give Major Reay his due.
Though a raging Imperialist, he has one great
and shining virtue. He does much public speak-
ing—yet never once has he used his ’Erald to
boost himself up and keep himself before the
public. No weary reporters have to chase round
and report him in full, and you and I have known
that done by editors who were also public speakers.
And then those leaders in the ’Erald, page 2 ! !
Without them, what ivould the Vic. public do
for its humor ?
Paddy Hannan, the fifth anniversary of
whose “ find ” was made a public holiday at Kal-
goorlie on 17th inst.., received from Westralian
Govt, a township allotment of land as a reward
for his prospecting success. Paddy Flannngan,
his mate at the discovery of Kalgoorlie, received
nothing. Flannagan lost a leg and is now hard up
in Melbourne, and Hannan, failing to get his
claim on Govt, acknowledged, transferred to his
mate one half of his own allotment. The trouble
of both is to get a purchaser for the land.
“Ricardo”: Glen, t lie
Melb. music-shop Croesus,
over whose will there has
been so expensive a legal
p>ow-wow, was a most in-
significant little man to look
at, with an open, simple
manner—noneof thehunchy
mystery of a Payne. Yet
he mystified all the finan-
cial world. When he simul-
taneously put up a big Col-
lins-street music-shop and
the finest house in Haw.
thorn, everybody said he
must topple. That pro-
phecy being unfulfilled, he
was marked as the first
victim of the Boom-burst.
Next, his estate was to be
the last explosion, because
he died prematurely of a
broken heart. And the
estate emerged with nigh
.£200,000 !
The writer once called
on old Dr. Lang at a very
late hour. Wanted some
information for the Empire.
Naturally felt intrusive, and
communicated the senti-
ment to his knock. It was
answered by the Doctor,
who half-opened the door
and thrust his arm out
with a shilling in the hand.
Explanation : “ I thocht
you were one of the puir
bodies who have no beds.
They call pretty often," he
said, “ an’ I just gie them a
shullin’. Ye knocked as if ye
had na bed, and wanted my shullin’ ’’—and the old
man chuckledconsulnedly. WhichstrikesTHEßul-
letin as a very charming story and one that sug-
gests the ideal minister of religion. A companion
picture, in fact, to that story of the charitable old
Melbourne priest whose executors after his death
searched for his estate. They found it—twopence
—in the pocket of the rusty old waistcoat hang-
ing behind the door of the room in which he died.
The curse of Deeming proved a bad thine:
for the original investors in relies of that amorous
identity. A Bulletin man bought a heavy black
ebony walking-stick at a “ second-hand ” shop
the other day. It was a well-carved stick, with
an elephant’s-head handle, so the purchaser
thought it cheap at five shillings. When the
money was duly paid and pocketed, the dealer
gleefully confessed that the formidable weapon
was the original stick, the stick which figured as
an exhibit at dear Albert’s trial, and was probably
concerned in his last murder. Its early relic value
had departed—all along of the curse.
A RESERVE OF PROFANITY.
BULLOCKY (new to the road) : "Any hills 'tween
here an’ Bidgyboom?"
HORSEMAN : “No; all good down-hill track."
B.: “ Well, I’m darned; an' all this trip I've bin
holdin’ for a rise!”
“Melb.”: Demise —in Sydney—Father
Ayhvard. Hugo’s Quasimodo, in Notre Dame
from the view-point of his devotion to the sacred
edifice, symbolises many clergy of the Roman
Church. Thus Monsignor Fitzpatrick, at St.
Patrick’s, Melb., and Father Aylward at his new
gigantic W. Melb. Church, which is towering up
on its hill, like St. Ignatius’, at Richmond. The
authorities of St. Francis’, where Father Aylward
long officiated, have viewed his W. Melb. success
with a little jealousy. They fancy it is connected
with an occult scheme to dispose of St. Francis’,
even as Bishop Coe is credited with the opinion
that the sale of St. James’ would be a good thing.
An unthinking reporter who once ad-
dressed a certain Australian cleric as “ Bishop
” received a horrified rebuke for not saying
“ My Lord,” nor did the scribe’s plea of ignorance
prevent that bishop from writing a letter of com-
plaint to the office. His regular habit of complain-
ing of reporters, in fact, makes “ Turkeylegs,” as
he is locally called, the best-hated man among the
local journalists. Another little weakness of his
lordship is to get up and walk out of any public
gathering if his presence is not specially referred
to. No matter where he happens to be seated, if
the first speaker doesn’t begin, “Mr. Chairman,
my lord bishop, and gentlemen,” away goes
Turkeylegs with his episcopal nose in the air.
Rupert Bunny, the Melb. artist whose
“Descent from the Cross” is said by many
English critics to be the finest work in this year’s
R.A. exhibition, was originally intended to follow
the legal footsteps of his father, Judge Bunny,
and was sent, at the instance of his German
mother, to Heidelberg University. Here, how-
ever, Bunny’s artistic nature revelled more in
Rhine scenery than in legal lore, so that when he
returned to Australia he knew rather less about
law than when he started, besides having a face
badly scarred with duelling. At Brighton (Vic.)
baths Bunny used to bury himself in the sand and
so remain for hours contemplating the changing
colors of the sea, the results of which practice
appear in his mermaid picture in the Melb.
National Gallery.
“AND THERE IS NO FRIEND THAT PIG-STICKETH
CLOSER THAN A BROTHER."—Revised version.
“It isn’t the first time you've handled a pig."
"Moses! wasn’t I bred and reared with them!"
W. J. Sowden, editorof Adelaide Register,
really will, it is said, contest Gumeracha at the
coming general election. Sowden is among the
first three platform speakers among Australian
working newspaper - men ; and, unlike most
studious folk, excels in repartee. For instance,
at a “smoker” given by local pressmen to the
visitors during the Federal Convention sittings in
Adelaide, Sowden (in the chair), introductorily
talking of journalists and their status, remarked
that the public rarely heard of the journalist un-
less some vagabond calling himself a journalist
got into trouble—“as, say, ‘John Jones, journa-
list ’ was fined ss. for drunkenness.” Thereupon,
John Jones, the Argus’ barrister-reporter,
solemnly protested against the introduction of
personalities. Sowden: “My friend will pardon
me. I desired to illustrate the impudence of
these vagabonds. Not content with stamping
themselves as members of this honorable pro-
fession, they presume so far even as to take the
name of so distinguish' d, so eminent a member of
the profession as Mr. John Jones! ”
It is an extraordinary fact that a big
proportion of the most eminent and most
sought-after Australian surgeons are the.
hardest-up. The higher the fees, the
surgeon commands the more “ stony ”
he appears to he—as a rule. But
this disna’ apply to Sydney, where
so many of the lights of the profession
are Scottish, ye ken.
A former well-known Vic. P.M.
was, when a lad, clerk to the late
coroner Youl, and lived in the build-
ing adjoining the old Morgue. Among
the visitors to the place was a noted
prison - official ; and one morning
when the young fellow stepped into
the dining - room for breakfast, he
found the penal person there with an
expectant twinkle in his eye. Sus-
pecting nothing, the clerk lifted the
dish-cover from what he supposed was
the ham-and-eggs, and disclosed a dead
baby which the horrible jokist had trans-
ferred from the adjoining mortuary.
Frank A. Nankivell, our late black-and-
white visitor, has arrived safely back in New
Fork, and says he admires it more than ever,
despite the war-gong sounding and the air being
full of flags and Yankee Doodle. On the advice
of Puck he has quit drawing for the “Yellow”
dailies, thus giving him more time to take up
magazine work. At present he is besieged with
orders, and says that the trip has benefited him
much, as his style has considerably strengthened.
He was greatly amused to find on arrival that an
Australian artist there had borrowed one of his
figures from The Bulletin panto, sketch and
used it as an original poster for burlesque show.
In Queen Yictoria’s young days her rela-
tive, the Duke of Brunswick, was accused of a
certain offence by Barnard Gregory, of the
Satirist. Gregory, after doing two years’ im-
prisonment for his impious libel, lived with a
widow named Parlby, whose daughter married a
Major-General Perry. An impecunious Countess,
in consideration of a ten-guinea fee, presented
Mrs. Perry at a drawing-room, and when our
Sovereign Lady came to hear that her hand had
been kissed by the illicit step-daughter (so to
speak) of a man who had once said something
nasty about a royal duke, there was an awful dis-
turbance at court. Inquiry into the family char-
acter of unknown presentees, which was a very
casual matter up to that time, has been more or
less inquisitorial ever since--except as regards
lydy visitors from the Kan linies. Tlieir character
is reckoned of no consequence.
Premier Dick Seddon lias broken out as a
humorist. Lecturing at Nelson (M.L.) on his
trip to England—the only lecture he lias ever
delivered—he said :—“ When I reached America
I went to look up two mates who had worked in
the same workshop with me at St. Helens, my
home in Lancashire. They had emigrated to
America about the time I left for Australia, and I
had not seen them for 36 years. I found them in
the neighborhood of Salt Lake City, both of them
Mormon bishops. That’s point No. 1. When I got
to England I told the joke to the old foreman we
had worked under as lads. ‘ Richard,’ he said, ‘if
you’d ’a gone with them two you’d ’a become the
Prophet himself.’ That’s point No. 2. Perhaps
I’ve missed my destiny after all.” It is now known
how Dick managed to “ blue ’ some of the £l7OO
which the Opposition made such a boggle about
paying. “ Imagine the form before you,” he said
to his audience, “clad in white-silk stockings,
slippers, white velvet breeches, and a coat so
covered with gold lace that an old West Coast
friend of mine calculated it would pan-out an
ounce to the dish.”
Apropos of General (now Marshal) Blanco.
A South Melbourne publican was, once upon a
time, proprietor of a travelling circus which visi-
ted Havana. Permission to exhibit was sought
and promptly refused by the Governor (Blanco),
but His Ex. was known to be susceptible to female
charms, and the circus-man had just marrii d an
attractive ci-dcvante widow. She interviewed
Blanco—in her recently discarded weeds—and ob-
tained his sanction at one fell swoop. A proviso
that the tickets should be printed at the Govt.
Printing Office, and distinct ones used for each
night, looked harmless enough. The mean-
ing of this stipulation was understood, when
at the end of a short season the pro-
prietor of the show found himself taxed with
a considerable royalty on ewry ticket issued.
Now, after many years of smouldering ire, an irate
Boniface, declares he will forward five shillings to
the U.S. Treasury as soon as he hears of the death
or capture of Blanco aforesaid.
The Melb. bomb-shell outrage round-
aboutly recalls Australia’s only avowed Anarchist
of note—clever, eccentric J. A. Andrews. He
was originally a clerk in Vic. Education Depart-
ment, from which he was precipitated for using
forcible language to Col. Templeton, then Chair-
man of the Public Service Board. Then he
dabbled in journalism, wharf and Yarra Bank
oratory, etc., drifted to Sydney—where he was
awarded five months for sedition after a villain-
ously-prejudiced prosecution and trial and
finally went to America, where he ran an Anar-
chist journal, the Firebrand, in Philadelphia.
This was, a month or two back, suppressed, but,
on appeal, was allowed to continue. Andrews, a
philosophical, and not an explosive, Anarchist,
was one of the mildest of men. His chief eccen-
tricities were exhibited in his attire. He always
tucked his trousers into his boots, buttoned liis
coat crosswise, and wore a hat through which his
hair wandered at the top and waved in the breeze
like leaves of grass.


By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1431). Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
-cr
0^
*00303 mm m
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt.
Aboriginalities.
J.S.A. : “How's this for ‘long arm ? ’ In
the palmy days of Gulgong it was all team car-
riage from Wallerawang. Teamsters used to
throw off a few bags of feed at wayside places to
lighten the up-load and have them available on
the down trip. Smith, a teamster, ‘ went on a
tear, ’ lost a purse containing £53, and concluded
that he’d been robbed. Six weeks afterwards he
was on the trip down, and, meeting another
teamster loaded with chaff, asked for the loan of
a bag, and was asked to take one. He threw one
off the load, opened it, and shook the chaff out
into his feeder ; entangled in the old stitches he
found his purse and cash intact. That bag had
been re-filled several times from the time the purse
was lost! ”
* * * «
“ Morodian ” : He stopped me as I toiled
up the hill that ran past his selection and asked
me to have a drink. In the chat which followed
the burning subject of the hour cropped up.
“This yer Federation,” he said; “most of us
chaps down here don’t understand it. I asked a
bookmaker the other day what jhe thought of it,
and ho wanted to know who ho was by and what
were his performances. But what I want to know
is, will Federation give us more police protection
—perhaps you might know, mister.” I said I
didn't, but it was possible. “ Well, then, if it is,
I’ll vote for the blanky Bill. You see, it’s this
way : I makes a few bob \\ hen the season’s bad by
snaring ’possums, and, being an old man, find a
difficulty in getting up before daylight; and if I
don't get up, the blanky boys from the township
comes round and steals my ’possums out of the
snares. What I says is, this yer country wants
more police protection.”
» * * *
Some years ago a tobacconist-barber at St.
Arnaud (Vic.) bought a wooden Red Indian,
second-hand, at Ballarat, and set him up as a
symbol before his door. The Indian was dread-
fully wooden, and too three-cornered to have de-
ceived the blindest, one would have thought; but
men from “out around” got very drunk in St.
Arnaud in those prosperous days, and the drunk
arrived on the morningof the third day, and re-
ceived a gross and gratuitous insult at the hands
of the red-gum Sioux. Immediately the tocsin of
war rang out, and the Indian and the man from
Paddybangle clashed on the footpath, and went
down together, and fought each other into the
gutter and up the road. When the combatants
were overtaken and separated, the Indian had not
a rag left on him, and the bushman had a broken
wrist and about 150 wounds and bruises. A few
hours later the battered cripple was snug in hospi-
tal. “My oath ! ” he said enthusiastically, “ that
cove would ’a-done me up if he could ’a-lastfed
another round.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— After a brief experience
of towns where the Chow reigns, t have come to
the conclusion that ho is tolerated only where the
white is weak ami wan. For instance, in the
early days of a goldfield, when the people are the
strong men of the earth, the Chow is afraid to
show his face—he comes only when the glory of a
field is departed. On Broken Mill he could not
live, nor on other big mining rushes —in Towns-
ville he is the cook and bottle-washer, because
Townsville’s whites are strong ; at Bowen, where
the Caucasian is a perfunctory sort of person, ho
wears spurs and rides the noble horse ignobly, and
has the front to drink in a public bar and ogle the
barmaid. You find him strongest where the white
is weakest. Alleged white men at Cairns work
for the local Chows, but only because the Chow is
stronger—a Chow on the Hodgkinson goldfield
owns a pub. So the white man works for the
Cairns Chow because he can find no white em-
ployer, and the Cairns Labor-party talks through
its hat and thinks with its elbows.— Australian.
THE COOLGARDIE TRAGEDY. —The late Mrs. Gold, and the man who shot her.
Photo., R. .Millar, Coolgardie, W.A.
Ah ■ Wlinn in full flight from n (lot/ flip
AD. . wnenmiuu nigilt noill a uog, Uie
goanna invariably turns a tail-over-head sorrier-
sault and makes a bee-line m the opposite airee-
tion for the nearest tree or hollow log. If timber
is anywhere thickly studded about, the goanna
generally beats the dog, and serenely looks down
on his disappointed foe. < .
Address on letter received at a M.L.
country post-office : “To my son William if lie’s
keepin good company if lie aint please return to
W. Smith near Rangitikee as theres two £ in it.”
“S C o tty tlie
Wrinkler” on the
posterity of the
Chinaman ” ;
Dear Buluhtiw.—
Failing a more scien-
tific criticism by Brig-
ham Brown, let me say
an interim word to Mr.
J. A. Philp. There is
no prejudice against
individual Chinamen,
amongst reasonable
persons. The China-
man is not law - abid-
ing ; he is essentially
law-evading. It is as
much a breach of the
law to live in filth as
to distribute smallpox.
The fact that “the
standard of their liv-
ings high and their
consumption of Euro-
pean food and cloth-
ing much greater than
generally supposed”
doesn’t make them any
better than the Ro-
man who lived on
nightingales’ tongues
—and he wasn’t much,
except as a gastrono-
mist. Some years ago
I told you (in answer
to Rudyarcl Kipling’s
Eurasian eulogy) that,
however good the half-
caste, the offspring
thereof is a failure,
morally and physically.
It seems to be a com-
promise on the part of
Nature, who doesn’t
like to give to a reason-
ing hybrid the sterility
of the mule. That
half-caste Chinese girls
are generally well edu-
cated, and the boys
often so, I admit. I
hold as my friend a
half-caste, who was
best pupil, best ath-
lete, best pigeon-shot,
and most gentlemanly
of ' the alumni of a
large State-school in
Riverina. His sisters
also are eminently
good scholars and
ladies. But, as my
friends, on account, of
their unenviable posi-
tion, will not marry, the
proof of their desirableness as nation-builders is wanting.
I am, however, at fault as to the comparative values of
mule and jennet. We have here the real mnldfortn half-
caste, With the Lahore Light Ilorse (disbanded for
inefficiency and immorality) we had the jennet type— i.e.,
the mixture of superior (as equine) male blood with the
inferior (asinine) female—a decided failure as a beast of
burden. Whatever I may acknowledge Mr. P. to have
proved regarding the morality of his half-castes and their
exceptionally large percentage of attainments (physical
and mental) in a very meagre centage, I do not think he
would advise the propagation of a tribe originating in
what he himself admits to be a “ debased class.”
* # • *
“S.K.” on barramundi fishing : -
Dear B.—Let me describe my first experience thereof in
Eurombah Lagoon. On our way to the water we filled
our pockets with stones and captured all the grasshoppers
and such we could ; also a large green tree-frog. Arriving
at the bank we stripped naked, flung the stones far out-,
making as much splash as possible, and then dived in
ourselves and vigorously floundered around. Then
climbed out and threw in our lines : he with the frog
inserting the hook in its back, so that it might kick
about and invite closer inspection. That’s where your
recent contributor was wrong. If you want barramundi
to bite, you have to take trouble to attract their atten-
tion. This turn we got a splendid haul. Largest we
oaught weighed 71b., and was about 2ft. 6in. long, but 20
or 30 pounders are sometimes landed. The scales are
enormous (half-'crown size on quite a small fish) with a
pink spot in the middle. The fish is a surface feeder, and
the lines therefore need floats, to keep the bait about two
feet under the surface. The blacks, by the way, main-
tain that there are bunylps in Eurombah Lagoon, and the
owner of the adjacent station solemnly assured us that
he hat| once act J ually seen some huge creature splashing
a } 3oU t in the deepest part; others told of something
which emitted strange wails and moans; and the fact
that the thing is said to have a semi-human face may
point to the existence of some kind of large fresh-water
seal.-—K. t t *
“ Australian Re “ 0 x B's ” assertion
(7/5/’9B) that bower-bird and lyre-bird are the
shyest birds we have, let me say that, however
shy the latter may he, the bower-bird in N. Wes-
tern N.S. W. and Western Q. is one of the
THAT WASN’T HIS BUSINESS END.
“ He doesn’t look pure bred —too thick in the tail, for one,-thing.”
OWNER (in disgust): “ Lor’ bless yer, sir, ’e don’t fight with ’is tail!”
cheekiest of bush-birds. Camp amongst gidya,
remain quiet for a short time, and one will soon
appear and make himself at home, hopping about
the camp in search of crumbs in the most confi-
dent manner. If the billy should be full of water
he very coolly helps himself to a drink, and if any
other bird should come near when lie has a parti-
cularly choice morsel, the way in which he raises
his neck feathers and swears would make a bul-
locky green with envy; One of his favorite imi-
tations is of a cat’s mew. and I have wondered to
hear pussy in such an unlikely place, until I caught
sight of the bower-bird in a tree overhead.
“6 x 8 ” hard-hits a widespread fal-
lacy :
Dear Buli,kti.v. —Re the great bush - thirst.
“L.M.’s” shriek is only a slight variation of the
weary old Cold-Tea lie that all evils spring from
the cursed drink. “L.M.” apparently judges all
bushmen by the fewcadgms who occasionally ask
his boss for a pint of “ dust,” but my long hush ex-
perience has taught me that it isn’t, and never
has been, the man who “k nocks-down ” his cheque
(rather than buy a bag of fionr, and eat- it out- in
sodden dampers in a bend, neat' the station-home-
stead, until his late boss sees tit to employ him
again) that cuts down wages. It’s the “ steady,”
servile, saving, and “ smoodging ” individual, who
does the trick every time. “Creeve Jtoe ” pointed
out the real culprit in his recent verses, “The
Worker’s Foe.” I’ve taken part in three big.hush
strikes, and I have always found that the bootless
men, in rags, “ who knocked-down their cheques,”
were the most loyal in those days of trouble ; while
those with selections, and horses, and good rig-
outs, and money in their pockets, rushed in and
black-legged on any price and conditions! The
sober cocky'-s sons have, so far, won every hush
strike for the / astoraluts. Squatters w ill tell you so
themselves. Uocky's sons need money for fencing,
&c., &c., and, no matter who suffers later, they’ll
go in and make it. If that is “ thrift,” it is thrift
at other people's expense. Bushmen call it “ scab-
bing t” Likewise, it isn’t the boozer who has
brought down burr cutting, lamb-marking, &c., to
12s. 6d. a week or less. It.’s the cooky shearers who
arrive at the sheds in mobs long before commencing-'
time, and worry the life out of the squatter for a
job. The latter seizes the opportunity, and lets
them contracts at ridiculously low prices ; or gives
them wood-cutting, lamb-marking,, &0., at 10s. t o
12s. 6d. per week. I’ve even known shearers to
work for bare tucker till the shed began. The
half-starved, ragged swagrnan, who “ knocks down
his cheques,” indignantly scouts such offers, though
unluckily he’s gradually settling iloun to the level
of these " thrift "-men, and, from sheer necessily,
accepting same terms. When aforesaid abject
wage-slaves are reproached for cutting down wages
their answer is—“ Oh, my horses were poor, and
I’ve come out tc make as much money as I
can.” Again, you seldom find a “ lushing-
ton” in a dummy’s berth. “Must have sober, steady
men,” says the squatter; “men I can depend upon.”
Further, when hard-up or in need of any kind of assist-
ance, I’ve always found the “ lushington ” the readiest to
help. Altogether, I’ve found the man who “ melts ” his
oheques a manlier, straighter, more independent and
better working fellow than the thrifty, sneaking, sober
ohap. The former drinks, works, and dies hard; the
latter cringes, creeps, and crawls hard—not forgetting
that there is no rule without the usual exception, (i xB.
* * * *
C.T.M. : Black cockatoo breed every year
in Mackay (Q.) district, hatching out' youngster,
which, if taken from the nest, is easily reared.
Writer has at present a black cockatoo which was
taken from the nest in July, last year, and is now
beginning to talk.
* * » «
Dear Bulletin.— The way they make ’em
in England. My father, a sft. 4in. Briton, used
to tell how, at a New England station, he once
oarried two bales of wool (scwt.) from the shed,
300yds. down-hill to the men’s hut; and then, for
a wager, carried them back wp-hill, with the cook,
a heavy man, on top of the bales. Always
thought this was skite, till I fell in with the cook
in question, and was assured by him that the
statement was perfectly true.—7 x 7. [This scribe
has seen a sft. Sin. storeman carry 100 Dundee
woolpacks (which, with iron-binding, &c., weigh a
lot over 10001 b.) 50yds. on the level.] [The u' al |
who read the proof after both the above liars had
gone home really didn’t know which liar to
admire most.]
* * * *
A recent N.Q. charity-ball was decked
with a few casual episodes which would be con-
sidered remarkable in the homes of an effete civi-
lisation. The elderly local publican ordered his
young and pretty wife not to attend ; he couldn b
dance himself because of his age and weight, and
Mick, the butcher, could, and Mrs. Public-House
always danced a good deal with Mick, which led
to disagreements. As the lady replied curtly that
she was going, her lord and master pot over the
difficulty by sawing her ball-dress in 16 pieces
with the meat-knife. Then he went out for a
drive. When he returned he found that Mrs.
Public-House had broken 18 bottles of good liquor
on the pavement, and had gone to the ball in a
borrowed frock, and Mr. Infuriated Public-Houso
promptly followed at a gallop, leaving a streak
of language behind him. A fast and furious waltz
was in progress as he burst into the hall, and by
ill-luck the fairy form of his wife was just
whizzing by in the arms of Mick, the butcher.
There was a smile of triumph on the face of that
hated Lothario, and his scalp-lock was carefully
anointed with fresh beef-fat. Mr. Public-House
made a smart grab at his wife’s frock as she went
by, and tore it right off, and, as the pace was
rapid, the lady went half-way round the room in
a state of wild alarm and a short petticoat before
Mick could pull up. Then he dropped her, and
went for Mr. Public-House, who heaved a chair at
him as he came, and swept his legs from under
him, and brought his oiled head with sorrow to
the floor. The rest of the proceedings filled the
entire premises, but the M.C. managed to get the
combatants apart before all the furniture was
destroyed, and effected some kind of a reconcilia-
tion. Mick agreed to state that he had no dis-
honorable intentions, and Mr. Public-House ac-
cepted the explanation. Then Mrs. Public-House
was taken home in disgrace, and ordered to con-
fine herself to the house till further notice.
* » * *
“ Wiry Jimmy ” lost his dog three months
ago, and hasn’t been “ the same man since.” A
week or so ago he was forwarded by the authori-
ties at Albury to the Old Men’s Home, Parra-
matta. Jimmy is 93 years of age. He was in
the China War, but arrived in Sydney in 1837,
and has been practically on the “wallaby” ever
since. He was over the site of Albury before
that township came into existence, and looked in
, on most of the goldfields as they were discovered.
His reason for retiring from the fight now is that
“ he lost his dog three months ago, and isn’t the
same man since.” Poor Jimmy !
* * * *
In the early days of Dunedin (M.L.), the
prison accommodation consisted merely bf a
weatherboard structure, and the first culprit
obtained his release by kicking some of the side of
the building away. The authorities were deter-
mined that the second shouldn’t do likewise, and
accordingly chained him up to a lamp-post in a
public street, wherehe used unpublishable language
The lute KENNETH SNODGRASS, who shot
Mrs. Gold at Coolgardie, and then committed
suicide.
Photo., Hemus & Hall, Coolgardie, W.A.
all night. On looking up their prisoner in the
morning, they were somewhat surprised to find a
hole in the place where the lamp-post should have
been, and, on searching round, discovered the lost
post half-a-mile away, and the prisoner—well,
the records have no mention of him.
» * * *
“Alia” : What may happen to a man in
Queensland. Was living in a bark humpy on Can-
ning Downs, and one night, leaning wearily against
the stone chimney, watching the billy boil, was
bitten by a scorpion that crawled out of the inter-
stices. Lay down on the bunk later, and was
awakened from a doze by a centipede dropping
from the roof on to my face. Got up, went out-
side, flung myself on the grass, and was just drop-
ping-off, when a clammy sensation on my right
hand aroused me ; and I felt pretty clammy all
over when I saw it was a black snake of an in-
quiring turn of mind. With a cruel effort of will,
I managed to remain still while that snake
finished investigating the interior of my coat-
sleeve. Then I leapt up with a yell and fled.
* * * *
In the early Westralian goldfields days the
travelling “ storekeeper ” often narrowly escaped
severe handling. The practice was to display to


SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.
Intending steamship passengers must not forget
to provide themselves with a stock of Ogden’s
Guinea Gold Cigarettes.*
UN HATS & HELMETS
Q
FREE BY POST.
LAID'S Patent Kupri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QjU LL NS LAND.
N.Z. Postmaster’s Report.
New Zealand Post and Telegraph Dept.,
Witianga, 10th March, 1898.
“ Over ten years ago I was under medical treat-
ment for a cold on my kidneys, being confined to
my bed ; and for several years after, with the
slightest cold, the complaint kept returning, the
attacks becoming more frequent each year, the
water passing like a stream of blood.
“ Being advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure, I
consumed half-a-dozen bottles, which completed a
permanent cure, since when and up to the present
my health has been most excellent.”
“To H, H, Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —I intended sending this testimonial
some years ago, and I hope it is not too late now
for you to make a good use of it. There is not the
least doubt but for Warner’s Safe Cure I would
have been in my grave long before this. —E. J.
White, Postmaster.”*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
End of June will see 100 W. A. civil-ser-
vants retrenched. This should hasten electoral
reform, as some well-known Eorrestphobes are
amongst the doomed.
.
The Drink Problem.
At midnight, in a large Melbourne hotel, August
J. Metzler, manager of the N.S.W. Lager Bier
Brewery, was aroused by a vehement knocking at
his bedroom door. He sprang up, fearing the
alarm meant fire. Opening his door, he beheld a
well-known Sydneyite in pyjamas. “ What’s the
matter?” sharply asked Metzler. “Is the house
on fire, or what?” “Excuse me !” interrupted
the other, “I must humbly apologise for this
rude intrusion, but the fact is—my child, my wife
and myself want to beg of you a couple of bottles
of your Bock Bier ; we cannot obtain any in Mel-
bourne, and we are in dire need of it.” Metzler
understood what was the matter, and at once gave
the visitor the Bock Bier. It is not generally
known how invaluable Bock Bier is in nourishing
the lacteal glands. “ Stop the child crying,” says
Metzler—“ give the mother Bock Bier! ” Metzler
is an oracle on breweries, biers, and babies. His
father, a big brewer in Germany, had all his
brothers slain in the first battle of the Fr anco-
German war, and consequently was left with a
brewery and 60 children all to himself. So the
Metzlers are fortified with facts in child-rearing,
and know what is good for a family. Metzler him-
self has studied brewery building and bier brewing
in various climates the world over, and his versatile
knowledge is both compressed and expressed in the
splendid Sydney brewery which he now manages.
Says Metzler : “ A rational man teaches his child
rational drinking ; drinking is like swimming—
the child who doesn’t know how is most liable to
get drowned. I give my children Bock Bier regu-
larly three times a day ; small child, small glass ;
big child, big glass And since every Australian
doctor who has experience of the Bier recommends
it as a strength-producer and tonic, Australian
parents cannot do better than follow my example.
Bock Bier, once its merits are impartially recog-
nised, once its minimum of alcohol and maxi-
mum of nutriment become popular facts, will
take its place as the national winter drink
of Australasia. The lagers brewed in Ger-
many are the common beverage of the Ger-
mans ; arid as we must drink something, it
is wise to drink what is most beneficial.”
Of course, the whole drink question is, what to
drink; to drink that which means maximum
benefit and minimum harm. The summer lager,
which the N.S.W. brewery manufactured last
season, was a marvellous success. Business men
found that they could take this light, stimulating
lager without such after-effects as drowsiness,
dullness, heaviness, regret, or, in other words —
they relish the Bier the more, because of
its minimum of alcohol and price, and its
maximum of nutritive and digestive qualities.
Bock Bier, the perfept winter lager for Australia,
has been analysed by Dr. Helms ; and the man
who drinks the Bier merely because he likes it
will be better pleased to know that the analyst’s
figures tell him to drink Bock Bier regularly. A
number of Sydney doctors have been so impressed
with Bock Bier that they have bought up shares
in the company. And many a doctor has flatter-
ingly testimonialised the Bock. Says Metzler:
“When fiery alcoholic liquors are the rage, de-
lirium-tremens hospitals cannot be built quickly
enough to accommodate patients. But once
rational drinking—the lightly alcoholic lager—is
popular, medical students will have to drive miles
to see a case of horrors.”*
The Fa.mou.9 Fre-ich
Chocolate.
CHBCOtHTIHEIIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners
Wholesale
Agents :
Wm. Cameron <£- Co.,
249 Oeorye-st., Sydney.
Sfrirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
outthc colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & si/.e of collar worn. !‘l tCK HHO I'll /.US,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BBISBANE. Sole agents for the *
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk-
the sore-pestered digger, half-dead as the result of
a long course of tinned dog, the assortment of
jams, preserved fruits, butter, &c.—and then re-
fuse to sell any of them except to buyers of his
Brummagem at extortionate prices. And mostly
the poor devil of a digger caved-in in desperation.
* * * *
An agricultural item. In many districts,
no sooner is wheat sown than flocks of birds —
sparrows, starlings, and others —swoop down and
carry away much of it; even harrowing-in does
not save too much of it. In S. A., the up-to-date
farmer is beginning to mix a pint and a-half of
coal-tar in each bag of wheat. The grain thus
treated is not touched by birds, and its value as
seed is not impaired.
* * * *
Simpson Newland, president of the South
Australian geographers, and himself pretty deeply
versed in aboriginal lore, devoted much of his
this year’s presidential address to advocating
State action “to preserve the traditions and
memorials of the remnants of such tribes as exist
throughout the settled districts.” Mr. Newland
mentions that already the erstwhile numerous
Adelaide tribe is totally extinct, and that the Port
Lincoln tribe, once exceedingly numerous and
fierce, is now reduced to a dozen aged and child-
less men and women.
• • * *
J.W.S. : As Premier Reid, must be badly
in want of a hollow log of much capacity, the fol-
lowing information may be of use to him. In
Huon district (Tas.) was recently found a hollow
log 150 ft. in circumference, the inside diameter
being about 36ft. If this doesn’t happen to be
the log Lyne has already in his eye, I dare say
Reid might get it cheap.
w m # *
Dear Bulletin.— Talk about the pastoral
patriarchs of old ! Met a bullockyon the Hughen-
den track lately, loaded with wool. He was
driving the dray-team; the “missus” an old
white-tilted waggonette, with an odd foal or two
running alongside; two urchins of about four and
six drove a mixed herd of goats, pet-sheep, and
calf, while a boy of seven on an old grey horse
was rounding up the lot. —A.U.S.
* * * *
The latest industry of the Melb. casual
hawker is the selling of live kangaroo-rats as pets.
The line has proved such a promising one that the
pup-vendors of the Exchange pavement have
changed their stock to marsupials.
* * * *
Higgins, M.P., says that an ingenuous
squatter told him he always expected his em-
ployes to vote his ticket. “If they don’t,” said
Tallowfat, “ by the Lord, they get the sack. They
get my money, and ought to vote for my man. ”
This is cheerful, as showing that the Dodo is not
extinct, and the Megatherium still abides on earth.
These good old paunchy ideas are hard to kill.
* * * *
Borroloola, the N. Territory township,
only gets an occasional mail. The residents are
just beginning to smell the Yankee-Spanish war,
and with them Gladstone is still alive. What
Borroloola thinks about its chance of being the
Federal capital is also not yet known. It might
have happened that the fate of the Australian
Commonwealth depended upon Borroloola’s
Federal vote, which won’t be known for some
time yet—and it would have been nice, under the
circumstances, if it turned out that no one had
voted at all !
Cecil P.:
“Emu”
must either
have mis-
understood
his blacks
or their
ideas of the
Southern
Cross differ
from those
of the more
eastern
tribes. On
the Nullar-
borPlainsin
’B6, I found
that local
blacks
thought the
Cross the
tracks of an
emu, fol-
lowed by
two niggers
(the poin-
ters), and
that the
Milky Way
was a creek
with black-
fellows fish-
ing i n it.
Three stars
represented
a flying
eagle-hawk.
When these
blacks plan-
ted a corpse
they built a sort of break-wind round the
grave, and for nine days they swept this
out, then—“He gone now.” The devil, “Podee
Bidnee,” came loafing round at night in the
guise of a big grey kangaroo. The same name
was given to a blow-hole. The plains here-
abouts are practically treeless, and the coast is an
unbroken sea-wall—l3o miles long and hundreds
of feet high—of limestone formation, honey-
combed by the biggest caves in Australia ; some
in the face of the cliffs and others entered slant-
ingly from the level plain.
* * * *
The closing-down of smelting at Broken
Hill has caused the extinction of the slag-beetle,
an insect about an inch long, which lived in the
vicinity of the slag-dump, and pestered sight-
seers and workers by biting them on the back of
the neck. Locally believed that the beetle bred
in the red-hot slag, boring into the iron pots to
lay its eggs !
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken op communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Geo. Marks : But then, alas ! “ Fat George ”ia
an awful deadweight, and difficult to bury G.E. }
“ Working a Passage ” hardly exciting enough
Philammon : No demand for vague, broken-hearted
poems. A;F. : Parable buried and turned to dust
long ages ago A.G. (Adelaide): The next man who
sends that Scotch joke along will have the stove dropped
on his head Pounce : Unsavory nothing Kos-
ciusko : The original Act stated that, to carry the
Bill, there must be a majority for it, and that majority
must consist of at least 50,000 votes—with 49,999 votes
for the Bill and one vote against it, the Bill would have
been lost. Then it was altered so that there must be a
majority to carry the Bill, and that majority must con
sist of at least 80,000 votes. Your theory that, with 50,000
votes for and 60,000 against, the Bill would have been
carried, is sheer bunkum E. and O.E. : “Gardeners’
Federation Song” doesn’t suit our beautiful tenor
voice. We tried to sing it, and wrecked our top note
Coincidence : Facts previously to hand. Thanks for ad-
mission that we’re not so beastly dishonest as we might
be T. Bethune : Send inquiry again .... E.B. : Sorry
story not force enough. (1) Usual, but not absolutely in-
cumbent. (2) No ; “ were ”is right in both cases. (3)
Accent on Ist syll R. Gumley : “It sprang to be con-
vex, whirled, and darted” into the basket ! Hau-
Hau : Too long for interest. War-items might suit, if
tersely told Alley B. : Not without merit, but think
you can do better' Beb6 : Well-enough written, but
obscure Widgee : Both pithy, and “For Better”
nearly up Red Light : Promptly extinguished
Backblocker : Very much so, in the literary sense
Toris : Good, but too sultry, and idea not new Snooks :
Grandiloquent commonplace Torpedo : Missed us
Lulu : Bulletin atmosphere very unfavorable to “ slen-
der fair girl with transparent cheek and ominous con-
sumptive cough.” E.M. (Sydney) : “In God we trust.
All others cash.” Good, but very, very old
G.P.B. : Good Wake : Yes, in type Walter N. (D.):
Thanks Holdar : Please call Morodian : Will
print Korro : What rot ! Surely there is no man so
ignorant as a journalist whose experiences have been
bounded by journalism King Eunnarrah : A historical
pome, in 150 jagged lines, suggested by the name of a
horse. And the moral is that the horse’s son or daughter
should be christened Half-Caste The moral, divested of
the verses, is tolerable B.C. : A six-yards story all
about a hospital-nurse who quarrelled with her vittles.
Send a yarn about one of them hugging the doctor
W.N. : Miss J. is a fine lump of a woman, but the fact
that she didn’t smile when her eyes met thine doesn’t
justify thy verses. Thou art the sort of person any girl
would smile at Mendo B. : You see it is legal to sell
poison-grog with a license, but to sell good grog without
a license is a heinous offence. You may murder accord-
ing to law with impunity—but you musn’t even sneeze
illegally Scatterbrain : Did you expect that horse-
yarn to be published ? W. T. Shields : Sketch not bad,
but attached joke too weak to stand without assistance.
J.G.: Want to see that circular ordering the co’s
employes to vote the anti-Federal ticket? Malua :
Send that story to the Dead Cat Scatterbrain : Very
funny. It could be printed in any language but English.
.....Ezrom: We'll let the subject slide. B.E. : Can’t
remember all the brilliant things The Bulletin throws
off its chest Will G. : Can’t publish photographs
without some good reason, which in this case is alto-
gether lacking. Also your verse, which ought to get yon
six months, would get us seven years if our readers were
referendum’d on the subject H.W. : Anticipated. It
has been printed in ail the papers C.C. : A woman
may be forgiven for betraying her husband, but there is
no absolution for her who is faithless to her lover as well.
E. Mac. (G.) : Only one of those Australian subjects
acceptable. .... E.A.P. : The scientists have for many
years been trying to liquefy hydrogen. Probably a mere
chemical tour de force, too difficult of accomplishment to
NATURAL HISTORY.
An adventure with Toowoomba (Q.) mosquitoes.—By the man who escaped.
have any economic value Jack Shay : The two are
identical. Puah Watah : Too late to tell that temper-
ance-alcohol story. Tiger Inglis—you should hear him
tell it! —has made it famous all round N.S.W. ... E.L. :
Trenwith is Tasmanian-born. P.O. : Yes, in 10,000
years, the legend will be that St. Grotty tore the spires
of St. Pat.’s, Melb., out of Mt. Lyell mine. W.R.H. : If
you are serious (and it looks as if you are), you simply
don’t know what you’re talking about ! .... Emra Hr lines,
F.R.H.S., F.R.S. A.I. (Povercourt, Essex): Well, you have
gall! You calmly expect Tub Bulletin to publish your
“ poem of welcome to the Duchess of York ! which Her
Royal Highness is pleased to say she much admires.”
Rats !.... C.E.R. : Tell us—have you ever read The Bul-
letin? Or have you only heard of it? E.B.A. : The
U.S. Supreme Court has decided that Income-tax is nor
a direct tax. A direct tax, in the meaning of that Court,
is such a tax as a poll-tax T.P.S. : “ Odes ” are mostly
failures Wake : Four lines—
But, lack-a-day, the meaner souls,
That crawl and creep in every state,
Emerging from provincial holes,
Have forced us now to Feder-hate.
“ Provincial holes” is good ! J. Redfern : Sorry, hope-
lessly unsuitable Jack Shay : You might try us with
the slang items O.N.S. :If it appears, you’il see how
much wind you wasted H. Heney : Would probably be
interesting. Give it a trial . E.R. : Sentiments all
right; but chopping prose up into given lengths doesn’t
make it blank verse Trcb : Thanks J. J. O’M. :
“Finer Feelings” to hand. Other will be dealt with
ONLY HALF.—A BELATED SPORTING ITEM.
THE BUSH MISSIONAARY : “ Are you an orphan, my boy? ”
AUSTRALIA P. BACKBLOX JUN. : “ No, not yet, boss—got a leg in, though."
THE SHEPHARD : “I have come, my boy, to spread the Glad Tidings ”
THE BOY : “ Well, yer jest too late. The papers got ’ere this mornin. What price yer
blanky Ranji now?”
soon as possible Yorick : Our “ gorcre rises” at you !
De Luxe: Put it this way. Vanderbilt, spending-
millions on his houses, is really only selling money whole-
sale to the decorating firms who in turn sell it retail (for
labor) to their employes.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Want as yet
shows no sign of redeeming his famous promise
that, when the Federal Bill was defeated, he
would sit down, and, within an hour, produce a
Bill which would be acceptable to all the pro-
vinces. When a man can do such a thing as that,
his conduct in not doing it is simply disgraceful.
However, as soon as King Cabbagetree has
finished defending The Bulletin in its libel-case
with Cowlishaw, the promised Bill will doubtless
be forthcoming.
The Governor’s speech at opening of Wes-
tralian Parliament promises an Amending Tariff
Bill, the object of which will be to give preference
to goods manufactured in the mother country over
those of other countries. Which recalls an ordin-
ance with which the tariff system of N.S.W. prac-
tically began. In 1802 Gov. King issued an Order
levying a duty of 5 per cent, upon all goods enter-
ing Sydney, save those of British manufacture.
King admitted at the time that the arrangement
was whimsical, but he said he wanted money to
support his orphanage, then in perilous need, and
that he would levy on goods of British manufac-
ture also, but that he feared the Home Govt,
would squash the Order and remove him from his
post.
Dear old George Republican Dibbs (who
before the Convention was elected, denounced all
Federationists as disloyal insurrectionary people
who wanted to blast the Crown —the same Crown
which gave Dibbs his title and his big cigar) on
the Federal poll:
But the actual result of the election is that Mr. Barton
as leader has been thoroughly discredited. It must be
borne in mind that I and others to the number of 100,000
voted for Mr. Barton as a delegate to the Convention,
and in that he failed by over 25,000 to score that many
votes for the Bill, it amounts to a huge vote of censure
upon him.
How does the above logic apply to Reid ? Reid
got between 80,000 and 90,000 votes for the Con-
vention. Then the side he voted for got some-
thing like 75,000 yotes, and the one he barracked
for about 69,000, and he was “ discredited ” both
ways.
Jack Want, who solemnly attested that
his retirement from the Reid Ministry was a
genuine affair, and not a mere temporary pre-
tence, now goes back to his old billet as N.S.W.
Attorney-General. Also, he and Reid have
greased each other at a banquet, each of them
being absolutely lost in admiration of the other’s
great services to the cause of Federalism. It is
only a year or two since Want denounced any
kind of Federation as a “ hydra-headed
monster basking in is constitutional beastli-
ness in this bright and sunny land,” and he
has never once said or done anything since then
to give the cause of union the slightest assistance.
And when the man who denounces the other pro-
vinces as “ wolves ” and “ robbers ” goes back to
Reid’s Government the chances of these other
provinces taking that Government seriously are
hardly worth mentioning. Jack Want is taken
back as a guarantee of bad faith.


AUSTRALIA WRESTLES WITH DEATH FOR THE BODY OF ALCESTIS.
With apologies to the late Lord Leighton.
(Suggested by the production of “Alcestis,” at Melbourne Town Hall.)


His Long-lost Brother.— Concerning the anxiety of Ko-Ycs Reid to have Queensland enter the proposed Federation.


Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22s 6d.
With covers, 30s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Gold „ ~ 455.
Bn
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain,
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
16c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubios and 4 Pearls, £8 ss.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Red, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2los,
fin. wide.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamond, £5 5s ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 6 sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3 ; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any .Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.,
265, 30s, 355, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,16/-, 20/-
A. Saunders,
Entree Dishes, pure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
57s ocl (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKERS.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15e. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7!
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
%
M
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Bings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for yard.
w
oTTw
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Bedstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
16c. Gold, larger, 12s' 6d.
Send tor our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.'
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s
15c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
Silver, 3s (id.
Oil
A. Saunders.
160. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s fid.
Chased, 10s.
Child’s Cups, 10s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s 6d and 20 r
are in Silk Cases.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE PHANTOM RACER
A CYCLIWG LEGENG
For the Bulletin
The field flew out before the bell
And faster grew the gait—
They felt their muscles shoot and swell
And, straining tight each nerve as well,
Around the final bank they fell
To battle up the straight.
Outside them, Harvey Raynor shot
A clear two lengths ahead ;
The pace throughout had been so hob
That every pedal’s turn he got
A further lead—for all the lot
Seemed ridden-out and dead.
Save one who, as that jaded ruck
Fell one by one away,
Clenched tightly teeth and fists and stuck
In Raynor’s wake with dogged pluck
While thousands cheered and wished him luck—
The youngster Jack Moray.
To Raynor’s eyes, the livid line
Grew golden as he sped ;
He saw the stakes and bets combine,
Two big brown eyes with rapture shine,
He thought, “ A thousand pounds are mine;
At last will we be wed.”
Then rose a roar like rolling sea,
A wheel beside him spun ;
And by his elbow he could see
The youngster coming strong and free ;
And Harvey Raynor learned that he
Too soon had made his run.
His spirits fell—his chance was small
Against the gold and black ;
He knew the lad could him o’erhaul
And then he thought “ The girl and all
Are mine if Jack Moray should fall ”
And swung across the track !
Behind his pedal on the right
A sudden flash of gold
Across the darkness flickered bright,
And dimmed with fear the winner’s sight,
While following his falt’ring flight
The moan of “ Murder ! ” rolled.
None saw the way the smash occurred,
Nor how the youngster died ;
The quaking winner's eyes were blurred,
He saw but flashing gold and heard
Still ringing in his ears the word
That Jack Mora}' had cried.
None read the truth upon his face,
Though all the tracks began
To see the change that came apace,
And soon his altered moods to trace ;
For Raynor, when he won that race,
Became another man.
He mooned around the livelong day
The track whereon he trained ;
He watched the riders sprint and stay
As though they rode far, far away ;
While home in tears, neglected, lay
The maiden he had gained.
But soon another change he knew:
He lived upon the wheel;
By day and night he fairly flew,
Grossing the country through and through ;
No sun that seared, no breeze that blew,
Did Raynor seem to feel.
He rode not as the men who pride
Themselves upon their pace ;
But, like a fugitive who tried
To leave a law that he defied,
H j rode the way that demons ride,’
And wore a demon’s face.
Around the racing tracks his name
Was heard on every hand ;
Victor o’er all his class, he came,
And, treating champions just the same,
Jumped in a single week to fame,
That travelled round the land.
His fellow racers marvelled o’er
The form that Raynor showed ;
When mighty stakes were up before,
He’d lost, and fairly lost, they swore ;
Yet now none else had chance to score
When Harvey Raynor rode.
He saw his sweetheart fade and waste,
Yet never sign made he ;
Nor paused in his career to taste
The good of riches in his haste ;
For by his side a Rider jiaoed
That none but he could see.
Through midday sun or darkness dim
The Pacer rode beside ;
He dared not waive the order grim
When, racked in each reluctant limb,
The Phantom Pacer beckoned him
To mount his wheel and ride.
So passed a year; then came a day
That Raynor rode alone;
With heart elate and spirits gay,
He laughed and loved the old, old way,
And when that night in sleep he lay
Ail Phantom fears had flown.
But flashed a light before his face
And Raynor sat awake,
To hear a Voice cry out of space :
“ Rise, Harvey Raynor, take your place ;
To-night we ride our final race—
Your life the winner’s stake.”
They pedalled through the shadows dark
Far from the city’s host,
Ere spoke the fleshless Phantom stark,
Pointing far out a glitt’ring spark :
“ That light shall be the winning mark
That flashes down the coast! ”
He bent his head and dashed away,
His chest he opened wide ;
He felt again the lust of fray,
He tired not at his muscles’ play,
He felt the way he felt the day
The youngster fell and died.
He sprinted where the highway dipped
With surface like a track ;
And while the corks he tightly gripped,
He guessed the Phantom he had slipped
When rang a hollow laugh that dripped
Like ice upon his back.
The light was yet a mile ahead,
But scattered o’er the waves
In bright white dots its rays were shed
Like rows of tombstones o’er the dead
That oft the greedy depths had fed,
As if to mark their graves.
He seemed to hear the final bell,
As round tlie road that twined
Along the cliff, he battled well,
And felt his sinews shake and swell.
“ They’re ringing Harvey Raynor’s knell! ”
The Phantom laughed behind.
The fearsome outline gaunt and gray
Beside his elbow showed,
And Raynor, sickened with dismay,
Remembered suddenly the way
That he’d defeated Jack Moray,
And swnng across the road.
At dawn, the waking sunbeams’ glow
O’er sea and cliff was shed,
A bruised and battered oorpse to show,
For full five hundred feet below,
Laved by the gentle wavelets’ flow,
Lay Haivey Raynor—dead !
M‘G.
A careless, dull scribe, misreading hit
notes taken at the Vic. Law Commission, wrote
“ magsman ” for “amalgam,” and the sub. of his
journal barely spotted the mistake in time.
Judging by the evidence given before the Commis-
sion, however, the difference is very often incon-
siderable.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Papuan Mac, chief fakir in the much-
ventilated land-grab, abdicates in September,
after about 10 years of sovereignty. He is a re-
markably energetic man of absolutely ferocious
personal courage, much dignity, endless patience
—an ideal chieftain of a savage people. He is
Boss in British Papua, and no mistake about it;
and all his officers shake in their very shoes at the
sound of his voice. A pupil of the late incom-
parable John Thurston, he follows in the foot-
steps of that mighty autocrat. But many years
of unquestioned authority in a world-forgotten
corner have utterly unfitted him for a compre-
hension of constitutional government. He re-
gards Papua as his domain, and resents trespass.
He is slowly infusing the spirit of obedience into
the unruly native, and outside interference is
objectionable to the execution of his plans. A
syndicate running the show on his lines seems to
him preferable to the casual immigration of mixed
and disturbing private elements. He wants to
leave his kingdom in the assurance that his work
will be continued on the old autocratic lines, and
the long and arduous labors of the past not thrown
away; the idea of Papua dropping away into
Constitutionalism and democratic ideas is abhor-
rent to him. Hinc ille syndicate 1
The Co-Operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd. —During the coming wool season the magnificent
stores of this successful company, at Central Wharf, will
be taxed to their uttermost. The sampling floor (300 ft.
by 100 ft.) is the finest in the colony as regards equal
diffusion of light and absence of all obstructions. Receiv-
ing and delivering of wool can be carried on with the
greatest possible speed and efficiency, and clients of the
company, growers and buyers alike, nay rely on their
interests being in every way well looked after.*
Jos. Symes remarks in his Liberator on
the completion of its fourteenth year :
It has endured and survived the general and long-con-
tinued boycott of the news agents—very few of whom
will sell it, for fear of clerical wrath and pious malice.
The Liberator has survived treachery quite unparalleled,
and has outlived many of the traitors. It has survived
the want of advertisements,much to the astonishment of
most people ; and it has survived the want of money.
How many times every shilling at all available has been
paid away on Saturday at noon, and we have had to trust
in luck for Sunday food, I cannot tell, for they are many.
How many times the Liberator has been printed late,
because there was no money to buy paper for the week s
issue, will never be told.
As cheerful John Haynes used to say in the early
days of The Bulletin, “Jehovah Jira, the Lord
will provide.” How beautifully testifies atheist
Jos’s journalisticsurvival to the Efficacy of Prayer!


PULVERMACHER’S
ELECTRIC
PSS
BELTS,
&c.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD !
Recommended and Prescribed by
All tlie Leading Medical Men throughout the World
Including Three Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen; the Physicians of the Prince of Wales and the Emperor of Austria;
and all the Leading .Doctors of the London Hospitals, etc.
Electricity is Nature’s Chief Restorer of Impaired Vital Energy !
And is the most Effectual, Rational, and Simple Method of Curing most Complaints, including
Rtieumatism,
KT euralgia,
Paralysis
Epilepsy,
Liver Complaints,
Sciatica,
IndigestiOM,
LumlDago,
Asthma
and especially DEBILITY and all NERVOUS DISEASES.
PULVERMACHER’S ELECTRIC BELT is the most convenient method of applying the galvanic current, occasions no
inconvenience, and gives almost immediate relief and permanent benefit.
Read the Booklet- GALVANISM : What it has done and is doing.
THE BOOK COSTS NOTHING, AND WE SEND FREE BY POST.
SEND at ONCE - You will find from patients’ testimony we do not exaggerate ; and if you suffer, Galvanism is the best remedy.
Pulvermacher’s Australian Agents
OSBORN & JERDAN (late Frost and Shipham),
438 George-street. SYDNEY.
Haresfoot: “An actress now playing in Melb. is
daughter of one of its most esteemed clergymen. Her
remarkably olever mother was the instrument of exposing
a plagiarised sermon by another minister of the denomi-
nation. On the instigation of an eminent literary man,
this lady went and took down all the sermons in short-
hand when delivered as extempore.”
J.P. : “ The latest thing in connection with the Recita-
tion Music Series in London is the use of the verb ‘can-
tillate’ (cantillate—to sing low). I read in a late London
D.T. that Mr. Frank ton Darius would cantillate ‘ Lor-
raine, Lorraine, Lorree ’ and ‘The Story of a Faithful
Soul.’ A hint for local elocutionists.”
J.E. Shakespeare wrong once more! according to
‘Holdar M.,’ re suicide, because ‘There is no prohibition
vihatever in the Bible . . . against self-slaughter. But
Exod. xx. ch. and 13 v. says : ‘ Thou shalt not kill! ’—who
or what it doesn’t specify. And as the ‘ self-slaughterer’
kills himself, a lot of people, along with that shallow-
thinking YV. Shakespeare, believe that the 6th command-
ment appli< s to the self-murderer as well as to the man
who murders the other fellow.”—[The only point is that
language commonly distinguishes between killing, which
is the slaughter of the other fellow ; and suicide, which is
the slaughter of this fellow by himself. If “ J.E.” pro-
poses to take the commandment in its widest sense, then
it equally prohibits the slaughter of the moo-cow for
dinner. —Ed. B.]
Paradis: “‘Olaudian’ may have been suggested by
Leman Rede’s ‘ Devil and Dr. Faustus,’ acted in London
50 years ago. Mrs. Keeley acted Satan in horns, hoofs,
and tail, and the impersonation caused more scandal
than Mire. Vestris’s Little Don Giovanni, or even Mrs.
lveeley’s Jack Sheppard. When Federici, as Mephisto,
• lied, in the descent to Hades, at Melb. Princess’s, there
were such moralisings as those over Mrs. Keeley’s Devil,
which was to bring swift retribution on her. But it
didn’t. The irreligious creature has gone and lived to be
a nonagenarian.”
Melba: “In Stockholm, on one occasion, 5000 people
turned out to welcome me, and King Oscar received me
in propria persona. One of my greatest experiences was
in Russia, where a crowd of ladies waited for me at the
stage-door, that I might sign some photos. To my amuse-
ment, no one had brought the wherewithal; but at last a
gentleman obligingly lent a pencil, which he might just
as well have givtn, for it was afterwards broken up and
the fragments divided among the ladies.”
Holdar M. : “ One Rev. Dutf protested recently against
tile charge of Scottish unhumor, instancing to the contrary
Premier Reid. It is now proposed by myself and sundry
other Caledonian chiels that the mummer be added to
the humorless category of woman, Scot, and parson, suf-
ficient cause shown by the ‘ Hamlet ’-letters in recent
Sydney D.T.”
Habitu6 : “The earthly things nearest perfection
always have some distressing gap. The Melb. Publio
Library Trustees are not aware that any English play has
been Written during the past 40 years.”
A Paris scientist claims to have discovered the bald-
head microbe. A blow to leg-drama. No bald-heads, no
ballet! As a set-off, let theatrical-managers reward the
discoverer and annihilator of the “ dead-head” bacillus.
“ 8.E.” : In all such spectacular sky-scrapers as the
Bland Holtian melodrama there is the same trusting girl
betrayed and going steadily downhill through five acts
in the usual way. Now, let an author (Pinero, say, or
Jones) introduce this very identical character into his
piece, and, if it be not labelled “melodrama,” he is
charged with writing a problem play ! It is the same girl
and the very same “ sin,” but when she comes on in the
drawing-rooms of genteel comedy, and it is spoken of in
epigrammatic language, the whole becomes a matter for
controversy which is never raised in the other case. I
have also noticed that family people who put perdition
and “ The Second Mrs. Tanqtieray ” pretty well on the
same level, listen with unmoved countenance to the
demands of the “fallen” one to be made “an honest
woman of; ” but let a reference to the illicit baby turn
up in the so-called “problem play” and they sit up at
once. And, anyhow, isn't there about room now for a
piece where the betrayed young person doesn’t want the
villain to marry her, and won’t be made “an honest
woman ” at any price ?
Mr. de Jones, “advance” for (say) the Grand Oriental
Dramatio co., arrived in Whaukoro, Maoriland. The
Oriental D. co. was in a bad way, but Mr. de J. himself
had made a haul at the Mason races the day before—had
£5O in notes in his pocket. He introduced himself to
Mr. O'Hooligan, of the Farmer’s Arms. Thus O’H.,
who does not know the financial standing of the co. :
“O, yez is the very payple for Whaukoro. Yez ’ll do
foine business. We’ve got here d’ Smith’s circutus
but dey did not bring all de animiles wid dem, andd’
payple was most disappinted, yer knaw ; and den we’ve
got d’ Ghostes family. Well, yer knaw, dey don’t tinlc
much of Ghostes in Whaukoro, yer knaw. Oh, yez'll do
foine business here.'’ “Well, I am triad to hear that,”
says de Jones, “for we’ve been having a bad time lately,
and we’re pretty well on our beam ends. I suppose you’ll
have no objection to financing us while we’re here and
letting us stay with you?” “Oh well, yer know whin I
come ter think av it, yer know, Dunedin is a bigger town
than Whaukoro, and aldough d’ Smith’s circutus did
not bring all de animiles wid dem, dey’s considerable
opposition, yer know, and den d’ Ghostes, yer know, well,
I don’t take much intherist in ghostes meself, yer know,
but you’d be surprised phwat a lot of intherist some
payple takes in them. I think p’r’aps yez’d do betther
business in Dunedin.” “ Well, perhaps we would. Any-
way we’ll have a drink,” and De Jones takes from bis
pocket the great roll of notes and places one ostenta-
tiously on the counter. “Oh, well yer know, as I was
sayin’ beefore, d’ Smith’s circutus did not bring all
de animiles wid demj yer know, and de payple was most
disappinted, yer know. And de Ghostes family, yer know,
as I was sayin’ before, dey doant take much intherist in
ghostes in Whaukoro, I rink yez’ll do foine business in
Whaukoro.” They stayed with Mr. O’Hooligan, but they
did not do “ foine ” business. Mr. O’H. presented bis
bill. But Mr. de Jones was in Dunedin. So was Mr.
de Jones’ roll of notes.
Entr’acte (Lon.): “Mr. Wilson Barrett has been
referring to those critics of things theatrical who invade
the inner life of the actor, but I am not at all sure that
he supplies us with more light. Mr. Barrett is a some-
what fervid denouncer, but he fails to get us any for-
rader. There is a conspiracy to obscure the shady things
done by the ladies and gentlemen of the stage, and all
this has been plainly demonstrated since the present year
began. Actors and actresses break up their own homes
and the homes of other people, but you must not say a
word about it, or the conspiracy of silence will be down
on you like a thousand of bricks. If Mr. Clement Scott
chooses to justify his charge, of course he can do so, and
very abundantly. I very much doubt, however, his
stomach for the fight.” The doubter was wise. Scott
hadn't any stomach for the fight. His bread wasn’t but-
tered that way.
“Old Jack”: Billy Hoskins used to say that brains
were not essential to good acting. “It is instinct, dear
boy—instinct! same as that which makes a dog hunt.
All this babble about Art is rot. The best actors I have
known have been dull fellows off the stage and out of
harness. All the study in the world won’t make a good
actor—but it may spoil one!” But, then, the old man
was talking of old-time acting. Nowadays, Art has a lot
to do with it— the alt of not acting. Another deoade, and
Duse or Bernhardt will shock the sensibilities of an in-
vertebrate generation as exponents of passions which
have no existence.
Macready acted Virginius in the evening, after burying
his daughter in the afternoon. He writes in his Journal
that his poignant grief exercised unwonted power on the
audience, and made their delight uncontrollable, but he
felt it degrading.
“ The Firm,” The Bulletin hears, proposes breaking
its rule of only producing London successes, and at the
end of the Pattie Browne season will stage, at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, a locally-written and composed musical comedy,
“ The American Girl.” Moulton supplies the music,
while Mr. Temple—known only, so far, as a schoolfellow
of Victor Daley—provides the libretto. Hitherto
managers have absolutely declined to entertain the idea
of local stuff, not because it was necessarily inferior, but
because the public looked for the London hall-mark. A
Melb. journalist once took his comedy to B. and 8., and,
having induced Boucy to read it, was told : “ I would put
it on to-morrow if I were in London, for I believe it to be
an excellent thing, but here it would simply mean failure
to acknowledge to Australians that the author is an Aus-
tralian.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
Up South there are two will-o’-the-wisp gold-
mines adjoining each other, the shares of which jump
when a rich ore-pipe is struck, and fall to zero when it
pinches. Suspecting a local assayer of market operations,
the name of the wrong mine was attached to a parcel of
rich “ tack ” sent for assay recently. It went many ounces
to the ton, and, after the assayer had loaded himself with
more shares than he could pay for, the man who left the
rock obligingly turned up and rectified the error. The
assayer nearly fainted.
* * * *
At Cloncurry, a few weeks back, a man brought
into town and exhibited several valuable nuggets. Local
branch of the Q.N.B. weighed the specimens and
advanced on them altogether £l7O, or about £3 10s. an
ounce. The vendor, in the fullness of his heart, forth-
with made the hospital a present of £5, and a bank
official, hankering after fame, was photo’d with the
specimens in his hand. Also, the Warden was inter-
viewed and requested to purchase the specimens and send
them ’Ome as exhibits. Sample nuggets were sent south,
arid in a few days arrived two wires from expert and
geologist. Wire 1 : “Parcel assayed. No value. Col-
lect V Wire 2 : “ Weight, 420 z. 18dwts. Melted alloy of
gold, copper, coke, quartz, and pure copper.” The
nugget-artist is at present in durance, and an in-
furiated bank official is reported to be offering- fabulous
prices for copies of a certain glorious photograph.
* « * *
lie value of alleged mining reports. Jim
has a show called the “ Diamond Tinned Dog,” which
he places under offer to a city syndicate. Syndi-
cate wishes for an “independent report” on the pro-
perty, and writes to the manager of the “ Big Show,” a
couple of hundred yards away—and a particular friend of
Jim’s. Friend strolls down to have a look at the “ Dia-
mond Dog,” and he and Jim finish a bottle of whisky
between ’em. Next mail carries a glowing report—
“splendid property,” “4ft. reef,” “average 4oz. all
through,” and ail the rest of it. However, notwithstand-
ing tliis fairy-tale, the sale falls through, so Jim gets the
other to put a trial crushing of picked stone through the
“ Big Show ” battery in consideration of a cheque before-
hand, because, as the friend puts it, “ he is blanky well
certain the crimson stuff won’t pay the expenses of crush-
ing ” (i.e. t 7dwt.) 1
A custom prevails in Vic. wholesale houses of
posting notices outside the counting-house, “ Our pay-
day is ” —such and such a day of the week. An enter-
prising Victorian has invented a movable slip underneath
the board which announces “ Our pay-day is.” The in-
vention booms amongst the shifty concerns. Collector
calls on shifty house —say, on 4th of month. Shifty firm’s
clerk, who sees the collector coming, had “ 4th of month ”
up the day before, so he turns a handle, and, to the con-
fusion of the collector, it reads, “ Our pay-day is 2Uth.”
Collector imagines he has been mistaken previously, and
waits over to 24th. Calls on 24th, and is simply paralysed
on that day to read, “O.P.D. is 15th of the month.”
Eventually, of course, the shifty firm has to pay, but
some extra credit is gained by the device, which,
especially in Melbourne, sells like hot cakes.
* * * *
Matthew Davies (to witness in Melbourne
Insolvency Court) : “You paid a farthing in
the pound ?” Witness : “ I beg your pardon, I
•paid a shilling, and that is a good deal more
than some people did.” An excellent chance promptly
availed of, especially as the insolvency of the poor devil
under examination was partly attributable to indirect
losses over the examining counsel’s many busted institu-
tions.
* * * *
Gyles Turner, lecturing to Melb. Bankers’ In-
stitute on the ethics of Insolvency and the general sin-
fulness of financial Man, said that the local Trades Hall-
ers “ had shouted themselves hoarse in proclaiming that
the banks had robbed the public, whereas the banks knew
•by the indubitable evidence of their ledgers that it was
the public who had robbed the unfortunate shareholders
in the bank.” Gyles Turner states what isn’t false,
whereas the Trades Hall people told a much more import-
ant truth. A lot of “ unfortunate shareholders,” ns
shareholders, robbed one another when they robbed the
banks which they directed, or had privileged business
dealings with. Banks, for robbery purposes, are men,
also those men are shareholders and members of the
public, if they don’t happen to be directors. And even
directors form part of the public in a Gyles Turnerian
sense, perhaps. If we are to consider banks as mere
buildings with money in them, it is evident that the
people who borrow the money and don’t return it, rob the
shareholders. But when they themselves lend the money
that they borrow, and are a considerable portion of tho
shareholders, and don’t meet their calls when the bank
goes bung, they might just as well have put their hands
into the pockets of the solvent shareholders for all the
difference that it makes to those unfortunates.
* * * *
Gyles Turner, at Melb. Bankers’ Institute, was
all right in denouncing the hollow mockery of the “ joint
and several guarantee.” The cheerful guarantors, as the
Commercial Bank manager feelingly remarked, “start
raeingclubs, cricket clubs, and even churches, and when
they find them financial failures, include their share of
the liability in their schedules, and walk out with un-
abashed contentment.” The'guarantee goes jointly and
severally bung.
* * * *
Of one province’s breweries, it is reinark< d that
only those which, five years ago, were looked upon as
almost hopeless cases, are now earning legitimate
dividends ; and, per contra, the scrip of fhose which were
then at a big premium is not good enough now to wrap
up a pound of tea in.
* * * *
It no lunger pays to systematically boil down
sheep for their tallow, few N.S.W. or Queensland holdings
being overstocked, and the Menindie Boiling Down Co.’s
business has been taken over by a largely-English co.,
which will have most to do with meat-preserves and beef-
extract.
* * • *
Rabbit-preserving hasn’t been remunerative in
South Australia. So far the Robe works have failed ;
and now the Mt. Gambier Co. owns up to a loss on the
half-year of 618. Tinned rabbits, it is found, are unsale-
able at a paying price ; hut there are still hopes that a
profit can he got out of the frozen article.
* * * *
The Plunderderry (Coolgardie) strong-room
theft was more extraordinary than would be judged from
Eastern paper accounts, inasmuch as the burgled chamber
was underground, at the 200 ft. level, close up to the main
shaft. The stuff stolen was specimen quartz—36slb. of it,
estimated to contain lOOoz. gold.
* * * *
Poor, hard-up Westralian Govt, has just crush-
ingly put up rates on the Coolgardie railway-line. Some
figures for the 385 miles from Fremantle to Coolgardie
Mining machinery, £2 14s. 7d. to £4 19s. Bd. ; horse-feed,
except chaff, £2 14s. 7d. to f 3 19s. 2d. ; cutlery, hardware,
&c., £4 19s. Bd. to £7 6s. 7d. ; Corrugated iron, £2 14s.
7d. to 13 19s. 2d. ; candles, t 2 14s. 7d. to £4 19s. Bd. ; and
food-stuffs, in many cases, 50 per cent. Also, scores of
civil servants have been “ sacked.”
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) mining and smelt-
ing directors see a big new industry with inter-state Free-
• trade. In connection with the smelting of the local
copper and Barrier sulphide ores, 10,000 tons of sulphur
is annually wasted—enough to make 20,000 tons of
“chamber” sulphuric acid, valuable in superphosphate
manure manufacture. The present £5 per ton duty and
the refusal of owners to take small quantities in mixed-
cargo vessels together kill the industry at present—or,
rather, won’t let it be born.
* * * *
An inspector for fire-insurance underwriters
lately visited a Melb. kerosene store with a lighted pipe
in his mouth. He was promptly extinguished before 1 e
could achieve an awful explosion, and when quite out of
danger he got permission to walk around and see how the
“ risk” was looking.
• * • *
Curious that Victorian apples, nine times in ten,
bring higher prices in London than Tasmanian. Pack-
ing?
Most “ good ” men are bad. Many “ bad”
men are good.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
.PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEI'I NITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOIES. ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PUKII'I KS of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied front the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
CbipS of WiSdonj . .
Eat Grannma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Vine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have alwa_vs on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Mm
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA*
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Smoke
Chief
POLITICAL
POINTS
M.L.C.—Mostly Large Capitalist.
“ Had Australia been federated twenty
years ago, New Guinea would be ours.” — Purvcs.
“That worm crawling over the face of
public affairs.”—Scobie Mackenzie, Maoriland
politician, on his political enemy.
Tomjoe Byrnes is Australia’s most pro-
mising Premier. It is very hard now to find any-
thing that Byrnes hasn’t promised.
John Downer is again to lead S.A. Oppo-
sition during the coming session. His chief
difficulty, as usual, will be to find the Opposition.
The biggest Vic. majority in favor of
Federation came from Ballarat. And Ballarat is
also the only place in Australia which ever took
up arms and shed its blood in a square fight
against oppression.
N.S.W. Public Works Committee has
consumed, between July, 1895, and present date,
over £25,000 in fees and travelling expenses. The
political gang, in its present voracious propor-
tions, expires with the present Assembly. R.I.P.
N. : Reid makes me think of a candidate
I once heard, called Liar Johnson. However, he
was candid on Protection. Says he: “Gentlemen,
I find the constituency so equally divided on this
question that really I cannot make up my mind.”
Georgy, porgy, puddeney pie
Wired—“ Confer ” and winked his eye;
When our Premier answered “ Yea,”
Georgy, porgy, ran away.
V"ic.
In his unwavering refusal to depart from
the Commonwealth Bill, Premier Kingston is
backed by all the other S.A. delegates. “As far
as South Australians are concerned, they have
distinctly reached the limit of concessions,” says
John Downer.
The only anti-Federalists in S.A. Assembly
who were sacked by their constituencies at the
recent Referendum were Labor-leader Batchelor
(W. Adelaide) and Single-taxer Frank Hourigan
(W. Torrens). Not a single Leg. Council district
went against the Bill.
A courageously-logical anti-Billite M.L.A.
holds that no sitting member of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment should be changed in favor of a new man,
unless that new man polls, as well as a majority of
votes, a minimum of 40 per cent, of all the votes
on the electoral district register.
Newcastle Morning Herald :
Mr. Brunker stated at the train last night that Federa-
tion was “ all right.” But beyond this he did not commit
himself.
But Papa has committed himself. And if Federa-
tion is “all right ” Brunker is all wrong !
Even in the form of taking the Federal
referendum there were absurd differences between
the several provinces. In S.A., if you wanted
the Bill you had to make a cross opposite the
“ Yes ” and leave the “ No ” alone ; in the other
provinces the “No ” had to be struck out.
A Voice from the Grave :
In spite of Mr. Reid's protestations that he is now a
Federationist I venture to predict that when the occasion
arises, as arise it must, Mr. Reid will be found to he
nothing more nor less than a Disguised Enemy of Aus-
tralian Union.
Author? Henry Parkes.
Westralia lias put the Federal Bill on the
shelf. Its Enabling Act provided that W.A.
wouldn’t go in unless N.S.W. did likewise, so
Forrest’s province is going to await developments,
and the concert of the five provinces, which was
uot together with such difficulty, steadily breaks
up.
A section of the N.S.W. Provincialists
raise a loud outcry because the four leaders of the
local Federalists are lawyers. They, however, see
nothing wrong in being led by Reid, Want, Hey-
don, Salomons, Pilcher, &c. A canvas of the
Sydney Bar would show a larger proportion
against the Federalists than with them.
S.A. Parliament meets this Thursday
(23rd). Kingston will probably have his own
way although the Laborites are semi-hostile as
the result of the Federation movement. As an
illustration of Opposition weakness may be cited
the fact that the main charge against the Govt,
will be alleged Hospital maladministration !
Premier Reid, booming his proposed
Federation of the Eastern Australias, says that
Queensland is the natural ally of N.S. Wales.
And why isn’t South Australia? Anyway, a
good slice of N.S.W., which hasn’t any direct
communication with Sydney, is entirely depend-
ent upon South Australia both for railways and
supplies.
Gov. Patterson made short work of the
Alien difficulty in the early days of Australia.
That doughty blusterer simply issued a proclama-
tion forbidding any person not a natural-born
subject of the King to engage in trade or
settle in the territory without a previously-
obtained permission from the Governor or other
officer in command. A breach entailed heavy
fine and expeditious ejection.
Painful whoop for Wollongong Argus to
have to swallow again when S.M. Herald’s
Federation-poll blunder was traded off upon it:—
GREAT REJOICING.
CIRCULAR QUAY LICKED !
SYDNEY MONOPOLISTS EUCHRED !
BREAD AND BUTTER WINS 1
SYDNEY LIARS OUTDO THEMSELVES !
THE COLONY EXISTS FOR SYDNEY NO I.ONOKR !
THE D.T. HAS COOKED ITSELF !
TIIE WORKING M AN HAS OPENED HIS EYES AT LAST I
GUILE AND LIES HAVE LOST !
Alas ! Alas !! Alas !!!
Whenever the poverty
stricken Tas. consumer wakes
np sufficiently to protest against
high though unprotective cus-
toms duties the stock argument
of Treas. Fysh is: “ Land can
bear no more taxation.” Yet
the inconvenient statisticians
persist in pointing out that the
community-made land-values of
Van Dobson Land amount to
something over £8,000,000
which have been collared and
are held by private and highly
pri viledged persons. These
eight millions pay, by way of a
property-tax, but Jd. in the £.
The whole eight millions have
been shovelled into the pockets
of I atman by State expendi-
ture of loan money (and increase
of population for which Fatman
is not wholly responsible, even
in Tas.) upon which loan money
the province pays nearly £llOO
per day interest. Fysh’s disre-
gard for these painful facts is
positively touching.
The Australian Anti - Bill
party insists on counting in the
people who didn’t vote as op-
ponents of the Federal Consti-
tution. They were silent —there-
fore they didn’t want any
change. Yet the burglar is a
silent man, and he wants all
the change he can get. The
man who didn’t vote was a man
who didn’t think the preserva-
tion of his provincial condition
worth the trouble of a vote.
And he didn’t think Federation
worth the trouble of a vote
either because, after a long ex-
perience of provincialism, he
had lost his interest in politics
of all kinds. The motto of the
man who doesn’t vote is : “ The
thing we has ain’t worth keep-
ing, and after a long experience
of the thing we has I don’t s’pose the thing we’re
goin’ to have’s any better.”
Tasmania notches another record. Of the
three Isle of Dreams electorates which polled
a majority against the Commonwealth Bill, two
return convention delegates—Dobson and Speaker
Brown—to the Assembly. Dobson and Brown
are therefore the only two delegates enthusiasti-
cally favoring the Bill whose pocket boroughs
“turned dog ” on them.
Vic. Premier Turner proposes to draft a
Bill to restrict the influx of inferior races by means
of an educational test. As his Ministry has put
up a record for badly-d rafted Acts, the services
of an expert should be called in. Turner took
great kudos for drafting the “ Purification of
Rolls Act,” which has since had to be tinkered
with a host of amendments.
John Downer announced, just prior to
opening of S.A. Parliament, that the Opposition
had not as yet had a meeting. Downer leads in
S.A. the most disorganised collection of second-
rate politicians yet collected together in Australia
as a party. Last year there were such jealousies
and differences as to leadership that one or two of
the most prominent of the crowd were hardly on
speaking terms.
SHE KNEW ALL ABOUT IT.
“Does that chair hold two?"
“Yes, easily—hut when it docs it creaks horribly !”
Premier Reid, at the smoke-concert given
him by his admirers—
He felt deeply that Mr. Want was fighting a great
battle for the just rights and interests of N.S. Waies—
(applause)—at a great sacrifice of his strength, health,
and professional business; whilst he (Mr. Reid) was in the
very novel position of not being in the front of the fight
at till. Well, he did not enjoy it, but now he was in the
front of the fight again, and no one would be able to get
him anywhere else.
N.S.W. has to pay for not placing Mr. Reid at
the top of the Federal poll; the Federal Associa-
tion lost the Bill by electing Mr. Barton as its
President.
A GOOD EAR FOR MUSIC.
COUNTRY BANDMASTER (to blackfellow, who has been listening to
the music attentively): “ Well, Billy, have you got a
good ear for music? ”
BILLY: “My oath, Missa Bandrhaster; me hear him four, five
miles away !”
“ The man in possession has no idea of
going out, and is prepared to fight for his bread
and cheese. He will sink anything to keep his
own head above water. His knowledge tells him
principles are awkward things,-and if a clever
politician has no principles he cannot be defeated
upon them.” —Parkks on Reid.
If 125 N.S.W. electorates had to poll an
average of 640 affirmative votes each to give the
Federal Bill a show of passing, why shouldn’t
they have to show at least 640 votes in favor of
the winning candidate at election time—if no can-
didate got 640 votes the constituency to be un-
represented till next election ? Out of 118 mem-
bers who had to fight for their seats in ’95, only
79 got as many as 640 votes.
Q. Labor Convention had nothing to say
re Federation. Perhaps, however, the Laborites,
having extended the modest 25 original planks of
the famous “ platform ” to 50, thought they had
done enough for once in a while—a conclusion in
which a weary world will, probably, concur. No
effort, apparently, was made towards compromise
with the hapless Opposition, and the close of ’9B
will, probably, witness a furious scramble for
dubious seats under the delighted eyes of the
Govt, nominees.
Dear Bulletin.—
Those who expect crimi-
nals to be treated in-
telligently, with a view to
their return to the ranks
of harmless workers, for-
get that humanity has
never yet found time to
treat its honest poor with
intelligence. It is doubt-
ful if it treats the worst
criminal worse than it
trea ts those who have been
unfortunate enough to lose
money and health, or those
who have never had either.
Humanity, in fact, treats
its members as sheep are
treated where they are
kept in vast numbers, and
are as cheap as in Aus-
tralia ; and not as the
English farmer treats
them, with an eye to
every unit of the flock.
And so it will have to
remain until the cost of
life in labor is much re-
duced. Not till we find
time to sit on a log are we
able to invent a chair. —
K.K.
The Adelaide Labor-
paper states that the work-
ing-men of W. Adelaide
are already laying odds
that Premier Kingston will
be beaten when he stands
for the district next April.
The strong stand taken by
him in favor of Federation
has earned their resent-
ment. Yet no other 20
men in S.A. have done so
much for Labor as Kingston.
Dear Bulletin. —You butter A. I. Clark,
the new Judge. Now, when in the Assembly,
A.I. was notorious for slipshod legislation and for
his advocacy of shindykit Bills. Moreover, he
gave Hobart the most rascally Corporation Act
the modern world has seen, for it disfranchises
the tenants by doubling the landlord vote.
Further, though an ardent Federalist—especially
ardent for the Bill he had a hand in making—he
did not support the Commonwealth Bill lately sub-
mitted. Of course,-that doesn’t necessarily argue
that he is not a good Judge.— Jollytail.
Just on the eve of N.S.W. general eleo»
tion Premier Reid announces that he thinks no
more public-house licenses should be issued at
present. “There are too many public-houses.”
How characteristic of him—at general-election
time ! No publican wishes to see more public-
houses. Nor does any teetotaller. Votes from
both quarters for Mr. No-Yes On-the-Fenee.
Three hundred and forty-one Japanese
laborers landed a few days ago at Mourilyan Har-
bor and Dungeness (N.Q.)—for service on Northern
sugar-plantations. The Japanese Emigration So-
ciety, a semi-official body, organised the expedi-
tion, supplied the men with white uniforms, straw
hats, and the indispensable sleeping-mat. . . And
a fevv days ago the Q. Premier was proclaiming
the sleepless hostility of himself and his Govern-
ment to the immigration of Asiatic aliens.
If by any chance Australia can get an
amended Federation scheme which will provide
for the immediate taking over by the Common-
wealth of the customs, the railways, the debts,
and, if possible, the Education department, it
will certainly be a good thing. But as the N.S.W.
Premier fought his hardest to prevent the rail-
ways and the debts being taken over it is obvious
that he isn’t the man to get these valuable altera-
tions anyhow. And it was because the debts and
railway deficits were to be left (largely at Reid’s
instigation) on the hands of the States that it
seemed necessary to insert some kind of guarantee
that the Federal Govt, would raise a large revenue
and hand some of it back to the States to pay
their way with—hence Braddon’s famous “ Blot ”
and all the trouble which followed.
Vic. railway department has sold the
wooden bridges and culverts on Penshurst-Dun-
keld railway-line for ,£25, which ends, as far as
the department can end it, the most pitiful item
in the Gillies raihvay-boom. It was a little cross-
country line from a dead town with 550 people
and a dog, to a casual village with 300 people and
a lame horse, and as both places had a railway
already the affair was so hopeless that it was left
unopened. It was built at a cost of £50,000, and
then the department tore up the rails and sleepers,
and removed or sold the stations, and let it slide.
The Penshurst-Dunkeld line had become only a
legend when the eagle eye of Commissioner
Mathieson fell upon it, and he promptly rescued
the last possible £25 out of the lamentable spec,
by trading off the bridges for firewood.
S.A..’s ink-slinging parson contributes this
charming epistle to an Adelaide paper :
THE REFERENDUM VOTES —SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
1896-1898.
To the Editor.
Sir, —
Two years ago they voted, five to one,
To keep their “ perfect ” schools from God’s Own Son ;
This year, on fourth of God s bright June,
They, after racing, shout the self-same tune ;
And vote, consistently with what they breed,
To rear a Commonwealth without a Creed.
Such are their “ Referenda”—registered above
As proofs of folly, and as calls to Love
To raise His pleadings for His foes anew :
“ Father, forgive ; they know not what they do ! ”
I am, sir, &c.,
John W. Owen.
And yet the humorless clergy complain of the
decay of the religious spirit!
Premier Reid is already fishing anxiously
for votes in many troubled waters. Within the
last few days he has promised that the Civil
Service Board will raise the salaries of the Public
Service ; he has announced that he is in favor of
raising the Age of Consent—which will probably
catch the votes of the Dirty Saints ; and he has
started to angle for the public-house vote by
declaring himself in favor of opening hotels on
Sunday, and of stopping the issue of new licenses
for a time—which will make the monopoly of the
present license-holders more valuable. At the
same time, he has promised that a member of the
Ministry (presumably Cook) will have a chance to
introduce a Bill providing for local and State
option without compensation—which is the biggest
reach-out for the Cold Tea vote up to date.
THE 810 SHALL BE LOJF.
Primier G. is a dreffie swart man,
He drew' up a Bill and then went ded agin it;
For he thinks to hisself, “ It is everyone's plan
To grab for theirselves—and I shan’t be in it”:
So Primier G.
Sez, sez he,
That he simply don’t hold with this Fed’ral idee.
O. Kingston sez he never heerd in his life
That when most other States had agreed to a Bill
A few men in one place should cause a great strife,
Saying, “ Give it us different; then,p’raps, too,icewill.*
So C. C.
Kingston, he
Won’t have nothink to do with Primier G.
Toby, Q.C., is a sensible man ;
He wants Federation, an’ goes fer it straight;
He likes to please all, so far ez he can,
But he sez to no-one “ Content yourself ; wait.”
So Sydnee
People, we
Are all goin’ ter vote fer that Toby B.


X,
W'
#
W
WMI I ////ll.llti
CGpid’s Choice
is> Fii}e Shoes
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
as many victims by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot :
“So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
. . . with Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
THIS
TRADE
MARK
REPRESENTS THE
LIGHTEST and STRONGEST
TYRES MADE.
STRENGTH is one of the main features of
And this, combined with their TSiBsSIIiHiXfCY' and liICrUTXTE 3S, makes them
the fastest and most reliable Tyre made.
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD.,
247 Swanston-st., Melbourne ;
and at Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Do YoO Waijt to Boy
... an ASSISTANT?
We will sell you a mefcal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day’s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day for the
first year, after that yoti own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 130,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
. . the . .
HR
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 George-Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Telephone No. 2976.
P.O. Box, 1035.
Maoriland nearly had a vacancy the other
day for a Premier. Digger Dick was inspecting
the unfinished new Houses of Parliament, when
a brick fell on him from a great height and re-
bounded off his breast-bone. It was a narrow
escape, but Seddon’s tremendous chest stood the
shock well, and the vacancy didn’t happen.
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “ D.C.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind, it preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“D.C.L.”*
“Ricardo”: Melb. demise, Howard, ex-
President of the Stock Exchange, a grand old-
schooler, handsomest man of his day and business,
and straight' as a die. The temptations of a, stock-
broker are like those of a bookmaker who is am-
bitious to back or, more dangerous still, own
horses. Yet the fielder must win, if he sticks to
his last, lays to his book in the widest sense. A
Howard shows us how the honest broker, as Bis-
marck termed himself, can go through life most
cozily, and, though the boom tried to flatten him,
it happily did not succeed.
AN UP-TO-DATE BUSINESS.
The establishment of Messrs. Washington H.
Soul and Co. (at ICO and 2GB Pitt-street, Sydney),
which began in a rather small way, has become
one of the largest of Australasian institutions by
giving good value for money and by being right
up to date. The ladies’ new department, in
charge of a trained nurse, is cordially approved
by the whole medical profession as well as by the
ladies themselves. This department is fitted up
for the convenience and privacy of ladies requiring
to purchase any of the articles necessary to the
relief of ailments, any of the thousand articles for
beautifying the complexion, perfumery, perfumed
soap and dentifrice. And the firm’s buyers in
Europe and America are sending specialities to
this department by every mail. Lately, too, the
entire establishment has been altered and extended
—more room and more light given to customers —so
that the most exacting may be pleased. The
packing department has 40 men constantly em-
ployed in turning out boxes and packing etceteras ;
and at 268 Pitt-street many are employed in
manufacturing the famous Soyer’s Baking Powder
and Soul’s Australian Relish. The confectionery
dept, has a stock of pure sweets, especially
American candy, which should draw the whole
juvenile population of N.S.W. to the counter.
Another dept., by no means connected with the
above, is the dispensing dept., where a staff of
duly qualified members of the Pharmacy Board
dispense the purest drugs under a complete system
of check. There is also a man’s trying-on room.
The whole business is controlled by the proprietor
Mr. W. H. Soul, assisted by his brother-in-law,
Mr. W. R. Bird, as general supervisor.
Suitable song for the same old Old Reid,
now that we know what he wants —“Give him
the Moon to play with, Give him the Earth as
well.”
“ There’s no sweeter tobacco comes from
Virginia and no better brand than the Three
Castles. You’ll take to it, bless you, asyou grow
older.” — Thackeray, “ The Virginians' *
Why should N.S.W. taxpayers defray the
cost of distributing free copies of political pam-
phlets in the shape of newspaper supplements
among the electors during the Federal campaign :
To be logical, Govt, should distribute all the
Federal and anti-Federal dodgers.
Major-General Tulloch, late Commandant
of Vic. Forces, did a graceful thing in connection
with his Imperial pension of aGO a year for
“meritorious service.” He sent .£lO of the first
quarterly payment as a donation towards the Re-
treat for old soldiers and sailors at Drysdale (Vic.).
The Greatest 0 .irative of the Age!
AFTER EIGHT YEARS’ TRIAL, PUBLIC OPINION
AFFIRMS that it has EFFECTED MORE CURES than
any Ointment or Embrocation in the World. For
Rheumatism, Sciatica; Aches & Pains
it is an INFALLIBLE REMEDY". For DISEASES in
HORSES, CATTLE, &.C.,
there is no equal to it extant. tW' Purchase a Jar and
Test its Value.
Lumbago Cured.
Desicating Works, Flemington, 11th June, 1896.
Messrs. S. Cox & Co., 422 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —I obtained a pot of Solomon Solution on re-
commendation, and applied it to the parts in which I was
affected with Lumbago, and have found it to be an abso-
lute cure. I removed that unpleasant disorder on a few
applications. I strongly recommend it to persons affected
with Lumbago, or any complaint of a simiiar nature.
Yours truly,
F. HAIRE.
Wholesale Agents :
W. R. CAVE & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. LEARMONTH & CO., Fremantle, TV A,
Sold by Chemists, Saddlers, and Storekeepers.
If not obtainable in your locality, send 3s. to the
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
SOLOMON COX AND CO.,
m BO EKE ST.,'MELBOURNE.
Tbs Loodoi) Baok of Australia,
LIMITED,
2 OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £2,136,050
PAID-UP .. .. .. 1,405,890
UNCALLED, INCLUDING RESERVED LIABILITY 730,160
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
SIR JAMES FRANCIS GARRICK, Q.C., K.C.M.G., Chairman.
SIR WALTER FOSTER, M.P. GEORGE MILLER, Esq.
ALFRED CHRISTIAN GARRICK, Esq. ROBERT ROME, Esq.
ROBERT LANDALE, Esq. NICHOL BROWN WATSON, Esq.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1897.
Liabilities.
Notes in Circulation .. .. ..£148,669 5 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities .. 485,119 12 1
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest .. £36,842 10 3
Bearing In-
terest .. 293,080 4 0
329,922 14 3
Other Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest.. 964,487 12 6
Bearing In-
terest .. 355,435 12 5
1,319,923 4 11
1,649,845 19 2
Transferable Deposit Receipts .. .. 3,260,678 0 0
5,544,312 16 3
Capital Account.
Ordinary Shares —
50,000 Shares, £25 called £1,250,000 0 0
Less :
Unpaid in re-
spect of un-
issued
Shares ..£8,970 0 0
Calls in arrear 1,805 0 0
10,775 0 0
1,239,225 0 0
Add
Calls paid in
advance .. 1,365
Prepaid b y
Trustees in
respect of •
Reserve Lia-
bility .. 6,825
8,190 0 0
Preference Shares :
17,193 shares of £lO each,
fully paid
Profit and Loss, as per ac-
count below ..
1,247,115 0 0
171,930 0 0
1,419,345 0 0
1,839 4 4
£6,965,497 0 7
Assets.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, and Notes
of other Banks
Money at Call and short notice
Investments and Bills Receivable
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets after deducting' provisions for
Bad and Doubtful Debts
Bank Premises .. .. ..
£846,560 7 0
81,223 15 8
927,784 2 8
897,614 14 10
4,756,237 010
383,861 2 8
£6,965,497 0 7
There is a contingent liability of £Bl5l 13s. lid., being J per cent, interest on the Transferable Deposits for the
six months ended 31st December, 1897. This, however, under the existing plan of arrangement, affects Shareholders
only, and does not affect the current and new business of the Bank.
Profit and Loss Account for Year ended 31st December, 1897.
£ b. d.
To Charges, comprising Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees, Salaries, and all other
Expenses at Head Office, Branches,
and Agencies, including Parliamentary
Bill and Re-arrangement Expenses,
1897 74,348 16 6
~ Income and Band Taxes and Tax on
Note Issue 2,741 9 6
~ Interest at 41 per cent, on Tranferable
Deposit Receipts to 30th June, 1897,
and provision for Interest at 4 per cent,
on same to 31st December, 1897 .. 139,360 16 2
„ Balance carried forward 1,839 4 4
£218,290 6 6
8. d.
By Balance carried over as per last. Re-
port ..
~ Gross Profits in London and in Austra-
lia after providing for Interest due and
accrued on Government Accounts and
new deposits, deducting rebate on Bills
Current, and making provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts
£
1,811 16 11
216,478 8 6
£218,290 5 5
By Balance brought down
.. £1,839 4 4
We certify that the above Balance-Sheet is, in our
opinion, a full and fair Balance-Sheet, properly drawn up
bo as to exhibit a true and correct view of the Bank’s
affairs, as shown by the books of the Bank in London and
the returns from Australia.
BRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
29th April, 1898.
JAMES P. GARRICK
G. MILLER
B. WALTER FOSTER
Directors.
W. N. TOtetttfNS, Secretary..


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
D. 5.111. fflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
•74
CASTLESLEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawribroteing Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOKTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS,
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Pan k of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. . . .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
m
head office
Intersection Hunter; Bligh AND
Castlereach Streets .
. SYD NEY .
A. tSTABL/SHKD -1379.
Office in AustrM-'* *
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed £2oo. ooo Sterling.
I Silver Ijjatch Free.
//i These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
•J /0® and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
/ || hut to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
' you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
NEIV
of
O-
as®
Of Hipest
Character.
MINERVA TONIC
is a tonic of the high-
est possible character.
Minerva Tonic testi-
monials are testimoni-
als by the best-known
citizens of Australia.
Mil. Or. D. CLARK, the gifted mouth-piece
of the great Temperance Party in New South
Wales, writes from the Grand Lodge in the fol-
lowing eloquent terms: —
“ May Ist, 1898.
“ I have pleasure in stating that, having
tried Minerva Tonic, I am decidedly of
opinion that it is most helpful in clearing the
brain, stimulating thought, and making work
a pleasure.
(Signed) “ G. D. CLARK.”
Of all Chemists, or direct from any of the Aus-
tralian Depots.
THE MINERVA CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists,
London, 15 and 17 Fore st. Avenue, E.C. ; New
York, Kemple Building, Whitehall-st. ; Sydney,
50 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-st. ;
Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, Taylor and
Colledge, or 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st.
f\UI BELL’S nipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12jd., for N.S.YV. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15Jd., London, ’9B—both greasy.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,500,000
Paid-dp £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors : Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of Dolicies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
CO. Ijtd. 0/lo>>' 7 ~r%.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. II ass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farqtjiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
David graham m £®.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Winter Suitings Just °p ened -
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES
LADIES’ - - ateep S es ,
AT RE! p]^Q ES , TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
TATest& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE"!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f’
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 2, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
• Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
Takes passengers and cargo for S. S.
Buninyong leaving Melbourne
Tuesday, June 28.
BRISBANE i ]
MARYBOROUGH l]
ROCKHAMPTON | ]
Leura, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
■Barrabool, Tuesday, June 28, 5 p.m.
Konoowarra, Saturday, July 2, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Leura, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Saturday, July 2, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO AI;E FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary* Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Building's, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 4 p.m,
Leave
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
3158
4000
July 4 July
August 1 August
3158 lAugust 29 Sept.
July
August
Sept.
27
24
21
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway ninps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
-vi-
a PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
"TvESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
A. GEO. KING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moueing & Neal, etc. llox No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Shave JBrokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN NT., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
, Shipping.
THE ADELAIDElTEAiMlPCa
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, July 5.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to l
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd.)
Saturday, June 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, July 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
July 5.
Best & Cheapest Route to Cold field s.
Gr« S. YUILL and CO., Ctd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Pen’nsular
Victoria...
India
Australia
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
5287iW. A. Wheler.July 2'.7uly
6527 E. Crewe ...jJuly 16;Juiy
8000 W. D. G. Wor- July SO' Aug.
oester. |
6901 1. Reeves .. Aug. 13 Aug.
5 July 7
19 July 21
2'Aug. 4
16 Atis
18
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, i'3s to £7O.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-monev can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge sts., Sydney.
Ijuddart, parker f go’s [ine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARTS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, L 25 to 170
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST - CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Uniuiraith, KTEacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply '
M'llwraith, M'Eaoharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON.
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOa!
Passage Money from £l4 to 167 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the. Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. [ML Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday" Island,, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


!How’s This?
I Without a
therefore
Matchless.
OGDEN’S
‘GUINEA-GOLD 3
CIGARETTES,
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soyer’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by eoepert Chemists at
IjOiv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb'Dgtoi) N.S06I &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, ISO, and 268 Fitt-street, Sydney; and at
Church-3treet, Parramatta.
9
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
T O . OO MiIPIiJTITJOKr.
WINES The Bed B r L onbJ “ j SPIRITS.
MANUFACTLJRKUS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
ICes&t Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DEEICIOVS SAIK'K lIS THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OP BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Soldi in Bottles, 6*1., i/-, and «/- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales?
TIU.OCK & CO.. KENT and J.IVERPOOL STREETS. STDNEV.
Ask for
WHITE
heather
WHISKY.
CICARS FREE
CJCSIMMONS
I//DROP3I IM THE SLoT\\\fß
lull
min)ll mi in fi m
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
f Best Value
* in N S.W.
Cigars
LA. W'JEIEIXr CS’S JPatent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
1m
P
P
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
w
Stimulating—Nutritive—Exquisite in Flavor.
BIRD’S
CUSTA
When the pie was open
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRDS
CUSTARD
POWDER
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
TiOOK OF NATURE
* ” —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
Tiie Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is (id.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
PiriNG Hot; Abbe Mouret’s Sin; The Soil; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human. System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is (id.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Cd ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Madpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of, Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. TIIE
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave I.iorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is fid ; post Is 9d.
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art op Love. Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,


)s^-“
t
y*— y~~
\J^~
y>
*
*
*
*
There are Several Best Bicycles,
But when they are compared with the great Red Bird Special
they drop to second-grade.
IT IS ONLY NECESSARY to adjust the hearings of the great “ RED BIRD
SPECIAL ” once a year. Each ball is contained in separate steel case. It is im-
possible for them to jam or otherwise cause friction. Axis is parallel with the
wheel, which gives the easiest-running bearing in the world.
The bottom bracket bearings are contained in a separate steel barrel which can
he adjusted in the bottom bracket proper, keeping chain alignment perfect.
Sprocket is set between the bearings, giving chain an even pull without side twist.
These are only a few of the many improvements of the great Red Bird Special.
WHY NOT CALL AT THE DEPOT AND SEE A SAMPLE ? IT WILL
TEACH YOU SOMETHING ABOUT BICYCLES.
THE GOOLD BICYLE CO., LTD.
Agents Everywhere.] Australasian Branch— 64 Kiny-st., Sydney.
1
“These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
Reduced.
LARDY’S
GEKTT’S
<£
10 10
CD 0)
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY ; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
There was a notable absence of triers at Canter-
bury Park Races last Saturday, but punters were more
successful than usual. The respective winners were the
aged Blacklock, Kiteware, Lyrist, Flintlock, P.N., and
Annadour, starting respectively at seven’s, two’s, two’s,
ten s, twelve’s, and four’s. The consistent Savourneen
was beaten by a head in the handicap byP.N., butshe was
unlucky to lose.
» * • •
Kiteware, who won Canterbury Park Stakes, is
a new arrival from the country, and is a likely-looking
sort. He hadn’t much to beat on Saturday, but he did it
well and should be heard of again.
• • * *
The attractions of “a, cut of the sweep’’will
produce a big field in Rosehill ’Cup to-day (Sat.). The
heavy support awarded to Vigorous looks as if business
was meant in that quarter ; Loch Maree, Devoted, True
Blue, Bob Ray, The Tola, and Robin Hood being also well
backed. Of this lot, True Blue and The Tola may be
found most forward at the finish, though, should Pre-
caution be supported in the right quarter, this flying
mare may secure the prize, as she will have the distinct
advantage of performing on her own course.
• * * *
Undeterred by the recollection of previous dis-
asters, the ever-ready and willing backer is supporting
his “own particular” for V.R.O. Grand Nationals, Soult
for Hurdles being already a pronounced favorite, with
So-and-So, Legs, Paul Pry, and Homespun also receiving
attention. If Acton could be depended on to “ lep” well,
his chance should be second to none, whilst Irish Stew
and The Sketch also have nothing to complain of in the
matter of weight. The Steeple fancies are Doondiah,
Havseed, Songster, and Blue and Gold, but intending
backers should not overlook the chances of A r igil and
Medicine, who may on the day be found capable of
“downing” more fancied animals.
* « * »
Weights for the V.R.O. Nationals have not
much affected the small and early market for Hurdle and
Steeple goods. Whernside got more than was expected
(his immediate scratching, along with sundry stable com-
panions, suggests that chairman Miller is very cross
indeed with the club’s handicapper just now), but other
popular candidates are kindly treated, as a rule. So-and-
so, The Bulletin’s fancy last year, should stand a good
chance in the Hurdle Race, with list. 41b., presuming
that Alec Taylor has worked an improvement in the
speedy offspring of Fryingpan, which is almost certain.
Hayseed is not crushed out of the Steeplechase, and
Doondiah—but lots of things may happen before the
second Saturday of the Flemington “ sticks” meeting.
* * * *
Not much room left for doubting that the
English top-sawyers are a bit faster than Australian
ditto. Newhaven was beaten at Ascot by The Rush, who
ran M’rman to a neck last year when giving 71b. to the
Australian over 2J4 miles. Newhaven probably had 51b.
the worst of the weights at Ascot, but then he finished
third only. It looks as though The Rush were quite the
equal of our exported cracks. Well, Galtee More would
have been backed to give him a stone over any course.
• » • *
Lord W. Beresford, who manages things racing
for “ Mr.” Jersey, placed Maluma right at Lewes, where
the Malua mare easily won back part of her purchase-
money. Flying at too high game has unprofitably ex-
posed Newhaven’s form, and it will need generalship to
enable the erratic one to repay exes. There is a greater
opening and more money in “ chasing,” and Australian
owners would be wise in turning their attention to
“ Jeppers,” as ’Ome form appears much below par.
* * • »
Mr. Buckland had bad luck in his record-
breaking trial with trotter Fritz in Maoriland. Rain fell
the night before and made the going heavy. Fritz trotted
a quarter in 31 2-5, half in 1.3}, three-quarters in 1.33 J,
and the mile in 2.14 J. Brought out later on, he could
only put up 2.15.
« * * *
At Toowoomba, recently, a Bulletin correspon-
dent saw a pen of 10 horses sold for 17s. 6d. the lot! The
shadow of the bike ?
* * » *
Westralian climatic conditions operate most
beneficially on imported horseflesh. Paul Pry was a
commoner ere he raced in the West. Faultless", another
failure in Melbourne, put up some really smart hurdle
p-rformances on Perth courses. The Provost, like Paul
Prv, cleared the board in his class among the sand-
gropers, then showed form in S.A., and should run well
in V.R.O. Grand National, for he is a great stayer and
clever jumper. A few others which improved greatly or
regained in W.A. apparently lost form—Common, Stead-
fast, Thunder, Speculation, Tellus, Duke of York, Euglo.
» * » *
At a W.A. country meeting the running of a
metropolitan horse in one event had been so peculiar,
and the smell so pungent, that even the stewards looked
serious, and the owner was requested to appear before
them. That worthy swung nonchalantly into the august
presence, apparently more interested in his cigar than in
any other thing on earth. He was asked a few questions
by the chairman, a noted heavy bettor, and replied to
each with airy insolence. “ Bad ? Well, yes, it did look
bad.’’ “Explain? No, he didn’t think so.” “Say?
Oh, no ; he’d just leave it to them.” He was told to re-
tire, and did so, but suddenly his head appeared in the
doorway as, with outstretched finger pointed menacingly
at the chairman, he exclaimed, in tones pregnant with
meaning : “ If I go out, he goes out too. Mind that—he
goes out too, and perhaps one or tw r o more of you.”
Next morning’s paper stated that “ Mr. Blank’s explana-
tion was accepted as satisfactory.”
* * » *
A.’s mare seemed a certainty for the big race of
the meeting, and 8., owner of the next best, having A.’s
assurance that all was right, backed the mare for a fair
stake. But A. had worked the double on B.’s jockey and,
thank s to the latter’s market operations, got a nice price
about the second best. According to instructions (from
A. B.’s jockey made all the running, the mare lying off
and coming with a late run at the finish. There was an
exciting battle in the last 50 yards and, just when it was
apparent that the boy on.the favorite had come a little
too late, B. ’s horse stumbled, and the mare won by a
length or so. A. went nearly insane when B. thanked
him for the information, by which he had profited so well,
and had a private;chat to one of the stewards. Result—
B. horse, and-jockey (whose incrimination of A. w'as
regarded as a malicious invention) were disqualified for
12 months.
* * * *
Adelaide W.C.T.U., backed by an assortment
of parsons and other allegedly pious folk, is actively work-
ing up a big petition against the totalisator. The move-
ment brings no alarm to friends of the machine, which is
particularly strong in public favor at present. The tote,
properly and honestly administered as it is now under
the direct supervision of the police, has considerably re-
duced betting. The bookmaker element has been cut
down so much that juvenile ante-post betting, rampant
awhile ago, has now almost disappeared. The unpracti-
cal saints, who are so palpably playing into the hands of
Ikey Mo, have no chance of succeeding in their stupid
campaign.
* * * *
A prominent Australian bookie, whose lang-
widge is somethink orful, has a pleasing habit of throw-
ing a client’s cash on the ground if aforesaid client is dis-
satisfied with the odds he offers. At a recent meeting,
however, he got a lesson in kind which will probably last
him his lifetime. A man desiring to back a certain prad,
and hearing on all sides the offers of 7 to 1, supposed that
the forcible one’s quotations were the same, and handed
over five sovs. “Six to one,” said the book. “ I want
sevens," responded the punter. “Then, blank yer
eyes, yer won’t get it here,” and with a swing the book
scattered the five pieces on the grass, when on the
instant the toe of the backer's boot landed hard on the
bottom of the riqgman’s bag and a beauteous fountain of
gold and-silver coins) to say nothing of notes, played for
a twinkling all around. Then while the book and his
penciller were pouncing on the bundles of notes, the
backer had collected his fiver and was off. And as all the
stable-boys and spielers within cooey rushed to help the
book to collect his scattered fortune, he didn’t do so
badly by coining out only £lO7 short 1
« * m w
“ Holdar M.”: The three-card operator haunts
Sydney senior football matches, despite the utterly un-
promising nature of the attendant crowd. At a recent
gathering one of these generally-astute gents approached
a group whose preliminary glare of stony unbelief and
flippant demeanor would have soured the self-assurance
of Premier Reid. The party with the colored cardrboard,
however, wasn’t a bit dismayed, and his invitations were
loud and lingering, although a piece of mellow fruit in
the eye presently interrupted his “buttoner’s” heavy
wager. He refused to be discomfited and recovered his
vision just as a hnnk of soil scattered his elderly gamp.
Is the monte man’s discretion waning, or is he merely
the victim of a congested profession?
* * * •
An attendance of upwards of 8000 at the Pirate-
s match on Saturday last, was a football record
for Sydney Cricket Ground. In the first half, Randwick,
by a splendid bit of unselfish play, scored a try, from
which Barrie kicked a goal. For the rest of the
half no further score was made, although the game was
fast and interesting. Soon after the second spell began
Pirates scored a try and goal, which seemed to give them
fresh heart, as they scored rapidly, and when time was
called the game stood Pirates 16, Randwick 8. In the
Wallaroo-University match, also played on Sydney
Cricket Ground, Wallaroo won by 21 points to 10. For
the premiership the clubs now stand : Wallaroo, 7 points ;
Pirates and Randwick, 6 ; Sydney, 5 ; and University, 4.
University will now have to defeat Pirates to secure a
place in the semi-finals for the Cricket Ground trophies.
* * * *
Randwick is the most unpopular team in Syd-
ney, the reason given being that they win all their
matches by brute strength and stupidity. Interesting to
note, however, that if ever there is a good, open, fast
game it is always between Randwick and University.
’Varsity always plays an open game, but Randwick’s
strength lies in tackling any team at its own game and
beating it.
* * * *
Just when another succession of victories by
Essendon threatened to fairly kill public interest in Vic.
League football, th#big club goes down on consecutive
Saturdays before Geelong and Collingwood. Result :
Essendon and Fitzroy equal, and four others, all equal,
close up—and assured big gates for the future.
* * » a
Football has had a revival in Adelaide. There
is a triangular duel between three strong teams, Norwood
and South and Port Adelaide. The former club, in old
times perhaps the best team in Australia, is, so far, at the
top with an unbeaten record. Adelaideans still remember
how Norwood, years ago, beat “ Sowth ” Melbourne, then
Victoria's premier team, in all of three premiership
matches.
* » * *
A youth, recently fined at Carlton (Melb.), for
street-footballing, had the penalty heightened because
he had previously been convicted of larceny. Beak-logic
is indeed a fearsome thing.
* * * *
Harry Musgrove’s letter to the Age of Thursday
week puts a totally different complexion on the baseball
team and its American worries, and shows how necessary
it always is to take the muttered thunder of the other
fellow with a packet of salts. Mus'grove' comes out all
right, and it should not have been forgotten tkat the trip
was persisted in despite his emphatic advfbe to the
contrary. The Age is now satisfied that “the charges
made against Mr. Musgrove’s integrity and business
capacity are without foundation.” Nothing succeeds
like success, and nothing fails like failure. The
Mr. Harry Musgrove who managed the lucrative Austra-
lian eleven was another party altogether from the fellow
who ran the dead-beat and broken Australian baseballers.
• * * *
Melb. laerosseurs, who are shortly to invade
Sydney (shooting begins Aug. 13) sensibly tell the Sydney
men not to attempt to return the lavish hospitality, they
received in Melb. last July. The Sydneyites, knowing
their association is not yet strong financially, feared
the Melb. boys would expect extensive preparations, and
were nobly determined to make them at all risks.
* * * *
Ranji Barden won the first race he started in on
his return to England—a mile pursuit against a top-
notcher like Walters. Doesn’t seem to support the
“ lost form ” theory by which he accounted for his lick-
ings in Australia.
* * * *
During the “ off ” season the two Melb. cycling
papers strive to keep up circulation by getting each other
by the wool. The older publication goes in for tolerably
dignified rebuke, but its opponent hits out in all direc-
tions, coming out every week with some new “exposure”
of the perfidy of its reptile contemporary, and caricatur-
ing the latter’s awfulness on its front page. Altogether,
the scrimmage is the liveliest thing Australian cycling
has seen since the Bilmartin stoush incident.
Cycling journalism down South is in a parlous
state, anyhow. One paper has fallen out with some of its
advertisers, and never loses an opportunity of rubbing it
into them in its columns, but, as the contract happens to
be unexpired, the paid-for page of space is used by the
assailed parties to get back on the editorial column.
Consequently the reader is informed in one column of the
Scorcher that the Blankley Cycle co. is a howling “ do”
that sweats its employes, and never won an honest race
with its wares, while the next quotes previous issues of
the Scorcher itself to prove that sheet a humbug of the
deepest dye.
* * * *
Young Body, the tough bike-plugger of Mel-
bourne, unlike most cycle pros., has ideas above his
machine, and is the proud author of a new and original
torpedo (copyrighted) which he is taking to England with
the idea of fame and fortune. Body is a clever mechanic,
and has earned £2OOO on his bike in 24 months, to enable
him to push his war machine in the right quarter.
* * * *
S.S. :Re the bicycle face. Is it my fancy, or is
bike-riding, especially the professional work, developing
a peculiar chin ? It seems to me that every second man
who pushes pedals for his daily bread has a hard, obtru-
sive chin that overshoots the mark.
* * * *
The meeting, at Brisbane, between M'Gowan, of
Melb., and Tweedie, of Sydney, proved a great mill. For
12 rounds Tweedie had all the best of it on points, but
early in the 13th round M’Gowan landed a lucky right on
“ the point ” and knocked out the Sydney man. Tweedie
is second only to “ Griffo ” in science, but his very clever-
ness.proves his downfall, as by over-confidence he throws
his chance away. The same thing happened in his one
fight in America.
» * * •
Yousoff, the “ Terrible Turk,” has been causing
a commotion in the States. In his second meeting with
wrestler Roeber, in N.Y., the Turk could not throw
Roeber, and, losing his temper, struck him. Roeber,
who knows something of the boxing game, then hauled
off and “ bashed ” the Turk. Billy Brady jumped into
the ring claiming a foul for the Turk, whereupon Fitz-
simmons, Brady’s mortal enemy; took a hand, and tried
to pull him out of the ring. Brady struck Fitz, and the
latter, getting a “holt,” nearly broke Brady’s neck. A
score of policemen jumped into the arena, followed by a
strong man known as the “ Terrible Greek,” who tried to
get the strangler’s hold on the “ Terrible Turk.” At the
close of the hubbub, Brady declared Fitzsimmons had
deliberately tried to break his neck, and had severely
strained his back and neck. Taken altogether, it was the
biggest brush the Yanks have had since the war began.
* • * *
Steve O’Donnell has received still another beat-
ing, this time at the hands of one “Stockings” Conroy.
Evidently time O'Donnell tried another game.
* * * *
Goddard’s beating of Peter Maher seems to
have been purely and simply a bit of luck for Goddard.
Maher started to knock Goddard all over the ring. God-
dard, in getting out of the way, made a back-handed
swipe at Maher, whose jaw happened to be in the road,
and the subsequent proceedings interested him no more.
Bad luck for the rising Maher, prospective champion.
* * * *
Ex-bruiser Sullivan offered his military services
to his country on condition that he should be a “ kernel.”
Pink ’Un suggests for Jonel the post of Inspector-General
of Canteens.
* * • *
“Ponte”: Clothes make the parson if not the
man. I met one at a quiet country hotel, and out of
pure cussedness suggested a game of billiards. He said :
“ I would be only too delighted, but unfortunately I have
no mufti with me. Of course I cannot play in my clerical
costume.” I lent him a coat and he took me down for
the table, then for drinks, and, lastlv, for five bob.
* * * *
Time, 8 p.m., Referendum night. Drunk wob-
bling in middle of street. Cheer goes up as a fresh re-
turn is posted. Drunk wheels round, tacks across to
edge of crowd and reads laboriously—“Victor-ia-a (hie)
two —mill-ionan—twenty thousun.” Looks mixed, reads
again, and appears satisfied. “ Blank (hie) fine score,
bigosh ! Take the (hie) blanky Englishm’n all blanky
(hie) time to beat that.”
* * *
The writer, at Rooty Hill the other day, asked
an enthusiastic old trainer of greyhounds for a specific for
fleas in dogs. “Never used anything myself,” was the
reply. “ I sleeps with ’em, and fleas won't stay on dogs
while a man’s about.”
* « * »
Dear B.—The hares no doubt think coursing
not quite the game it is cracked-up to be. When the
hare is collared by the dogs it is worried by them until
the attendants come up and drag them off, when the
hare is thrown on one side. On Friday last, one poor
brute, terribly mauled, and with one foot bitten clean off,
recovered sufficiently to hobble away. If the “ kill ”
takes place within hearing distance, it is pitiable to
listen to the poor little brute’s cries whilst being crunched
up by the dogs, but the ladies present seem to think it
all fair game. What price the Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, which follows to the bitter end a
dealer who uses a horse with a sore shoulder, and stands
by whilst a hare is eaten alive ? —W.
* » * *
Walne, with his “ Swift ” cycle, won .£lOO last
season. Platt Betts, in reducing the mile record to lmin.
35sec, was paced by the Dunlop pacing-teams.
♦
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
The Bulletin has received the Sydney
issue of The Globe-Trotter, the little newspaper
which Messrs. Barri&re and Gorini, the Parisian
travelling journalists, have undertaken to publish
(in the local tongue) in every important city of
their itinerary. The preceding issue was in
’Frisco, and it is the intention of these enterprising
young men—who support themselves as they go
by absolutely anything they can find to do—
to successively enliven with the Globe-Trotter
the dreary solitudes of Melbourne, Colombo, Cal-
cutta, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. It is 2g years
since they left Paris without a son, and nearly 2
years more will be needed to complete their plucky
but fantastic undertaking. The G. T. itself is not
BARRIERS and GORINI, the voluntarily-
penniless French globe-trotting journalists now in
Sydney.
remarkable for Gallic journalistic “go,” and,
probably, the youth of the adventurous pair of
scribes is responsible for their ingenuous surprise
at the discovery that “ English girls are not
tall and thin, with long faces and immense teeth.
On the contrary, they are graceful, with pretty
eyes and a charming smile. . . . And, what
liberty they are allowed ! A young Miss returns
home at midnight with her sweetheart, and no
one finds fault that a kiss should terminate the
conversation.” This, if it hasn’t much of the
rus6 Parisian pressman about it, promises better
things to come. We remember noticing such
little matters ourselves !
Reid’s New Bill.
N.S.W. Parliament opened last Tuesday, and the
Reid Government announced the amendments it
wants made in the Federal Constitution. Said
announcement, which leaves things just about as
blank as they were before, was as follows, to quote
word for word from the Governor’s speech :
(1) An objection to the principle of equal representa-
tion in the Senate, which, if not altered, must be accom-
panied by the removal of the stipulation requiring that a
majority vote at a joint sitting of both Houses to be
effective shall consist of three-fiths of the members pre-
sent ; or, failing that, the principle should be qualified
by a provision for a national referendum instead of a
joint sitting.
(2) Some of the financial provisions to be recast, and
the Braddon clause omitted altogether.
(3) Money bills not to be amended by the Senate.
(4) The same protection for the territorial rights of
each State, as there is for the representation of each State
in the Federal Parliament and this should include more
definite provisions with regard to inland rivers.
(5) Seat of Government—instead of the proposal in the
Bill, adoption, in a slightly-modified form, of the plan
followed in the Canadian Constitution.
(6) It is also considered that the appellate jurisdiction
should be remodelled.
As regards equal representation in the Senate and
the three-fifths majority, Reid barracked and
voted for both of them in the Convention. He
also voted for the financial scheme as it appears in
the Bill. In the above statement he doesn’t ex-
plain which of the financial provisions are to be
re-cast, or how they are to be re-cast;
or what alteration he wants in the clauses
relating to rivers, or what further provision is
wanted for the “territorial rights of each
state,” or what special “rights” are to be
provided for ; or what alterations are wanted re
the Court of Appeal; or how he wants the capital
fixed. With regard to the capital, however, he
wants the Canadian plan adopted with some un-
specified modifications, so presumably he is again
on the grab to have the Federal city located in
Sydney, where his supporters’ bricks and mortar
are mostly located. The federalising of the debts
and railways has seemingly been quite forgotten
again, and the bounty question isn’t even men-
tioned, and, in the absence of definite information
about the things that are mentioned, New
South Wales still doesn’t know' what it is sup-
posed to be asking, or the other provinces what
is supposed to be asked. But even if Reid
did specify his alterations it wouldn’t make
any difference in the choice between him and
Barton at the coming election. If N.18.W. wants
concessions it can’t ask them through Reid with
much hope of success. The difference between the
two men is just this : Barton never played the
traitor to the other provinces by inserting first a
50,000 and then an 80,000 minimum after he had
arranged a scheme with no minimum in it at all.
He didn’t speak against the Bill and vote for it.
He didn’t vote persistently to put things in the
Bdl and then appeal to the country to reject the
Bill because of the things be had done his best to
put in it. He didn’t go partners with the bitter
provincialist Want, the man who has denounced
any form of Federation as a “hydra-headed
monster basking in its constitutional beastliness,”
&c, and who calls the other federating provinces
“ wolves” and “robbers.” He wasn’t a political
traitor all through, and he never fooled the other
provinces with bogus invitations to unite. And
the other provinces could negotiate with him
knowing that he negotiated in good faith and
wouldn’t go back on his word, whereas no decent
Federationist can afford now to be found dead in
the same paddock with Reid. It doesn’t matter
now what alterations Reid wants or doesn’t want.
N.S.W. has got to send a man to conduct
the next set of negotiations in whose honesty
the other parties concerned can put reasonable
trust. And that man isn’t G. H. Reid.
In a last week’s “ Political Points ” para-
graph about an Adelaide newspaper’s remarkable
change of front re Federation, the Observer
(attitude of which has been consistently in favor
of the measure) was, The Bulletin regrets, in
advertently mentioned instead of the Adver-
tiser.
“Warwick’s presents to Warwick” is a
standing headline in the Brisbane papers. Byrnes
represented Warwick (Q.) at the Jubilee, and took
gifts therefrom to Warwick (Eng.) which, in
return, felt called upon to send out a loving cup
and an address to her namesake. These arrived
the other day and will be presented by the
Premier, on which occasion he is expected to fill
out his policy somewhat.


lISASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
Won’t Slump.
Our factory two months behind their orders. 400 men working
xo hours a day. No slump there. Good quality don’t go begging.
.... It’s cheapest in the end ....
Honest Cycles at Honest Prices w
That’s where we stand in “ The Slump.”
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Branch S 163“169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Stret, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Established
1847.
“ DOWRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
||jolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cl.it s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVE RLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
0
MACRLIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER’S
Renowned
Guns & Rifles
Can now be obtained through all principal dealers in
Australia. BEFORE BUYING A GUN, LOOK AT THE
NAME, and save trouble with all Life Insurance offices.
Address enquiries —W. W. GREENER, Box 526
G.P.0., Sydney ; or to C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral-
road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. Rep.).
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
* ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ Hill ( UIiSHAT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ |<:!1 s’ Kin "-street Coffee l*alace« n situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
if. F. McDermott.
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TWE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
I '' We know a good wheel when we see it, and sto. k
I only machines that are absolutely reliable and fuLy
l up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
i Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
; S3T Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles ;Con-
I tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
! Department.
i“ ’ ~
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
iSterling Cycles!
After Two Years’ Experience STERLING rideis
proclaim that the STERLING is the BEST win- 1
, built—no broken Forks, &c., &c. Why risk your
life on crocks? Westwood, or Wood, rims.
Any make of Tyres.
i Hew Haven Cycles!
i Country Buyers, where no agents are appointed,
supplied at WHOLESALE PRICES ; money
returned if not approved of.
Cycle Repairs a Specialty.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . . .
“ Humber ”
“ Singer”
. . AND
“ Ariel”
CYCLES
Pitted uiith Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
1
i
.
wm
■
■
SMfciHPP! p pi^wi
HillllllL
jßßjt
!®i iflb )
|v|' < % 4Sw- il
p
-i *• »
H *
PfHl##f
t j- 1m ». *5
- ,v . \
i*v»kx*i
1
• • * M
-v
: *ie. ■
SCiO to -
•E ~
fI»rCSS-‘ - :
.. is. IbeKbp iSuarantccMo tnMjs ail ?«ip«tccttonsm fßaienat ant*
■ *" taorSmt»shW IQs WU mafic«jeo&at wreX£leU*ssar am* time wUlhii-orc
rearfront fare « puwtosoiiiigix'tcctssiisrcastaco bv acetociuo. loitftb nsatie, or
itcalcci. §N jart» lo be rctumeOta t® tcatriaoe tntl6) for eranunatioit, tooetber
‘Vifl* tIX: 'lniinber 'of tteeo -betonai before atis claim is
allowco.. :■
Cbe Crcnteat Care is tahen tntWgcfcetiw.aiib fitimoof “taiinlbp"
gmeanlutic Cwcs, wffiebu’c stroiioi? rccommcnb, sitb erne ananmtec ttmacbn*
current!; with that {Ueetvfcs Cbe ©imibp pneumatic tgre
wto sitavantee tbcm tor fXwclrc /Pontbg.
Bate of |&iufbiisc
limit of oiiavantee
!: ;:S':o ■. i ;i..
Bcoot /©iiHiwce.
T. H. Griffith, the local man who pro-
poses to compete with Ball for Albury (N.S.W.)
at next elections, is formally introduced to the
electoral public as “ the gentleman who, when
Mayor, displayed hospitality to distinguished visi-
tors.” M.L.A.’s of all sides hope he will-be elected
for somewhere. Of late, a generous hand at tho
Parliamentary refreshment-bar has been difficult
to find.
At Fitzroy (Melb.) court recently, a man,
charged with resisting the police, pleaded that he
is subject to fits, and when he has a fit coming on
his struggles are very violent. The policeman in
this case tried to arrest him at the outset of a fit.
Similar epileptic struggles had occurred on seven
or eight previous occasions when the Law was en-
deavoring to run him in, so the beak
summed up against defendant as follows: “The
constable tried to fit a charge of theft upon him
because he took a fit in his head, it is alleged, to
steal a bag of oatmeal, and there was some diffi-
culty about a fit with the handcuffs, and we will
now try to make the punishment fit the crime.”
Fined £2. The little jokes of the Great Unpaid
must not be permitted to gush unseen.
•Retort courteous from Inspector of Nui-
sances to Smithfield (N.S.W.) Council :
Since my last report I have inspected the dairies and
found them fairly satisfactory and the cows in good
health. I have also inspected Alderman Downey’s
slaughtering premises and found them in fairly good
order and cattle in good health, and would have no doubt
taken the prize at any lean cattle show. I have also in-
spected Mr. M'Tagget’s premises and found them not too
favorable, but he will reniove shortly. I could not see
anj’ maggots crawling around, as Alderman re-
marked and Alderman —— saw crawling. I think that
boys that live in glass houses should not throw stones.
And in reference to dead beasts, I found the owners of
eight and had them removed or burnt. One I could not
find the owner of and had it burnt. The other I found
the owner of. He was not able to pay for it, so I thought
it was advisable not to take proceedings against him as
he left the district. I had it also burnt. It was in a very
bad state and very difficult to burn, and recommend pay-
ment for burning them the sum of 10s. each. —Your
worthy Inspector, James Stein.
Melbourne's Reform Club, which was
given up for dead a while ago, has arranged to
carry on its “work” in the old rooms of Melb.
Bicycle Club, and the other night it gave a social
with Walter Madden in the chair, and Murray
Smith on the right hand of that calamitous legis-
lator. The social filled a long-felt want by
enabling somebody to explain the political pur-
pose of the Reform Club. Reformers Madden
Smith and Co. are seeking the welfare of the great
body of the public. Bearing m mind that intel-
lectual capitalists (such as Walter Madden) are
regarded with ignorant suspicion and ridiculous
misgiving by “people lower in the
the Club intends to stoop to conquer the lower
orders ” aforesaid by force of wise proposals for
the general good. Also, the Club will cultivate a
courteous manner to its inferiors, and spread its
smile of self-satisfaction over the “community at
large,” so to speak. Then, in the course of a few
years, the Club will rise to a dizzy height of in-
fluence, and the name of Walter Madden will be
associated in the minds of the toiling millions
with Freedom and Sweetness and Light and other
desirable matters. At present the Club is sending
round the hat for further funds, and the Multi-
tude’s opinion of the chairman is not all that it
ought to be.
The Poetical Version of His N.S.W. Ex-
cellency’s tussle with that pig :
Some Sydney Hampden that with dauntless front
The little tyrant of his fields withstood.
A Semaphore (S. A.) parson, on the Sunday
after Referendum day, prayed “that God would
forgive all those who voted, in favor of the Com-
monwealth Bill.” But, though the parson talks
like that, he doesn’t mean it —not as a rule, any-
how. What he particularly wants to convey is
that the fellow who voted for the Bill is in a fair
way to be damned if God doesn’t forgive lnm.
And he gets his remark off in the pulpit, where
the other fellow can’t talk back at him.
It looked rather bad to see the Brisbane
Labor Convention excluding the press from its
deliberations. When Fat Man attempts any such
exclusion democrats are loud in their invectives
against “Star Chamber procedure,” and so forth.
It is, however, a satisfaction to know that the
field of reform-legislation was extended ; that a
party which found it utterly hopeless to carry One-
man-one-vote in Parliament has improved its
chances (in its own estimation) by substituting
One-adult-one-vote ; that all the proceedings were
jierfectly harmonious and gladsome ; and that
the members had their portraits taken and printed
for the benefit of the public.


weak and languid
Little Appetite and no Energy.
These are symptoms that effect a
large number of people. Below we
give the testimonial of Mrs. A. Morgan,
of East Brisbane, Queensland, who
does not hesitate to tell you of just the
remedy that cured her.
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever which left me
feeling very weak and languid with
little appetite and no energy. But I
am pleased to say
Mt AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
cured me. As a blood purifier and
tonic for those who are affected by the
intense heat of the Queensland sum-
mer it is unequaled. lam pleased to
recommend it to all those who need
a reliable remedy.”
gE OOND-HAND
TVTEVV FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
U 1 Saved is equivalent
to Jts Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
he mJ
ifW”“Com , non Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
1 Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Jcomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
ll'-erotis) wire or metal attach-
*ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, As;ent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
Av e are the cheapestin Aus*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzefl,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Ordsn.
From a report of a Kanowna (Westralia)
Municipal Council meeting :—“ Correspondence
was read from Blank and Blank, asking to be
allowed to run pigs at the rubbish depdt.
Granted.” Also ugh !
A shockingly amusing miser is located in
Ballarat Hospital just now. He was lately
taken there by the police from a dirty little
residence where he lay sick, and .£l9OO was dis-
covered on his aromatic person. At the hospital
he plays the melodramatic miser, sneaking out of
Ins bed in the middle of the night, and groping
under the bed for Gold, Gold, Gold.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, International Patent
Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, .Sydney, desires to
inform intending patentees that, having been
joined by Mr. T. C. Allen (M.E.A. of N.S.W.),
Consulting Mechanical Engineer, the firm is now
in a position to furnish inventors with expert
engineering assistance free of charge.*
A married woman at Ch. Towers, who com-
plained of her husband’s unkindness, procured
kerosene, saturated her clothes with it, and
applied a match. The blackened, writhing body
was taken to the Towers hospital, where it
lingered in life several days. Kerosene appears
to be the favorite feminine remedy for earthly
troubles in N.Q. Third case of the kind in 12
months. As for the N.Q. men, their remedy is
dynamite-in-the-mouth.
Suicide is usually understood to be the
prerogative of man. The animals, however,
occasionally usurp it. Writer once owned
a big black draught horse. Feed for this
hor. e "as kept in a small, square-built room
on blocks down the allotment. One day
the door was left ajar, a sack of corn
standing just inside it. The horse came along,
saw the corn, put his head inside the door and
began to eat. Some one coming along behind
gave a shout to frighten the animal away, and the
big brute, hastily drawing back his head in his
attempt to escape, pulled the door to also. The
more he tried to withdraw his head the closer
he drew the door, until he fell down, and was
suffocated. The room was nearly shifted off the
blocks. A minute or two sufficed for the whole
business.
“Tasmanian” to The Bulletin :
Re your story of the Lady Franklin transport ship, the
facts are, I think, wrong. There was no Port Arthur in
1814. The special hell of V.D.L. at that time was Mac-
quarie Harbor. The barque might have been built there,
and then. But, ]f so, not “for transporting convicts
from V.D.L. to Norfolk Island,” for the latter place was
then an appendage of N.S.W., whither all convicts en
route to the island, were transferred. Again, the vessel
was named after the wife of Sir John Franklin, who did
not become Governor of V.D.L. until 1837. I remember
the barque well, and the curious horror with which I once
inspected the fittings between decks, where the convicts
were confined during transport. It is good to break her
up, for her timber must reek with the taint of unspeak-
able horrors.
Pretty little Bowen has been the cradle of
Queensland’s Attorney-Generals. Beor, Pope-
Cooper, and Chubb were all members for Bowen,
and all subsequently Attorneys-General. T. J.
Byrnes, though never member for Bowen, was a
Bo wen schoolboy. In the face of all this, it was a
very unkind cut when Bananaland Govt, robbed
Bowen of its Judge and transferred him to Towns-
ville. Bowen had certainly given (in a legal way)
far more than it had received.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all’ dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Cabbage-tree ”on certain Sydney adven-
turers :
Coming up Erskine-street, the other day, saw a little
girl howling over a broken bottle, contents running
down the pavement. Between sobs little girl told the
rapidly collecting crowd that she had dropped a bottle of
vinegar, and was afraid to go home, as her mother would
thrash her to death. Good Samaritan in crowd gave her
a shilling to get another bottle. Two davs later saw
same performance, by same performer, going on in Kent-
street, and still another listener'unable to stand her tale
of woe. Evidently good biz. Another adroit Sydney
beggar is a dark, thickset man smelling audibly of long-
drunk whisky, and who rapidly reels off this (he mostly
“ gets there,” too): “ Good evening, Mister . Do
have pity on me ! I haven’t the face to ask you for food
—to say that lam starving—for that would not be true.
I cannot now eat anything at all. Haven’t eaten for four
days. But lam dying for a drink. If I don’t get a
drink I shall faint to death. O save me, for God’s sake !
Give me sixpence to get some good whisky. I was dis-
charged from the Hagey institute a week ago after being
there three weeks ; but though they pronounced me
cured I was as bad as ever within two days.” I’m told
he’s a liar—that he has never been to the Hagey place.
But his confidence-trick yarn is good, and more or less
new, and it fills a long-felt want.
A Silver Watcb
GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s,
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following -PUZZLE
N*V*R B* W T O T A W*T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
S* r - —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
mmm
mm
m
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘‘LOUIS’’ Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
i FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
ft GTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS' 3
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with C.
guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject a!l Substitutes.
♦
o
IP
OLD
RMs
SUNBU
FINg
HA
&.C
vT
*
2/Vr
V
p *o
* I £TQRS
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. ffiT" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. |si’“ All tastes and pockets suited
Write for Card of Tariffs.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
wmPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
lb ill M t;|
the grand central
OPPOSITE G. P. O
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
H E STOYE,
Manager.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
“ Tales of tlio System,”
BOOMS
OK BOAKD
AT OPTION.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
lllawarra),
near SY3DKTBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
■
■ : ...
j
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAE.RA”
. • BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLER*- SWEET*
highest prices paid for ores, prompt cash settlement on AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
lor all information rewarding Rates, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australi
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
l -_Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
Retained when all other
hoods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
FOOD
London Medical Record.
Et
INFANT;
WSfeis
TJenger’s Food is sold in various sized
Ims by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
U holesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged


Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Hlfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a eommonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
A 1 fa line Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
•1 'll
,1 <
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, wliiuu are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING i Mir box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be su lie ring,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
their life. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
VV>
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEAL IH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S M«dM Pag?.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Bißetunatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALPALINE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
¥
w
■s
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa ' me
Fat-Reducing' Powders are a ORRIAIJN
CURE ; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
! ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
| qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
w,.)l
F
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmusseu's Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail;
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifD,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
Syl
m
*
rV
- i
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the liupoitcint
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by sot ne
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worty
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many JNEK,-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work ls gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A 810 DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of lIERK KASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at Gs. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. Gd., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
\
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmus sen’s Alfaline Vitality tills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
83T When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FRBH.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
Wgs I
m
K
Jo?
> 1 • -
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVK FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. Thpse prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
I Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens ttie System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guarantetd
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— lGo Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide— ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A.:
Perth— Hay Street;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND POE. FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thusforprivacy sake—
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY."
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, without j ail.


The t otherside element in Westralia is
not so enthusiastic for Federation at once as
might be expected. This element fears a test just
yet fears to let the sandgropers dispose of the
matter for a stretch of years. So the disposition
is to cause delay until a few thousand more
t othersiders have got on the rolls to- ensure an
affirmative vote. Up to date the new-chums have
been scandalously remiss in seeking enfranchise-
ment ; and the Forrest crowd hasn’t helped
them much.
Medical Electricity.—Those who have faith
in Medical Electricity as a curative agent for the woes of
the flesh would do well to send to the German Electric
Agency, 63 Elizabeth-street, for a copy of their “ Electric
Era ” which is sent post free to any address. The pro-
prietors exhibit some remarkable letters (bundles of which
they are pleased to show to anyone calling at the above
address) testifying to the wonderful efficacy of their
Electric Belts and appliances in overcoming Disease and
Weakness. There is no doubt as to the testimonials being
genuine, for they are in their original envelopes, officially
dated and stamped.*
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortli Queenslanti.
James Walters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WALTERS will always be pleased to see any
u of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Amusements.
jpRfftCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Musical : Comedy : Season!
OPENING NIGHT-SATURDAY, 9th JULY.
“ Ttxe American G-irl.”
Libretto by Mr. H. Temple.
Music composed by Mr. Alfred R. Moulton.
COMPLETE COMPANY of LEADING ARTISTS.
Press Representative, Stage and General Manager
Mr. Chas. W. Taylor. Mr. John Wallace.
A LVA-VERNE Concert Tour of Australia
~~ (Under the Management of John
Madame AJ,va, Pritna Donna Royal Italian Opera
Covent Garden; La Scala, Milan; Opera, Naples; Doni-
zetti Festival, Bergamo; London Philarmonic Society, &c.
Miss Adela Verne, Solo-pianiste, St. James’ Hall
“Pops ; Queen s Hall Orchestral Concerts, &c. Samuel
Masters, Principal Tenor Ballad Concerts, Queen’s
Hall; St. James’ Hall, &c. John Lemmone, Solo
Flautist. Miss Matilda Verne, Aecompaniste.
OPENING NIGHT \ Melbourne, Saturday, 25th June.
) Sydney, Saturday, 16th July.
TUtINCESR’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS !
“THE LITTLE MINISTER.”
Characters by Mr. Rickards’s Specially Selected Dramatic
Company, including Miss PATTIE BROWNE.
in preparation—sweet Nancy.
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
lAr. F. Alexander
- - Makes his Second Appearance,
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
Saturday Newt, 25th June.
Entirely New Programme.
HUGO FISCHER, Manager.
Amusements.
TIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, June 23, at 8 o’clock,
“» ROYAL DIVORCE.”
NAPOLEON .. Mr. JULIUS KMIGHT.
JOSEPHINE .. Miss ADA FERRAR.
In Preparation—” The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. ZW PRICES—Ss„ 35., 25., and Is.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING! until further notice,
BImANU HOLT’S
Third : Great : Spectacular : Enterprise,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART!
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur Shirley.
A Romantic and Picturesque Pranco-Algerian
Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
SPECIAL NOTICE—THURSDAY and FRIDAY Nights
this Theatre will be CLOSED, to admit of the Elaborate
Rehearsals and Preparations for the Production on
Saturday Evening Next, 25th June,
of the Tremendously Sensational and Interesting Novelty,
Indiana; or, A Woman’s Vengeance.
The Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d.
T»OYAL STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
■a - ** (Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
87th \
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
87 th
WEEK
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverley; Friday, Petersham.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
FOR NEXT PRODUCTION —See Daily Papers.
miVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
Miss BRYDE
Mr. JOHN COLEMAN.
Mr- G-eo- H- Wood- J- W- Winton-
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH.
SW" AND OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
3 THe Hegelmanns 3
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Miss NETTIE WAITE. Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
Miss KATIE SHIRLEY. Miss NELLY WILSON.
R O I_» XT S 3ESZ I B XX O S-
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
SATURDAY, June 25, LAST NIGHT of
THE SILVER KIKTGI.
LAST NIGHT of
HOLLOWAY-ANDERSON DRAMATIC COY.
And GRAND COMPLIMENTARY FAREWELL to Mr.
GEO. TITHERADGE, who leaves for England in a
few days.
POPULAR PRICES ! Box Plan at Allan’s.
NEW DESIGNS IN GOLD AND SILVER SLEEVE LINKS.
Quality, Finish and Durability Guaranteed. English Hall-marked. Chain Connected.
=sn2r±r^fc;
i
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS—9-carat GOLD, 13s 6d; 15-carat GOLD, 27s 6d ; SILVER, 3s pair.
9c., 10s 6d and l£s 6d,
15c., 255.,
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 22s ; enyraved, 23s 6d.
15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., 11s 6d and 12s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 23s 6d; Plain, 225.
15c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 23s 6d; Plain, 225,
15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
SOLID PLAIN FLAT,
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
RICHLY CHASED.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
9c., 20s; Plain, 19s.
15c., 37s 6d ; Plain, 355.
Silver, 5s ; Plain, 4s 6d.
All Articles Sent Post Free
to any Address.
WILD BOARS’ TUSK LINKS.
Silver-mounted, 4s 6d pair. Gold-
mounted, 12s 6d pair.
BROOCHES—SiIver, 4s ; Gold, 12s 6d.
Please Send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
9c., 20s ; Engraved, 21s ;
15c., 355; Engraved,
37s Od ; Silver, 4s 6d;
Engraved, ss.
‘ONE PlECE’Studs
AND CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. - PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Actual
Size
Enlarged
Collar
Section
Shirt Stud
View of
Stud.
I Actual
X
Size.
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.
1. Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve, ands§
3. —Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease
The World’s Most Serviceable Studs.
SOLID GOLD 9-carat. 15-carat. 18-carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6/6, 9/-, 10/- 10/6, 12/-, 15/- 14/6, 16/-, 18/6
(per suite).
Collar Studs (ea.) 5/-, 6/-, 7/6 7/-, 9/-, 10/6 10/-, 12/6, 15/-
Cuff Buttons 10/-, 13/-, 15/- 16/-, 17 6, 20 - 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
(per pair).
The public are cautioned against vamped-up imitations of
these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, soldered together but shaped to
deceive, and sold as the “One Piece.”
Also, a large selection of 15-carat Front Studs, Diamond
Set, from 12s 6d. Ruby, Sapphire, or Opal Set, 7s 6d ; Pearl Set,
5s 6d each.
15-carat Collar Studs, Diamond Set, from 22s 6d. Ruby,
Sapphire, or Opal Set, 12s 6d. Pearl Set, 10s each.
Art Jewellers and Watch. Manufacturers,
NOTE—Oar ONLY Australian Address —QQ KI.NG STREET, SYDNEY.
WHY PAY
FOB A WATCH?
GAN YOU BEAU THIS ?
In order to Introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver Watches,
Ladies or Gentleman’s to every Reader who sends the
Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS. Send
Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address—THE MANAGER, THE GLOBE WATCH
COMPANY, Ltd., 105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
Ja stories), Is. 3d.
on
2*7
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Eico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets : 30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, 6s. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. O. 0., P. N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
7>.l TENTS FOR INVENTIONS. —ROBT. G.
J- MALLINSON, J.P., Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, SYDNEY. List of Charges (no drawings.) I
employ the Leading Patent Agent in each country :
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, N.Z., £7 10s.
W.A., S.A., Great Britain, Belgium, Luxembourg, £8 10s.
Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Austria, £ll.
U.S.A., Spain, Denmark, Malta, £l4. Argentine, Por-
tugal, Turkey, Cape Colony, £lB. Transvaal, Brazil,
Barbadoes, Hawaii, £22. Newfoundland, West Indies,
Mexico, Russia, Jamaica, £27. Columbia, Trinidad,
Honduras, £32. Chili, Peru, Venezuela, Finland, £43.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
cm
Fliotograpliic Mercb.anta,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph (imported). Absolutely the best
*~T"T r-mm-mn ■ , o jt machine in the market, and is com-
plete tor taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£3O.
lhe above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
magielantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Jtdison Standard Guage, price complete, £8 Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship.
(imported) may be used iii con-
junction with any ordinary
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
CAMERAS:
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA,
The DUPLEX
The POCKET VICTOR „
The POCKET KODAK „
1-plate, 255. 'j
J-plate, 255. I
for plates, 21s. j
for films, 21s. J
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to <£so.
Send for a Copy of our NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE (now in the press),
contains full particulars of them all.
It
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
f
Its?
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
woi ld-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formula) formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary,' promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every tiao -of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo Mia.ii or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
■Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
■origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
■of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Poul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely HXT o Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fid.es, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, 0.F.0., Sydney.


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Colmane’s
Eucauypte
Extract
For —•—
Winter Couchs
Colds &
ChestCompuints
USED BY
earl Jersey
LORDC ARRINGTON
ETC
What’s in a name? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading- on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
'““'PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice,
IS. boxes everywhere.
Publications,
? h£ BalletGirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Barmaid.
Confes-;
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s. ■
SECRET ST LOVERS rr kttge
Supply Agency,
| Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide a.nd Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
mm ob* mmn playing
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can eecome an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the nearest approach to a ready made knowledge
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
4 01 onrwfo froo To introduce to every home PRATT’S CHART
l OT SUllgS 11 00 Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
rf 184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt s Chart
if Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
V'-gi.'o American PrEr.isiiiNo Co . Commercial f’T.ml'or '■ Sydney
Veru'-mtl j-.....when, wrr\ A'lE'-g'S WWIVU
BEST SHILLING MUSiG BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
FEDERAL
Music
Books
Price
WORTH!
* FOR
61 BOOKS NOW
PUBLISHED
Each Book . . . .
Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
Postage 2d.
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold.
The Federal Music Books contain :
SONGS— Popular, for all Voices, comic and sacred—Soprano, Con-
tralto, Tenor, Baritone and Bass. Irish, Scotch, American Christy,
Italian, etc. Students Songs and Choruses. VOCAL DUETS.
PIANO SOLOS:— Very Easy. Easy and Effective. Moder-
ately Difficult. Brilliant Operatic, etc PIANO DUETS.
DANCE MUSIC Quadrilles. Lancers. Waltzes. Polkas.
Galops. Reels. .Tigs, etc
VIOLIN SOLOS. VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Full list of contents of all the above Books posted free to any
address. Send ns One Shilling, and tell us what Music you like,
and we will for . ard you a Sample Copy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the publishers,
HE. CH-3ES3W «8b CO.
Collins St, Melbourne, & 359 George-st. f Sydney.
BOOKS.
Published Second-hand
Price. Price.
Farm Management. .. .. .. 15/- 7/6 Post Free
New Enquire Within, 5000 recipes 7/6 4/6
The Farmer’s Own Book .. .. 7/6 4/6
Every Man his own Medical Adviser 30/- 12 6
Dict’v of Universal Information .. 25'- 10 6
500 tiloth-bnd. Novels, best authors 3 6 1/6
800 Up-to-date Novels, 001. Library 2 6 1/3
Should von require any Books Second-hand, kindly advise
R. W. 'SKINNER, New and Second-hand Book Ar-
cade, 105 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
“To keep young, live in the metropolis.”
—Bulwer.
The Westralian beak is a law unto him-
self. Also he is a small tin-god and a good deal of
a hog. For instance: A Norseman digger lost, or
said he lost, 40 sovs., and his mate was arrested
and taken to Esperance on suspicion. Twenty
sovereigns were found on the mate, but he proved
that he had been honestly possessed of a cheque
for £ 5O, and he also produced the publican on
whose premises he had drunk the other .£3O. Tho
publican’s evidence, the cheque, and a certain
lingering rum-fragrance made up such a solid body
of evidence that the jury acquitted the mate with-
out hesitation. Then the court sentenced him to
one day’s imprisonment, and declined even to
state what it was for.
“ Locust ” : The memory of G. It. Parkin,
the Imperial Federation drum-thumper who visited
Australia in ’B9, lately C.M.G.’d, will be hal-
lowed in the North as that of the only man ever
seen in Rockhampton with a belltopper. I
shall never forget the surprise with _ which
he was viewed, nor the sustained interest
which he created. Small boys, fascinated, fol-
lowed him through the streets, and gazed with
open mouths at his strange garb. It was a hot
summer, yet he stuck to the “ topper ” and the
black frock-coat of commerce. Old men, thus
reminded of their youth, wept reminiscent tears,
j Young men, who had seen such things in the
I illustrated papers, were interested, but not sur-
prised. 'At night, the School of Arts hall was
crammed with expectant people, who thought
Parkin an adjunct to a circus. His discourse,
delivered at the rate of 180 words a minute, con-
sisted in showing that the Almighty had placed
all the large coal-deposits in British possessions,
as a special mark of His interest in the British
race. He (Parkin) held a long billiard-cue in his
hand, and had a big map showing where the
dominions and the coalbeds were. He never
finished a sentence, and he never pointed at any-
thing. He ran up a hundred times to the map in
a threatening manner, but always ran back again
to finish an unfinished sentence which he never
completed. I always now associate Imperial
Federation with a very long black coat, a very
shiny top-hat, a very hot summer, a billiard-cue,
and unfinished sentences, beginning in the middle
with the word “ because” and having no end.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loclcyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. fid. everywhere.*
“ Q.” to The Bulletin on some artists: —
“ O. and 0.E.” can’t teach me much about the amateur
Bohemianism current in the studios of our Australian
Little Billees. I have met the juvenile geniuses who have
done a 48 hours’ starve—within reach of cash, credit and
friends —just for the sake of talking about it and making
a note of it in their ridiculous diaries. I know the simple
infants who swig absinthe because they have read in Vie de
Boteme or elsewhere that to do so is the proper caper in
the Latin quarter; and I’ve been hored to death by the
cacklers of studio cant with its “ Philistine,” “ Boorah-
wah,” “ Chic,” etc., etc., and its George Mooreish gush
over things read about but not even superficially under-
stood. That is why I fume over imitated fringes arid
neckties, seeing in them only another form of meaning-
less cant. “O. and 0.E.” mistakes my main point, which
was certainly not an attack on black-and-white artists as
such. My complaint is that so many allegedly budding
geniuses contemptuously profess to do journalistic work
in order to gain a subsistence to enable them to
devote their energies to the “higher art.” Which, of
course, is bosh, unless fulfilled. They will not admit
that they are journalistic artists. No; they are, in their
own imaginations, -something-immeasurably superior ;
though, beyond their words, no one ever gets a sign of
it. They keep on doing bad black-and-white work, and
produce no pictures at all, nor attempt to. The best
b. and w. men here and everywhere have succeeded by
good and conscientious work. Let the Litlle Billees leave
the “ higher art” cant alone, and put their energies and
enthusiasm into the b. and w. efforts, and they will simi-
larly succeed, for they have talent—some of them.
Painters like Longstaff, Withers, &e. &c., don’t touch
b. and w. work at all, but lay to their canvas. Capable
b. and w. men like Keene, May, Gibson,' &e., &c., usually
take up palette and brush only for amusement, and lay
to their books, the Simes, Manuels, Dudley Hardys, and
a few others being exceptional. Perhaps Tee Bulletin
is satisfied with Australian black-and-white work. I, of
course, don’t matter, but personally I think it too often
unspeakably slovenly and wooden. We seem to be de-
veloping a new type—the journalistic draughtsman—who,
like the average newspaper reporter, is soulless, sordid,
unpicturesque, and mechanical. It is the journalisation
of Art, and tends to the increase of Cant and the decrease
of Graft.
I’ll Try If
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part-of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, I Os. Gd.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories, Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind UVEills.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
GRIMAULT S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, JServous
Coughs,’Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by Grimault & Co.’s
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
f
H REC°MW
|/VEpiCAL A\en
/INOIOEjTIO^J
FjVerVovs
Headache
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says
“ Most
decidedly
use
it
KOKO,‘
will
stop
you i*
hail 4
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is ja
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best" "Dressing - for the Hair. Perfectly
j Harmless, Clean, Cooling, a»rtd Invigorating.;
[and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
| Hair, i-, 2 6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
| Hairdressers. S'ores, &c.
l THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO,. LTD.
j i 6, JBevis Marks, LtOndon, England.
In use 50 Years bafors Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
HIVE
KMITTIHG
WOOLS
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
/aar'k^®'*
F_IN.
SEE'THIS T R A DE
is ON ENfERYaSKE
Trade Mark Registered.
EstabishedUSS.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Al«i> Peeliive ”
Hosiery&Under-
war manufac-
tured from t lie
‘tfeeliive Wools.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method'of self-treatment thm,
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address ■
DE. lEVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts.. Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers Ido this entirely out of gratitude and make
no ohnr'>-e whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
t,, \|,. x'VM.UKIt KKf.DOfiO. Rox 344 Melbourne. Vic.
IbVVHES UP’ THE COJNViCT SYSTEM.
PRICK Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST;, MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
f/" I 'ini.O.l
Km'Hijjiiiiiiiiiii
' ll'f.'winiiiiuiji
{•S'iiiiiiSS.
'"V •' mini.
iiiiiiSai!!!:!!::!!!
iPii i I »V'A \V'' XV
paid
iiiiiiiii! i: *!!| jja
»!!!!!K!'.giS
!>C|il|l||!|! i
llllllltllllt
'li 111
! l, ! | 'iiiini
•‘iNiiiiii
: •
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mat
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/b.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 C. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
; &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 '-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 136. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap. .
. Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress, also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
lor them. The largest stock in Australia of Woo Hens,
Oiothinsr, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets*
It no's. Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to or call upon
We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
co make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
TTSB
Spools
ROYAL NAVY DRESSING
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
' OF ML DESCRIPIIONS
OiREC I lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is,
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
I
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’;
SO/?
D/SEAfcf
D?ROBERTS
AND WOUA/DS
Or E.VERY
DESCRIPTION
PILLS
FOR SK/N DISEASES.]
AND ALL D/S ORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER - .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/fEACH\
BEACH & BARN ICO TT L°. BRIDPO^T.
MELBOURNE.
fflflJE?
*'<TY POST FREE
M/ATCfIES-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BIRTriDAY*
WEDDiriC l PRESENTS
H- N EWMAIvI • 175 5177-ELIZABETri ST*
OPPOSITE C-.P.Q-
MELBOURNE.
They i
nerves
DON’T USE DRUGS.
nly stimulate, break down' stomach, scatter the
and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer tc
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing- current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does hbt we' will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and dp pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before - pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), living illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
(53 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BOON TO THE DEAF.
DEAFNESS, Head Noises,
and Singing in the Ears completely overcome, and perfect
Hearing' restored, by the use of Peck’s Artificial
Ear Drums. The finest in the World. Send for Illus-
trated Book of Proofs and Testimonials, Free.
A. M. NAST, 145 Collins-street,:
Melbourne.
O VIJIICI/L'S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Bald head, &nd is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


Why not be Strong , and Free from Influenza ,
Rheumatism , Neuralgia, &t■. ?
Head a Few of the Cures Effected in Australia by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
40 Years of Rheumatism.
A LADY’S MARVELLOUS RECOVERY.
OVER 74 YEARS OF AGE, BUT NOW IN
PERFECT HEALTH.
“ Until a short time ago T had not known for 40
years what permanent relief from pain was.” Thus
spoke Mrs. T. J. Thomas, of Heathcote, Victoria,
recently to a reporter. How greatly Mrs. Thomas
suffered from rheumatism, repeated attacks of in-
fluenza, enlargement of the liver, and inflammation
of the kidneys is vividly shown by her remarks.
mrvrm
“ I am over 74 years
of age,” she contin-
ued. “It was, as
near as I can re-
member, in ’57 that
I had my first attack
of rheumatism, and
these have followed
me up, on and off,
for 40 years. About
nine years ago my
troubles were added
to by enlargement
of the liver, and this
in itself, more than
sufficient to kill most
people of my age,
was aggravated by
inflammation of the
kid neys. As you
may imagine, I was
in a very critical condition for a long time, and
when just about to pull together again an-
other severe attack of rheumatism brought me
down. This brings me to about five years back,
when I caught influenza for the first time.
But, to shorten my story, I had further at-
tacks of rheumatism and influenza again the fol-
lowing year, and though the influenza missed
me for the next two years, rheumatism did not.
But I had more to face yet, for about a year and
uine months I was laid up with a third attack of
influenza. I never seemed to bo able to throw
this off as I had the others, and it made me feel
terribly low-spirited. My oldest enemy, rheuma-
tism, kept going at me, and it seemed that
between them they were going to get the best of
me. I had four or five doctors, but their ad vice
and physic was not the least bit of good, and I
just felt I could not last much longer. The pain
f suffered beats description. I could not lie
down, and the only position in which partial
relief was to be found was sitting, bearing to one
side. I could not bear anything to touch my
back. I don’t like to think of the torture through
which I have passed ;it was terrible. I lost all
power in my legs. At this stage my attention
was attracted to some of the published cures
which had been effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People of cases which had been
pronounced by doctors and hospitals as hopeless,
and I determined to make a trial of them. This
was in the early part of April, and I was feeling
about as bad as I had ever felt. By the time the
third box was taken a marked improvement was
noticeable, and this happy alteration continued
until I was at the twelfth box quite enabled to
discontinue the treatment. My friends and
acquaintances were astonished at my recovery,
and quite a number are taking the pills, and
others have expressed their determination to do
so should they ever feel in need of treatment.”
“ I believe you sometimes go into town ? ”
“ Quite true, and this means a walk of three
miles, with a rise or two to face ; a very fair
undertaking for one on the wrong side of 74.”
“ And you are confident that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People have been the means of
restoring you to health ? ”
“ I am perfectly confident of this, and have no
hesitation in saying so, and I shall recommend
your wonderful.remedy whenever I have an oppor-
tunity.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, yellow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of
womanhood, and thus avoid the risks of disease
or early decay.
Two Years of Sciatica.
A WELL-KNOWN BLAYNEY MAN IN
AGONY.
SAVED FROM THE HOSPITAL
BY A MIRACLE.
Mr. George Hynds, a well-known resident of
Blayney, was recently interviewed by a Blayney
Advocate reporter about his serious illness and
remarkable cure. He obtained the following in-
ssS*-"'
jr ns
teresting narrative, which Mr. Hynds said he
would be glad to ha ve published.
“ About two years ago I fell a victim to sciatica.
I was drawing wood at the time. The complaint
Fearful Influenza.
A MAN WHO WAS NOTHING BUT SKIN
AND BONE.
HOW HE BEGAINED HIS STRENGTH
AND VIRILITY.
“ My illness,” said Mr. Hinnigan, of 18 Bay-
street, Sydney, to the reporter who called upon
him, “started as a good many other illnesses do—
just a cold, and at first I didn’t take much notice
of it, for I’ve often had colds before and got rid
of them in a week or so. This time, however, I
didn’t recover in the ordinary way, but began to
get thin and week.
“ This made me feel a bit nervous, especially
as I couldn’t tell exactly what was the trouble
with me, so I went to a chemist and got some
medicine. But as, in spite of the physic, I con-
tinued to get thinner and weaker, I went up
to the Sydney Hospital. The doctors there
examined me, and told me I had a severe attack
of influenza, and that I required medicine and
rest. Well, I did exactly as they ordered me,
and took rny medicine regularly four times a day,
but I can’t say that I felt any better for it.
What I know for certain is that I slowly con-
tinued to get worse and worse. I lost my appe-
tite altogether. I eat, certainly, but I might
have been chewing up so much paper for all the
pleasure that eating gave. I also lost my voice,
so that I had to go quite close to people if I
wished them to hear what I was saying, and my
face regularly caved in about the jaws, and
became a sort of dingy yellow color, something
like a piece of dirty paper. I was just able to
crawl out in the sun on fine days, and I was more
than once taken for a fever-stricken New Guinea
miner; and those poor fellows, as you know, are
nothing but skin and bone when they land back
Candid Advice Free to All.
An Open Invitation .
If you suffer from Influenza, Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
Sciatica, or any other ailment whatsoever —if you are not quite
11 up to the mark, 11 write to us for honest and candid advice.
Describe your case fully; tell us how you feel. We will have
pleasure in answering you free of charge. We refuse to sell
pills to persons whom we do not think they will cure; in such
cases we invariably return money, if sent. We can afford to
be candid. It is more important to us to keep our word than
to keep your money. We are to be trusted, if only because it
is to our interest to treat you fairly. All communications are
treated as private. If cases similar to yours have been cured
by our pills, we will tell you so; if not, we will tell you so.
Accept our invitation and please address: DR. WILLIAMS 1
MEDICINE CO., Queen's Place, Sydney.
forced me every now and then to take a spell.
The ailment kept getting worse, until at last I
could not even work, and had to go to bed, being
unable to walk. It affected my right leg, from
the hip to the ankle, the pain being worse in
my ankle; I also suffered from terrible pains in
my back. I was in bed for four months, during
which time I suffered excruciating pain. I had a
doctor attending me all the time, but he gave me
no relief. My ankle felt just as if it were broken
and it was always as cold as ice. I used to be led
by my wife to the fire, and there I would sit
warming it. The trousers I was wearing were all
scorced by sitting over the fire. The doctor put
about a dozen mustard and fly-blisters on my leg,
which left it in a terrible state, and did not do me
the least bit of good. At last he told me that he
could do no more for me, and that the sciatica
would have to take its course. I then determined
to go to the Bathurst Hospital, but my medical
adviser said he didn’t think I would get any
benefit there. After being completely bedridden
for four months, and on the day before I was
going to the hospital. I .met a friend and told him
my intentions. This gentleman advised me to
try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pate-People. I
took his advice and went to Mr. 0. Ferguson’s
store, and purchased the last three boxes he had.
After the first box I could get about again, and I
went to work again drawing in wheat for Mr.
Robert Mari-idem When 1 had finished the second
box I felt no pain whatever, and considered l was
cured. I then took the third box at leisure,
although there was no occasion for it.”
in Sydney. My mates can tell you what a
wretched object I looked. I attended the hos-
pital regularly from about the beginning of June
last till the middle of July without any improve-
ment in my condition, when, owing to an adver-
tisement I had read in one of the papers, I
bought a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, although I must tell you I had almost
lost all faith in any medicine whatever. I fancied
I felt an improvement soon
after starting the Pills. In
a week’s time I was fairly
on the up grade, and began
to get quite cheerful and to
eat my food with relish.
f stuck to the medicine,
and took altogether four or
five boxes, I forget which,
and in the course of about
six weeks, by slow but sure
degrees, T was completely
recovered. I think, con-
sidering what a wretchedly
weak and miserable state I
was in, that this is a very
quick cure, and it quito
astonished my wife, who ex-
pected me to be dl for
months. I can only say
that I am now as well as
ever I was, and I believe my
cure is the result of Dr.
Williams' Pink Pills for
Pale People.
Neuralgia Cured.
A LADY’S TERRIBLE SUFFERINGS.
(From the Blayney Advocate.)
Mrs. Pit tend righ, a well-known lady in Blayney,
rife of Mr. Pittendrigh, an employee of the Kail-
//
//
i
6
rs--
wMm
/ X
7/vi'
L
way Commissioners, was recently interviewed by
a reporter from the Blayney Advocate who de-
sired to gather some information about a recent
illness and cure of hers, which was reported
throughout the town, The reporter found Mrs.
Pittendrigh busily engaged in her household
duties, and looking strong and happy, and she
kindly consented to give some details of her cure,
which are as follows :
“About two and a half years ago a serious ill-
ness left me very weak, so weak that I was afraid
to walk into town, or go to church, or indeed any-
where, for fear of fainting away ; even if I was
sitting down I felt like falling down. I always
felt very faint and weak. The doctor gave me
some tonics, after my illness, to strengthen me,
but they did not do me much good. I was also
suffering from neuralgia. About eighteen months
ago a young lady friend recommended me to try
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Thinking her advice
worth following, I commenced taking them ac-
cording to directions. After I had taken them
for a few days the neuralgia left me ; and when
I had taken about half a dozen boxes I was as
strong as ever. I have recommendecb'-them to
many people, and can also safely advise their use
by anyone suffering from weakness, neuralgia, or
general debility.”
A perfect blood-builder and a nerve-restorer are
to be found in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
positively cure such diseases as rheumatism, neu-
ralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor-ataxia, St.
Vitus’ dance, nervous headache, nervous prostra-
tion, the after-effects of influenza, dengue and
typhoid fevers, and severe colds, diseases depend-
ing upon humors in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, &c. Pink Pills give a healthy
glow to pale and sallow co mplexions, and are a
specific for the troubles peculiar to the female
system, and in the case of men they effect a radical
cure in all cases arising from mental-worry, over-
work, or excesses of any nature.
Ask your dealers for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and refuse all imitations and sub-
stitutes. Sold by chemists and storekeepers
generally, or the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany, Sydney, will forward, on receipt of stamps
or post-order, one box for two and nine, or half-a-
dozen for fifteen and threepence.
For Men and Women,
Young and Old.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered the public
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished Condition
of the Blood, Shattered Nervous Forces, which
they will not cure if the directions are faithfully
followed, and the treatment persisted in ; they are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scien-
tific preparation, the result of years of careful
study. They have an especial action (through
the Blood) upon the Sexual Organs of both Men
and Women. It is a well - recognised fact
that upon the healthy activity of the sexual
apparatus depends the mental and physical
well - being of every person come to adult
years. It is that which gives the rosy blush
to the cheek, and the soft light to the eye of the
maiden. The elastic step, the ringing laugh, and
the strong right arm of youth own this same main-
spring. How soon do irregularities rob the face
of color, the eye of brightness! The blood be-
comes impoverished, the victim pale. The pallor
of the skin is often the only outward mark of the
trouble within. “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People” enrich the impoverished blood and
then vigor returns, and the bioom of youth agaiv
mantles the faded cheek.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.'*
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING; & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE
(Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence iti the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Ctis ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
&
im
m
i
ojgssa
Si-iMj . ~. o*-DhR 10-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
# *" FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholes le Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From (his im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small pro:it
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 ios. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, to inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual ol keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned r> eds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co., ™ n b g J on ' rj -’ u - s - a '
$v
Wfelolr^ST
MARK
Corset
Wiu-oWA'ST CorSET
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN, ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT IN SHAPE.
LE N GTHENS THE WA IS T.
BEAUTIFIES THE FIGURE.
W'uuowa'ST CorSET
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
Wi^ovpST°CORSET
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
2 !0, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
I’reali.
Cooling.
Sparkling.
VELTEN LAGER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE GKAMOPHONE
is the most recently - invented
“Talking- Machine,” and far
excels any other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient servants, and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICES :
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion £lO 10 o
Do. do. hand apparatus 7 10 o
Extra Records per dozen 2 8 o
227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout
'
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken*
sington. Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quar*
MODERATE TARIFF. ■ '■ r
Queen's Gate Terrace, London,
The Ghoul of Aneityum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, it might be “murder” —I call it “justi-
fiable homicide.” Listen, and then give your
verdict.
We were trading in the New Hebrides —our
headquarters at Api. Jack took the schooner on
a run up north, to the Banks Islands. I soon
became sick of loafing round at the station, and,
when I heard from a passing trader that Jack
intended going on to the Santa Cruz Group, I
just fitted cut the whaleboat, and, with a native
crew, set sail for the south. I called at Efate,
then went on to Tanna, and here it was I learnt
of “Mad Morton.” Occasional rumors had
reached Api of an old “ insect-man ” down at
Aneityum, but, as he wasn’t in our line, I didn’t
pay much attention to them. M‘Donald, a trader
on Tanna, told me that Morton lived entirely
alone —did no trade, had no plantation—but
bought food from the natives, and devoted all his
time to preserving insects, fishes, and so on. This
aroused my curiosity. I had plenty of time, so I
determined to visit him.
♦ • * *
The sun was sinking when we reached Anei-
tyum, and the heavy sea breaking on the reef gave
us a bad time before we got safely in. We were
met on the beach by a number of men and women,
who had just come in from the taro-fields. I
could only see the native houses on the hillside, so
I asked where the white man lived, and they
pointed along the beach. I left the crew behind
and trudged along the sand. At the end of
the beach, almost hidden by the vegeta-
tion, I came to a rough fence, which
enclosed an uncultivated piece of ground. This
was so unusual that I knew I had found my man,
and, leaping the fence, advanced towards the
dwelling. It was like the native huts—bamboos
had been bent over a ridge-pole supported by two
forks ; these had been fastened by vines, and a
thatch of plaited coeoanut leaves laid on. A
reed-screen was in front of the doorway. As I
approached, the reeds were parted, and a man’s
head was thrust out. I cried : “ Hullo, Morton.
I’ve come to look at your museum.”
He came out, and, upon my word, he was the
ugliest, dirtiest creature I have ever seen. He
was short, but his body, bent almost double, made
him appear even smaller. His head was bald ex-
cept for a fringe of dirty white hair at the base,
and a long beard, once white, but now grimy and
matted with filth, flowed over his bare chest. A
glance at his face, with its hook nose, d ‘ep-sunken
glittering eyes, and harsh, yellow, wrinkled skin
drawn tight over projecting cheekbones, made me
wish I h idn’t come. Still, there was no retreat
now, so I determined to see it out.
Ho lo iked at me for a moment, then turned,
and,pushing through the screen,said, “Come in.”
When I entered I saw that this hut differed
from the others in that it had a floor of bamboos
laid at the level of the low walls. Over the floor
were spread a number of native mats except in
the centre, where an old packing-case did duty as
a table. This, together with a three-legged stool,
was all the furniture ; but at the end I saw another
screen which extended right across the hut,
dividing it into two compartments.
The old man, motioning ine to stay where I
waa> went through into the inner room and re-
turned wi u th a tin oil-lamp. By its light I saw
two or three small cases with glass tronts, in
which were ranged a few insects, hanging from
the roof> °
J strolled over and looked at then, the old man
watching me through half-closed eyes.
A glance was sufficient for me, and turning to
Morton I asked : “ What are you doing in this
island ? ”
“ Collecting insects,” he replied, and the accorn-
panying chuckle made me shiver.
, “ W .hat «*« Do 5™ mean f to tell “«
been here 12 months Collecting a handful of
cruB j, ed and battered butterflies? Besides —they
aro no t preserved or pinned down properly,
You’re no entomologist—what are you ?”
A grating laugh, or rather cackle, was the only
response as he lifted the lamp and beckoned me
t^le second room. , f
It was furnished like the first except that a tew
caseS) containing trade probably, were packed in
one corner, and on a shelf several glass jars in
which fish were preserved replaced the butterflies
°f the outside room.
On the box were lying several pairs of callipers,
™
and placing the lamp down said, “I’m not an
entomologist ? ”
“ No,” I replied. Then, pointing towards the
discoloured, shrivelled specimens in the jars, I
y °“ “ icthyologist ’ Again ~
m , a ar ® y° u • . n , , „
Ihe old man sneermgly replied, “Damn fish!
J looked inquiringly up at him, and could detect
some tl,i.ig of a triumphant ring in his answer,
“ laman anthropologist.”
“Well, then, why in the name of Heaven do
y OU make all this mystery about it?” I wonder-
j no .]y as j <e( j
Morton shook his head and answered, “Wait
al)c | j wl p yon »
ti jj ave a dr j n ] c first,” I said, hauling a bottle of
rum out of my pockefc . “ Got any glasses ? ”
jt i j ' 1 fii fc i, v himself
“ Y ou keep’that and give me one of the pre-
serving iars ”
After ‘ some hunting, he found one reasonably
clean . j rinsed it out> fin ed it up, and waited for
the storv
y "
* *
_ Morton took a stiff glass of rum and swallowed
it> then, bringing in the stool from outside, sat
down next to me.
. “I am an anthropologist, and my special branch
is craniology,” lie whispered. “I am on the eve
of a great discovery, for I think I can, by means
of this science alone, determine the different races
of men which, mixing together, have formed the
people now known as Melanesians.”
I burst out laughing. “ What !by feeling their
bumps? I see you are a phrenologist, then ! ”
His rage was something awful. He jumped from
his stool, and raved like a madman for about five
minutes; then he cooled down and answered:
“ Curse your ignorance; phrenology is quackery,
but craniology is an exact science. It lias been
studied by ”
Then followed a list of French and German
names which made my head reel,
“ Well,” I answered, “I’m sorry if I have hurt
your feelings, but I have seen hundreds of skulls
in the northern islands, and never could tell one
from another.”
“That is because of your ignorance,” he said.
“I believe that by studying skulls separately, the
localities of which are certain, we will be able to
discover fixed characteristics which will permit of
our identifying any race by merely examining the
crania.”
I felt sure he was talking nonsense, but I didn’t
know enough to contradict him, so let him go on.
A faint tinge of red appeared under his yellow
skin, his eyes glistened, and he had become quite
garrulous ; he was evidently on his hobby-horse.
“ For instance, you can always tell a Tas-
manian by the curious median sagittal ridge, with
lateral grooves.” Here he turned to me suddenly
and put out his hand. I edged backwards away
from him. “ Have you ever been in Mallicolo? ”
he asked eagerly.
“ Often,” I answered.
“Well, have you ever noticed that the medio-
frontal suture is persistent in adults there? The
proportion of metopic skulls is infinitesimal every-
where else, but in Mallicolo they say all the crania
show this suture ? ”
“ I don’t know what you are talking about.”
“ Pah ! I forgot,” said the old man, contemptu-
ously ; “ you are ignorant, but I will show you.”
• * « *
He took the lamp and went into the outer room.
Coming back he looked carefully around. “ We
are safe ; there is no one about.”
Stooping, he drew aside one of the mats and
raised three pieces of the bamboo flooring. Going
down on his knees, he peered into the hole, and
presently I could hear him muttering the
Aneityumese numerals : Ethi, ero, eseij, eirian-
wan, &e., up to 12.
Without lifting his head he called me over. I
didn’t care to kneel beside him, so I took the lamp
and placed it near the hole, and by its light saw
12 human skulls ranged on the ground below.
“ What do you keep them there for ? ” I asked.
“ Hush ! ” he murmured. “ Speak low—ten of
the skulls belong to this island, and if the people
knew I had them I would be murdered.”
“ How did you get them ? ” I asked, for I knew
that on Aneityum they had “ sea-burial,” i.e. , the
body was taken on to the edge of the reef,
wrapped in bandages of native cloth, the face
painted red, and then launched into the sea with a
stone tied to the feet.
Morton chuckled gleefully.
In the dim light he appeared a veritable demon,
and as he rose, clasping one of the skulls in his
arms, a hideous grin spread over his face. I felt
strongly tempted to clear out.
“ That took me a long time to arrange,” he
said. “For days I was out in the boat tracing
the currents, but at last I was successful. I found
that from the, outermost point of the reef, where
the bodies were thrown in, a current set outwards
for a little distance, then there was a back current
which led round the point to a little bight about
two hundred yards away. When a body is
thrown into the sea, if the stone is very heavy, it
sinks, and I cannot find it, and sometimes, again,
it gets into another current and is carried away,
but, now and then, it travels as I have said, and
all I have to do is to drag near the bight, haul up
the body, cut off the head, and consign the re-
mainder again to the ocean. I go at night time,
and, guided by the light of the fire which the
natives make on the reef for the spirit of the
deceased to warm itself at, I begin my fishing.
No ! I am not an icthyologist,” he excitedly
cried. “ What do I care for those paltry things !”
(pointing to the glass jars); “ these are the fish I
seek” (gently patting the skull in his arms).
“Many, many nights I’ve been out, but only ten
times have I been fortunate —just halfway—l
want twenty, then I am away for Mallicolo. Bub
I forgot—l wanted to speak to you about those
Mallicolo skulls. You see, in this one, from
Santo, the . . .
* • * •
I appeared to listen to him, but my eyes were
directed towards the screen. I had seen it move.
The old man kept on talkingquickly and excitedly
every now and then he app aled to me or asked
a question. I did not heed him, and he answered
himself. I was watching intently and again saw
the screen move. This time I was certain we had
a visitor.
The old man had stopped speaking now and was
leaning over the hole again. “ What is the
matter ?” I asked.
“ Yes,” he went on again, apparently not notic-
ing my question, “ this is the skull of which I was
speaking,” and he brought a second one forward:
“ I must tell you its history. I only recovered it
last night. It is the skull of Inlolan. She was
the most beautiful and cleverest girl on the island.
Only married a fortnight ago to Naha—a fine
savage. By the way, I intend to have his head—
it is a splendid one. He is very intelligent and
can speak English fairly well—he learnt it on a
Santo plantation.” I saw the screen parted and a
head was silhouetted on the wall in front of me.
J looked at the newcomer but he did not see me ;
his eyes were fixed on the skull in Morton’s hand.
The thought flashed through my brain —“Can
this be Naha ! ” If so, then God help Morton
unless I interfere. Shall I? Is it worth while
risking my own life to save Hat of this unclean
body-snatcher? I hardly think so. Anyway, I’ll
wait.
“ Yes,” continued the old man, “I could have
saved this young girl’s life, only I badly wanted
her skull. They came to me for medicine to cure
her ; but, when I found out who was sick, I told
them I had none. So she died, and now I have
her skull. Oh ! it is such a pretty one ” —and
Morton fondled his treasure as a woman would a
kitten.
Naha—l knew it was he, now—was half-way
through the screen. I saw a knife in his hand,
and 1 knew the skull-hunter was doomed. Curse
the brute; let him die! I rose. “Good-night,
Morton,” I said. “I'm full of your devilish
talk.” He did not hear me, but was kneeling over
the hole again, counting his riches. Ethi ero, &c.
I had reached the doorway before the blow was
struck. I heard the fall, and then stood aside
whilst a dark figure rushed past me, bearing a
white object in his hand. I turned towards the
inner room, but tongues of fire bursting through
drove me back —the lamp had been overturned.
* * * *
An inquiry was held afterwards. Twelve skulls
were discovered in the ruins ; and no one knew
which was Morton’s (the irony of it !) —so they
were all buried together.
WINDA.


During the last few months a number of
Vic. miners have returned from Westralia to find
that in their absence unlicensed prospectors have
jumped the family claim. Tragedies have nearly
occurred in some cases; in other m- nces the
husbands have philosophically acted ln<e Enoch
Arden —said nothing, and reconnoitred the situa-
tion through the window, then vanished without
leaving even the trace of their boot-soles behind.
The Tertium Quid, in one recent affair, hearing
that the husband was expected home at any
moment, carried the obtrusive baby eight miles on
horseback in the dead of night to the next hamlet,
and there deposited it on the doorstep—good old
Mother Doorstep again !—of a respectable family-
man who had never looked acquisitively on a
strange woman in the whole course of his life.
The old Scotch song should be popular with re-
turned Westralian miners :
Hame cam oCr gudeman,
Ilame cam he;
“ I see a bairn where
A bairn suldna be !
Hoo cam the bairn there
Without the leave of me?”
Ladies and gentlemen who visit Sydney at
any time are cordially invited to call at our estab-
lishment and leave a record of their measures with
our dressmakers or tailoi’s. And while you are in
ask to see one of the firm. We are always glad to
see our country customers, and talk over the best
way to send goods, packing, etc., etc. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street
(only), Sydney.*
111
x
X
1 .
REPUBUQUE
3LIQI
FRAN
PEARS
ft F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Man’s Companion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him in a billabong a-fishing with a frog,
And all he talked was bony bream and dog—but
mainly dog.
“ Look here ! ” he said . . . and cast his line with
elegance and force . . .
“ To travel on the track, a dog licks any time a
horse.
As long, in course, as you are up to snuff the same
as me ;
Fur edereation does it all, and hang to pedigree !
The more yer cuffs a blanky pup, the more he loves
yer sight ;
But try that on a moke . . . bedamned !” (for
here he missed a bite).
“ You makes him understand that you are boss of
all the show,
And tell him, when he gets a bone, he oughter
had a blow.
But ” . . . and with painful care he fixed another
piece of frog
Upon his hook ... “if you should wish to keep
this selfsame dog,
By all that’s holy, never let another fellow touch
The blessed brute ; for if ye do, he won’t be up to
much.
The moment he forgets to growl at any bloke he
sees,
He’ll soon be in a nigger’s camp, or taking to
Chinese.
Now, look at that here slut of mine ! She isn’t
much to brag,
But I have taught her . . . there, at last !—By
! another snag ! . . .
Yes, mate, with that here system which to you I
just explained,
I’ve made her what you see her now ; you watch
her, how she’s trained.
You mark her how she fawns to me, and damned
well snarls at you
Though you chucked her that piece of steak, and
I a curse or two.
It’s training, mate ! I would not take a fiver for
that dog ”...
And then he heaved a sigh, and went to find
another frog.
The whaler and his pattern slut, I saw them dis-
appear
Behind an overhanging tree, and thought—of yow,
my dear.
It struck me I had never got such good advice in
life :
For though I haven’t got a dog, you know, I have
—a wife !
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.
Fair division To the poor—the dirty
work; to the rich—the filthy lucre.
Kitchener, of Atbara fame, doesn’t believe
in strong waters on active service. Says coffee’s
a better stimulant than whisky, and tea a better
quencher than beer. Which is also the Australian
bushman’s experience.
Advertisement of a Shanghai dairy ; “We
open at Woosong, in the south of the Telegraph
co., for sale the foreign milk, the taste are sweet,
the milk are pure, and the prices are just. We
haven’t put any water in it, if examine out, won’t
pay a single cash. If you want to by so you will
know the Foreign cow’s shop.”
A wail from Cairns : “ Kanakas will not
stay with white men for ten shillings a week
when Chinese are offering fifteen!” Wherefore
the Cairns Farmers’ Association intends taking
the matter up with intent to see if they cannot
euchre the Chinese.” Poor, poor Cairns ! Not
only does it takeoff its hat to the Chow, but now
it actually undersells him in the labor-market.
“ Mean as a Cairns white.”
Westralian Mayors have to do a prodigious
amount of big-visitor entertaining, and they are
beginning to insist that the thing should be put on
some sort of a basis. Wherefore the province’s
municipal conference, sitting at Coo'gardie, has
agreed that every council should have power to
vote its Mayor not more than 20 per cent, of the
rates, with a maximum allowance of £5OO. A
proposal to make it 5 per cent, was scorned.
Maoriland, the place where they take their
religion seriously, and where, as a natural result,
the missionaries of every bounding brotherhood
swarm like flies, is much overrun now by the
Mormon elder. The humble followers of Joseph
Smith are built on one easily-recognisablepattern.
They are elderly and seedy and clothed in the
misfitting slop garment of righteousness, and they
always look as if they had slept the previous night
in a hen-house. Also they have long elfin locks,
and great, stragglesome crops of greasy beard, and
each one carries a large, blackened volume under
his arm. They are long, bony men, as a rule,
and walk rapidly, throwing out their big, eager
feet in front of them like men who are making
fast time on the road to New Jerusalem. The
Mormon missionary is also hard-working, parch-
ment-faced, not over-clean, with big, gnarled,
brown, bony, grasping hands, and eyes like the
eyes of one who sees a farthing in the distance.
And they are a hard lot to tackle. The other day
one of the tribe was sloping with his long, flapping
straddle through the arcade in Dunedin, and just
as he got opposite the shop of Slop Hee, green-
grocer, that heathen’s big black dog mistook the
volume under his arm for steak and flew at it.
But the long arm and the big hand of the Latter
Day Saint came down on Slop Hee’s dog with the
promptitude born of long wrestling in the good
fight, and that animal is now gradually con-
valescing under the counter with a cloth tied
round his head. Evidently it is no good sooling
dogs on the rough-and-ready church of Smith.
Nina and Her Father.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just Nina Mitchell. A little stick of a child,
who smiled apprehensively when she met anyone
bigger than herself, and let her face drop into the
crook of her arm if said person showed signs of
hostility; a good, quiet child, never to be sus-
pected when pencils were squeaked, or wattle-
seeds crushed “to make a smell.”
She was the only child that stood up when
teacher, for the fun of the thing, asked how many
girls would like to have been boys. It was Nina’s
shrill, sad, little voice that chimed out, “Please,
miss, I’d like to have been a boy ; ” followed by
the frightened explanation nudged out of her by
sharp-elbowed neighbors, “ Please, miss, ’cause
God’s a boy.”
In winter Nina’s work began. Often teacher
would meet her setting out across the hills, a
three-miles journey, to bring home father’s cow,
or wandering about the chill uplands' to cut the
wool from the frozen sheep. With a certain fascin-
ation, teacher would watch the thin legs and
flapping petticoats vanishing among the tussocks,
and the small, unhappily smiling face alternately
paling and darkening in the varying light of the
cloud-cumbered sky. Her father was a surface-
man on the new line of railway. He had four
other children, all younger than Nina, also all girls.
That winter there was some scandal in the third
class because Nina appeared in her father’s
trousers cut down for her, and barely concealed
by her blue cotton dress. Economy, not new
womanhood, accounted for this curious garb.
In the playground Nina was generally attended
by a body-guard of her schoolfellows silently
watchful. This circumstance teacher put down
to the bifurcated garment in question and thought
no more of it. She had not heard that Nina
Mitchell was rumoured to be “so bad inside she
might drop down dead any minute,” and that her
perpetual escort simply indicated a general desire
to be on hand when that interesting event should
take place. Consequently, she was quite unpre-
pared when the Children rushed up to her one
morning and informed her that Nina Mitchell
“ couldn’t come to school to-day because she was
dead. And please, Miss, we all sor her doing it.”
The general interest did not subside with the
decease and exhaustion of the particulars thereof,
but continued to the day of the funeral. This
took place opportunely on a Saturday, so that the
small surviving Mitchells might run in and out of
the house and tell their friends how things were
going on. “ She’s quite screwed down now,”
came the last bulletin ; “ but wait on a bit and
see her being brought out.”
Six of them were crowded about the gate when
teacher came past on her way to the store.
Teacher saw it all. She was a town girl, and her
face blazed as she drove the little assembly out
into the wire-fenced road. Then she was horror-
stricken to discover the bereaved father sitting
outside his weatherboard-hut. He must have
heard every word of that merciless chatter !
He raised his weather beaten troubled face, and
the look seemed to crave her sympathy.
She crossed the clearing, rough with the decayed
remnants of fire-eaten trees. Trembling with
nervous sympathy she clasped his big, black hand.
“ I feel so much for you, Mr. Mitchell. Nina
was such a good girl ”
“Yes, Miss, it's hard, it’s hard.” Hi's troubled
eves met hers. “ But there’s always the risk with
children. We rear ’em, and spend money on ’em,
and when they’re beginning to be useful they die
off like rabbits with phosphorus. It’s bin a bad
year all round, Miss. Good-bye, Miss, and thank
yer ; thank yer kindly for yer sympathy.”
The bereaved father went indoors.
Maoriland.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Didn’t Come Off.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My inspector is quite faddy on the Socratic
method of teaching. He knows “ Glad man’s
School Manageni nt ’’ off by heart. Consequently,
when the annual inspection ordeal comes round,
we get whips of Socratic method and moral sua-
sion. Miss Amelia Noney Novice is a fourth-class
pupil-teacher —a splendid worker, and quick to
pick up and assimilate hints and ideas.
“You must not tell your pupils so much, Miss
Novice,” I said to her one day; “you must use
the Socratic method more freely. It’s beautifully
explained by Gladman in his ‘School Manage-
ment.’ Make the pupils think —think for them-
selves. Get the answers OUT of them ; do not
put the answers in. Induce—educe—but don’t
cram. Now, you were just about to tell that boy
several synonyms for the word ‘ descend,’ because
he could not give you the meaning of it, or a
synonym for it. Now watch me get the answer
OUT of him, by the Socratic method.
“ ’Tenshun ! Stand up, Johnny Cookie ! I
want you to tell me what the word ‘ descends ’
means ? ”
“ Please, sir, I dunno ! ”
“Ah ! Well, suppose you were to climb up that
gum-tree at the back of the weather-shed, and
crawl right out on that crooked limb after a
’possum’s nest; and then, just as you had got a
young ring-tail out, a sudden gust of wind should
blow you off—what would you do? ”
I looked triumphantly at Miss Novice.
“ Please, sir, Vd fall an' bust meself, an’ squash
th’ bloomin’ ’possum ! ”
I went back to my own classes.
DOOD MOBB.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
3&ECHAMS
]?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosfiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
™ l ; b r e .d Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
CrUTNiJA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are tacts ’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
JN ervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 91 d, Is and 2s 9d each.
&
M
If
m
//
A
N
*
CHANGEABLE.
Jewelleb : “ The first time you brought this watch in here to be repaired it was in a gold
case. The second time it was in a silver case ; and now it’s in a brass case.”
Customer : “ Yes; circumstances alter eases.”
Poverty Pointer
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
retail everywhere.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,’
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
.Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WEEN YOU ASK FOE
jvrbridge
nmgTonic
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPTRIUHT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Suffield Case
3
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
stop tixat Cougrii t
... TAKE . • «
irisu muss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


“INCOMPARABLE
SHELLING SALTS,’
As supplied to the Queen. Regd.
The Perfume is specially distilled for these Salts. Invaluable
in Hot Assemblies. Always Refreshing. Of great value
in the Sick Room. The best Companion at ( hutch, Chapel,
Ball, Theatre, or any Heated Assembly.
Sold in Plain or Cut Bottles, price 9d., 1/-, 1/6 & 21-
“BABY’S SOAP” (The ORIGINAL).
A Superior Mild Soap, prepared for the INFANTS FIRST
SKIN. Delicately Perfumed. Recommended for Children
and Adults with TEXIiBR SKIN. In use 30 years. Price 6d.
The above said by all Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE. BAUER & CHEESEMAN
, Perfumers to the Queen , J
L 19, Golden Square, Regent St., London. W. A
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
Altl! . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
3S Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brooliman’s Building, Adelaide.
EGBERTS’
Bottle Department, Market St.
CELEBRATED WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s.
TEACHER’S HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s.
DEW A It’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s.
WHYTE AND MACKAY’S WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
WALKER’S EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
THE FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN,” 3s. 6d.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
mm
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK-
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<ipHE JJbBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
Also at SYDNEY.
block,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiQgtoi; Ptinjpiog Ei)gii)e Coiqpapy.
(Australasian Branch.) SiHipSOML Jd*l*OtllGlTS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, KS.W.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
iacx Stock..
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
"W. O. IFniTDie-lIDGKEI &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS.
40 YOliK STKIiET, SYDNMV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
Tfheumatiam, Sciatica,
- - Lumbar/o, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA MX Fit, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC"
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S , Botanist to
H.K.H. the Prince of Wales
MA
&
*
Permanent Cure. Self
3oz. Jars 2/6 Byp<
OLEAC"
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & lOE CO., LTD.
■*«*• £» the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
riullccio Ul 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROTAE
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
*
$
o
*
$
&
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Batho’s Baking Powdcr .
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maohi nosand cleaners complete. Usual price 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-boa ling Guns at 6-* (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of th ■ Australasian colonies, A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Rank Drafts, Cheques, or p.O. Orders must l-< made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co. __
Dunlop Wives (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 0, Brooke s
Saddles 60, Bleutnel Cork Handle-tips (10- doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 00 Send for trade l n>-e
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLhS,
up to date, £7,J;S, 89, £lO, tT2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
-A.jr© tlie IQestL
We hare them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
